-- BP Report Didn’t Mention Safety-Test Talk, Witness Says
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bp-report-didn-t-mention-safety-test-talk-witness-says.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s report about its
investigation of an  oil spill  that fouled the Gulf of Mexico
didn’t mention a conversation between two company officials
about a key safety test the night of the blast, an executive
testified.  BP investigators failed to cite a discussion between BP
executives  Donald Vidrine  and Mark Hafle about well pressure
safety tests on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig just before
it exploded April 20, 2010, in the final report laying out the
reasons for the disaster, Mark Bly, the BP executive who led the
probe, testified in a trial over spill claims.  Federal prosecutors and lawyers for spill victims contend
the call between Vidrine and Hafle was evidence that BP
officials botched the interpretation of the pressure test and
that helped cause the explosion, which killed 11 rig workers and
sent millions of gallons of oil spilling into the Gulf. The test
indicated the well was unstable, but neither Vidrine nor Hafle
took steps to shut down drilling operations after discussing the
results, plaintiffs in the case allege.  Failing to mention the conversation in the final report
wasn’t a part of BP’s strategy to blame the explosion on
contractors working on the rig, Bly added. “The intention was
to understand what happened and what came together that allowed
it happen,” he added.  Liability Trial  After hearing evidence in the three-month trial, U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans will decide who is
liable for damages over the largest offshore spill in U.S.
history. He’ll also rule on whether BP, Transocean Ltd. or other
companies were grossly negligent in their handling of the rig
and well. His ruling in the nonjury trial will affect how much
each company may have to pay.  The Deepwater Horizon blast resulted in more than 4 million
barrels of oil fouling the Gulf and the shoreline of surrounding
states. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against
London-based BP, Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean, owner of
the rig, and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which handled cement
work on the well.  If well owner BP is found grossly negligent, it may be
liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion in Clean Water
Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive damages to claimants
who weren’t part of a $8.5 billion settlement of lawsuits. For
Transocean and Halliburton, a similar finding would mean they
could face punitive damage awards.  Corners Cut?  The government and spill victims say BP was over budget and
behind schedule on the deep water Macondo well located off the
 Louisiana  coast, prompting the company to cut corners and ignore
safety tests showing the well was unstable.  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not adequately training its crew to handle
crisis situations.  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean employees’
miscues were the main cause of the explosion and Halliburton
concealed flaws with the drilling project’s cement work.
Transocean and Halliburton countersued, pointing the finger back
at BP on liability issues.  Bly, the BP executive responsible for safety and risk-
management issues, testified last week the company’s final
report on the Macondo disaster identified eight key causes of
the rig explosion, including missteps by  Transocean (RIG) ’s crew on
the platform and a faulty cement formulation provided by
Halliburton officials.  No Warning  Under cross-examination yesterday, Bly acknowledged the
report didn’t pinpoint the call between Vidrine, a BP manager on
the rig the time of the blast, and Hafle, who was in the
company’s onshore drilling center in Houston, as a key factor in
the explosion and subsequent spill  In their conversation, Hafle told Vidrine a successful
pressure test wouldn’t have yielded the readings Vidrine
reported if it had been properly conducted, according to court
documents.  Transocean officials have claimed in court filings there is
no evidence that either Hafle or Vidrine warned the drilling
crew that safety tests indicated the well was unstable or
stopped work at the installation.  Experts who had studied the disaster have said there was a
30-minute period after Vidrine and Hafle ended their call when
the crew might have been able to activate emergency systems
designed to stop explosions and avoid the disaster.  In their court filings, BP officials have said any mistakes
by Vidrine, Hafle or other BP personnel shouldn’t be held
against BP and can’t be considered gross negligence.  Cement Approved  Both Vidrine and Hafle have invoked constitutional rights
against testifying on the grounds they might incriminate
themselves. Vidrine is facing manslaughter charges and one count
of violating U.S. pollution laws as a result of the explosion
and spill. Vidrine has pleaded not guilty. Hafle hasn’t been
charged.  Under questioning by  Donald Godwin , one of Halliburton’s
lawyers, Bly acknowledged that BP officials approved the cement
formula used on the rig before it was poured. Godwin also
pointed to e-mails from BP employees praising the Halliburton
cement crew’s work on the installation.  Geophysicist Testifies  A geophysicist also testified yesterday that BP drilled the
Macondo well in the Mississippi Canyon area of the  Gulf of
Mexico , which was hit by a Mag 6.0 earthquake in 2006. That
seismic event occurred three years before BP and Transocean
began drilling in the area.  Andrew Hurst , a professor at the University of Aberdeen in
 Scotland , said earthquakes, like the one that struck the Gulf in
April 2006, leave subsea rock formations “more fragile.” That
makes such areas potentially more productive for oil drillers,
he added.  “You would also expect there to plenty of oil there,”
Hurst said. On cross-examination by BP’s lawyers, the professor
conceded that the well’s blowout wasn’t caused by the area’s
history of earthquakes.  Hurst added that the Macondo well was drilled in an area
known as the “Golden Zone,” a theory about an oil-rich basin
of the Gulf of Mexico. He said there are “particular challenges
and hazards of drilling” in the Mississippi Canyon because of a
risk of underground mudslides and earthquakes. “One has to be
be very careful, particularly about drilling through an area
that has this kind of activity,” he said  Rig Survivor  Randy Ezell, one of the rig’s crew who survived the
explosion, told Barbier yesterday that he followed Transocean’s
guidelines for drilling the Macondo well.  When asked with BP officials ever furnished him with
procedures for drilling the deep-water well, Ezell said “not to
my knowledge -- no.”  Ezell, one of the Deepwater Horizon’s drilling supervisors,
helped BP managers perform safety tests the night of the well’s
explosion. Federal prosecutors said those test results were
misinterpreted by both BP and Transocean officials and that
helped cause the blowout.  The oil driller said in his deposition that he was off duty
when he was blown off his feet by the blast. He later helped
rescue colleagues trapped in the damaged rig, according to the
pretrial testimony and other survivors’ accounts.  The trial started its second week as the U.S. and Gulf
states continue talks with BP about a possible settlement of
pollution claims over the spill, a person familiar with the
negotiations said Feb. 26.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  