-- BP Spill Judge to Hear From Explosion Survivor This Week
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-03-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bp-spill-judge-to-hear-from-explosion-survivor-this-week.html
The judge presiding over the trial 
of  BP Plc (BP/)  for the Macondo well disaster is set to hear from a
survivor of the fatal rig explosion that sent millions of
gallons of oil pouring into the Gulf of Mexico, according to a
witness list prepared for the case.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  is slated to hear
testimony this week from Randy Ezell, a drilling supervisor who
performed safety tests on the Deepwater Horizon rig before the
2010 explosion, according to a witness schedule shown to
Bloomberg News. The trial resumes today in New Orleans federal
court as the U.S. and Gulf states continue talks with BP about 
a possible settlement of pollution claims over the spill, a 
person familiar with the negotiations said Feb. 26.  Evidence presented by the government and spill victims in
the case’s first week “may have encouraged BP to think twice
about whether it wants to proceed with a long, expensive
trial,” said David Uhlmann, a former federal prosecutor who
teaches law at the University of Michigan. Uhlmann is the former
head of the Justice Department’s environmental crimes section.  After hearing all the evidence, Barbier must decide who is 
liable for damages over the spill, the largest of its kind in 
U.S. history. He also will rule on whether BP,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  
or other companies were grossly negligent in their handling of 
the rig and well. His decision will affect what each company 
may have to pay.  The Deepwater Horizon explosion killed 11 rig workers and
sent more than 4 million barrels of oil into the Gulf. The
accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP,
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean, owner of the rig, and
Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which handled cement work on the
well.  Gross Negligence  If well owner BP is found grossly negligent, the  company 
may be liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion in Clean
Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive damages to
claimants who weren’t part of an $8.5 billion settlement of
lawsuits. For Transocean and Halliburton, a similar finding
would mean they could face punitive damage awards.  Lawyers for the government and spill victims contend BP was
over budget and behind schedule on the Macondo deep-water
drilling project off the Louisiana coast, prompting the firm to
cut corners and ignore safety tests showing the well was
unstable.  Crew Untrained  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation, and leaving the crew untrained for crisis
situations.  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean workers’
miscues were the main cause of the explosion and that
Halliburton officials concealed flaws with cement work done on
the drilling project. Transocean and Halliburton countersued,
pointing the finger back at BP on liability issues.  Federal and state officials have offered to let BP resolve
environmental and economic spill claims for $16 billion, the
Wall Street Journal has reported citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  Scott Dean, a BP spokesman, declined to comment March 1 on
whether the company was weighing a settlement offer.  ‘Reasonable Compromise’  “A $16 billion settlement offer is a reasonable compromise
position that BP should accept,” Uhlmann said. The offer would
provide “a reasonable outcome” of allegations that BP is
responsible for fouled wetlands, impaired fisheries and damaged
state and local economies, he said.  The London-based company already has agreed to settle most
spill victims suits in a deal BP now says is worth at least $8.5
billion. The settlement excludes claims of financial
institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida
and  Texas , along with residents and businesses claiming harm
from the deep-water drilling moratorium.  It also didn’t cover federal government claims and those
filed by Louisiana,  Alabama  and other Gulf Coast states. BP has
said the states are claiming at least $34 billion in damages.  When the trial resumes, Barbier will hear from Ezell, one
of the Deepwater Horizon’s senior drilling managers, about the
crew’s actions the night of the blast.  Ezell, a Transocean employee, testified in a deposition
that he helped BP well managers perform pressure safety tests
the night of the explosion. Federal prosecutors said the results
of those tests were misinterpreted by both BP and Transocean
officials on the rig and that helped cause the blowout.  Criminal Pleas  BP pleaded guilty to criminal charges, including 11
manslaughter counts, in connection with the blast. It also
agreed to pay $4 billion to resolve the federal government’s
probe of its handling of the spill and $525 million to settle
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s claims that the
company misled investors about the rate of oil flowing into the
gulf.  Transocean pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of
violating the Clean Water Act and agreed to pay $400 million in
criminal penalties over the blast and spill.  Ezell said in his deposition that he was off duty when he
was blown off his feet by the blast. He later helped rescue
colleagues trapped in the damaged rig, according to the pre-
trial testimony and other survivors’ accounts.  Barbier also will hear from  Ronnie Sepulvado , a BP manager
who was assigned to the Macondo project. Sepulvado said in his
deposition he was off the Deepwater Horizon the night of the
blast attending a safety training course. Sepulvado, a well-site
leader for more than 30 years, will probably testify about how
rig workers interpret the pressure safety tests results and
techniques used to maintain control of oil wells.  ‘Good Results’  During the first week of the trial, the judge heard
testimony from  Mark Bly , the BP executive who oversaw the
company’s internal investigation of the incident. Under
questioning by lawyers for the government and spill victims, Bly
said his team didn’t focus on whether management failures
contributed to the disaster.  BP officials ordered to review the Deepwater Horizon
explosion zeroed in on operational issues rather than systemic
safety flaws, Bly said. “We felt we had good results from
what” investigators uncovered about the rig crew’s actions and
BP managers “made the choice not to go” further with the
probe, he said.  Profit Push  The government and spill victims contend that BP’s push for
profits led the company on a cost-cutting campaign that impaired
safety systems and the firm failed to learn from earlier rig and
refinery accidents. Bly will face cross examination by lawyers
for Transocean and Halliburton when the trial resumes.  The judge also heard testimony from  Kevin Lacy , a BP
drilling supervisor who warned his superiors in 2009 the
campaign to rein in costs would result in unsafe oil-exploration
operations.  “I was never given a directive to cut corners or deliver
something unsafe, but there was tremendous pressure to cut
costs,” he said in a video deposition. Lacy said he later left
BP over his concerns that the company wasn’t committed to
improving safety protocols.  Robert Bea , a retired engineering professor from the
University of California who investigated the Macondo well
incident, told Barbier that BP’s push to maximize profit was a
“root cause” of the disaster.  The Macondo well operators faced “intense pressure to save
time and money,” Bea said. As a result, he said, the company
“made sacrifices in safety.”  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at  laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  