-- Brazil Said to Plan Fuel Tax Cut to Rein in Consumer Prices
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-03-05T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/brazil-said-to-plan-diesel-ethanol-tax-cut-to-slow-inflation.html
Brazil ’s President Dilma Rousseff
plans to cut federal taxes on diesel and ethanol in a bid to
rein in  consumer prices  that have increased more than analysts
expected in the past seven months, said a government official
with knowledge of the discussions.  The tax cuts, which are initially scheduled for July, may
be brought forward if inflation nears the 6.5 percent upper
limit of the central bank’s target over the next two months,
said the official, who asked not to be named because he isn’t
authorized to speak publicly about the matter. The cut in fuel
taxes is targeted at easing public transportation costs, which
rose 0.75 percent in January, the official said yesterday.  The central bank tomorrow will keep its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low 7.25 percent in an effort to fuel economic
recovery without further accelerating inflation, according to
all 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank’s president,
Alexandre Tombini, on Feb. 19 said policy makers, who have kept
the Selic on hold since October, could adjust monetary policy if
warranted by inflation. Rousseff this year said she would reduce
taxes on food to also help tame inflation.  “Any positive shock, like a tax cut on ethanol or food,
could provide short-term relief,” Alberto Ramos, senior
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said by telephone from
New York. “That could be enough to allow them to navigate this
difficult period and avoid a rate increase.”  Rate Outlook  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 climbed two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.64 percent
yesterday. The real appreciated 0.5 percent to 1.9703 per U.S.
dollar, erasing earlier losses.  The tax cuts could prompt traders to trim bets on a rate
increase as early as April, Marcelo Salomon, co-head for Latin
America economics at Barclays Plc, said by telephone from New
York.  Annual inflation accelerated to 6.15 percent in January,
after prices jumped 0.86 percent in the month. Analysts had
forecast a 0.83 percent gain, according to the median estimate,
in a Bloomberg survey.  Rousseff will closely follow monthly inflation reports to
adjust economic policies accordingly, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  