-- Kass Takes Buffett’s Challenge to Present Bearish Questions
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-03-04T21:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/buffett-challenger-kass-says-he-s-accustomed-to-bronx-cheers-1-.html
Douglas Kass, the investment manager
betting against  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , accepted billionaire
 Warren Buffett ’s challenge of asking bearish questions about the
company at its annual meeting in May.  Kass, the founder of Seabreeze Partners Management Inc.,
began to bet on a decline in Berkshire stock in the last five
days, he said in a phone interview today. He will be surrounded
at the meeting by tens of thousands of shareholders, many of
whom travel from around the world to listen to the billionaire
Berkshire chairman and Vice Chairman Charles Munger.  “As a quasi-dedicated short seller, or someone who’s
biased to the short side, I’m well accustomed to the Bronx
cheers,” Kass said today, referring to the heckling sound named
after the  New York  borough.  Buffett, 82, said in a March 1  letter  that he was seeking
an investment professional who’s bearish on Berkshire, to fill a
seat on a panel of questioners the May 4 gathering in Omaha,
 Nebraska , where the company is based. Kass said he learned about
his selection watching an interview with Buffett on CNBC today
and that he was “honored” to be picked.  “Doug’s a gray-beard, in a good way,”  Jeff Matthews , a
Berkshire investor and author of books about Buffett, wrote in
an e-mail. “He’s thoughtful as hell and also knows a good
company, and a  bull market  for that matter, when he sees it. So
Buffett will get some good questions from him, and shareholders
will be well-served to hear them asked, and answered.”  Empty Glass  Kass wrote in early 2008 that Berkshire shares may  fall , in
part because of the possibility of declines in Buffett’s equity
portfolio and the difficulty of replacing the billionaire. In
the interview today, Kass declined to say the size of his
current bet against Berkshire or say how many assets are under
management at  Palm Beach , Florida-based Seabreeze.  “I try to develop a variant view in companies that are
predominantly loved by the investment community,” Kass said.
“Given the fact that I’m short-biased, and probably dropped on
my head when I was an infant by my mother, you know I tend to
look at the glass as substantially half-empty, rather than being
half-full.”  His article about why to bet on Berkshire’s decline
appeared in TheStreet.com on March 10, 2008, when the company’s
shares closed at $131,400. They dropped below $71,000 in March
2009 amid a global economic slump.  Share Rebound  Berkshire’s shares have rallied since, as Buffett  acquired 
railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , started buying back stock
and made a $5 billion investment in Bank of America Corp.,
getting preferred shares and warrants. Berkshire has gained 30
percent in the last year, more than double the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. The stock advanced 0.1 percent to $152,955 at 4 p.m.
in New York, a record close.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has rallied about 50 percent since
Aug. 1 when Kass said he was betting against the company because
he saw the brokerage industry’s business model as “broken.”  Kass has made bullish calls as well. He recommended buying
stocks at the end of 2011, before the  S&P 500  rallied 13 percent
the following year. He made a similar forecast in March 2009.
The benchmark gained more than 60 percent the rest of that year.  Adding a bear to the meeting is the latest twist in the
format of an event where the conversation can drift from
Berkshire. Buffett, who has entertained shareholders in past
gatherings with musings on baseball and  Paris Hilton , has sought
to steer talk in recent years back toward his company and said
in his letter that a short-seller would “spice things up.”  Loomis, Gallant  In 2009, he  invited  three journalists -- longtime friend
and Fortune magazine writer Carol Loomis, CNBC’s Becky Quick and
the New York Times’s  Andrew Ross Sorkin  -- to alternate asking
questions with the audience.  Buffett added a panel of three insurance analysts last year
to pose more queries about Berkshire businesses such as Geico
and  General Re . That was too narrow a focus for some
shareholders, he wrote in the  letter . This year, Kass will join
a panel that will include Cliff Gallant, a Nomura Holdings
Inc.’s insurance analyst, and Ruane Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc.’s
Jonathan Brandt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  