-- Buffett Says Low Rates Means Insurers’ Bonds Are Wasting Assets
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-03-04T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/buffett-says-low-rates-means-insurers-bonds-are-wasting-assets.html
Warren Buffett , who built  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  into a $250 billion company with funds from
 insurance units , said low  interest rates  create “dim
prospects” for the industry that fueled his firm’s growth.  The billionaire chairman and chief executive officer
praised managers of Berkshire’s insurance businesses for posting
their 10th straight year of underwriting profit in his annual
 letter  to shareholders on March 1. He then struck a cautionary
note about competitors with worse records.  “A further unpleasant reality adds to the industry’s dim
prospects,” he wrote. “Insurance earnings are now benefiting
from ‘legacy’ bond portfolios that deliver much higher yields
than will be available when funds are reinvested during the next
few years, and perhaps for many years beyond that. Today’s bond
portfolios are, in effect, wasting assets.”  Buffett, 82, has been adding capital-intensive businesses
like railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , acquired in 2010.
That deal, and growth of utility MidAmerican Energy Holdings
Co., lessened Berkshire’s reliance on insurance as the CEO
prepares the company for an eventual  leadership  transition. The
shift also reduced his challenge of investing ever more float,
the insurance premiums held until claims are paid.  Berkshire spent a record $9.8 billion last year on plant
and equipment as it bolstered the railroad and energy units,
Buffett wrote in the letter. His Omaha, Nebraska-based company
spent about $2.3 billion more on 26  deals  that expanded the
operations of existing businesses.  ‘Bolt-on’ Acquisitions  “Those bolt-on acquisitions and those expansions at
Burlington and MidAmerican, those would have happened with or
without Buffett,” said  James Armstrong , president of Henry H.
Armstrong Associates, a Pittsburgh-based investment manager that
oversees about $375 million, including Berkshire shares. “That
shows us that the company has come a long way in its ability to
soak up the cash it generates.”  Such investments are repeatable, lessening the burden on
Buffett and Vice Chairman Charles Munger to find large
acquisitions and securities bets, like the deal they struck last
month to take ketchup maker HJ Heinz Co. private, Armstrong
said. Berkshire will probably set a record again for  capital
spending  in 2013, Buffett wrote.  Other CEOs who held back investment last year because of
doubts about the economy missed an opportunity, the billionaire
said. The future of the U.S. has been uncertain since the
country’s Declaration of Independence in 1776, he wrote.  Tarot Cards  “American business will do fine over time. And stocks will
do well just as certainly,” Buffett said. “Since the basic
game is so favorable, Charlie and I believe it’s a terrible
mistake to try to dance in and out of it based upon the turn of
tarot cards, the predictions of ‘experts,’ or the ebb and flow
of business activity. The risks of being out of the game are
huge compared to the risks of being in it.”  Buffett said Berkshire’s insurance units including Geico
and  General Re  “shot the lights out” last year as float
climbed about $2.5 billion to $73.1 billion. That gave Berkshire
cost-free money to invest, he said.  Buffett has favored stocks over bonds, shielding Berkshire
from some of the pressure of low interest rates. Insurers
including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Travelers Cos.
have more of their portfolios in fixed-income holdings.  Berkshire had more than  $87 billion in equities  at the end
of 2012, including the biggest stakes in  Wells Fargo & Co .,
International Business Machines Corp. and Coca-Cola Co, and
$32.3 billion in fixed-income assets, such as corporate debt,
sovereign bonds and municipal securities.  Investment Income  Treasury yields have  tumbled  over the last three decades,
causing bond prices to rally and putting pressure on savers who
rely on income from the assets. Ten-year notes hit a record low
yield of 1.38 percent in July.  Insurance investment income contributed $3.4 billion, or 23
percent, of Berkshire’s $14.8 billion profit last year,
according to a regulatory filing. That compares with $4.1
billion, or 51 percent, of earnings in 2009 when Berkshire still
had preferred shares of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and General
Electric Co.  Buffett began the letter by telling shareholders his
performance was “subpar” in 2012. The growth in Berkshire’s
per-share  book value , a measure of assets minus liabilities,
trailed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by 1.6 percentage points
last year, including dividends. The billionaire failed to exceed
that yardstick only nine times since he took control of the
company in 1965.  Buffett told investors that insurance units would
underwrite conservatively. That reiterated a commitment he made
eight years ago when he  showed  how National Indemnity Co. policy
sales fell to $54.5 million in 1999 from $366.2 million in 1986
because managers felt the industry was charging too little for
the risk it was taking. Sales climbed to $605.6 million in 2004.  Rational Pricing  Buffett’s latest letter may have been “signaling to the
industry that we need to be rational about our pricing, because
as the long-term debt rolls off returns are going to shrink,”
said Richard Cook, co-founder of Cook & Bynum Capital Management
LLC, which oversees Berkshire shares.  This year’s letter also included a section on dividends to
address questions about why Berkshire doesn’t pay one. Buffett
reiterated a policy he outlined in a 1985  letter , saying that
shareholders have benefited because he retained the money in the
business. Under some scenarios, he wrote in the latest letter,
investors would be better off selling some of their shares to
meet their needs rather than get a dividend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  