-- Burned Bondholder Sees ‘Slam Dunk’ in AIB: Corporate Finance
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-03-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/burned-bondholder-sees-slam-dunk-in-aib-corporate-finance.html
New York  investment banker Carlos Abadi was among the losers when  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  imploded,
wiping out $6.3 billion of junior bonds. Two years later, he’s
willing to buy the lender’s debt again.  The president of Abadi & Co. said the restructuring of
 Allied Irish , which cost taxpayers $27.6 billion, has restored
capital to levels acceptable to bondholders. The nation’s
second-biggest lender posted a core Tier 1  capital ratio  of 17.3
percent in June, compared with the 10.5 percent required by
Irish regulators as a buffer against losses.  Allied Irish has  3 billion euros  ($4 billion) of debt due
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and is
planning its biggest fundraising since a government bailout
forced investors to accept as much as 90 percent less than they
were owed, after a property bubble burst, triggering $155
billion of loan losses. The bank now wants to sell senior
unsecured and subordinated debt after issuing its first covered
bond in more than five years in November, Chief Executive
Officer  David Duffy  said in Dublin last month.  “Senior debt would be a slam dunk and sub debt is also
credible for the right clientele at the right pricing level,”
said Abadi, whose expects his ACGM Inc. broker-dealer unit would
be a likely buyer of the debt. “I’m prepared to extend new
financing to AIB. Post restructuring it has a very strong
capital position.”  ‘Significant Loss’  Abadi said his company “suffered a significant loss” on
its Allied Irish debt holdings. He started a legal challenge to
the burden sharing which was withdrawn in June 2011, days before
it was due to go to court, with the Irish government making a
contribution to his legal costs.  New York-based Aurelius Capital Management LP, which
reached a settlement with the government after a court hearing,
said at the time that bondholder losses “would chill foreign
investment in Ireland for years to come.”  Officials at Aurelius didn’t respond to a phone call and e-
mails seeking comment on the planned bond sales.  Allied Irish, which is 99.8 percent state-owned, returned
to public debt markets in November for the first time since
March 2010, selling 500 million euros of covered bonds backed by
home loans to yield 270 basis points to the benchmark mid-swap
rate. That spread has since narrowed to 164 basis points,
compared with a 36 basis-point decline to 90 in the average
spread on the bonds in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro
Covered Bond Index.  Covered Bond  The bank issued a second 500 million-euro covered bond in
January, this time at 185 basis points over midswaps. The spread
on the notes, which typically get the highest ratings because
they are guaranteed by issuers as well as having real estate as
collateral, was 166 basis points on March 1.  “Although the debt markets are open to them, and improved
sentiment toward Ireland suggests that the time is right for
opportunistic financing, this needs to be balanced with the
ambition of restoring profitability” at Allied Irish, said
 Stephen Lyons , an analyst at Dublin-based securities firm Davy.
“Investors may well bite their hands off for new issuance, but
the bite may be keenly felt by the bank for years” if it offers
too much in yield to sell the bonds, he said.  Offering a 500 million-euro, three year unsecured bond
“would make sense” at current market prices “to further
illustrate the recovery story, but any more that that would be
too costly,” said Lyons. Allied Irish may sell as much as 2
billion euros of covered bonds this year, he said.  Combined Losses  The lender posted combined net losses of 16.2 billion euros
between 2009 and the first half of last year, according to the
most recent company reports, and Allied Irish’s Duffy doesn’t
forecast the bank returning to profit until 2014.  The bank’s deposits rose 5 percent in the first half of
last year to 63.6 billion euros, the first underlying increase
since outflows started in Irish banks in 2009. Its loan-to-
deposit ratio fell to 120 percent at the end of October from 165
percent in December 2010, according to stock exchange
announcements, and is now lower than a 122.5 percent target set
for the end of 2013 under Ireland’s international bailout.  Fitch Ratings  ranks Allied Irish at BBB, the second-lowest
investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  grades it BB, the second-
highest junk grade, and Moody’s Investors Service assigns an
equivalent Ba2.  Banking Guarantee  Ireland’s government, which re-entered debt markets last
year for the first time since before its 67.5 billion-euro
international bailout in November 2010, said Feb. 26 it plans to
lift its banking guarantee by the end of March. After seizing
five of its six largest lenders in the past four years it plans
to rebuild the financial system around Allied Irish and  Bank of
Ireland Plc , the so-called pillar banks.  For those two, “the government will step in to support
senior unsecured debt holders in case of need” even after the
guarantee is lifted, Claudia Nelson, an analyst at Fitch in
 London , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The bank
has changed its funding structure in such a way that it is has
reduced its need to access the  capital markets . However, it is
still reporting large losses,” she said.  Taking advantage of sentiment that Fitch calls “mildly
improving,” Bank of Ireland, the nation’s largest bank, in
December raised 250 million euros in subordinated bonds. Yields
on the 10 percent bonds due 2022, part of the lender’s Tier 2
capital, have fallen to 8.62 percent from 10 percent. Average
yields on notes in Bank of America’s Euro Lower Tier 2 Corporate
Index dropped to 3.5 percent from 4.25 percent in the period.  ‘Worse Position’  “AIB were in a worse position than Bank of Ireland, so
they will need favorable conditions as well as a high coupon to
issue subordinated bonds,” said  Simon Adamson , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London. “Everything has its price, it’s
just that it’s going to be more difficult for AIB.”  The lender lost about 29 billion euros on soured loans
between 2008 and the end-June 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, based on the company’s annual and interim reports.
The figure includes loan impairment provisions and losses on
loan disposals, including the sale of risky real-estate assets
to the National Asset Management Agency, the nation’s so-called
bad bank, three years ago.  The government plans to conduct another round of stress
tests later this year. Allied Irish’s Duffy said that while he
doesn’t expect the bank to need more capital, the prospect may
induce potential investors to hold back as they await the
outcome of the review. Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said Feb.
21 that he would prefer the assessments to take place alongside
Europe-wide tests, which he “understands” are likely in 2014.  “We, in our plan, want to be able to continuously access
the marketplace” this year, said Duffy, who was appointed CEO
14 months ago. “It’s very difficult for investors if there’s a
domestic banks stress test in the middle of all that. They may
just wait. So you could shut yourself out of the markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  