-- Cameron Rebuffs Hammond Call to Cut U.K. Welfare Spending
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-04T12:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/cameron-rebuffs-hammond-call-to-cut-u-k-welfare-spending.html
Prime Minister David Cameron
rebuffed a call from Defense Secretary Philip Hammond to find
savings by cutting welfare spending instead of targeting the
U.K.’s defense budget.  Two days ago, Hammond took the unusual step of going public
with an appeal to protect the military’s capability, telling the
 BBC  that while “modest” reductions are still possible in the
defense budget beyond 2015, any “significant” cutbacks will
“erode military capability.” He was cited by the Daily
Telegraph newspaper the same day as saying that reductions
should be made to the welfare budget instead.  Cabinet ministers are in discussions with Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne about their departmental budgets for
2015-16. Home Secretary Theresa May, a Conservative like
Hammond, is resisting cuts to her budget, while Business
Secretary Vince Cable, a Liberal Democrat, believes taxes should
rise to tackle Britain’s record debt. Osborne, who will set out
his plan in early summer, has said he needs to find an extra 10
billion pounds ($15 billion) of savings.  “I would remind people that the autumn statement from 2012
has already announced 3.6 billion pounds worth of additional
welfare savings for the year 2015-16,” Cameron’s spokesman,
Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters in  London  today. “If new
and specific proposals were to emerge they would need to be
considered.”  Defense Spending  Asked by reporters if the premier agreed with Hammond that
the defense budget should be protected, Gray replied: “With
regard to the Ministry of Defence’s budget, the prime minister’s
view is that the equipment budget will go up by 1 percent in
real terms from 2015.”  By refusing to protect the entire defense budget instead of
just its equipment programs, Gray was signaling to Hammond that
Cameron expects him to find further savings.  Asked if the premier found the sight of his Cabinet
colleagues negotiating in public helpful, Gray said he “would
always expect secretaries of state and departmental ministers to
make a robust case on behalf of their priorities. I don’t think
there is any particular secret that the government has taken and
is going to have to take tough decisions.”  Disquiet among Cameron’s Conservative lawmakers has grown
since the party failed last week to capture the parliamentary
district of Eastleigh in a special election. The Tories finished
in third place behind the Liberal Democrats and the U.K.
Independence Party, prompting some to question Cameron’s
leadership direction. Hammond’s intervention to protect his
defense budget reflects the concerns of rank-and-file Tories.  The Mail on Sunday newspaper reported yesterday that May
would shortly announce how she would withdraw the U.K. from the
European Court of Human Rights, another grassroots Tory concern.  If Cameron fails to secure a Tory majority in the 2015
election, that may prompt a leadership challenge. Neither
Hammond nor May have ruled themselves out as a possible future
leader.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  