-- Canadian Dollar Declines on China Before Rate Decision
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-04T22:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/canadian-dollar-falls-before-rate-decision-and-jobs-data.html
The Canadian dollar traded at almost
its lowest in eight months versus its U.S. counterpart as crude
oil, Canada’s largest export, dropped to its weakest level in 10
weeks before the central bank’s  interest-rate  decision.  The currency fell against the majority of its 16 most-
traded peers after a report showed companies in  China , Canada’s
third-largest destination for exports, are expanding at a
slower-than-forecast pace. The so-called loonie pared losses as
stocks rose on improved risk appetite. The  Bank of Canada  is
forecast to hold its interest rate steady when it meets March 6.  “If the statements were to sound increasingly dovish, that
tends to see the loonie come under renewed pressure,”  Joe Manimbo , market analyst for Western Union Business Solutions, a
unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) , said of the central bank in a phone
interview from  Washington . “I would suspect a sideways Canadian
dollar in the run-up to the Bank of Canada meeting.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.1 percent to
C$1.0273 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after declining as
much as 0.4 percent. It touched C$1.0342 on March 1, its lowest
point since June 29. One loonie buys 97.34 U.S. cents.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond fell, with
yields rising one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.81
percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 fell
seven cents to C$108.01. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
stocks rose 0.5 percent after falling 0.4 percent.  Crude Drops  “Traders are finding it easy to sell the Canadian dollar
on any negative news or any geopolitical hiccup,” Adam Button,
a currency analyst at Forexlive.com, said by phone from
 Montreal . “And when there is good news, the Canadian dollar
rallies are minimal.”  Canada ’s dollar extended losses as futures on crude oil
fell as much as 1.5 percent to $89.33 a barrel in  New York , the
lowest since Dec. 26, before trading at $90.28. S&P’s GSCI Index
of 24 raw materials slid for a fifth day, declining 0.4 percent.  Western Canada Select, the benchmark for oil-sands bitumen,
traded at a  discount  of $27 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate,
close to a three week high and above the 200-day moving average
of $23.30.  The loonie declined earlier as China’s non-manufacturing
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 54.5 in February from 56.2 in
January, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement
yesterday. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Interest Rate  Bank of Canada officials have held the benchmark interest
rate at 1 percent since September 2010 to support the economy.
Trading in overnight index swaps today showed investors have
priced in as much as 17 basis points of easing by the central
bank by its December meeting, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.
A week ago, they had priced in two points of easing.  Central bank Governor  Mark Carney  said Feb. 25 some of the
risks to the economy he highlighted last month are materializing
and policy makers are sticking to their assessment that
interest-rate increases have become less urgent than they had
anticipated.  Future traders reversed wagers the loonie will rise against
its U.S. counterpart, betting it will fall for the first time in
eight months, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators had 21,433 more
bets the Canadian dollar would fall than bets it would gain, so-
called net shorts, on Feb. 26, compared with 19,379 more bets it
would gain, or net-longs, a week earlier.  Sequester Effect  “I expect data out of  North America , particularly the
U.S., to be more positive, more risk-friendly, and I don’t
necessarily see the U.S. dollar appreciating on the back of that
because of the sequester,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst
in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., by
phone from Toronto. “So that could give the Canadian dollar a
risk proxy support, despite a less hawkish Bank of Canada.”  Automatic across-the-board cuts of $85 billion to the U.S.
federal government’s budget, known as the sequester, went into
effect March 1, with presidential aides and congressional
leaders signaling the reductions would continue for weeks,
possibly months.  Both Canada and the U.S., the country’s largest trading
partner, are forecast to have added jobs in February when they
release employment data on March 8, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Canada added 8,000 jobs last month from a net job loss in
January, according to a Bloomberg survey of 18 economists. The
U.S. increased by 160,000 new jobs, according to a separate
survey of 70 economists.  Canada’s dollar has fallen 1.2 percent this year among 10
developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The  U.S. dollar  has gained 2.7
percent and the euro is up 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  