-- Cardinals Begin Talks to Decide Date of Secret Conclave
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2013-03-04T13:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/cardinals-begin-talks-to-decide-date-of-secret-conclave.html
Roman Catholic cardinals are meeting
at the Vatican for preliminary talks to discuss the state of the
church and decide on a date to begin the secret conclave to
elect a new pope.  More than 200 cardinals will take part in the meetings,
called “general congregations,” that began this morning and
will continue in the afternoon. The gatherings are expected to
go on all week and a conclave date is unlikely to be announced
today, Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said at a press
briefing on March 1.  The talks involve cardinals from more than 60 nations of
both voting and non-voting age. Today’s morning meeting was
attended by 142 cardinals, of whom 103 can vote as they’re under
the voting-age limit of 80, Lombardi said at a briefing. Sixty-
five cardinals were absent and are expected to join the meeting
this afternoon or tomorrow, he said.  The conclave, which will take place in the Sistine Chapel,
will be attended by 115 voting-age cardinals. Lombardi said the
cardinals are divided on whether to hold the conclave soon or
spend more time getting to know one another and discussing key
issues before having to select a new leader for the world’s 1.2
billion Catholics.  Some cardinals “are in more of a rush or want to proceed
more quickly” to the conclave, Lombardi said. “Then there are
those who’d like more time in the congregations, and this is
something they still must work out among themselves.”  The conclave may begin as soon as March 10, U.S. Cardinal
Sean O’Malley was cited as saying in an interview published
 yesterday  in the National Catholic Reporter.  Pope Benedict XVI  on Feb. 28 became the first pontiff in
600 years to abdicate. The 85-year-old, now known as “pope
emeritus,” flew by helicopter to the papal summer residence
south of  Rome  and will return to the Vatican in two months to
spend his retirement in a convent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  