-- Carillion Declines for Fifth Day as Investec Cuts: London Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-03-04T17:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/carillion-declines-for-fifth-day-as-investec-cuts-london-mover.html
Carillion Plc (CLLN) , a U.K. construction
and services provider, fell for a fifth straight day in  London 
to its lowest in three months after brokerage firm Investec
Securities stopped recommending that investors buy the stock.  Carillion declined 5.4 percent to 291.40 pence, its lowest
price since Dec. 7. The Wolverhampton, England-based company
said Feb. 27 that underlying 2012 pretax profit fell 4 percent
to 214.7 million pounds ($324 million) as revenue dropped 13
percent.  “The underlying business now has to battle hard to stand
still and that leaves the risks on the downside,” said Andrew Gibb, an  analyst  at Investec in London, who lowered his
recommendation to hold from buy, in a note dated March 1.
Investec cited “much lower revenue growth expectations” for
the group’s  Middle East  business, and “uninspiring” expansion
prospects for Carillion’s support services in the near-term.  Carillion Chairman Philip Rogerson said in an earnings
statement last week that the company expects market conditions
to remain “challenging” as the U.K. construction market
shrinks and it rescales its business at home. While revenue
contributions from Middle Eastern and Canadian operations were
lower last year, Carillion said it expects “strong medium-term
growth” from both those markets.  More than 3 million Carillion shares traded today, or 2.2
times the three-month daily average. The stock has fallen 8.1
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 1.25
billion pounds.  Canaccord Genuity Corp. analyst James Gilbert also cut his
recommendation on the stock to hold from buy last week.  Carillion recorded 5.2 billion pounds in new and probable
orders in 2012 and said last week it has visibility on 75
percent of revenue for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  