-- Carlsberg Offers to Raise Stake in Chongqing Brewery
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-03-04T18:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/carlsberg-offers-to-raise-stake-in-china-s-chongqing-brewery.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the world’s fourth-
biggest brewer, will offer to buy as much as 2.9 billion  yuan 
($466 million) of shares in  Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132)  as it seeks to
tighten its grip on the Chinese beermaker.  Carlsberg, which already owns a  29.7 percent stake  in the
Chongqing municipality-based brewer, will offer 20 yuan a share
for a further 30 percent stake in the maker of Shancheng beer,
it said yesterday in a statement. The deal will add to earnings
per share in the first year after completion.  “Strategically, we believe the deal makes a lot of
sense,”  Trevor Stirling , an an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
in  London , wrote in a note to clients dated yesterday. “ Asia  is
key to Carlsberg’s long-term growth story; in particular,  China 
is key to Carlsberg’s footprint in Asia, especially western
China, including Chongqing.”  Carlsberg, which gets about 14 percent of its sales from
Asia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, is seeking to
expand its operations outside the slow-growth markets of
northern and western Europe. The brewer said on Feb. 1 that it’s
starting a new joint venture in Myanmar, after announcing a tie-
up with Thailand’s Singha Corp. on Sept. 28. Carlsberg is the
biggest brewer in  Russia .  The Chongqing price is 15.7 times estimated earnings before
interest, tax, amortization and depreciation, based on expected
profits the first year after completion, Carlsberg said. The
deal will be financed through existing facilities and may take
as much as 12 months to complete.  Stockholder Sells  Chongqing Beer Group Co., which owns 20 percent of
Chongqing Brewery, has committed to tender all its shares at the
proposed price. If the bid is oversubscribed, Carlsberg will buy
any remaining shares held by Chongqing Beer Group.  “We believe that through closer cooperation with
Carlsberg, the performance of this large-scale beer business
will be significantly enhanced,” Joergen Buhl Rasmussen,
Copenhagen-based Carlsberg’s chief executive officer, said in
the statement. “Our Asian business is very important for our
long-term growth strategy.”  Carlsberg’s  shares  rose 1.1 percent to close at 594.50
kroner in Copenhagen yesterday, giving it a market value of 91.7
billion kroner ($16 billion). Chongqing’s shares, halted since
Feb. 25 pending this announcement, will resume trading today,
according to a statement issued via the Shanghai stock exchange
yesterday.  Chongqing is strong in western China, including Chongqing
municipality, and on the east coast,  Ian Shackleton , an analyst
at Nomura in London, wrote in a note dated yesterday.  “Although Carlsberg will need further deals to become
truly national like market leader China Snow, majority control
of Chongqing is a useful building block towards this goal,”
Shackleton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  