-- Carlyle Gets $150 Million From Indiana for Custom Fund
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-03-04T12:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/carlyle-gets-150-million-from-indiana-for-custom-fund.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-biggest private-equity firm, was awarded a mandate to
manage $150 million in a custom fund on behalf of the  Indiana 
Public Retirement System.  Carlyle and fund-of-funds investor AlpInvest Partners BV
have opened an office in Indianapolis and will manage and invest
Indiana Investment Fund II, Washington-based Carlyle said in a
statement today. The fund will invest directly in deals,
alongside other buyers, in private-equity funds, in real estate
and credit, and in other opportunities directly or indirectly
related to Indiana, according to the statement.  Big private-equity investors such as public pension funds
have turned to separately managed accounts to negotiate cheaper
fees and retain some control in investment decisions, in
exchange for locking up their money for a decade or more.
Carlyle in 2011 struck a deal with the Municipal Employees’
Retirement System of  Michigan  to manage as much as $250 million
in a separate account.  “By investing capital here in Indiana, INPRS achieves the
dual goal of targeting premium rates of returns while nurturing
Hoosier entrepreneurs and their businesses,” Steve Russo, the
Indiana pension’s executive director, said in the statement. A
Hoosier is an Indiana resident.  Indiana’s pension system oversees $27.2 billion, serving
447,000 members and retirees, according to the statement.  Carlyle last week re-branded its funds-of-funds unit with
the hire of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Jacques Chappuis, who will run the
solutions business when he joins the firm’s New York office in
May. Carlyle will task Chappuis with creating new offerings for
investors, including customized accounts, fund-of-funds
investments, portfolio advice and risk management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  