-- Casino Industry Opposes PokerStars’ Bid for New Jersey License
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-05T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/casino-group-opposes-poker-stars-bid-for-new-jersey-license-1-.html
The U.S. casino industry is opposing
an effort by PokerStars, the biggest Internet gambling company,
to buy an  Atlantic City  property as  New Jersey  prepares for
online betting.  The  American Gaming Association , which has never
participated in a licensing proceeding, cited federal charges
settled by PokerStars and parent Rational Group Ltd. in the
petition filed yesterday with state casino regulators. Holly
Wetzel, a spokeswoman, confirmed the group opposes the effort to
buy the Atlantic Club Casino Hotel.  New Jersey’s new online gambling law limits online betting
to owners of casinos in the state. The group’s complaint, which
focused on PokerStars’ prosecution last year for bank fraud and
 money laundering , sends a signal that established casinos will
challenge would-be competitors.  “These are matters for expert regulators to determine, not
self-interested partisans picking a public fight,”  Eric Hollreiser, a spokesman for PokerStars, said in an e-mail. “We
will continue to work positively with regulators in New Jersey
and elsewhere whenever they review our qualifications.”  Hollreiser said the company, based in  Isle of Man , U.K.,
holds licenses in  France ,  Germany  and other countries and was
allowed to purchase the assets of its largest competitor in a
settlement with the  U.S. Department of Justice  last year.  Rational Group, PokerStars’ parent, agreed in January to
buy the Atlantic Club, one of New Jersey’s 12 casinos in
Atlantic City. The deal must be approved by the state’s Division
of Gaming Enforcement and Casino Control Commission.  Online Gambling  Online gambling laws passed in New Jersey, Nevada and
Delaware favor incumbent operators.  New Jersey’s law, signed by Governor  Chris Christie  on Feb.
26, lets existing operators offer all current games. Their
hardware must be located in Atlantic City. Nevada’s law, signed
on Feb. 21, lets land-based casino operators offer online poker
only, according to Greg Gemignani, a Las Vegas attorney
specializing in gaming law.  In Delaware, the state lottery will run the business with
three horse tracks and is seeking bids from technology partners.  PokerStars reached an agreement with the U.S. Justice
Department in July 2012, settling charges of fraud and money-
laundering related to the company’s offering of online poker in
this country after Congress banned such play in 2006.  The company, one of three targeted by the government,
agreed to forfeit $547 million to reimburse players whose funds
had been frozen. As part of the settlement, PokerStars acquired
its competitor, Full Tilt Poker.  With U.S. banks and credit-card issuers prohibited from
processing their payments, the poker companies allegedly used
fraudulent methods to circumvent federal law and deceive the
financial institutions into facilitating the transactions, the
government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  