-- CBOE’s Brodsky Says Transaction Tax Would Harm U.S. Liquidity
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-03-04T20:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/cboe-s-brodsky-says-transaction-tax-would-harm-u-s-liquidity.html
The European plan to impose a levy
on financial transactions will affect investors and companies
trading in the U.S. and may harm market liquidity,  William Brodsky  of  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , said today.  The EU on Feb. 14 unveiled its proposal for taxes of 0.1
percent on stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent on
derivatives. To prevent traders from escaping the levy by
operating outside the tax’s zone, the EU plan invokes
“residence” and “issuance” ties to firms in participating
nations. That means, for example, that a French bond traded in
London would still be affected.  “All of it is very disturbing,” Brodsky, chairman and
chief executive officer of CBOE, said in a presentation at the
exchange’s Risk Management Conference in Carlsbad,  California .
“It’s intended to have an extra-territorial reach,” he said.
“It would affect companies such as a Royal Dutch and Unilever
that trade in the U.S. even though the tax applies in Europe.”  Some Democratic lawmakers in the U.S., including Senator
 Tom Harkin  of Iowa and Representative Peter DeFazio of Oregon,
back similar proposals in the U.S. While Algirdas Semeta, the
European Union’s tax commissioner, last month urged U.S.
supporters of a financial transaction tax to keep up their
efforts, the proposal has gained little momentum in Congress and
with the administration of  Barack Obama . The Treasury Department
opposed the EU tax, warning about the effects on U.S. investors.  Liquidity Concern  “It’s very concerning because at a time when the market
structure is very changed from the way it was years ago, I worry
about liquidity,” said Brodsky, who is stepping down as CEO of
Chicago-based CBOE in May. The exchange is the largest options
market by volume. “Any of you, particularly institutional
investors, who understand how important liquidity is to be able
to get things done, to have things that will throw sand in the
gear does not to me look very helpful.”  Europe’s plans have been dubbed the  Tobin tax  after U.S.
economist  James Tobin , who in 1972 suggested taking a cut of
foreign-exchange trades to limit  currency speculation . History
is littered with government attempts to extract revenue from
financial transactions, not all of which were successful and
most of which had unintended consequences.  The proposal, which seeks raise revenue for national
governments, excludes certain types of trading: day-to-day
transactions by individuals and non-financial firms; primary
offerings of stocks and bonds; and trades with central banks,
the European Stability Mechanism and other official
institutions. The tax also excludes primary-market trades in
units of collective investment funds along with certain
restructuring operations.  To become law, the proposal must be approved by the EU
nations that agreed to consider imposing the tax. They now
include Belgium, Germany, Estonia, Greece, Spain, France, Italy,
Austria, Portugal, Slovenia and Slovakia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  