-- McDonald’s Invests $6.5 Million in Sustainable Guatemala Coffee
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-03-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/mcdonald-s-invests-6-5-million-in-sustainable-guatemala-coffee.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, will invest $6.5 million over five
years to help about 13,000 coffee growers in Guatemala produce
more high-grade beans from sustainable farms as demand grows.  The investment will help secure supplies of arabica beans,
which the company uses in a premium-roast coffee business that
has doubled in sales since 2006, Oak Brook, Illinois-based
McDonald’s said today in an e-mailed statement. Farmers will be
trained on certified growing methods that boost yields and
incomes while preserving land and the environment. Guatemala is
one of four McDonald’s suppliers in Central America.  Hot and cold coffee represents about 7 percent of U.S.
sales, Sara Senatore, a senior restaurant analyst with Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an e-mail. The company,
which reported U.S.  revenue  of $8.814 billion last year,
switched to a proprietary blend of arabica beans in 2006 and has
emerged as a competitor to  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Dunkin’ Brands
Group Inc. (DNKN)   “Investing in both certification and sustainable
agriculture training addresses the immediate need to assist
farmers today, expands capacity for greater sustainable coffee
production in the future and helps assure our customers we will
continue to provide the taste profile they have grown to love
and expect from McDonald’s,” Susan Forsell, the vice president
of sustainability, said in the statement.  The company, which buys coffee from  Colombia , Guatemala,
 Costa Rica , Nicaragua, El Salvador,  Brazil  and Sumatra, said it
already gets all of its Rainforest Alliance Certified espresso
from sustainable farms. The initiative seeks to address root
causes of poverty among farming communities by expanding the use
of techniques that will promote sustainable, profitable
agricultural, McDonald’s said.  Fungal Disease  The program comes at a time when producers in Central
America,  Peru  and  Mexico  are battling leaf rust, a fungal
disease that thrives on higher temperatures and humidity, which
is threatening to significantly reduce output across the region.  “We are aware of this issue and continue to work with
experts on the ground in Guatemala, alongside our coffee
roasters, to understand its impact,” Ofelia Casillas, a company
spokeswoman, said in a statement. “One of the primary goals of
our technical-assistance program is to increase farmer
production. So, we are staying close to it and working with our
partners to mitigate.”  Last year, McDonald’s filed a trademark for its name for
use on ground and whole bean coffee, according to a filing from
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office website.  “There are no immediate plans in the U.S. to launch
packaged coffee,” Casillas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  