-- Chile Peso Falls to Six-Week Low on U.S. Budget, China Policy
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-03-04T17:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/chile-peso-falls-to-six-week-low-on-u-s-budget-china-policy.html
Chile’s peso dropped to a six-week
low as  China  tightened monetary policy, U.S. budget cuts started
to take effect and political gridlock in  Italy  remained,
diminishing global economic prospects.  The peso dropped less than 0.1 percent to 474.33 per U.S.
dollar at the close in Santiago, the weakest since Jan. 16. The
currency earlier slid to as low as 475.34.  “It should be weakening further,” said Alejandro Araya, a
currency trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “With the
U.S. sequester, the unresolved situation in Italy and Chinese
data, the peso should be trading weaker than 475.”  Thirty-day volatility in the Chilean peso fell to its
lowest level in almost 15 years. The currency has traded in a
range of 475 to 470 per dollar from Jan. 16 through today on a
closing basis.  Concern that  Chile ’s central bank may intervene to slow the
currency’s appreciation is offsetting a steady target lending
 rate  of 5 percent and stronger-than-average growth.  The nation’s economy expanded 6.5 percent in January from a
year earlier, according to the median forecast of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before tomorrow’s report from the central
bank. The average  growth rate  over the past five years is 4
percent.  Traders in the forwards market for unidades de fomento,
Chile’s index-linked accounting unit, projected 1.54 percent
annual inflation in February and 1.73 percent this month. Chile
has the slowest inflation among seven Latin American economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The peso weakened today as China’s government ordered
measures to cool property prices by making home loans more
expensive to finance and U.S. spending cuts began to trickle
through the federal government, curbing growth expectations for
the world’s two biggest consumers of copper, Chile’s main
export. Italian politicians were still at loggerheads after an
inconclusive election result.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  