-- China Developers Drop Most in 5 Years on Curbs: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-04T09:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/china-developers-fall-on-new-property-measures-shanghai-mover.html
China ’s property stocks plunged the
most since June 2008 after the government intensified a three-
year campaign to cool the real estate market, ordering higher
down payments and stricter enforcement of sales taxes.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index lost 9.3 percent
at the close of trading, its biggest drop since June 19, 2008.
 China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest developer listed on mainland
exchanges, fell by the 10 percent daily limit to 10.84  yuan  in
Shenzhen.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the second largest, also
sank by the daily limit of 10 percent to 11.37 yuan.  China’s cabinet on March 1 told cities with “excessively
fast” price gains to raise down-payment requirements and
interest rates on second-home mortgages and ordered individuals
selling properties to “strictly” pay a 20 percent tax on the
sale profit when the original purchase price is available, a
levy that is being easily avoided.  “The measures are much stronger than expected and will
have more longer-term implications on the market,” said Zhao Zhenyi, a Shanghai-based property analyst at Industrial
Securities Co., who downgraded the sector to neutral. “With the
new tightening mainly on existing homes, buyers will not be able
to take much leverage at all.’  The People’s Bank of China’s regional branches may
implement the measures in accordance with the price-control
targets of local governments, the central government said in a
 statement  on its website. Cities facing ‘‘relatively large”
pressure from rising house prices must further tighten home-
purchase limits, according to the statement.  Sales Tax  Many sellers now say they can’t provide the data and,
instead of the 20 percent tax on sale profit, pay a tax of 1
percent of the total sale value, a lower burden in cities where
prices have soared, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.,
China’s biggest real estate brokerage.  The 20 percent capital gains tax for existing home sales is
new and unexpected, Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in an e-mailed report
today. The market will enter a wait-and-see mode in the next two
months, while individual cities gradually announce local
implementations of the new measures, Du said.  New-home prices rose for a ninth straight month in
February,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  said last week, 10 days after
Premier Wen Jiabao told local authorities to “decisively” curb
property speculation and ordered cities with fast price gains to
cap the number of homes residents may buy. Li Keqiang will
replace Wen in a once-in-a-decade leadership transition at the
end of the annual gathering of the National People’s Congress
this month.  Denting Sentiment  There is a bubble in the Chinese property market, Vanke
Chairman Wang Shi said in an interview on CBS Corp.’s “60
Minutes” in the U.S., adding that “if there’s a bubble” that
spells “disaster.”  In Hong Kong, nine out of the 10 worst performers on the
MSCI China Index were Chinese developers. State-owned  China
Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  plunged 8.9 percent to HK$20.60, the most
since Oct. 3, 2011. Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd. declined 10
percent to HK$4.79.  Real estate companies found hoarding land or collaborating
to push up home prices will be barred from getting new
development loans or raising funds in capital markets, according
to the government statement. The government will also
“quicken” an expansion of the nation’s property-tax trials, it
said in the statement, without providing details.  “We expected the measures would immediately affect buyers’
sentiment and hence sales volumes,” Eva Lee, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a report today. “The new
measures will ‘freeze’ the entire market and delay the
originally planned sales schedules planned for the near term.”  Market Uncertainty  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  and Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science
and Technology Co., China’s two biggest construction equipment
makers also posted losses in more than two years. Sany sank 8.6
percent to 10.77 yuan, while Zoomlion slid 7.8 percent to 8.63
yuan, the most since November 2010. Anhui Conch Cement Co.,
China’s biggest cement producer by market value,  plunged  by 10
percent to 17.88 yuan in Shanghai, the most since March 2006.  The government’s almost three-year effort to curb property
prices has included raising down-payment and mortgage
requirements, increasing construction of low-cost social housing
and restricting home purchases in about 40 cities. Authorities
also have imposed a property tax for the first time in the
cities of  Shanghai  and Chongqing.  The government in 2011 raised the down payment on second
mortgages to 60 percent from 50 percent, and required the
interest rate to be at least 10 percent higher than the central
bank’s benchmark.  “There is still a lot of debate and uncertainty in the
market over which cities and when the detailed policies will be
implemented,” said Nicole Wong, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in a telephone
interview today. “Stocks will fall until people are crystal
clear about the issue.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  