-- China’s Stocks Slump as Developers Tumble Most Since June 2008
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-03-04T02:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/china-s-stock-futures-fall-after-shanghai-gauge-s-weekly-rally.html
China ’s  stocks  fell, led by the
biggest slump among developers since 2008, after the Cabinet
called for more measures to cool property prices and after
growth in the nation’s services industries slowed.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 2.6 percent, the most
since Feb. 21, to 2,298.36 as of 10:31 a.m. local time. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 3.6 percent to 2,574.10. China Vanke Co. led a
gauge of developers to the biggest tumble since June 2008 after
the State Council called for higher down-payments and interest
rates for second-home mortgages.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (600016) 
sank 4.8 percent, pacing declines among lenders.  “When there are new rules like these, it extends far
beyond property shares,” Zhang Yanbin, an analyst with Zheshang
Securities Co. in  Shanghai , said by phone today. “There have
been talks of property measures in the past few weeks, leading
to declines in the market. The news over the weekend was
evidence of a detailed measure, hence the loss is much bigger.”  A  purchasing managers ’ index released yesterday showed the
nation’s services industries expanded at the slowest pace in
five months. A government manufacturing PMI gauge released last
week missed estimates. Chinese legislators begin an annual
conference tomorrow, during which the government usually
announces economic targets for the year.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost 2 percent. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  added 0.1 percent in  New York  on
March 1.  Property Curbs  Shanghai Composite trading volumes were 53 percent higher
than the 30-day average for this time of day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge added 2 percent last week,
taking its gain since Dec. 3 to 20 percent. The  index  trades for
9.6 times projected 12-month earnings, near the lowest since
Dec. 24.  A gauge of  developers  in the Shanghai Composite Index
tumbled 8.8 percent, the most since June 19, 2008. Vanke, the
nation’s largest publicly traded developer, tumbled 9.1 percent
to 10.95 yuan. Gemdale Corp. sank 10 percent to 6.42  yuan ,
poised for the biggest loss since Aug. 31, 2009. Poly Real
Estate Group Co. sank 10 percent to 11.37 yuan.  China called for higher down-payments and interest rates
for second-home mortgages in cities with “excessively fast”
price gains and ordered stricter enforcement of taxes on sales
as authorities step up a three-year campaign to cool the
 property market .  The People’s Bank of China’s regional branches may
implement the measures in accordance with the price-control
targets of local governments, the State Council, or Cabinet,
said in a  statement  on its website on March 1. Cities facing
“relatively large” pressure from rising house prices must
further tighten home-purchase limits, according to the
statement.  Building Materials  China Minsheng Banking retreated 4.8 percent to 9.69 yuan,
while  Industrial Bank Co. (601166)  dropped 4.6 percent to 19.23 yuan amid
concern home lending will slow. Anhui Conch Cement Co. lost 8.9
percent to 18.11 yuan on speculation fewer home purchases will
damp demand for building materials.  “Property is very wide-reaching,” Zheshang Securities’
Zhang said. Real-estate curbs “impact other sectors like banks
and cement companies, so you see a huge drag on the market
today.”  The non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to
54.5 in February from 56.2 in January, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
in a statement yesterday. The index’s reading has been above 50,
which indicates expansion, for at least two years.  People’s Congress  Pressure on China to tighten monetary policy is easing as
inflation will be “relatively low” this month due to slowing
food-price gains, People’s Bank of China adviser Song Guoqing
said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  will outline economic policies at the
start of the National People’s Congress in Beijing as the
government grapples with sustaining a recovery from the slowest
growth in 13 years without triggering a resurgence in consumer
and asset-price inflation. While the government has pledged to
boost incomes and consumption, last week’s decision to intensify
a three-year crackdown on the property market may damp the
nation’s rebound.  “There will be a lot of fluctuations ahead of the meetings
as investors await measures announced by the government,” Zhou Lin, an analyst at Huatai Securities Co., said by phone from
Nanjing. “There’s definitely concern about the economy’s
recovery after the weak services PMI.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., declined 0.9 percent to $38.60
for a weekly gain of 0.2 percent.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. tumbled 31 percent to $1.13
last week. The company was sued by investors who accuse it of
orchestrating a “fake acquisition” to facilitate an initial
public offering in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  