-- China Seen Creating Its Own BHP to Boost Purchases Abroad
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-05T09:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/china-seen-creating-its-own-bhp-to-boost-purchases-abroad.html
A record wave of consolidation in
China’s mining industry is creating bigger companies that will
have the muscle to compete with the likes of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
for overseas acquisitions.  Even after Chinese domestic mining mergers reached $19.6
billion last year, double the tally for 2011, the government
wants to see more. Easier access to capital and less Chinese
competition for assets may make companies including China
Minmetals Corp. and Aluminum Corp. of China more robust overseas
buyers, said Deloitte & Touche LLP.  That’ll help reverse a slump in acquisitions of mining
assets outside of China, which fell to a five-year low of $2.9
billion in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. As the world’s
biggest importer of iron ore and coal, China relies on foreign
sources of the raw materials.  “With stronger and bigger Chinese players emerging, we
could see a significant pickup in the volume of overseas
acquisitions,” said Richard Tory, Hong Kong-based head of
natural resources for the Asia-Pacific region at Morgan Stanley.  China ’s mining industry, while one of the world’s largest
producers of minerals including gold and tin, is now peppered
with thousands of smaller companies. Minmetals, its largest
miner by revenue, had assets of $36.6 billion at the end of 2011
-- dwarfed by BHP’s $122.1 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Globally Competitive  “China’s mining sector is too fragmented right now,” said
Eugene Qian, head of global banking for China at Citigroup Inc.,
which advised Cnooc Ltd. on its $15.1 billion acquisition of
Nexen Inc., the biggest outbound takeover by a Chinese company.
“It needs a lot of consolidation to create majors.”  In January, the government said it would promote mergers in
nine industries including steel, aluminum and rare earths to
create “globally competitive” enterprises, according to a
statement by the Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology.  The announcement reinforced what’s already begun. Excluding
deals between parent companies and their subsidiaries, the
largest domestic acquisition last year was Hunan Jiangnan Red
Arrow Co.’s $623 million takeover of Zhongnan Diamond Co.  National Champions  “Creating national champions makes sense because mining is
very capital-intensive, said Jeremy South, who oversees global
mining advisory at Deloitte & Touche. ‘‘It also makes no sense
for Chinese companies to be competing with each other for
overseas deals.’’  Shenhua Group Corp Ltd. bought China State Grid Corp.’s
electric-generation unit for $8.2 billion last year. The Chinese
state-owned miner is now studying an investment in  Australia ’s
 Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , two people with knowledge of the matter
said. Whitehaven, part owned by  Nathan Tinkler , has a market
value of A$2.58 billion ($2.6 billion). The stock is trading at
its  lowest level  since May 2009.  An official at Shenhua Group’s press department in Beijing
declined to comment. Whitehaven Chairman Mark Vaile said Feb. 21
that the company hasn’t had any recent dialogue with Shenhua.  Citic Group Corp., China’s largest state-owned investment
company, last month agreed to pay about A$452 million for a 13
percent stake in Australia’s  Alumina Ltd. (AWC) , partner in the
world’s biggest alumina business.  Other Chinese miners are also searching for deals. Chinalco
Mining Corporation International may seek assets in South
America,  Africa  and Asia, Chief Executive Officer Peng Huaisheng
said in Hong Kong on Jan. 17. Parent Aluminum Corp. of China was
the most active overseas acquirer among Chinese miners in the
past decade with $14 billion of deals, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Deal Hunters  Minmetals could become one of the main Chinese buyers
abroad, according to Deloitte’s South. Both Chinalco and
Minmetals are state-controlled.  Zhaojin Mining Industry Co., China’s fourth-biggest gold
producer, is studying takeovers in South America and other
regions and may announce a deal ‘‘in the near future,” Chen He,
assistant to the company’s president, said in November.  Two gold companies that could attract Chinese interest are
 Saracen Mineral Holdings Ltd. (SAR)  of Perth and Englewood, Colorado-
based  Alacer Gold Corp. (AQG) , which has assets in Australia and
 Turkey , according to Troy Irvin, a Perth-based analyst at
Argonaut Securities Pty. Their large reserves and production
assets typically appeal to Chinese companies, Irvin said.
Officials at Saracen and Alacer declined to comment or weren’t
immediately available. Saracen shares advanced 7.9 percent
today, the biggest gain since Oct. 2.  “The Chinese see the value of building bigger companies to
compete with major mining companies in the world,” said
Deloitte’s South.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  