-- China Carbon Tax May Spur U.S. Climate Debate, CMIA Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-03-04T11:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/china-carbon-tax-may-spur-u-s-climate-debate-trader-group-says.html
China ’s potential carbon tax may
spur U.S. lawmakers to consider climate protection more
seriously, according to a trader representative.  “China’s announcement that it’s considering a carbon tax
may, over time, chill superficial resistance by some to the
issue and spur U.S. lawmakers to more seriously consider what
the appropriate U.S. actions should be on market-based climate
policies,”  Cameron Prell , the U.S. working group chairman of
the Climate Markets & Investment Association, a London-based
industry group, said by phone.  China may introduce a tax on carbon dioxide emissions at
some time, Xinhua reported Feb. 19, citing a senior Finance
Ministry official. The report was five days after Senators
 Barbara Boxer , a Democrat from  California , and  Bernie Sanders ,
an independent from  Vermont , unveiled a climate change plan that
would set an initial $20-a-ton carbon fee on polluters,
including manufacturers and oil and natural gas producers.  “It does appear that the carbon tax issue could play a
significant role at the international level over the next few
years,” said Prell, who is also senior counsel for climate and
energy at McGuireWoods LLP in  Washington . China may be “staking
out” a position for the United Nations climate negotiations,
which aim for some kind of new global deal by 2015, Prell said.  U.S. Imports  Goods imported into the U.S. might also be taxed under the
Boxer-Sanders plan.  “To ensure that all countries play by the same rules,
imported fuels and products would also be charged the same
carbon fee that domestic fuels and products pay, unless the
exporting nation has a similar climate program,” the senators
said in a  statement  published on Sanders’ website.  China’s National Development and Reform Commission in
Beijing is examining the impact of a carbon tax on the nation’s
economy and the relationship between such a measure and
emissions markets, according to Wang Shu, a Beijing-based
official in the commission’s Department of  Climate Change .  “We will focus on carbon trading,” he said by phone on
Feb. 25. “We don’t think we will implement a carbon tax
immediately.”  China is establishing seven pilot carbon markets to help
cut emissions of heat-trapping gases.  Pravin Gordhan,  South Africa ’s finance minister, said Feb.
27 the nation will introduce a carbon tax in January 2015. A
review on its implementation will be made jointly with industry
stakeholders this month, Gordhan said.  Hybrid Model  One option that may be considered in the U.S. is a hybrid
model where a tax converts into a carbon market in future years,
similar to a program in  Australia , Prell said. Whether the China
announcement will prod the U.S. toward that model is yet
unclear, he said.  Debate in the U.S. about a carbon tax is still “at its
infancy,” Prell said. “As part of integrating a carbon tax
into the fiscal debate, the Democrats appear to be overly
cautious and the Republicans overly reckless in not including
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  