-- China Money-Market Rate Falls as Nine-Day Rise Judged Excessive
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-03-04T04:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/china-money-market-rate-falls-as-nine-day-rise-judged-excessive.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell, snapping a nine-day advance, on speculation recent
increases were excessive and that the central bank will act to
stabilize the market.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for offerings of
seven- and 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts this week,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
sales. Pressure on China to tighten monetary policy is easing as
inflation will be “relatively low” this month due to slowing
food-price gains, PBOC adviser Song Guoqing said at a forum in
Beijing on March 2, indicating he was giving his own view.  “Last week’s rate was too high,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a
rates strategist in  Hong Kong  at Societe Generale SA. “The PBOC
should intervene more in terms of money-market operations.”  The  seven-day repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, fell 13 basis points to 4.30 percent as of 11:45
a.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate was 2.91 percent
two weeks ago, before the monetary authority sold repurchase
contracts for the first time since June on Feb. 19.  Money-market operations by the PBOC drained a record 910
billion  yuan  ($146 billion) from the financial system that week,
and 5 billion yuan in the five days ended March 1.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo, dropped one basis point to 3.26 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It touched 3.29 percent last
week, the highest level since Jan. 18.  Facing Inflation  Yi Gang, a deputy governor, said yesterday the central bank
is “fully confident” of controlling inflation this year. While
the nation faces “some” inflationary pressure, the consumer-
 price index  will rise about 3 percent in 2013, Yi told reporters
at the start of the annual meeting of the  Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference , the nation’s top advisory
body. That compares with 2.6 percent last year.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  will formally announce this year’s
economic targets when he delivers his final work report at an
annual meeting of parliament, the National People’s Congress,
that begins tomorrow. The growth target for 2013 will be
maintained at 7.5 percent,  Bloomberg News  reported in December,
citing two bank executives and a regulatory official briefed on
the matter. Last year’s 7.8 percent expansion in the world’s
second-largest economy was the slowest since 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  