-- China Defends Expanded Military After Memories of ‘Bullying’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-04T08:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/china-defends-expanded-military-after-memories-of-bullying-1-.html
China’s push to boost its defense
capability has become a key to maintaining peace in Asia and
stems from lessons learned after being bullied, a spokeswoman
for the country’s legislature told a briefing today.  China seeks to solve disputes through negotiation and
diplomacy, National People’s Congress spokeswoman Fu Ying said
on the eve of the legislature’s annual session. In a break with
precedent dating back at least to 2005, Fu declined to release a
 defense spending  forecast for this year, saying the figure would
be included in the overall budget. That information is expected
to be disclosed tomorrow when the NPC starts.  Xi Jinping, who became Communist Party general secretary in
November, has pledged a “great rejuvenation of the Chinese
nation.” Neighbors including  Japan  and the  Philippines  have
voiced concern over China’s maritime territorial claims amid a
rise in military spending.  “Historically China has had weak national defense, and was
subject to the hurtful lessons of bullying,” Fu told a briefing
in Beijing. “Chinese people’s historical memories of this
problem are deep, so we need a solid national defense.”  Chinese military spending, second only to that of the U.S.,
was forecast to rise 11.2 percent in 2012 to 670 billion  yuan 
($108 billion) as the country modernized its fighter jets, sea
frigates and satellite technology.  Budget Release  China will safeguard its security interests and respond
“resolutely” if other countries provoke it, Fu said in
response to a question about whether the country is becoming
more assertive in its dispute with Japan over islands in the
East China Sea.  “Some people might make prejudgments with the conventional
logic that a strong country is bound to seek hegemony,” Fu
said. “When another country makes provocations, what should we
do? We should give a resolute response and handle these matters
in timely manner.”  Asked about political reform, Fu said China would not copy
the model of other countries.  “You cannot say that if  China ’s reform is not following
the model of other countries then China is not following
political reform,” she said. “This is unfair and not
correct.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  