-- China May Take South American Soy Meal Share as Crush Expands
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-04T16:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/china-may-take-south-american-soy-meal-share-as-crush-expands.html
Spare soybean crushing capacity in
 China  big enough to process  Argentina ’s entire crop means the
world’s largest oilseed consumer may start exporting more soy
meal to southeast  Asia , reducing demand for the livestock feed
from Western Hemisphere suppliers, Rabobank International said.  China crushed about 61 million metric tons of soybeans last
year, less than half the country’s processing capacity of 136
million tons, Rabobank analyst Pawan Kumar said today in an e-
mailed report. Processors, which crush whole soybeans into meal
used in feed and oil used for cooking, have expanded as China’s
livestock herds grew. China’s imports of raw soybeans increased
fivefold since 2001 to 58 million tons last year, while soybean
meal exports are about 1 million tons, Kumar said.  Southeast Asia accounts for about 20 percent of world
soybean meal trade, and about 76 percent of the region’s imports
come from  Latin America , Kumar said. In the past two years, meal
shipped to the region from the Western Hemisphere was about $57
a ton cheaper than Chinese supplies. Still, Chinese processors
could sell meal at a discount or break-even price to gain market
share, or the government could allow shipments to be treated as
re-exports, providing tax reimbursements, Kumar said.  “If price competitiveness from China is strong enough, a
real geographical dislocation in the soymeal market is bound to
occur,” Kumar wrote. “The South America to Southeast Asia
trade corridor could shrink and may disappear entirely, which
means that around 9.3 million tons of export sales from the west
will either need to be absorbed domestically or be sold to
European or new markets.”  Largest Grower  China, which accounts for about 60 percent of U.S. raw
soybean exports, may consume 76.7 million tons of the oilseed
this season, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .
 Brazil  is set to become the world’s largest grower, producing
83.5 million tons, compared with 82.1 million from the U.S. and
53 million from third-place Argentina. China’s domestic crop is
about 12.6 million tons, the USDA estimates.  “Soymeal exports out of China could offer an alternative
for Southeast Asian imports, one that could provide up to 20
percent savings on freight compared to soymeal imports shipped
from  South America ,” Kumar wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  