-- Clegg to Send Son to Selective London School Attended by Blairs
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-04T13:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/clegg-to-send-son-to-selective-london-school-attended-by-blairs.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said he will send his eldest son Antonio to the  London 
Oratory, a selective state-funded Catholic high school that
former premier Tony Blair’s children attended.  Clegg’s plans for his children’s education came under
scrutiny after Prime Minister David Cameron, once a pupil at
Eton, Britain’s most famous fee-paying school for boys, said
Jan. 18 he will send his eldest daughter Nancy to a state-run
high school, citing improvements in London’s educational record.  Clegg was also privately educated at London’s Westminster
School, yards from Parliament. His children with his Spanish
wife, Miriam Gonzalez Durantez, are called Antonio, Alberto and
Miguel. Antonio, 11, will start high school this fall.  “Nick and Miriam can confirm that they have decided to
send their oldest son, Antonio, from September onwards to the
London Oratory School, a state Catholic secondary school,”
Clegg’s office said in an e-mailed statement. “He is currently
a pupil at a state Catholic primary school, Our Lady of the
Victories in Putney, where he has been going for the last six
years.”  In class-conscious Britain, the decision whether to send
children to a fee-paying school is politically charged. Blair
was criticized by some lawmakers when he was in office for
sending his three eldest children to the London Oratory because
it selects applicants for entry based on their faith as well as
academic ability.  An investigation by the Daily Mail newspaper published Feb.
26 showed an 11-fold increase in the past five years of  parents
lying  about their address in order to secure a place for their
child at a good state-funded school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  