-- Clinton, Gates Enlisted in Heifer Chief’s Hunger Fight
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-03-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/clinton-gates-enlisted-in-heifer-chief-s-hunger-fight.html
Former  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  executive
Pierre Ferrari now spends his days ensuring that a pig or a goat
helps an impoverished family.  In 2010, Ferrari became chief executive officer of  Heifer
International , a  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , nonprofit that provides
poor people worldwide with livestock, education and veterinary
care.  He has been trying to expand the mission to new countries,
such as Myanmar, and increase an annual budget of $125 million
that is covered mainly by holiday-gift donations in December.  The  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  has given more than $50
million to a Heifer program that shows East African dairy
farmers how to boost milk production. Ferrari would like even
more.  Growing up in the Belgian Congo and Kenya, Ferrari saw
stark poverty. He studied at  Cambridge University  as an
undergraduate and earned an MBA at Harvard.  He spoke about Heifer’s agenda during a visit to Bloomberg
world headquarters in  New York .  Cole: Who started Heifer?  Ferrari: An  Indiana  dairy farmer named Dan West who
belonged to the Church of the Brethren. He was in Spain during
the Civil War, and he had this epiphany and said, “These people
don’t need a glass of milk. They need a heifer.” He went back
to Indiana and organized a number of dairy farmers to ship
heifers all over the world.  Key Training  Cole: What other assistance do you give?  Ferrari: The key to what we do is train. If you think about
a very poor farming household in remote areas, their animal-
husbandry practices are quite often primitive. The animals need
better nutrition and veterinary services.  Cole: You’re traveling to Haiti this month with former
President  Bill Clinton . How did you connect with him?  Ferrari: We had a meeting in Arkansas around the Club de
Madrid, with all the ex-prime ministers. I was the keynote
speaker and Bill Clinton spoke after me, and he started riffing
about Heifer.  I had the ex-president of the  United States  exclusively
spending time on Heifer for 15 minutes! So I buttonholed him and
said, “We’ve got to meet.”  Cole: Will you travel with him?  Ferrari: He’s the ex-president of the United States, and he
often travels by helicopter. I travel by rickety car. Still,
we’ll talk about significant issues when we’re down there. We
need policy changes on the part of the government.  Clean Abattoir  Cole: What’s your biggest need in  Haiti ?  Ferrari: We need a clean abattoir to process goat meat for
local consumption, and if there’s excess, for export. Haitian
goats are prized across the Caribbean.  Cole: How do you get farmers to produce more in Haiti or
any of the other countries you work in?  Ferrari: What you’re trying to change is viewing their
animals as a business, as an opportunity for income flow. That’s
more radical than you think. They basically want to keep them
alive and have the little bit of milk they can get out of it.  We tell them they can do both. You need to show them that
the cow’s productivity can be improved with good feed and
improving the quality of the milk.  Cole: What’s the biggest challenge for hunger-related
nonprofits like yours around the world?  Ferrari: There are a lot of good programs out there, but
they are too small. There are 2 billion undernourished people in
the world, and 25,000 kids under age 5 die every day of
malnutrition causes.  Most of them die because their immune system is
compromised. The  mortality rate  is very high at the beginning of
life. That’s the harsh reality for billions of people.  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  wine ,  Lance Esplund 
on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pCole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  