-- CME’s Asian Business Rising 35% Stoked by Gold to Currencies
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-03-05T12:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/cme-s-asian-business-expanding-35-stoked-by-gold-to-currencies.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, is seeing its Asian business expand 35 percent
a year, driven by grains, currencies, gold, energy and
financials, Chief Executive Officer Phupinder Gill said.  About 25 percent of the 12 million futures contracts  traded 
daily come from outside the U.S., said Gill, without providing a
breakdown. Volumes in Asia emanate mostly from  Taiwan ,  Hong
Kong , Singapore and Tokyo, he said in an interview in  Kuala
Lumpur  yesterday, where he was attending a palm oil conference
arranged by Bursa Malaysia Bhd.  CME is benefiting from sustained growth in Asia as the rest
of the world struggles to regain momentum after the global
financial crisis.  China , the largest user of metals, energy and
cooking oils, will expand 8.3 percent in the second quarter,
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Palm oil  trading
jumped 86 percent on Bursa Malaysia Derivatives since the CME
bought a 25 percent stake in 2009, said the exchange.  “We had two people in Asia five years ago and we have 45
people in Asia now and that’s not going to stop,” said Gill.  The company’s strategy involves alliances with exchanges
such as Bursa  Malaysia , extending education efforts, building
its client base and putting products on its platform 24 hours a
day, he said. While the focus in China is on increasing and
educating the client base, “access issues are going to be quite
important at least for the next little while,” he said.  Bursa Malaysia  Open interest in palm oil futures on Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives climbed to a record 185,630 contracts on Jan. 23
from 98,333 contracts on Oct. 6, 2009, while so-called “foreign
market demography” jumped to 31 percent in 2012 from 19 percent
in 2009 as business expanded after futures moved onto the Globex
electronic trading platform, the Bursa said.  CME approached  Deutsche Boerse  AG to consider beginning
talks on a merger, according to four people familiar with the
situation last month. Deutsche Boerse is hesitant about entering
into talks, the people said. The German company has said in a
statement it’s not in merger talks. Gill declined to comment
yesterday.  Net income at CME Group dropped to $166.8 million in the
fourth quarter from $746 million a year earlier, it said on Feb.
5. The comparative period included a $528 million Illinois state
tax benefit. Average daily volume fell 13 percent, led by equity
index, energy and interest rate contracts, it said in January.
CME Group  shares  climbed 8.3 percent in the past year to $60.88
in  New York  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  