-- Colombia’s Top Coal Mine Reaches Accord That May End Strike
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-03-04T14:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/colombia-s-biggest-coal-mine-reaches-accord-that-may-end-strike.html
A union representing workers at
Colombia’s biggest coal mine said it reached a preliminary wage
accord that may end a monthlong strike at the complex owned by
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   Terms will be presented to workers today and tomorrow after
the negotiating committee reached an agreement with management
at 3 a.m. Bogota time, Luz Maria Tobon, a spokeswoman for the
Sintracarbon union, said in a telephone interview. The price of
European coal for delivery next year fell to a record.  The Cerrejon strike that began Feb. 7, combined with an
export ban at a complex owned by Drummond Co. and a shutdown at
the La Francia mine owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., had
pushed up thermal coal prices and cost the country an estimated
192,000 metric tons of exports a day. Cerrejon spokesman Juan
Carlos Restrepo said by phone today that the strike could be
lifted in one or two days if workers accept the proposal.  “This is a process that doesn’t take longer than 24 or 48
hours to get the approval of their workers, and if they sign the
agreement the strike will be lifted,” he said.  Cerrejon is losing about 95,000 tons of exports a day,
Restrepo said Feb. 28.  Restrepo and Tobon both declined to reveal details of the
agreement until workers have seen it. Tobon said work may resume
in about a week.  Drummond Restart  Authorities said March 1 that  Drummond , Colombia’s second-
biggest thermal coal producer, can restart exports after a
three-week ban on loading operations. The ban followed a Jan.
12-13 incident in which the Birmingham, Alabama-based company
dumped material to prevent a barge from sinking.  Thermal coal for delivery in 2014 to Amsterdam, Rotterdam
or Antwerp dropped as much as 70 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$96.40 a metric ton, the lowest level since the contract began
trading in January 2010, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. It traded at $96.55 a ton at 1:45 p.m. London time.
Coal for delivery in April dropped 2.6 percent to $87 a ton, its
lowest price since the start of trading in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  