-- Compuware Said to Attract Private-Equity Buyout Interest
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-03-05T22:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/compuware-said-to-attract-private-equity-buyout-interest.html
Compuware Corp. (CPWR)  has attracted buyout
interest from private-equity funds including Apax Partners LLP
and Hellman & Friedman LLC, according to people familiar with
the situation.  The Detroit-based  software company , which rejected a $2.3
billion takeover offer from Elliott Management Corp. in January,
also gave management presentations last week to other potential
bidders, including Thoma Bravo LLC and Golden Gate Capital
Corp., said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. The first round of bids is due in two
weeks, the people said yesterday.  Elliott has said new owners could do a better job unlocking
the company’s value, citing the attractiveness of assets, such
as mainframe software, collaboration technology, project-
management tools and performance-management services for cloud
and mobile applications. Compuware’s “execution, profitability
and growth have meaningfully underperformed” under the existing
management, Elliott said when making its offer.  The process is at early stages and a deal might not
materialize, the people said.  Eric Kushner, a spokesman for Compuware, declined to
comment yesterday. Representatives from  Apax Partners , Hellman &
Friedman, Thoma Bravo and Golden Gate Capital declined to
comment.  Elliott’s Offer  Compuware increased 2.6 percent to $11.95 at the close in
 New York . Through yesterday, the stock had advanced 28 percent
in the past year, compared with a 13 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 400 Midcap Index.  Bob Paul, chief executive officer of Compuware, said
Elliott Management’s offer of $11 a share significantly
undervalued the company, according to a Jan. 25 statement.  Compuware hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Allen & Co. to
review the bid after Elliott made its offer on Dec. 17. The New
York-based hedge fund had an 8.72 percent  stake  in Compuware as
of Feb. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Compuware has an  enterprise value  of $2.48 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Reuters previously  reported  interest from  Golden Gate .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  