-- Corvex, Related Lose Bid to Block CommonWealth Share Sale
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/corvex-related-seek-to-block-commonwealth-stock-offering.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH) ’s sale of 30
million shares at $19 apiece may proceed to completion over the
objection of investors led by activist Keith Meister and the
Related Cos., a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Denise Casper in  Boston  denied a plea
by the investors, as well as the Delaware County Employees
Retirement Fund, for a restraining order blocking the equity
offering from closing. Meister’s Corvex Management LP and
Related said at a hearing yesterday that they would have bought
the shares at the $19 offering price.  “The equity offering is being pursued by the company to
defeat efforts by existing shareholders to effect change at the
company,” Corvex and Related said in their March 1 complaint.  CommonWealth owns downtown and suburban office buildings
and industrial properties in U.S. cities including Chicago,
Denver and Philadelphia. Corvex and Related, which together own
9.8 percent of the Newton, Massachusetts-based real estate
investment trust, had an offer to acquire CommonWealth for $27 a
share before the pricing of the stock offer.  Corvex and Related projected that CommonWealth’s real
estate assets are worth about $40 a share, according to a Feb.
26 regulatory filing, and asserted that poor management has
driven down the value of the stock.  ‘Out of Control’  “Management is out of control and they are circling the
wagons against their shareholders,” Nicholas Chimicles, a
lawyer for the Delaware retirement fund, told the judge at the
hearing. “They’re putting 30 percent of the company in the
hands of new stockholders we believe have been cherry-picked.”  CommonWealth lawyer Robert Saunders said there was no
evidence of selective selling of the new shares and warned of
negative consequences if the sale was stopped. He also said many
buyers of the shares have sold them to others.  “If your honor were to restrain the first settlement of
the shares, that will have an enormous cascading effect of
failed trades,” Saunders told the judge. “The eggs are already
scrambled, your honor.”  The Delaware fund sued CommonWealth founder Barry Portnoy
and members of its board of trustees over the planned sale.  The trustees are using CommonWealth’s equity “to entrench
themselves and discourage any proposal to acquire” CommonWealth
shares, the fund said in court papers.  Trustee Lawyers  A CommonWealth spokesman couldn’t be reached for comment
about the lawsuits. Lawyers for the trustees said in court
papers that CommonWealth was raising equity and cutting debt to
maintain an investment-grade  credit rating .  Corvex and Related alleged that CommonWealth’s trustees
disseminated false and misleading statements and defrauded the
landlord’s investors.  Bylaw amendments proposed by CommonWealth “are an act of
desperation and an indication that CWH’s board is truly
terrified at the prospects of facing its shareholders,”
Meister, and Jeff T. Blau of Related, said in a statement.  Luxor Capital Group LP, the owner of an 8 percent stake in
CommonWealth, on March 1 asked the company’s board to form an
independent committee to explore “strategic alternatives.”  “We find it unconscionable that the board of trustees
would vote to issue shares significantly below market in light
of the offer on the table from a credible buyer at a significant
premium,” Luxor, a New York-based investment manager, said in a
letter to the board.  The case is Corvex Management LP v. CommonWealth REIT, 13-
cv-10475, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston). The previous case is Delaware County Employees
Retirement Fund v. Portnoy, 13-cv-10405, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court
at  jmlawrence@me.com  and;
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  