-- Credit-Spurred Job Growth to Ease Blow of U.S. Cuts: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-03-04T22:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/credit-spurred-job-growth-to-ease-blow-from-u-s-cuts-economy.html
Americans are finding it easier to
borrow from banks, supporting consumer spending and business
investment and helping fuel employment just as U.S. government
budget cuts start to take hold.  Data from the Federal Reserve show banks are more willing
to lend and their customers are seeking more credit as both
groups gain confidence in the economic outlook. That is one
reason economists at UBS Securities LLC, who use measures of
credit in their employment models, are forecasting payrolls will
climb by an average of 200,000 a month in 2013, up from 181,000
last year.  “There’s a continuing loosening of credit standards, and
more importantly, demand for credit is up,” said Sam Coffin, an
economist for UBS in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , the second-best
forecaster of the unemployment rate over the past two years,
according to Bloomberg rankings. “All that is good for growth
and jobs.”  Easier access to low-cost financing will sustain auto and
home sales, spurring employment in manufacturing and
construction. It also means entrepreneurs will have the funds to
put up outlets such as electronics stores and bagel shops and
hire the staff to run them, providing a cushion for the labor
market after across-the-board spending cuts to U.S. defense and
domestic programs, known as sequestration, began on March 1.  Among those who are borrowing is Ryan Spath, who got a
$150,000 four-year loan last month at an interest rate of 5
percent that he will use to open a Cellairis store in Boise,
 Idaho .  ‘Make or Break’  “It’s a make-or-break thing when you’re a business and you
can’t secure financing,” said Spath, 29. “I want to think the
credit market is improving.”  Spath and two business partners employ about 45 people at
12  Cellairis  franchise locations in Oregon and Washington,
mainly kiosks at malls that sell accessories for wireless
devices. The Boise shop will be their first full store from
which they will offer a wider range of products and do repairs.  After making little progress with bigger lenders, Spath was
able to get financing from the Community Business Bank of
Georgia in Cumming, near Cellairis’s head office. Spath will
manage the store and hire a few people this year, aiming for an
August opening. The location will eventually employ eight to 12
people, he said.  The situation is different in the U.K., where Lloyds
Banking Group Plc and Banco Santander SA led a drop in U.K.
lending in the fourth quarter as the Bank of England said its
credit-boosting program will “take time” to feed through to
loan growth.  Stocks Rise  U.S. stocks rose, sending the Dow Jones Industrial Average
toward the highest close since 2007, as speculation the Fed will
continue stimulus measures overshadowed concern about spending
cuts and  China ’s economy. China’s Cabinet on March 1 called for
higher down payments and interest rates for second-home
mortgages in some cities.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 0.3 percent to
14,127.82 at the close in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 0.5 percent to 1,525.2.  The pace of employment in the U.S. was probably little
changed last month, according to a survey of economists ahead of
Labor Department figures on March 8. Payrolls climbed by
160,000, the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey, after a
157,000 gain the prior month. The jobless rate is projected to
hold at 7.9 percent.  Replacing Cuts  Easier credit may stimulate bigger gains in hiring even if
President  Barack Obama  and Congress fail to reach a compromise
on replacing $1.2 trillion of budget cuts over the next nine
years.  A net  19.1 percent  of banks reported increasing demand for
commercial and industrial loans in the fourth quarter of last
year, compared with a net 6.2 percent that reported a drop in
the prior period, according to the Fed’s survey of senior loan
officers issued last month.  “Aggressive competition” among lenders prompted banks to
ease standards or terms, the central bank said. Demand
strengthened for business loans, prime residential mortgages,
commercial real estate lending and auto loans, according to the
survey conducted from Dec. 27 to Jan. 15.  Household debt  climbed by $31 billion, or 0.3 percent, to
$11.3 trillion in the fourth quarter as student and auto loans
rose along with credit-card balances, according to a Federal
Reserve Bank of New York report last week. It was the first
pickup in borrowing in seven quarters and only the second since
2008.  New Car  Kristin Jakiel, 29, and her husband Nicholas Jakiel, 30,
bought a red 2012 Chevy Cruz LT from Tom Henry Chevrolet in
Bakerstown,  Pennsylvania , on Feb. 23. The couple got an $18,944
auto loan from Ally Financial Inc. after qualifying for a
$123,000 30-year mortgage at 3.8 percent to buy a new town home
in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, in July.  “I was a little bit worried” about being able to get
financing, said Kristin Jakiel, a school teacher who drives
about 50 miles to work every day and wanted to trade in her 2009
Chevy Cobalt that was approaching the end of the 70,000 mile
warranty. The loan processor “had me approved by the next day.
We made the decision to buy the car on Wednesday, and we had a
new car on Saturday.”  Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 15.3 million annualized
rate in February, exceeding the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Automakers led by  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  predict demand for cars and trucks, on pace for
the best year since 2007, will remain resilient.  ‘Getting Stronger’  “It’s starting to happen,” said Bill Hampel, chief
economist for the Credit Union National Association in
Washington. “There are people who want to lend, and people who
want to borrow. It’s been getting stronger in the past six
months or so. It just takes time to get away from the level of
fear we saw during the crisis.”  The thawing in financing is also playing a role in lifting
the index of leading economic indicators. The gauge of the
economic outlook for the next three to six months got a 0.14
percentage-point  boost  from its credit component in January,
matching the second-highest gain since 2004, according to data
from the Conference Board, a New York-based research group.  The credit component is comprised of six measures that
assess changes in liquidity, stress in the financial system and
the risk appetite or willingness of lenders.  Creating Jobs  “We’re slowly seeing credit availability expand,” said
Kathy Bostjancic, director of macroeconomic analysis for the
Conference Board. “As borrowing increases, economic activity
increases, and that creates more jobs.”  Ken Greene, 52, will hire 50 to 75 workers by mid-year for
three bakeries he’s opening in Rochester, New York, after
securing a $9 million, seven-year loan at a rate that was 5
percentage points lower than his previous financing, he said.
Earlier, he had to refinance a commercial loan on a yearly basis
since 2008, when the financial crisis struck.  “Banks were so skittish before, but with the economy
improving it worked out,” said Greene, who employs about 500
people across 33 Bruegger’s Bagels locations in Albany, Syracuse
and Rochester. “When people spend more, it translates into more
sales and improves the ability to borrow and create more jobs.”  Deborah Olsen, who with husband Gregg Olsen, 60, operates
35 Miracle Ear hearing aid stores, is diversifying as credit
becomes more accessible. A 10-year, $498,800 loan is going
toward her first Massage Envy clinic in Anchorage,  Alaska . She
has hired 15 workers and plans to double that this year.  “I’m so excited,” said Olsen, 55, adding that about 50
customers have already made appointments ahead of the March 16
opening, thanks to a sign on the storefront and advertising on
Facebook, the social-media website. “The loan has certainly
made things easier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  