-- Currency War Turns Stimulus War as Brazil Surrenders
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y ,   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-03-04T17:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/currency-war-turns-stimulus-war-as-brazil-surrenders.html
The currency wars declared by
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  are proving more a
battle to salvage economic growth than a spiral of competitive
devaluations.  While the yen and pound slide on the prospect central banks
will intensify stimulus and South Korea’s won and Chile’s peso
strengthen, volatility in the currency market is below its
average of the past decade and global  stocks  have gained $2.15
trillion since the start of 2013. Policy makers reduced
intervention over the past 12 months as foreign reserves grew at
the slowest pace in four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Even Mantega, who used war terminology in 2010 to criticize
industrialized nations for policies that weakened their exchange
rates, says he is abandoning efforts to push down the real.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other policy makers
signaled last week that currencies are a corollary, not a
cornerstone, of policies to boost growth from unacceptably low
levels, paving the way for what Morgan Stanley calls a third
round of “Great Monetary Easing.”  “Central banks are going to throw the kitchen sink at
reviving growth and spurring inflation because the alternative
to that is deflation,” Neil Williams, head of economic research
at London-based Hermes Fund Managers, which oversees about $42
billion, said in a phone interview on Feb. 27. “The countries
that have overall loosened their policies most have had the
weakest currencies. It’s not a blatant attempt to out-grow
others, it’s just a case of all countries trying to do the same
thing at the same time.”  More Stimulus  As the central banks of Japan, the U.K. and euro area all
hold policy meetings this week, demand for more stimulus is
increasing. Capital Economics Ltd. calculates the Group of Seven
major economies contracted on average in the last quarter for
the first time since early 2009. The  International Monetary Fund 
predicts growth in advanced nations of 1.4 percent this year,
half the average pace of 1994 to 2003.  Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  calls the
currency war a “complete misconception” and says the monetary
expansion is in keeping with the mandates of central banks and
should benefit global growth.  “It’s not a currency war,” the Princeton University
economics professor told “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom
Keene  and Sara Eisen on Feb. 15. “This is monetary policy.”  No 1930s  At the same time, a growing number of leaders are concerned
that central banks and governments will repeat policies of the
1930s, when countries devalued their way to expansion through
exports, compelling trade partners to match the declines and
triggering tariffs that contributed to the Great Depression.  “Not all currencies can depreciate by definition,” Adrian Lee, the president of foreign-exchange manager Adrian Lee &
Partners, which oversees more than $5 billion from London and
Dublin, said in a Feb. 27 telephone interview.  The election in December of Shinzo Abe as Japan’s prime
minister heightened speculation the nation would manipulate its
currency, with the yen weakening 17 percent in six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The likelihood of the U.K. and Japan increasing stimulus
that will dim their currencies’ allure has analysts cutting
year-end forecasts for the yen and the pound at the fastest pace
among more than 50 currency pairs tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Ultimate Losers’  Sterling has weakened 5.2 percent and the yen fell 5
percent this year, the Bloomberg indexes show.  “The ultimate losers will be determined by the relative
fundamentals,”  Valentin Marinov , head of European Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London, said by phone on
Feb. 26. “The currencies where the central banks actively
engage in monetary easing should be the biggest losers, and, for
the time being, that’s sterling and the yen.”  What’s stimulus to one nation amounts to an economic attack
to others. Currencies in Chile, Malaysia, the Philippines and
South Korea have strengthened against the dollar, with the won
gaining the most of the group by posting a 3.7 percent gain in
the past six months, threatening growth and eroding corporate
profits. The won has strengthened 23 percent against the yen in
the past six months.  Seoul-based  Hankook Tire Co. (161390)  said last week that its
exports will be hurt as a weaker yen gives Japanese rivals such
as Tokyo-based  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)  a pricing advantage.  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , based in Suwon, South Korea, said Jan. 25 that
currency gains could reduce its operating profit by 3 trillion
won ($2.7 billion) this year.  Smoothing Operations  South Korea buys or sells foreign currencies in so-called
smoothing operations and has also implemented restrictions on
currency-forward positions to reduce the risk of speculative
capital flows.  China is “fully prepared” for a currency war, should one
happen, central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang said in Beijing on
March 1, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. The nation
will “take into full account the quantitative-easing policies
implemented by central banks of foreign countries,” Yi was
quoted as saying by the agency.  Industrial economies that depend on commodities and
exports, including  New Zealand  and Norway, have said they may
intervene in foreign-exchange markets or cut  interest rates  to
weaken their currencies. Switzerland already caps the level of
its franc against the euro at 1.20.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, has appreciate 8.6
percent from last year’s low in May, while the krone has
strengthened 5.7 percent from its 2012 low on July 30, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes show.  Kiwi Pressure  “When the New Zealand dollar is coming under upward
pressure, we want investors to know that the kiwi is not a one-
way bet,” Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler
said in a Feb. 20 speech.  The rhetoric is less heated than in late 2010, when Mantega
said developed nations had debased their currencies at the
expense of healthier economies such as Brazil. At the time, the
real had strengthened more than 40 percent versus the dollar
from its lows in 2008.  A year later, Russian leader  Vladimir Putin  said that the
Fed’s strategy of  printing dollars  to buy Treasuries to inject
cash into the financial system was evidence the U.S. was “being
parasitic with the dollar’s monopoly position.”  “We neutralized, softened the currency war issue that
other countries are facing,” Mantega said last week in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “I didn’t
invent the currency war, I just pointed out a problem that can
be overcome with an accord among countries.”  Slowing Intervention  The real has weakened more than 14 percent since Mantega’s
2010 war claim, trading at 1.9809 per dollar as of 12:01 p.m.
New York time. Brazil has even sought measures to strengthen its
currency this year after it depreciated to 2.1384 in December.  Central banks slowed the pace of  intervention  as foreign
reserves grew 6.9 percent the last 12 months to about $11
trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Except for
the global financial crisis in 2009, when reserves rose 6
percent in the year through February, it was the smallest
increase since at least 2004.  The accord Mantega referred to came when Group of 20
finance chiefs met in Moscow on Feb. 15-16 amid rising tensions
over the yen’s decline. All-night talks beside the Kremlin ended
with officials pledging for the first time not to “target our
exchange rates for competitive purposes.”  ‘Good Understanding’  Currency war talk “has run further than the reality,”
Singapore Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in a Feb.
28 interview. “There might have been a little bit of clumsiness
in public statements, but there’s now I think a very good
understanding amongst all the major players as to what’s
appropriate.”  Alan Ruskin , the global head of Group of 10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said the
statement marked a “peace agreement” allowing countries to
boost stimulus regardless of whether they weaken exchange rates
so long as they don’t intervene in markets, target specific
currency levels or buy foreign assets.  Central bankers are embracing the G-20 rulebook as a green
light for more stimulus. Bernanke said last week that he backed
Abe’s campaign for more stimulus even as it weakens the yen,
saying it’s “mutually beneficial” if major economies that need
to buoy growth take steps to do so.  “We are not engaged in a currency war,” the Fed Chairman
told the Senate Banking Committee in Washington on Feb. 26.
“Our monetary policies, which are being replicated in other
industrialized countries, are increasing demand globally and
helping not only our businesses, but also the businesses in
other countries that export to us.”  King’s View  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said in Tokyo the same
day that the global economy will benefit if central bankers
pursue policies to boost growth, even if a byproduct is a weaker
exchange rate.  “Domestic monetary policy is taken for domestic reasons,
and if we do that then the world as a whole will expand and grow
more rapidly,” King said. “It may push down the exchange rate
a little bit, which makes life more difficult for other
countries, but it increases total domestic spending, which will
increase the demand for imports from emerging-market
economies.”  The pound rose 0.3 percent to $1.5079 today, from as high
this year as $1.6381 on Jan. 2. It touched $1.4986 on March 1,
the weakest level since July 2010. Against the euro, it has
depreciated to 86.17 pence, from 81.19 on Dec. 31.  100 Yen  While neither the Fed,  European Central Bank  nor Bank of
Japan sold their currencies to influence exchange rates in the
past year, some policy makers have commented publicly on what
levels would be desirable.  In Japan, Deputy Economic Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said
on Jan. 24 that it wouldn’t be a problem if the exchange rate
weakened to 100 yen to the dollar. It was at 93.32 today, from
as strong as 77.13 on Sept. 13. Ruling-party lawmaker Kozo Yamamoto said in a Feb. 14 interview it would be “appropriate”
for the yen to trade at about 95 to 100 per dollar.  While the Bank of England’s King denies targeting sterling,
he and his colleagues have highlighted the benefits of a drop in
the pound. Comments by ECB President  Mario Draghi  on Feb. 7 that
the euro’s gains may affect the economic outlook led to its
biggest drop in seven months.  Declining Volatility  “If you’re a central bank, you don’t mind if the currency
goes down, but you can’t say it’s their goal,” said Roberto Perli, a managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group Inc. in Washington and a former Fed economist.
“Central banks are just doing what they have to do.”  There are few signs of panic in the currency market. At
9.25 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index
is below the average of 10.65 percent over the past decade. The
index, which measures currency fluctuations, fell to 7.05
percent on Dec. 18, the lowest level since 2007.  Rising stocks suggest a broader stimulus story rather than
a targeted devaluation effort, according to Kamakshya Trivedi, a
London-based strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. In Japan,
the yen’s slide has been accompanied by a 15 percent rally in
the  Topix Index (TPX)  this year. It touched 1,000 for the first time
since 2010 today and closed at 992.25 in Tokyo, the highest
level since April 27, 2010.  The result is “more consistent with a bout of monetary
easing than with a currency war,” Trivedi said in a Feb. 19
report.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
said today that Japan’s stimulus and the yen’s depreciation will
be positive for exports and consumption of the metal.  Round Three  The sluggish pace of global growth sets the stage for
central banks to extend their five-year-old monetary easing into
a third round after they beat back recession and then sought to
spark growth, according to Morgan Stanley chief economist
 Joachim Fels .  The need to avoid excessive currency appreciation means
central bankers are likely to be “indicating that rates could
stay lower for longer, or even be cut further,” Fels’s London-
based team wrote in a Feb. 20 report to clients. “Gear up for
great monetary easing three.”  Abe is relying on Haruhiko Kuroda, his choice to serve as
governor of the Bank of Japan, to pursue more aggressive
monetary policy. The bank has already adopted a 2 percent
inflation target and agreed to buy unlimited amounts of bonds
from next year to meet that goal.  Kuroda said today that the BOJ will do whatever is needed
to end 15 years of deflation should he be confirmed as governor
and indicated that open-ended asset purchases may start sooner
than next year.  Negative Rates  In the U.K., three out of nine policy makers, including
King, voted for an increase in the bank’s target for bond
purchases by 25 billion pounds to 400 billion pounds last month.
More recently, some of King’s colleagues have discussed open-
ended bond buying or introducing negative interest rates. Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who will succeed King in July,
has said central banks aren’t “maxed out.”  Draghi signaled Feb. 27 that the ECB has no intention of
tightening monetary policy anytime soon with inflation set to
“significantly” undershoot its 2 percent target next year.  Although some Fed officials have begun to express concern
bond purchases may fuel asset bubbles or become tougher to
unwind, Bernanke said last week that the central bank’s $85
billion of monthly purchases are supporting expansion, with
little threat of inflation or overheating markets.  Further Easing  Elsewhere, central banks in Australia and Sweden haven’t
ruled out easing further, while those of Hungary, Poland,
Colombia and India all cut rates this year.  “This is not a currency war -- it’s a growth war,” said
David Zervos, a managing director at Jefferies & Co. in New
York, who served as a visiting adviser to the Fed in 2009.  Investors should buy stocks as part of a “reflation
trade” and be wary of inflation in the longer term, he said.  “This is setting up to be an epic battle, with plenty of
spoils for the victors and catastrophic losses for the
vanquished,” he said. “Investors must pick sides early.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  