-- Cyprus Says Bank-Deposit Losses Would Be a ‘Catastrophe’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-03-04T22:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/cyprus-says-bank-deposit-losses-would-be-a-catastrophe-.html
Cyprus will refuse any demands for
depositors in its banks to take losses as part of a planned
international aid package for the country, said Finance Minister
Michael Sarris, who warned that such a step would be a “self-
inflicted catastrophe” for  Europe .  “There is no way we can entertain the idea of any kind of
haircut to any kind of deposits,” Sarris told reporters today
in Brussels after his first meeting with euro-area counterparts
since a new Cypriot government took office last week. “That is
our firm position and we have communicated that.”  The euro area has refused to exclude the possibility of
imposing losses on bank-account holders in Cyprus as a way to
prevent its debt from becoming unsustainable following a rescue,
which could be around the size of the Cypriot economy. Such an
element isn’t part of existing aid packages for Greece, Ireland,
 Portugal  and Spain.  “We do not wish to discuss anything unorthodox,”
Sarris said. “This would be an accident in the euro zone not
caused by markets, but a self-inflicted wound, a self-inflicted
catastrophe, not only for Cyprus but for the euro zone and
perhaps even beyond.”  Sarris linked the idea of losses for bank depositors in
Cyprus to the presence of Russian money in the country. He said
it’s unacceptable to distinguish between the nationality of
bank depositors.  Describing Cyprus as being “under pressure” to
demonstrate its debt can be kept sustainable, Sarris said the
government can address these concerns through steps such as
“stronger fiscal austerity” and “significant downsizing of
the banking system, particularly in geographical areas outside
Cyprus, including  Greece .” He also cited a planned natural-gas
fund.  “All these things are very credible,” Sarris said.  Cyprus agreed at the meeting of euro-area finance ministers
to an independent evaluation of the country’s progress in
enforcing legislation against money laundering. Sarris said the
work could begin on March 12 and produce “essential”
conclusions before the end of the month.       To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  