-- EU Seeks Cyprus Aid Without Market Harm, Scaring Off IMF
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-03-04T16:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/cyprus-bailout-must-weigh-deposit-flight-risk-dijsselbloem-says.html
Euro-area finance ministers wrestled
over an aid package for Cyprus, trying to ease the island
country’s debt without repeating earlier crisis-management
mistakes that destabilized European markets.  A new government in Cyprus seeks a speedy wrapup of bailout
talks that have dragged on since June as concern over the terms
of the package accelerated the flight of deposits from Cypriot
banks.  “It’s important to find a good solution whereby we weigh
these risks,” Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem told
reporters in Brussels today before chairing a meeting of euro-
area finance chiefs. “I understand there’s uncertainty.”  Cyprus, which accounts for 0.2 percent of the 17-nation
euro-area economy, is testing the crisis response as Europe is
mired in a recession and a political vacuum in  Italy  poses
bigger potential dangers for the health of the euro.  A week after Nicos Anastasiades took over as Cypriot
president, finance ministers said the pieces of an aid package
have yet to fall into place and probably won’t do so until late
March.  Instead, the German-led group of creditors will urge new
Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris to sell state assets,
assure the enforcement of new anti-money-laundering laws and
reduce the economy’s dependence on the  banking industry .  German Public  Tougher money-laundering controls “have to be put into
practice,” Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said. “We
have to have the facts on the table so we can put the package
together.”  European officials are also trying to persuade  Germany  that
diminutive Cyprus could pose outsize risks for the euro, just as
the debt crisis was ignited by Greece, which makes up about 2
percent of the overall economy.  European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
took his case to the German public yesterday, telling Spiegel
magazine that “even when you come from a large EU country, you
should be aware that every euro country is systemically
relevant.”  In a replay of last year’s standoff over Greece, the
International Monetary Fund is insisting that European loans for
Cyprus come with steps to reduce the country’s debt burden,
estimated by the EU at 93.1 percent of gross domestic product in
2013, without accounting for any potential aid.  IMF Participation  While that figure is lower than the debt of  Greece ,
Ireland, Italy,  Portugal , Spain,  Belgium  or  France , it could
balloon when rescue loans are added that officials say would be
roughly equal to Cyprus’s annual GDP. Such a burden would be
“unsustainable,” making the IMF unlikely to chip in.  “Cyprus is quite difficult,” said Irish Finance Minister
Michael Noonan. “The conditions are not yet in place for the
board of the IMF to make a decision to participate.”  Debate is centering on how to shrink Cyprus’s banks and
force losses on bank shareholders and bondholders without
setting precedents that undermine confidence in the broader
crisis management during a phase of relative market stability.  Concern that accounts in Cyprus aren’t safe led to a drop
in bank deposits to 68.4 billion euros ($89 billion) in January
from 70.2 billion euros in December, according to Cypriot
central bank data.  “One of the strengths of  Europe  is from the crisis in 2008
that we showed that clients’ deposits are safe,” Luxembourg
Finance Minister Luc Frieden said. “If we now go in that
direction then the question will be asked generally about
deposits’ safety. I don’t think this is a good solution.”  Finance ministers will also discuss a possible extension of
bailout-loan maturities for Ireland and Portugal, though no
decisions are planned.  Ireland is “not pushing for a decision until we know it’s
of benefit to Ireland,” Noonan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Brussels at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  