-- Darden Restaurants Accused of Firing Workers in Pay Suit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M o r t   L u c o f f
-- 2013-03-04T20:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/darden-restaurants-accused-of-firing-workers-in-pay-suit.html
Darden Restaurants Inc., which
operates under the  Olive Garden , Red Lobster and other brand
names, was accused in federal court of wrongly firing two
workers in retaliation for joining a wage dispute.  After hearing requests from Amanda Emerson and Lisa Long,
U.S. District Judge Robin Rosenbaum in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida ,
today denied an injunction to restore their jobs at a  Bahama
Breeze  restaurant in Altamonte Springs, Florida, because it
didn’t meet strict legal criteria. The judge said the decision
was better left to a jury.  Rosenbaum said she was “troubled” that Darden officials
have questioned employees involved in the lawsuit, and told them
not to question any of the 54 plaintiffs without notifying
lawyers.  The motion heard today was part of a broader lawsuit filed
Sept. 6. Workers sued  Orlando , Florida-based Darden under the
U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, alleging restaurant managers
delayed servers’ clocking in on the job, made them work after
clocking out, and failed to pay them overtime.  The lawsuit seeks a jury trial and group status in behalf
of other workers who aren’t plaintiffs. Named in the complaint
are some workers from Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn
Steakhouse and other restaurants across the U.S.  Darden has denied the allegations and said it complied with
the FLSA. “Any actions taken in connection with plaintiffs’
compensation were done in good faith,” the company’s lawyers
said in court papers.  The case is in the discovery phase, with lawyers collecting
documents and interviewing potential witnesses. The complaint
seeks unpaid wages, damages and legal costs.  Darden said it employs more than 185,000 people, owns more
than 2,000 outlets and has $8 billion in annual sales.  The case is Mathis v.  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , 12-cv-61742,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort
Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Mort Lucoff in Miami at  morsybil@bellsouth.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 