-- David Bowie Envies Brad Pitt on Comeback; Hendrix Revival
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-03-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/david-bowie-envies-brad-pitt-on-comeback-hendrix-revival.html
When singers stage a triumphant,
surprise comeback, in future they will be said to have “done a
David Bowie.”  His album “The Next Day,” streaming now on iTunes and made
over three years, is a textbook example of rock recovery. The
template: record in secrecy, refuse interviews, reference your
career highlights, name check celebrities from Brigitte Bardot
to Brad Pitt. Don’t forget a little anger. Oh, and a few good
songs would help.  Bowie had been written off after a decade of ill health and
reclusive retirement. The chorus of the rattling title track
runs “here I am, not quite dying, my body left to rot on a
hollow tree.”  He is energized, revving up the guitars to a disco beat on
“Dancing Out in Space.” “(You Will) Set the World on Fire”
sounds like the angry union of early Kinks with Bowie’s own
“Rebel Rebel.” Most tracks are way more upbeat than the dreamy
 66th-birthday  single “Where Are We Now?” with its melancholy
Berlin memories.  The German capital is everywhere, even with the sleeve’s
overprint of “Heroes,” made in the city in 1977. The blank image
probably means something profound, even if it took just a minute
to design and isn’t the most effective piece of minimalism.  The video for “The Stars (Are Out Tonight)” portrays Bowie
as a cardigan-wearing couch potato. Tilda Swinton plays his
wife. The odd couple make for an odder film, just as you would
expect from Bowie.  Live Forever  The two suburbanites ogle the celebrities in magazines and
television shows until their lives and dreams are taken over.
Bowie sings enviously of “Brigitte, Jack and Kate and Brad”
watching from behind shades and tinted windows: “We will never
be rid of these stars, but I hope they live forever.”  This hour of new music bears comparison with another Berlin
collection, “Lodger,” and has echoes of Bowie’s later works
“Heathen” and “Reality.” It’s not up there with “Station to
Station” or “Ziggy Stardust”: then again those are two of the
best rock LPs of the 1970s, if not of all time. Rating: ****.  Hendrix Returns  A “new album” by Jimi Hendrix sounds a little farfetched
given that he died in 1970 and there have been more than 50
records of posthumous material.  “People, Hell and Angels” isn’t quite all its promises: The
recordings featured haven’t been heard, sure, though other takes
of some of them have. The CD covers much the same territory as
“Crash Landing” and “First Rays of the New Rising Sun.”  Hendrix, working outside the original Experience group, was
finding his feet with bassist Billy Cox and drummer Buddy Miles
who went on into the Band of Gypsys. Their interplay is obvious
from the opener “Earth Blues,” a little scrappy as much of the
material is.  “Somewhere” has Stephen Stills on bass and some exceptional
guitar work. The workout would have fitted on “Electric
Ladyland” and got to No. 1 in the Billboard’s Hot Singles Sales
last month, 45 years after it was recorded. Rating: ***.  Bowie’s album is streaming now on iTunes. It is released by
Columbia/ Iso Records on March 12 in the U.S., priced about $10 
or $12 for a deluxe edition. The Hendrix CD comes out from Sony 
Legacy tomorrow priced $10. Download prices vary across 
services.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  John Mariani 
on wine,  Lance Esplund  on art and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 