-- Debenhams Hit by New Profit Setback as Snow Weighs on Sales
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-03-04T17:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/debenhams-says-first-half-pretax-profit-hurt-by-january-snowfall.html
Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest department-store company, said fiscal first-half profit
will miss  estimates  after January snowfall hurt sales and caused
the retailer to offer deeper discounts to shift inventory.  Pretax profit will fall to about 120 million pounds ($180
million), from 127.1 million pounds a year earlier, the London-
based company said today in an unscheduled statement.  Cantor
Fitzgerald  analysts had estimated earnings of 131 million
pounds. The stock fell 15 percent to 80.7 pence in London, the
steepest decline in more than four years.  It’s the second profit setback this year for Debenhams,
which has lowered prices to boost flagging revenue. Chief
Executive Officer Michael Sharp told  Bloomberg News  that snow at
the end of the January sales forced the retailer to add
discounts and promotions into February to clear products in a
period that is usually focused on new-season ranges.  “Although the snow will have proved disruptive, the wider
problem was that it gave already cautious consumers another
excuse not to spend,” said Matt Piner, an analyst at Conlumino
market researcher in  London .  The share price decline was the steepest since Nov. 19,
2008 and cut the company’s market valuation to about 1 billion
pounds.  Trading volume  was 53.5 million shares, about nine times
the three-month daily average.  Mindset Change  “It’s very difficult in February to continue to sell
autumn-winter product,” Sharp said by phone. “We all know that
January sales are about buying winter product at discount, and
February is a change in mindset, a new wardrobe, a new season.”  Gross profit as a percentage of sales will now probably be
unchanged for the year, said the retailer, which in January cut
the forecast to a gain of 0.1 percentage point from 0.2 point.  Same-store sales slid by 10 percent from Jan. 14 to Jan.
27, a pace of decline which Sharp said he hasn’t seen before.
Promotional sales after that didn’t fully recover the revenue
lost, the company said. Still, Sharp said he didn’t think
consumers were becoming more price sensitive, given full-priced
sales at the end of the period, adding the retailer gained 0.1
percentage points of market share in clothing in the 24 weeks
ended January, and 0.2 percentage points in womenswear.  Disappointing Impact  While the impact of the snow is “disappointing, it is now
behind us and sales volumes have recovered,” Sharp said in the
statement. “We can grow sales in the second half.”  Total same-store sales rose about 3 percent in the 26 weeks
through March 2, Debenhams said. The company said it will report
full results on April 18.  The announcement “starts to raise questions about its
strategy and the sustainability of profit short-term,”  Kate Calvert , an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, said in a note. She
has a reduce rating on the stock.  The retailer’s Irish business remains “very tough,” Sharp
said, while Danish unit Magasin du Nord is “very strong” as
the Scandinavian nation handles snowy weather better.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  