-- Denmark Fights to Push Tougher Bail-In Rules in Europe
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-04T10:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/denmark-fights-to-push-tougher-bail-in-rules-in-europe.html
Denmark is lobbying hard to make
sure bondholders don’t get off too lightly in the European
Union’s proposed bank resolution framework.  The Scandinavian nation -- which was the first to pass
bail-in legislation in 2010, leading to senior bondholder losses
less than a year later -- argues the EU’s latest plan still
entails a risk for taxpayers that shouldn’t be there.  Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  is now pressing her
counterparts in the EU to drive home Denmark’s point that the
best way to protect public finances is to have explicit
legislation showing bank investors can’t tap them. Denmark’s
stable AAA rating, intact even after the nation was dragged
through a 2008 housing bubble that wiped out more than 12
regional banks, is proof that effective bail-in legislation
shields governments, central bank Governor Lars Rohde said in a
speech last month.  Vestager used a visit to Copenhagen by EU Economy
Commissioner Olli Rehn last week to plead Denmark’s case.  “I
told Rehn that, on the next step of the banking union, the issue
of bank resolution, we want to nail the Danish bail-in model,”
Vestager said in an interview. “If taxpayers should get
involved, it must only be to provide temporary funding, which
will eventually be repaid.”  Bitter Experience  Denmark’s bitter experience with the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , whose liquidity rules threaten to destroy
the nation’s  mortgage market , has taught the Danes to be more
aggressive in defending their corner when it comes to cross-
border regulatory matters. Denmark, which doesn’t hold a seat on
the 27-member Basel committee, now needs to make sure EU policy
makers don’t overlook Danish interests, Rohde said.  “The decision on whether to join the banking union rests
with the government and the parliament,” Rohde said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “This being said, it is
Nationalbanken’s recommendation that Denmark seek as much
influence as possible on the design of the banking union.”  Rohde argues that can be done more effectively by signing
up to a bank union early and trying to affect the framework from
within. Vestager says the government won’t agree to anything
until they’re sure Danish interests have been safeguarded.  ‘Looks Risky’  “We need to have as much influence as we can,” Jesper Berg, senior vice president and head of regulatory affairs at
Nykredit A/S in Copenhagen, said in a phone interview. “But
it’s very complicated and there are so many things that remain
unclear.” Berg, who used to be a director at Denmark’s central
bank, warns that “at this point, it looks risky to commit
ourselves.”  Denmark’s bail-in legislation was first tested in February
2011, when Amagerbanken A/S’s collapse pushed losses on to
senior creditors. It was the first time senior bank bondholders
in the EU suffered a so-called haircut in a resolution
framework, and the  credit event  left most Danish lenders shut
out of wholesale funding markets.  Yet the Danish government has since published figures
showing it’s made a profit of 11.2 billion kroner ($2 billion)
on its bank packages. That’s in stark contrast to the losses
seen in Spain and Ireland, both now relying on international aid
to cover bank industry losses that jeopardized state finances.  Exhausting Bail-Ins  The EU’s latest bank resolution proposal -- one of three
main pillars in a banking union that includes a single
supervisory authority and common deposit insurance -- would give
regulators bail-in powers by 2018.  Germany , the Netherlands and
 Finland  want implementation as early as 2015, according to
people familiar with the content of technical meetings held in
Brussels in January. The proposal allows national authorities to
resort to taxpayer-funded bailouts after exhausting bail-in
options.  For  Denmark , “it’s very important that shareholders are
first in line to bear losses and the industry second,” Vestager
said.  A single resolution procedure in the EU would ensure
“minimum recourse to taxpayers’ money” and is an
“indispensable element” of a banking union, Peter Praet, a
member of the ECB’s executive board, said in a Feb. 27 speech.  Denmark is fighting for influence as supranational
regulatory bodies extend their reach. While work to create
 global bank  standards is meant to prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis that started in 2007, Denmark argues that the
cross-border rules ride roughshod over smaller economies with
well-functioning systems.  Liquidity Downgrade  After watching Basel downgrade the liquidity status of its
$600 billion mortgage-backed covered bond industry, potentially
forcing banks to dump the securities, Denmark is unlikely to
accept more damage to its market.  Vestager says Denmark won’t sign up to a bank union that
entails commitments, including common  deposit insurance , before
her demands have been met. Politicians also fear ending in a
situation that could require them to explain to voters why they
let a single supervisor under the  European Central Bank  in
Frankfurt shut down a lender inside Denmark’s borders, said
Berg.  “There’s a democratic problem,” he said. “How much have
people actually said yes to? What kind of opposition will we run
into when we pull people into something they think they haven’t
said yes to?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  