-- Hot Flash Drugs Fail to Win FDA Advisers’ Support
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-04T22:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/depomed-s-gabapentin-fails-to-win-fda-advisers-support.html
Two drugs now on the market for
other indications failed to win the backing of U.S. regulatory
advisers for use in easing hot flashes associated with menopause
as alternatives to hormonal therapy.  The benefits of medicines from  Depomed Inc. (DEPO)  and  Hisamitsu
Pharmaceutical Co. (4530) ’s Noven unit in helping women avoid sudden
sweating and feverish feelings linked to menopause didn’t
outweigh side effects such as suicidal thoughts, advisers to the
Food and Drug Administration voted today.  Depomed already sells gabapentin, voted down 12-2, as a
treatment for postherpetic neuralgia, a complication of
shingles. Hisamitsu’s paroxetine mesylate, voted down 10-4, is
sold in the U.S. for depression, panic disorder and other
conditions.  Hot flashes affect about 32 million women in the U.S. and
40 percent choose to not use hormones or aren’t good candidates
for them, according to  Newark , California-based Depomed. The
company today said it will stop all spending on the drug’s
development as a non-hormonal treatment for hot flashes after
the FDA advisers’ decision. The shares sank.  “We recognize and appreciate the concerns that were raised
by the members of the Advisory Committee,” Depomed Chief
Executive Officer Jim Schoeneck said in a company statement
today. “Based on today’s meeting we believe the hurdles for
approval of a non-hormonal treatment for hot flashes remain
high.”  Depomed dropped 9.8 percent to $5.89 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time in the  biggest one-day decline  since Oct. 14, 2011. The
shares are down 4.4 percent in the last 12 months.  The FDA isn’t required to follow the panel’s
recommendations. It is scheduled to decide on Depomed’s drug by
May 31 and Saga, Japan-based Hisamitsu’s product by June 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  