-- Do Conservatives Actually Want to Win Elections?
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-03-04T23:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/do-conservatives-actually-want-to-win-elections-ramesh-ponnuru.html
People who want to see American
politics take a turn to the right, and a few who don’t, have
been giving a lot of advice to conservatives lately. Move this
way on the social issues; move that way on economics; get more
technology-savvy. You’ve heard it all, sometimes  from me .  Maybe all this advice is based on a false premise. We’ve
been assuming that conservatives want to start winning political
and policy victories again. But a few news items from last week
suggest that many of them have different priorities.  On Feb. 26, we learned that the Conservative Political
Action Conference, an annual meeting of activists and
politicians, had sent speaking invitations to just about every
prominent Republican other than  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie . Organizers reportedly think he isn’t really a
conservative, especially on guns: He hasn’t tried to loosen his
state’s restrictions and once condemned an ad by the  National
Rifle Association .  I wish New Jersey were governed more conservatively: that
Christie had not, for example, agreed to expand Medicaid last
week on federal taxpayers’ tab. But we’re talking about New
Jersey here. It’s a state that last elected a Republican to the
Senate in 1972 and last went for a Republican presidential
candidate in 1988. It went for President  Barack Obama  by a
larger margin than any other state governed by a Republican.  Conservatives shouldn’t just cut Christie some slack. They
ought to listen to him to find out how a pro-life critic of
unions has become so popular in unfriendly territory -- if, that
is, they want the political map of the country to get any
redder.  Bad Politics  Also last week, the Senate voted, 58-41, to confirm Chuck Hagel as secretary of defense. Most Republicans voted against
him. They offered a variety of reasons, but nothing better
illustrated Hagel’s unsuitability for the job than the ignorance
he showed during his confirmation testimony on the size of the
 defense budget . A “no” vote was amply justified.  It wasn’t enough, though, for some of Hagel’s opponents.
They complained that by even allowing an up-or-down vote on the
nomination, Republicans had made themselves responsible for
anything Hagel does as defense secretary. This isn’t a sensible
standard. The 42 Democrats who voted against John Ashcroft as
 George W. Bush ’s attorney general objected to that appointment
quite as much as Republicans did to Hagel, but they allowed the
vote to go forward. Nobody thought their opposition was
therefore just for show. If a refusal to filibuster is the same
thing as support for a nomination, few administrations will be
able to staff themselves -- or the filibuster will be curtailed.  Set aside the merits and think about the politics. Which
course makes more sense for Republicans opposed to Hagel?
Attacking the Democrats who supported him for being soft on
defense and  Israel ? Or attacking Republicans who voted against
him for not opposing him strongly enough? The question answers
itself.  On Feb. 27, the Club for Growth, a group of economic
conservatives, announced that it is encouraging primary
challenges against  House Republicans  who fail to meet its
standards. Most of the members it has in mind have voted for
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s budget proposal, which if enacted
would be a more sweeping reform of the welfare state than the
last three Republican presidents put together have accomplished.
Many of the representatives were docked points, however, because
they failed to also vote for a different, even more conservative
budget that stood even less chance of becoming law.  The president of the club,  Chris Chocola , might not have
passed his group’s tests when he was in Congress. (He took over
the club after losing a House seat in  Indiana .) Chocola voted
for an expansion of Medicare that makes the spending sins of all
his current targets look trivial.  More important, it’s hard to see what policy outcomes would
be different if every one of the people on the hit list had
voted exactly as the club had urged over the past four years.  Purging Heretics  In each of these episodes, some Republicans have seemed to
dislike one another more than they like defeating Democrats and
enacting conservative policies. After elections in which
conservatives attracted the allegiance of only a minority of
voters, they have reacted by trying to kick people out rather
than bring people in. (You can see the same impulse at work
among Republican critics of religious conservatives.)  Michael Kinsley  once remarked that liberals were always
looking for heretics while conservatives were always looking for
converts. But that was a long time ago, when conservatives were
on the upswing.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 