-- Doctors to Lose Money on Electronic Records, Survey Finds
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-03-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/doctors-to-lose-money-on-electronic-records-survey-finds.html
Most doctors who install electronic
medical records systems will lose money in the first five years,
according to a study that suggests a multibillion-dollar effort
to computerize care in the U.S. may not live up to its promise.  A survey of  Massachusetts  physicians indicated an initial
loss of $43,743 on the investment, researchers said today in the
journal  Health Affairs . Almost two-thirds of the 49 practices
using electronic records would lose money even with subsidies
included in President  Barack Obama ’s stimulus package, the
researchers said.  The 2009 law set aside $27 billion to help doctors and
hospitals go digital, ballooning sales along the way for
technology providers including Epic Systems Corp. and  Allscripts
Healthcare Solutions Inc. (MDRX)  The Massachusetts results show
companies and politicians may have oversold the potential gains,
said  Julia Adler-Milstein , the study’s lead author.  “My concern is around the rhetoric and the hype and the
assumption that we’ll put these systems in and we see the
benefit the next day,” Adler-Milstein, an assistant professor
of information and health policy at  University of Michigan , said
in a telephone interview. “It’s going to be a much longer
journey.”  Even the doctors who would have made money dispute the
premise pushed by supporters that electronic systems can help
reduce U.S. health costs, she said. Practices projected to gain
did so mainly because they were able to see more patients or get
more claims approved by insurers, the study found.  210,000 Doctors  As of January, more than 210,000 physicians had received
payments through the stimulus program, the U.S. Center for
Medicare and Medicaid Services said on its  website . Closely held
Epic, based in Verona,  Wisconsin , has been the leading vendor
for doctor’s offices, followed by Chicago-based Allscripts,
according to a Jan. 8 study by Bloomberg Government.  In the Health Affairs paper, researchers looked at costs
and benefits at doctors’ practices in a pilot program to expand
the use of electronic records. They projected the results over
five years, including the federal stimulus payments that can
reach as much as $44,000 per doctor.  The study found only 27 percent of practices would have
made money, a figure that rose to 41 percent with the stimulus
grants. Smaller offices, those with five doctors or fewer,
struggled the most. Along with upfront costs, doctors said they
had to work longer hours because of the software. In many cases,
physicians failed to take advantage of potential savings, like
cutting support workers or eliminating paper records,
researchers found.  ‘Money Well-Spent’  Computerizing patient records eventually will prove to be
“money well-spent” for the nation, Adler-Milstein said. Still,
it may take longer to realize the benefits than supporters
predicted, and government and companies may need to invest more
on training and support for doctors.  “The problem is it’s really hard both to adopt a new
technology and to make the changes you need to ultimately come
out ahead,” Adler-Milstein said. “There’s getting these
systems in place and then there’s getting them to work well.”  The study was funded by the Massachusetts  eHealth
Collaborative , a group led by state doctors and paid for by Blue
Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, according to the Health
Affairs paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  