-- Hecla to Buy Gold Producer Aurizon for $761 Million
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-03-04T22:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/hecla-agrees-to-buy-gold-producer-aurizon-for-774-million-1-.html
Hecla Mining Co. (HL) , which operates
silver mines in Alaska and  Idaho , agreed to buy gold producer
 Aurizon Mines Ltd. (ARZ)  for about C$781.7 million ($760.7 million) in
a cash-and-stock deal that it says trumps a rival offer.  Aurizon investors will receive C$4.75 in cash or 0.9953 of
Hecla stock for each share they own, Coeur D’Alene, Idaho-based
Hecla said today in a statement. Aurizon’s board unanimously
backed the Hecla offer and its directors and senior officers
have agreed to vote their shares in favor of the deal, it said.  “It’s an asset that has grade and once we get through the
construction of the shaft we’ll ramp up its production, we’ll
see good returns on the investment from the get-go,” Hecla
Chief Executive Officer Phil Baker said in a phone interview,
referring to Aurizon’s sole operating mine, Casa Berardi in
Quebec. “It has a very large land package where we’ll see, we
think, exploration success. There’s real value that’s here and
we want to be a part of it.”  Alamos Gold Inc. (AGI) , the biggest  shareholder  in Aurizon with a
16 percent stake, offered C$4.65 or 0.2801 of a share for the
Vancouver-based company in an unsolicited bid in January that
Aurizon rejected. Toronto-based Alamos won’t increase its bid,
the company said today in a statement.  “The company that would be created by the combination of
Alamos and Aurizon represents far greater value than the highly
leveraged, hedged, debt-laden, financially constrained company
proposed by the Aurizon board through the Hecla merger,” Alamos
Chief Executive Officer John McCluskey said in the statement
released after regular trading ended in New York and Toronto.  ‘Safe Jurisdiction’  Aurizon rose 3.2 percent to C$4.49 at the close in Toronto,
while Alamos rose 0.9 percent to C$14.24. Hecla  fell  12 percent
to $4.07 in New York.  The Aurizon bid is Hecla’s latest attempt to increase scale
through acquisitions, adding underground mines similar to the
ones Hecla already operates and reducing the company’s exposure
to base metals by boosting gold production, said Andrew Kaip, an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. Aurizon owns eight
properties in  Quebec .  “It provides them another operation underground, which is
their expertise, in a safe jurisdiction,” Kaip said today in a
telephone interview.  Hecla’s proposed cash offer values Aurizon at 9.2 percent
more than the closing price on March 1. Hecla is offering as
much as C$513.6 million in cash and as many as 57 million
shares, according to the statement.  Financing Commitment  Hecla has received a commitment for $500 million in
financing from  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and the transaction won’t
require approval from its shareholders, the company said in the
statement. Hecla said it has the right to match any competing
offer.  The deal, which Hecla is seeking to complete in the second
quarter, requires approval from two-thirds of Aurizon
shareholders.  Hecla’s bid may be a stage of a bidding war, Heiko Ihle, an
analyst at Euro Pacific Capital Inc. in Westport,  Connecticut ,
wrote in a note today.  “We do not believe that this is the final chapter of a
bidding war for Aurizon,” Ihle wrote. The board may announce
another offer before the expiration of the poison pill this
week, he said.  Aurizon said in January it had adopted a shareholder rights
plan while it searched for alternatives to the Alamos offer.  Bank of America Corp. is advising Hecla on the transaction
and Cassels Brock & Blackwell LLP is serving as Canadian legal
counsel.  Aurizon is being advised by Scotia Capital Inc. and law
firms DuMoulin Black LLP; Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP; and
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP. CIBC World Markets
and Blake, Cassels are advising the special committee of
Aurizon’s board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  