-- Egypt Soldiers in Fatal Clashes With Port Said Protesters
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-03-04T15:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/egypt-soldiers-in-fatal-clashes-with-port-said-protesters.html
Clashes between Egyptian security
forces and protesters in Port Said resumed today after five
people were killed and hundreds injured, fueling calls for
nationwide rallies and deepening the country’s turmoil.  Unknown assailants “randomly” opened fire yesterday in
the area around Port Said’s security headquarters, fatally
wounding two members of the forces guarding it, and clashes
continued into the night, the state-run Middle East News Agency
reported. Television footage today showed renewed fighting, with
police using tear gas, and parts of the security building as
well as the nearby governorate were on fire.  Unrest has persisted in  Egypt  since the 2011 uprising that
ousted  Hosni Mubarak , adding to President Mohamed Mursi’s
challenges in reviving a battered economy. While Mursi and his
Islamist supporters say parliamentary elections starting next
month will help restore stability, the broadest opposition bloc,
the National Salvation Front, has refused to take part.  The president’s critics accuse him of working to tighten
his grip on power while failing to end police abuses and other
grievances that fueled the 2011 revolt.  The boycott decision adds to political uncertainty in Egypt
and may make it harder for the government to negotiate a $4.8
billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund , Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report.  Markets Decline  Egypt’s main  stock index  fell 1.4 percent at midday in
Cairo, heading for a 2013 low. Yields on the country’s benchmark
dollar bonds rose 3 basis points to 7.14 percent.  The opposition Egyptian Popular Current said it is
organizing rallies tomorrow in Cairo and other cities in
solidarity with the people of Port Said, and in support of calls
for civil disobedience.  “Nothing has changed” under Mursi, Heba Yassin, a
spokeswoman for the Popular Current, led by former presidential
candidate Hamdeen Sabahi, said by phone. She said unrest is
likely to continue and accused Mursi’s administration of
continuing the “intimidation, killing and torturing” of the
Mubarak era.  The latest round of violence in Port Said, which left more
than 400 wounded, was sparked when the families of prisoners
held in connection with soccer violence heard that their
relatives were being transferred, MENA said. More than 30 people
died in clashes in Port Said in January triggered by death
sentences handed out in the soccer case.  Colonel Injured  Army personnel in Port Said are seeking to separate the
protesters from police, and to protect the governorate building,
spokesman Ahmed Mohammed Ali said on the military’s Facebook
page. An army colonel was among those injured, suffering a
gunshot wound, MENA said.  Clashes also broke out in Cairo yesterday between security
forces and demonstrators trying to block  Tahrir Square , MENA
reported. Also in the capital, soccer fans known as ultras
rallied outside the central bank and the bourse and briefly
blocked a road leading to the airport, according to state media.  In the Nile Delta city of Mansoura, one person was killed
and dozens, including police, were injured in clashes over the
weekend between security forces and demonstrators.  The  Interior Ministry  cited the dead man’s brother as
saying that he was unintentionally hit by a police car. Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil has ordered an investigation of the
violence, the Cabinet said on Saturday.  The latest violence coincided with a visit by U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry , who urged Egyptian officials and
opposition politicians to overcome differences for the sake of
the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  