-- Egyptian Net Foreign Reserves Fall to $13.5 Billion in February
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-03-04T15:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/egyptian-net-foreign-reserves-fall-to-13-5-billion-in-february.html
Egypt ’s  foreign net reserves  fell to
$13.5 billion in February, a smaller decline than economists had
expected.  Reserves fell from $13.6 billion in January, the lowest
level in at least 15 years, the central bank in Cairo said
today. The median estimate of five economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was $13.2 billion.  There were no aid inflows during the month, and reserves
stayed little changed because of precautionary measures the
central bank took in early February, said Nidal Assr, the bank’s
sub-governor, in an e-mailed response to questions.  Egypt’s foreign reserves are down more than 60 percent
since before the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak .
Persistent political tensions and violence have kept tourists
and investors away and prolonged talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  on a $4.8 billion loan.  The pound has dropped 8.2 percent since the central bank in
December started a policy to ration reserves by selling limited
amounts of dollars in auctions. Central Bank Governor Hisham Ramez last month restricted the amount that the currency is
allowed to move on the  interbank market , and the premium over
the official rate that banks can charge to sell dollars to
clients.  “It’s a relief to see reserves holding flat, but I suspect
this marks the impact of tighter foreign-exchange controls
rather than an improvement in market fundamentals,”  Simon Williams , chief  Middle East  and North Africa economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Dubai, said by e-mail. “The pound is still
under pressure and is likely to remain so until the political
outlook stabilizes and an IMF deal is done.”  Violence has flared again this week, and five people were
killed in clashes yesterday between security forces and
protesters in the Suez Canal city of Port Said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  