-- Egypt Index Drops Most in 3 Months on OCI Tax Probe Escalation
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-03-04T14:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/egypt-index-drops-most-in-3-months-on-oci-tax-probe-escalation.html
Egypt’s benchmark stock index
tumbled the most in three months after the government escalated
a dispute with Orascom Construction Industries over taxes dating
back to 2007.  Shares (OCIC)  of Orascom Construction, Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded company known as OCI, dropped 2.7 percent, the most since
Dec. 6, after Egypt’s public prosecutor placed Chief Executive
Officer  Nassef Sawiris  on an arrivals watch list. Twenty-seven
shares fell on the  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) , which decreased 2.3 percent to
5,375.12 at the close in Cairo, the lowest since Dec. 26.  OCI shares fell to 252.09 pounds after Nassef and his
father Onsi, a former OCI chairman, were put on a travel ban
before the start of a probe into Finance Ministry allegations
they were involved in  tax evasion . The nation’s markets
regulator also issued more-stringent rules on local companies’
global depositary receipts, triggering speculation the rules are
aimed at OCI, which comprises  a quarter  of the main index.  “What happened with OCI triggered a selling wave,” Ramy El Agamy, Cairo-based institutional sales manager at NBK Capital
Securities Egypt, said by phone. “It’s the travel ban and the
new regulations that leave the door open to the possibility that
they could be applied retroactively. Add to this the political
instability and macroeconomic picture and you’ll see investors
have a cause for concern.”  Taxes Owed  OCI is accused of owing 14 billion pounds ($2.1 billion) in
taxes on the 68 billion pounds of profit it made from the 2007
sale of its cement business to France’s  Lafarge SA (LG) , the state-
run Middle East News Agency reported today, citing Mamdouh Omar,
head of the Egyptian Tax Authority. The company said today it
hasn’t been notified that it owes taxes beyond a claim from the
authority for 4.7 billion pounds in taxes related to the sale.  Egypt’s regulator said yesterday that local companies with
shares listed abroad as GDRs can’t allow those shares to exceed
30 percent of their respective capitals. OCI, which is seeking
regulatory approval to transfer its Cairo-listed stock to
Amsterdam via a share swap or cash offer, had stock equivalent
to more than three quarters of its capital listed in London
before transferring it to  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Amsterdam.  Orascom Telecom Media & Technology Holding SAE (OTMT) , the company
controlled by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , advanced 2.9
percent to 71 piasters. The shares are up 13 percent in two days
since the board recommended a 1.35 billion-pound dividend
distribution, or 26 piasters a share according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  