-- Heineken More Than Doubles CEO Remuneration With Bonus
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-03-14T16:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/heineken-more-than-doubles-ceo-remuneration-with-one-time-bonus.html
(Corrects size of brewer in first paragraph of story
published on March 4.)  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
biggest brewer, more than doubled Chief Executive Officer Jean- Francois  Van Boxmeer ’s remuneration in 2012 as it awarded him
one-time share bonuses worth 4 million euros ($5.2 million).  Van Boxmeer’s total remuneration rose to 8.17 million
euros, Bloomberg calculations show, from the previous year’s 3.4
million euros, according to the company’s  annual report .  Van Boxmeer was awarded 2.52 million euros in shares to
mark the “landmark event” of the Amsterdam-based beermaker’s
buyout of Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd., its South-East Asian
joint venture. He will also receive 1.5 million euros of shares,
set to vest in two years, as a retainment bonus. The stock must
be held for three years after vesting in the event of
resignation during that period.  Heineken agreed to buy APB last year for S$5.6 billion
($4.5 billion). The award is subject to approval at the 2013
annual general meeting. Chief Financial Officer Rene Hooft
Graafland also got a 1.3 million-euro share reward related to
the acquisition.  Brewers including Heineken have been seeking expansion in
 emerging markets  as demand wanes across  Europe , stifled by tough
economic conditions. The APB acquisition will increase the
company’s exposure to markets including  Vietnam , and allow
further growth of the Heineken brand in the region.  Van Boxmeer’s base pay will increase to 1.15 million euros
for 2013 from 1.05 million euros in 2012 to bring the company
more in line with external peer group pay, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  