-- Hemaraj Follows Charoen in Property Fund Plans: Southeast Asia
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-03-05T03:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/hemaraj-follows-charoen-in-property-fund-plans-southeast-asia.html
Hemaraj Land & Development Pcl (HEMRAJ) ,
which built industrial buildings for  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General
Motors Co. (GM)  in  Thailand , may finance a 40 billion baht ($1.3
billion) expansion by setting up its first property fund.  The new funds by Thailand’s biggest industrial developer
would be backed by rental revenue from its factories and
warehouses, Chief Executive Officer David Nardone said. Hemaraj
will also sell bonds this year to finance new projects, he said.  Hemaraj joins Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi
and  Land & Houses Pcl (LH)  in raising money through property funds.
The capital will help the Bangkok-based company boost investment
in industrial land, utilities, power plants and new developments
over the next five years as foreign investment rises.  “The rental businesses are growing,” Nardone said in an
interview. “We can increase our assets of new factories and
warehouses with this new financing.”  Hemaraj’s shares jumped 1.8 percent to 4.48 baht as of
10:05 a.m. in Bangkok, poised for their highest close since July
1996. The stock has  gained  47 percent this year, compared with
an 11 percent increase in Thailand’s benchmark  SET Index. (SET)   Demand for its land, factories and warehouses will come
mostly from producers of automobile parts as car production in
Thailand increases, Nardone said. About two-fifths of Hemaraj’s
customers are in the  auto industry , he said.  “Hemaraj should go for the property fund,” said Maria
Lapiz, an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl,
the nation’s largest stock brokerage. “Aside from new capital
for expansion, Hemaraj can profit from the sale of assets, which
allows it to return some cash to shareholders.”  Growing Industry  Auto production in Thailand will climb 15 percent to a
record 2.8 million vehicles in 2013, the industry ministry said
on Feb. 28. Applications for investment incentives on new
factories, plants and operations in Thailand more than doubled
to a record 1.46 trillion baht last year, the government said on
Jan. 10.  Hemaraj’s  net income  in 2012 quadrupled to a record 2.29
billion baht from a year earlier as revenue from land sales,
power sales and factory rentals surged.  Charoen, Thailand’s richest person, plans to raise as much
as 50 billion baht injecting assets into two existing property
funds, according to Krung Thai Asset Management Co., the manager
of the funds. Land & Houses, the nation’s largest residential
property developer by market value, will sell a property fund in
the second half as it adds new investments, it said in January.  Property Weighting  Hemaraj plans to raise the proportion of revenue from
property rentals to about a fifth of total recurring income by
the end of 2018, Nardone said. Revenue from rentals climbed 26
percent to 723 million baht in 2012, which he said made up 13
percent of total  revenue . About 45 percent came from land
sales, it said.  The company had 182 completed factories with a total area
of about 300,000 square meters (3.2 million square feet) for
rent at the end of 2012. About 80 percent of those plants were
occupied. The company said it plans to expand the area of
factory for rentals by 50 percent this year, Nardone said.  Hemaraj’s profitability will be more predictable with
earnings from rentals and power businesses instead of
cyclical areas such industrial land sales, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  