-- Emerging Market Stocks Fall as Chinese Developers Tumble
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-04T22:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/emerging-stocks-fall-as-chinese-developers-sink-most-since-2008.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, led by
the biggest tumble since 2008 for  China ’s property companies, as
the government announced measures to cool the real estate
market. Materials producers led declines as commodities dropped.  The  Shanghai  Stock Exchange Property Index retreated 9.3
percent as  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  dropped the most since
2009. United Co. Rusal, the largest aluminum producer, slumped
to a record low in Moscow on plans to cut output. Miner  Vale SA (VALE3) 
led commodity shares lower on Brazil’s Bovespa index. The forint
fell to a five-week low against the euro as Hungary mulls using
central bank reserves to stimulate its economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 1.1 percent to
1,041.28 in  New York , the lowest since December 17.  Raw
materials   tumbled  a fifth day after data yesterday showed
China’s service industries grew at the slowest pace since
September last month and the cabinet tightened mortgage rules to
cool the  property market , spurring concern the measures will
hamper an economic rebound.  “This news out of China is significant as it marks an
important point in the real estate cycle,”  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of New York-based Marketfield Asset Management LLC,
which oversees more than $6 billion, said in a telephone
interview today. “They had eased the pace of tightening and
this is a very clear message they’re coming back for more. This
is a dangerous point in the cycle and it’s highly likely they’ll
end up going too far.”  Second Day  The developing nations gauge fell a second day, adding to a
1.4 percent slump last month, the  biggest  drop since May. The
 emerging-markets  index has slid 1.3 percent this year, compared
with a gain of 5 percent of the MSCI World Index of developed-
country stocks. The measure of developing nations trades at 10.4
times estimated 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.9 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund dropped 0.9 percent to $42.91. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a gauge of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
jumped 1 percent to 18.91.  China’s  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) , representing the nation’s biggest
companies in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges, fell 4.6
percent, the most since November 2010. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong  sank
2.1 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index tumbled 3.7 percent,
the most among major benchmark indexes in Asia.  Nine out of 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index declined as raw materials and financial companies had the
biggest losses. The MSCI Emerging Markets/Materials Index
 slumped  2.1 percent, the biggest drop since July 23, as the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of commodities slid 0.3
percent to the lowest since Dec. 24.  Property Stocks  Poly Real Estate  slid 10 percent in Shanghai, its second
day of declines.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  and  Sino-Ocean Land
Holdings Ltd. (3377)  both retreated at least 8.9 percent in Hong Kong.
Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. lost 11 percent in Hong Kong. China
property stocks  accounted  for the five biggest declines on the
MSCI’s emerging-markets index today.  Benchmark gauges in Russia, Hungary and  South Africa 
retreated at least 0.6 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa lost 0.7
percent. Vale, the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, declined
3.4 percent.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA dropped 4.6 percent in
Sao Paulo to the lowest since November 2008, after Deutsche Bank
AG cut the target price for the stock.  Fabricato SA, a Colombian textile maker, plunged 70
percent, the most on record. The country’s stock exchange held
an auction after shares failed to trade on March 1, opening for
the first time since regulators suspended trading on Nov. 16.  Rusal retreated 3.5 percent in Moscow. The company will cut
300,000 metric tons of existing capacity in 2013, compared with
4.2 million tons produced last year.  Forint Slumps  The forint declined and Hungary’s BUX Index snapped three
days of gains. The country’s former economy minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  began his six-year tenure as Magyar Nemzeti Bank
president by rewriting the central bank’s founding document to
concentrate power in his hands.  The Dubai Financial Market General Index lost 1.9 percent.
Arabtec Holding Co., a construction company, dropped 10 percent,
falling for a fifth day.  Orascom Construction Industries, the Cairo-based company
transferring to Amsterdam, dropped 2.7 percent, the biggest
decline since Dec. 6. The company said Egyptian authorities
haven’t informed it of new tax claims after imposing a travel
ban on billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Nassef Sawiris .  Turkey’s benchmark index gained 0.9 percent, rising for a
sixth day, the longest winning streak since Jan. 24.  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , a Turkish state-run lender, rose 2.8 percent.
Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said he believes Turkey’s
antitrust regulator will be “fair and measured” in its probe
against 12 banks.  Taiwan, Indonesia  Taiwan’s Taiex index lost 1.2 percent. Indonesia’s Jakarta
Composite index retreated 1 percent from a record high, while
the rupiah weakened for a second day. Vietnam’s VN Index slid
1.8 percent, snapping a three-day gain.  Hyosung Corp. (004800) , a South Korean maker of synthetic and
chemical products, fell 6.7 percent in  Seoul , after its vice
president resigned and sold his stake in the company.  NHN Corp. (035420) , South Korea’s biggest Internet search-engine
operator, rallied 4.6 percent, the  best performer  on the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. A decision by the nation’s Regulatory
Reform Committee to scrap a proposal to tighten regulations on
web-board games should boost sentiment toward game stocks
including NHN, Woori Investment & Securities Co. wrote in a
report today.  American depositary receipts of Chinese software security
company  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  surged 17 percent in New York, the most
on record. The company said it will provide its products to
subscribers of America Movil SAB, the Mexican wireless carrier
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim . Trading volume was six
times the daily average over the past three months.  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 286 basis points, according to the JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  