-- Germany to Study Swiss Bonus Cap Amid Pressure Over Pay
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2013-03-04T13:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/merkel-pressured-by-german-lawmakers-on-swiss-style-bonus-cap.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government will study a decision by voters in neighboring
Switzerland to introduce fresh curbs on manager compensation, an
election-year show of willingness to tackle “excessive” pay.  The German government is awaiting a European Commission
proposal due by the end of the year that follows the Swiss line
in giving shareholders a greater say over salaries for top
managers, said Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman.  “It is definitely worthwhile to look closer at this Swiss
proposition,” Seibert said at a regular government press
conference in Berlin today. “It is clear that excessive
salaries are able to spur a lot of people’s mistrust toward our
economic system.”  Germany ’s opposition hailed yesterday’s decision by Swiss
voters to back a proposal to strengthen shareholder rights over
compensation by a margin of 67.9 percent. The Swiss referendum
took place days after the European Union agreed on a draft law
capping bankers’ bonus payments, putting executive pay in focus
in Germany as parties attempt to win over voters before Sept. 22
federal elections.  “The referendum is an important step in the right
direction,” Joachim Poss, deputy parliamentary leader for the
main opposition Social Democratic Party, was cited as saying in
the Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung newspaper. “The result should be
taken as encouragement for the introduction of a European
directive” governing pay levels across the 27-nation EU.  ‘Fantasy Compensation’  Manager pay has resonated before in Germany, where Merkel
has criticized “fantasy compensation” for executives. Her
first term coalition with the SPD passed a law in June 2009 --
three months before federal elections -- to curb manager pay at
German public companies, after requiring financial institutions
tapping its bank-rescue fund to cap manager pay at 500,000 euros
($650,000) a year.  In a January Forsa survey published by the German weekly
Stern, 58 percent of respondents said they wanted the maximum
level of executive compensation fixed by law. At least five of
 Europe ’s 20 highest-paid chief executive officers work for Swiss
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Yesterday was a good day, not only for Switzerland, but
also for Europe and for Germany,” Berthold Huber, chairman of
the IG Metall labor union, said on public broadcaster ZDF. “If
we had some more direct democracy in Germany, which I would
welcome, then the people would certainly approve such a law by
more than 68 percent.”  IG Metall, Europe’s biggest manufacturing union, has been
calling for limits on top managers’ pay since May 2012, when it
was revealed that CEOs at German automakers, such as  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Martin Winterkorn and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Dieter Zetsche, would
earn record salaries.  Michael Fuchs, a deputy parliamentary leader of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union, welcomed the Swiss vote because “it
ensures that salary decisions are made by the companies’ owners,
not by the state.”  “Shareholders have no interest in damaging their
company,” he said. “They can decide themselves what they can
afford.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  