-- Hess CEO Says Unit Sales ‘Not Response’ to Elliott
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t
-- 2013-03-04T22:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/hess-to-shed-businesses-after-shareholder-elliott-s-demands.html
Hess Corp. (HES)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer John Hess said his plans to shed several units
and focus on oil exploration and production aren’t a response to
criticism from activist shareholder Paul Singer’s Elliott
Management Corp.  The company said today it will name six new board members,
exit the energy trading and marketing businesses and sell its
1,350 gasoline stations. The proposals accelerate transitions
that were already under way at the company, John Hess said in an
interview today.  Singer’s Elliott Management said Hess is doing “the least
possible to maintain the status quo.” The New York-based hedge
fund acquired a 4 percent stake and in January began pressing
for asset sales and changes to the company’s board. Hess has
rejected Elliott Management’s proposed board members and
dismissed calls to split U.S. onshore and offshore production,
saying it ignores credit risk, taxes and the company’s real
value.  “The decisions we made have been carefully structured, and
really thought out, and are not a response to an activist,”
John Hess said in a telephone interview. “This was the
culmination and end point of us focusing on exploration and
production more.”  The confrontation at Hess follows other shareholder
interventions at energy companies including  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK) ,  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) ,  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR)  and
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  Singer’s Elliott Management, with funds that
have $21.5 billion of assets under management, has successfully
pushed for board changes at other companies, including BMC
Software Inc.  Boosting Value  Hess plans to boost  shareholder value  by buying back as
much as $4 billion in stock and more than doubling the annual
dividend to $1 a share, John Hess told shareholders in a letter
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today.  The proposals are “part of a calculated move to create a
dynamic where he avoids taking larger actions,” John Pike, a
senior portfolio manager at Elliott Management said in a
telephone interview.  “The shame of Hess is that there are great assets and
great enterprises buried within an opaque conglomerate,” said
Quentin Koffey, an associate portfolio manager at New York-based
Elliott. The company said Hess’s proposal “falls dramatically
short,” in a statement today.  Hess said he’s not been approached by anyone seeking to buy
the entire company. Shareholders would gain more value from
developing its assets than from a sale, he said in the
interview.  Singer’s Proposals  “Singer’s proposals demonstrate no meaningful operational
insight into our business,” Hess said in the letter. “His
proposals would orphan our most promising assets and foreclose
the potential for future real value creation.”  The CEO said he was open to meeting with Elliott
Management. Representatives from Elliott Management said they
spoke with Hess’s investor relations office, and were told John
Hess wasn’t open to their proposed changes.  Hess rose 3.5 percent to $68.84 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest gain in more than a month. The shares have climbed
30 percent since the start of the year.  Hess expects to complete the divestitures by the end of
2014, Chief Financial Officer John Rielly said today on a
conference call with investors. Proceeds will be used first to
pay off $2.5 billion of debt, build a $1 billion cash reserve
and fund planned capital projects, he said. Restructuring costs
will be incurred in 2014 and aren’t yet estimated, he said.  Changing Course  The announcement today is another effort to strip away
assets from the company, formed in 1933 by John Hess’s father,
Leon, who also owned  National Football League ’s New York Jets.
Hess announced in January that it would close its last refinery
and seek buyers for 19 oil-storage terminals to become
“predominantly” a crude exploration and production company.  Hess said then that it had no plans to abandon the retail
and energy marketing business.  “Management clearly is accelerating the changes rather
than digging in its heels and fighting with its newest
shareholders,”  Roger Read , a Houston-based analyst for  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC , said today in a note to clients. “We
applaud the changes.”  Hess Trucks  Businesses to be shed include Hess-branded retail gasoline
stations in 16 eastern U.S. states, according to the company
website. The stations, known for selling Hess-branded toy trucks
during the holiday season, employ about half of the company’s
14,700 workers, John Hess said on the conference call.  Hess also plans to divest its stake in Hetco, a trading
company formed in 1997 by the company and two former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. traders. Hetco trades oil, refined products and
natural gas, according to its website.  The marketing business sells electricity, gas and fuel oil
to 21,000 customers, according to the company’s website. Yankee
Stadium in New York is a Hess customer, according to the Major
League Baseball team’s website.  Hess couldn’t immediately comment on how many jobs might be
cut as a result of its proposed changes, said  Jon Pepper , a
company spokesman.  Hess will keep operations in  North Dakota ’s Bakken Shale,
the Utica Shale of  Ohio , the  North Sea , the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico ,
offshore Ghana and fields in  Malaysia , according to the
statement. Pipeline and processing operations in the Bakken may
be monetized in 2015, according to the letter.  Exploration and production accounted for 91 percent of Hess
profit last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Board Members  Hess’s nominees for its 14-member board would increase the
number of independent directors to 13 from 11, the company said.
Hess contacted a search firm seeking new board members before
Elliott began requesting changes, the CEO said. He said he
doesn’t know the new nominees personally.  Elliott Management maintains further changes are needed
because Hess is elevating John Mullin III to lead independent
director. Mullin was identified in a 2012 filing as an executor
the Hess estate.  The company’s new board nominees are John Krenicki Jr.,
former vice chairman of General Electric Co.; Kevin Meyers,
former senior vice president of Americas exploration and
production at ConocoPhillips; James H. Quigley, former CEO of
Deloitte LLP; Fredric Reynolds, former CFO of CBS Corp.; William Schrader, former chief operating officer of TNK-BP Russia; and
 Mark Williams , a former member of Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s
executive committee.  Annual Meeting  The board members will be voted on at the company’s annual
meeting, scheduled for May 16.  Leaving the Hess board will be former U.S. Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady, who served for more than 18 years, and
former New Jersey Governor Thomas Kean, who served for 22 years.  Also stepping down from the board will be former U.S.
Senator Sam Nunn; Greg Hill, Hess’s exploration and production
chief; and Frank A. Olson, chairman emeritus of Hertz Corp.,
according to the filing. F. Borden Walker, executive vice
president for refining and marketing, resigned from the board
last week, according to the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  