-- Yen Gains for 2nd Day Versus Dollar; Sweden’s Krona Rises
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-03-05T12:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/euro-near-three-month-low-on-italian-elections-economic-outlook.html
The yen strengthened for a second
day versus the dollar amid speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s
policy board will refrain from adding stimulus when it convenes
for a two-day meeting starting tomorrow.  The Japanese currency rose against all but three of its 16
major peers even as Kikuo Iwata, one of Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s candidates for deputy governor of the BOJ, said in
parliament that the central bank must expand its monetary base
and buy longer-maturity bonds. Sweden’s krona gained after a
report showed the nation’s services output expanded for a second
month in February. Australia’s currency climbed versus the
dollar as the Reserve Bank kept interest rates on hold.  “The BOJ are not expected to do anything before leadership
transition,” said Lee Hardman, a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. The yen’s lack of reaction
to Iwata’s comments “is perhaps an indication that the time for
talking is now over,” he said.  The yen appreciated 0.2 percent to 93.26 per dollar as of
7:35 a.m.  New York  time, after gaining 0.1 percent yesterday. It
strengthened 0.2 percent to 121.50 per euro, after earlier
rising as much as 0.5 percent. The euro was at $1.3029.  The Swedish krona climbed to its strongest level in six
months versus the euro after Stockholm-based Swedbank said an
 index  based on responses from about 200 purchasing managers in
the services industry was a seasonally adjusted 54.6 in February
compared with a revised 52.6 the previous month.  The krona appreciated 0.2 percent to 8.3369 per euro, after
reaching 8.3232, the strongest since Sept. 3, and gained 0.3
percent to 6.3969 per dollar.  Worst Performer  The yen weakened 11 percent in the past three months, the
worst performer among 10 developed market currencies measured by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It has dropped amid
speculation Abe’s push to expand stimulus will debase the
currency. The prime minister’s nomination for the next BOJ
governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, said yesterday the central bank will
do whatever is needed to end 15 years of deflation.  Sweden’s krona gained 5.9 percent, the best performer in
the Bloomberg indexes.  The so-called Aussie rose from an almost eight-month low
reached yesterday after  Australia ’s Reserve Bank left its
overnight cash-rate unchanged at 3 percent today.  Governor Glenn Stevens said in a statement that growth in
2012 was led by “very large increases in capital spending in
the resources sector,” while reiterating that the inflation
outlook “would afford scope to ease policy further, should that
be necessary.”  ‘More Upbeat’  “The RBA was a little bit more upbeat on the outlook for
capital expenditure and it continued to say that past easing is
having an impact on the economy,” said Khoon Goh, a Singapore-
based foreign-exchange strategist at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “The market has taken Stevens’s comments on
resources spending positively and that’s why we’ve seen the
Aussie move higher.”  The Aussie snapped a three-day decline versus the dollar,
gaining 0.3 percent to $1.0225. It dropped to $1.0115 yesterday,
the lowest since July 12.  The euro was little changed against the dollar even after
an index showed manufacturing and services in the 17-nation
region contracted less than economists forecast in February.  A composite gauge of euro-area services and manufacturing
output was 47.9 in February, versus 48.6 in January, London-
based  Markit Economics  said in a report today. Analysts had
forecast a drop to 47.3, according to the median of 19 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Loosen Targets  Europe ’s shared currency appreciated versus the Swiss franc
as Italian bonds rose after European finance ministers meeting
in Brussels yesterday said some nations may be able to loosen
targets for the reduction of their deficits.  Strains “may also justify in a certain number of cases
reviewing deadlines for the correction of excessive deficits,”
European Union Economic Affairs and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said yesterday in Brussels.  Italy’s 10-year yield slipped 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 4.78 percent. The euro gained 0.2 percent
to 1.228 francs.  Malaysia ’s ringgit may strengthen through 3 per dollar by
year-end for the first time since March 2012, led by a recovery
in the Chinese and U.S. economies, according to  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)   The ringgit appreciated 0.2 percent to 3.1008 per dollar.  Bernard Dompok, Malaysia’s Plantation Industries &
Commodities Minister, said today he has “no problem” with the
currency’s exchange rate.  “We are relatively bullish on the ringgit,” Lee Kok Kwan,
deputy chief executive officer of CIMB Group Holdings,
Malaysia’s second-biggest bank by assets, said in an interview
in Kuala Lumpur today. “We think the underlying real economy in
 China  and the U.S. will be much better in 2013, compared with
the last two years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Goodman in  London  at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  