-- Euro Chiefs Won’t Rule Out Cyprus Depositor Losses
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r ,   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-03-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/euro-chiefs-won-t-rule-out-cyprus-depositor-bondholder-losses.html
European finance ministers left open
the possibility of saddling bank depositors and bondholders with
some of the costs of an aid package for Cyprus, potentially
unsettling markets as the bailout negotiations drag on.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem declined to rule
out a “bail in” of Cypriot depositors, even after concern over
the treatment of bank account holders prompted the first signs
of capital flight from the island.  “All the questions on the elements” will be dealt with by
late March, Dijsselbloem told reporters after chairing a  meeting 
of euro-area finance ministers in Brussels yesterday. “That is
my answer to all these questions, I’m afraid.”  By leaving the treatment of bank depositors in doubt,
European governments risked replaying earlier clashes over
imposing losses on bondholders. Creditors used that tactic for
 Greece  and then pledged never to do so again because it
shattered market confidence.  A week after Nicos Anastasiades took over as Cypriot
president, finance ministers said the pieces of an aid package
have yet to fall into place and probably won’t do so until late
March.  Deposits Drop  Concern that accounts in Cyprus aren’t safe led to a drop
in  bank deposits  to 68.4 billion euros ($89 billion) in January
from 70.2 billion euros in December, according to the country’s
central bank.  The new Cypriot finance chief, Michael Sarris, denounced
proposals to tap bank accounts, saying the idea stems from the
presence of Russian money in the country.  “There is no way we can entertain the idea of any kind of
haircut to any kind of deposits,” Sarris said. “This would be
an accident in the  euro zone  not caused by markets, but a self-
inflicted wound, a self-inflicted catastrophe, not only for
Cyprus, but for the euro zone and perhaps even beyond.”  German insistence on forcing losses on bondholders --raised
as a future possibility in late 2010 and imposed on  Greek bonds 
in early 2012 -- lessened confidence in peripheral markets and
helped perpetuate the debt crisis.  Recalling that episode, Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said that “nobody wants a domino effect in Europe.”
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said “the question will
be asked generally about deposits’ safety. I don’t think this is
a good solution.”  Standoff Replay  Dijsselbloem yesterday passed up several opportunities to
rule out depositor losses. It was a sign of the difficulty of
putting together a lending package that doesn’t saddle the
Cypriot government with debts it cannot pay back.  In a replay of last year’s standoff over Greece, the
 International Monetary Fund  is insisting that European loans for
Cyprus come with steps to reduce the country’s debt burden,
estimated by the EU at 86.5 percent of gross domestic product in
2012 and slated to rise after the bailout.  The  European Commission , which has opposed depositor losses
as potentially destabilizing, said that Dijsselbloem didn’t
intend to alarm clients of Cypriot banks.  “It cannot be interpreted that way,” Economic and
Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said in an interview after his
joint press conference with the Dutch finance minister. “We are
all very aware that it’s imperative to ensure financial
stability in Cyprus and the entire euro area.”  Troika Visit  Cyprus, which accounts for 0.2 percent of the 17-nation
euro-area economy, is testing the crisis response as  Europe  is
mired in a recession and a political vacuum in  Italy  poses
bigger potential dangers for the health of the euro.  A team of officials from the so-called troika of IMF,
European Commission and  European Central Bank  will travel to
Cyprus today to restart talks on a planned rescue, ECB Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said late yesterday.  The Mediterranean island bowed to one condition for a
rescue package by agreeing to an independent, bank-by-bank
assessment of its enforcement of legislation against  money
laundering . The audit can begin on March 12 and end later this
month, Sarris said.  Tougher money-laundering controls “have to be put into
practice,” Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said. “We
have to have the facts on the table so we can put the package
together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  