-- Mexican Peso May Gain as Aussie Falls, Chandler Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-04T16:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/mexican-peso-may-gain-as-aussie-falls-chandler-says-tom-keene.html
Falling commodity prices and a
slowing economy will weaken the Australian dollar as the
undervalued  Mexican peso  climbs, according to Marc Chandler at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  “Our trade of the year is to be short the Australian
dollar, long the Mexican peso,” Chandler, global head of
currency strategy at BBH, said in an interview on  Bloomberg
Radio ’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee . “A
lot of the good news from Australia is known in the commodity
space, we think a lot of the good news from Asia is known in
economic returns, we think what is under-appreciated are the
benefits that could come back to  Latin America .”  A short position is a bet the value of an asset will
decline, while a long position is a wager the value will
increase.  The Australian dollar has dropped 2.5 percent since the end
of January to $1.0162 as the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodities declined 5.7 percent in the same period. Australian
business profits, from mining to construction companies, dropped
in the three months ending in December, the fifth quarterly
decline.  The Mexican currency has climbed 0.6 percent this year to
12.7753 pesos per  U.S. dollar , after adding 8.4 percent in 2012,
as President Enrique Pena Nieto moves ahead with plans to enact
fiscal reforms and end the state oil monopoly. The overhaul
could increase gross domestic product by as much as 2 percentage
points a year, according to the Energy Ministry.  Mexico ’s economic expansion has outpaced Brazil’s, the
region’s biggest economy, for the past two years. Mexico grew
3.9 percent in 2012, while Brazil expanded 0.9 percent.  “One problem we have right now, the trade is quite crowded
in terms of the Mexican peso,” Chandler said. Nevertheless,
“the Mexican peso is one of the most undervalued currencies by
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development measures,
and the Australian dollar is one of the most overvalued
currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  