-- Mexico’s Pena Nieto Gets Nod From PRI to End Pemex Monopoly
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-03-04T19:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/mexico-s-pena-nieto-gets-nod-from-party-to-end-pemex-monopoly.html
Mexico ’s President Enrique Pena Nieto won support from his party to advance with his growth plan
that includes ending a 75-year-old state monopoly on the oil
industry.  Pena Nieto’s Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as
PRI, voted yesterday at its national assembly to end its
opposition to constitutional changes that would ease state-owned
Pemex’s grip on the oil industry. Pena Nieto hasn’t yet
presented a bill proposing the changes and would have to win the
votes in Congress, where his coalition controls 241 of 500 seats
in the lower house.  Pena Nieto, 46, has pledged to open the oil industry to
more competition and to reduce the tax burden on Pemex in a bid
to boost economic expansion, which has trailed Latin America’s
for the past decade. The move could increase gross domestic
product by as much as 2 percentage points a year, according to
the Energy Ministry. Oil output in Mexico, the world’s ninth-
largest producer of crude, has fallen for eight years as Pemex
finances a third of the government’s budget.  “The PRI is transforming itself through pragmatism and
without dogma in order to transform Mexico,” Pena Nieto said at
his party’s assembly. “Without falling into complacency, the
PRI has opted to examine itself and redefine its position to
adapt to the nation’s new circumstances.”  The ruling party also ended a ban that prohibited its
members from voting for levies on food and medicine, giving Pena
Nieto an option to make up for revenue shortfalls that may
result from lower taxes on the oil industry. His administration
hasn’t detailed the proposals it plans to send Congress.  Bonds  The yield on peso-denominated government bonds due in 2024
fell three basis points to a record low 5.05 percent at 12:15
p.m. in Mexico City. Yields on the benchmark paper have dropped
37 basis points this year as investors show confidence in Pena
Nieto’s growth plan and anticipate the central bank will cut its
4.5 percent benchmark interest rate.  The change to the PRI bylaws is “credit positive” for
Mexico’s Baa1 rating,  Mauro Leos , a senior credit officer at
Moody’s Investors Service, said Feb. 26.  Yesterday’s vote is “an unmistakable sign of the new
administration’s commitment to push forward structural
reforms,” Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB economists  Gabriel Casillas , Delia Paredes and Alejandro Cervantes wrote in a
research note e-mailed today. The changes “increase the
possibility of an upward credit rating revision.”  Mexico’s economic expansion has outpaced  Brazil ’s, the
region’s biggest economy, for the past two years. Mexico’s
economy grew 3.9 percent in 2012, while Brazil’s expanded 0.9
percent.  Taxes on Food  Still, gross domestic product has  risen  an average 2.51
percent over the past decade, compared with 3.57 percent for all
Latin American nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some PRI lawmakers have been debating recently whether to
tax food and medicine. The measure would be part of larger
efforts to lift tax revenue that accounts for 18.1 percent of
gross domestic product, the lowest ratio among 34 member
countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, according to data from the group.  Pena Nieto’s party scuttled energy and tax overhauls under
former presidents Felipe Calderon and Vicente Fox, most recently
thwarting a 2009 bid by Calderon to expand taxes to food and
medicine. Calderon and Fox were presidents from the National
Action Party, or PAN.  PRI’s historical resistance to changes in the oil industry
and tax system fueled speculation that opposition within the
party would prove to be the biggest obstacle to Pena Nieto’s
energy overhaul, said Jose Antonio Crespo of the Center for
Economic Research and Teaching, known as Cide.  Broad Majority  “There was more consensus than I’d expected,’ Crespo  said
in a phone interview from Mexico City. The national assembly
showed “the broad majority of the party could back the
reforms.”  Still, PRI members may seek to water down the measures once
they are presented in Congress, said Jorge Chabat, a political
science professor at Cide.  The PRI would need to negotiate among members because
“they normally vote as a bloc,” Chabat said in a March 2
interview. If the party can’t reach agreements, “they don’t
present the reform at all,” he said.  Pemex paid about 57 percent in taxes on its $111 billion of
revenue in 2011. Taxes and royalties from Pemex fund about 34
percent of Mexico’s public budget.  Changing the nation’s charter requires approval by two-
thirds of Congress and a majority of legislatures from 31
Mexican states and the capital.  Opposition  “The PRI is pushing authoritarian and regressive reforms
for the country,” Carlos Augusto Morales, a lawmaker with the
opposition Democratic Revolution Party, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “It’s the same PRI of 20 years ago.”  Ivonne Ortega, the PRI’s secretary general, said yesterday
that the party decided to back Pena Nieto “without
hesitation.”  The Feb. 26 arrest of Elba Esther Gordillo, the leader of
the 1.2 million-member teachers’ union, on embezzlement charges,
increases chances that Pena Nieto won’t let politically
influential groups get in the way of his economic overhaul,
 Benito Berber , a Latin America strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said in an e-mailed report Feb. 27. Gordillo had
criticized a constitutional overhaul in education signed into
law the day before her arrest.  “There are no untouchable interests,” Pena Nieto said at
the event yesterday. “The only interest to protect is the
national interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  