-- Exxon Mobil Witness Says MTBE Benefits Outweighed Risks
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-05T18:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/exxon-mobil-begins-defense-in-new-hampshire-mtbe-trial.html
An  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  witness told a
New Hampshire jury that will decide whether the company is
liable for contaminating groundwater with MTBE that the gasoline
additive was extensively researched and its benefits outweighed
risks.  The Irving, Texas-based oil company will try to convince a
jury that  federal law  required the use of the additive, methyl
tertiary butyl ether, and that it didn’t harm anyone in New
Hampshire. The company began presenting its case yesterday in
Concord. The trial started Jan. 14.  Victor Dugan, a former Exxon executive, testified that the
company sought input from experts for 15 months before
recommending the addition of MTBE to gasoline in 1985 as a means
of reducing air pollution. He also said the company spent
$150 million to replace storage tanks before approving its use.  “We were charged by our vice president to turn over every
rock and address all concerns that had been raised,” said
Dugan, who retired last year. “It was an outstanding blending
component. Never caused any problems.”  Barbara Mickelson, another retired Exxon Mobil executive,
testified yesterday as the company’s first witness that although
she filed a report in 1984 stating that adding MTBE to gasoline
might result in significant cleanup costs if it leaked into the
groundwater, she changed her opinion after further research.  Possible Dangers  Dugan said today that Mickelson’s memo was taken seriously
by the company and that his department concluded that the
benefits outweighed the risks. He also said that gasoline
dealers and distributors were warned of the possible dangers of
the additive.  Exxon Mobil is the last defendant in the state’s
$818 million  lawsuit  alleging oil companies knew MTBE would
contaminate groundwater and didn’t alert the state to the risks.  “There is simply no MTBE crisis,” Charles Engelmann, an
Exxon Mobil spokesman, said in an e-mail. “MTBE hasn’t been
used in the state since 2005 and there is not a single personal
injury being claimed in this lawsuit.”  The state seeks damages from Exxon Mobil based on its share
of gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the period covered by
the lawsuit. An economist testified for the state that it was
about 30 percent. Based on an estimated cost of $818 million to
test, monitor and clean up wells, New Hampshire might be seeking
at least $245 million from the company. Exxon Mobil challenged
the estimate and said using refinery data would have shown a
market share as low as 6.9 percent.  Two Cases  In Maryland last week a court of appeals reversed two jury
verdicts against Exxon Mobil. The plaintiffs won $1.65 billion
in two cases alleging financial and property damage from an
underground leak in 2006 that released MTBE into the water. The
appeals court said Exxon Mobil hadn’t made fraudulent statements
and the plaintiffs failed to show physical harm.  Exxon Mobil is the sole defendant on trial in New Hampshire
since Citgo Petroleum Corp., the Houston-based unit of Petroleos
de Venezuela SA, the country’s state-owned oil company, agreed
to a $16 million settlement last month. Exxon Mobil executives
have said they are committed to continuing the case in court.  New Hampshire’s suit is one of scores of cases involving
MTBE filed since 2000 against refiners, fuel distributors and
chemical makers. Other MTBE lawsuits were consolidated in
federal court in New York for pretrial evidence-gathering and
motions. In 2009, a federal jury ordered Exxon Mobil to pay New
York City $104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting
wells in the city. Exxon Mobil has appealed.  Federal Regulations  In 2003, New Hampshire sued Exxon Mobil, Shell Oil Co.,
Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA,  Hess
Corp. (HES)  and Citgo. All have settled except Exxon Mobil.  Exxon Mobil has argued in court that in adding MTBE to
gasoline it was complying with federal regulations, which pre-
empt state law. The additive was used to make gasoline burn more
thoroughly to reduce air pollution, as required under the 1990
Clean Air Act.  Studies by the American Petroleum Institute were cited in
court showing that at mid-to-high levels of ingestion or
inhalation MTBE elevated the risk of brain tumors, liver cancer,
blood cancer and kidney cancer in mice and rats. Exxon Mobil
said there has been no evidence that MTBE causes illness in
humans.  MTBE, which New Hampshire banned in January 2007, is highly
soluble in water and can be carried great distances from the
source of leaks. It leaked from gas stations, vehicle junkyards,
underground storage tanks and pipe fittings, the state said.  The state estimated that about 40,000 New Hampshire wells
are contaminated with MTBE and that 5,590 have levels determined
to be unfit for drinking. The state said that level is 13 parts
of MTBE per billion parts of water.  The case is State of New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-
0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  