-- EZchip Trails Peers as Competition Dims Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-05T08:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/ezchip-trails-peers-as-competition-dims-sales-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) , the
worst-performing stock among Israeli companies traded in  New
York  over the past month, is poised to extend declines as
competition grows, according to Chardan Capital Markets LLC.  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based company fell 22 percent
in the last month, the biggest decline on the  Bloomberg Israel-
US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest U.S.-traded Israeli equities.
EZchip, which is near its cheapest  valuation  since December
2011, added 0.5 percent to $23.81 yesterday. The index slipped
0.3 percent while  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  retreated after its 2012
profit plunged 36 percent.  EZchip has retreated 26 percent since Chief Executive
Officer Eli Fruchter told analysts on a Feb. 13 conference call
that one of its customers, Huawei Technologies Co., is
developing its own processor, reducing the need for the Israeli
company’s technology. Future products from rivals such as
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  may also cut
demand for EZchip, said  Jay Srivatsa , a New York-based analyst
at Chardan Capital.  “It’s clear now that nobody is feeling compelled to stay
with an EZchip solution,” Srivatsa said yesterday in a
telephone interview. EZchip shares have fallen 38 percent since
Srivatsa cut his rating to sell from neutral in November.“Any
single announcement by anybody, being their direct competitors
or internal solutions, could be really bad for this company.
There’s further downside.”  Biggest Decline  EZchip, which makes technology that speeds up data
delivery, gained in Tel Aviv today for the first time in five
days, stemming this year’s 28 percent decline. Shares added 1.4
percent to 88.8 shekels, or the equivalent of $23.79, at 10:09
a.m. local time.  The company’s U.S. shares traded at 19.5 times estimated
earnings on March 1, the cheapest valuation since December 2011.
They traded at a multiple of 19.6 yesterday.  The company’s 2012  revenue  fell 14 percent to $54.7 million
as adjusted earnings sank 16 percent to 92 cents per share.
Sales will probably reach $160 million by 2016, down from about
$250 million previously expected, according to EZchip’s Feb. 13
earnings call and data compiled by Bloomberg.  “EZchip has always said that its performance is much
superior to what Marvell and Broadcom have to offer, but there’s
a range of products that competitors could come out with,”
Srivatsa said. “In the event there’s a directly competitive
product to an EZchip product, that could be really bad, there’s
no doubt about that.”  Competitor Product  Broadcom executives weren’t available to discuss industry
competition, Christina Stenson, a spokeswoman based in  San
Francisco , wrote in an e-mailed message. Marvell management was
also unavailable for comment, spokesman Daniel Yoo said by e-
mail yesterday from  Santa Clara , California.  If EZchip customers did consider a competitor product, the
switch would probably be years away, mitigating the immediate
impact on the company’s revenue, Jeff Schreiner, an analyst at
Feltl & Co. in Minneapolis, who rates the shares buy, said by
phone yesterday.  “It’s EZchip’s job to stay ahead of the internal
development at their customers,” Schreiner said. A customer
developing an in-house product has a “much higher degree of
probability than any external vendor taking share,” he said.  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge retreated 0.3 percent to 87
yesterday. The benchmark TA-25 Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,223.60 this morning.  ‘No Reprieve’  Cellcom slipped 0.7 percent to $7.15 in a third day of
declines.  Israel ’s largest mobile phone provider reported a 36
percent drop in 2012 adjusted profit amid heightened competition
in the mobile market, the Netanya, Israel-based company said
yesterday in a statement. Cellcom shares traded in today Tel
Aviv slipped 0.6 percent to 26.85 shekels, or $7.19.  “There’s no reprieve here,” Gilad Alper, an analyst at
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd., who has rates the
shares the equivalent of neutral, said by phone yesterday from
Ramat-Gan, Israel. “The competition isn’t going to ease up at
least for the next few quarters, so there’s no reason to be
optimistic.”  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , based in Hod Hasharon, Israel,
fell 0.3 percent to $13.05, the lowest price since October 2011.
Shares traded in Tel Aviv added 0.6 percent this morning to 49.1
shekels, or $13.15. Investors are “overreacting” to a revenue
forecast from U.S. competitor  Procera Networks Inc. (PKT)  that trailed
estimates,  Joseph Wolf , a Tel Aviv-based analyst for Barclays
Plc, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  