-- Fannie Mae Regulator Plans Securitization for Post-GSE World
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-03-05T15:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/fannie-mae-regulator-sets-securities-platform-for-post-gse-world.html
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  will
create a common platform for issuing mortgage-backed securities
as they wind down operations and plan for a future in which the
two companies no longer exist, their regulator said.  The government-owned enterprises also will start sharing
risk with private financiers in the single-family loan market,
aim to reduce their multifamily-housing business by 10 percent
and continue raising fees they charge to guarantee securities,
Edward J. DeMarco, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s acting
director, said yesterday on a conference call with reporters.  DeMarco unveiled his agency’s  goals  for Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac as the two companies head into their fifth year
under U.S. conservatorship. FHFA is shrinking operations while
waiting for President  Barack Obama  and Congress to move forward
with a broader overhaul of the nation’s housing-finance system.  “One of the challenges that everyone has in conceiving of
housing-finance reform and moving to a post-conservatorship
world is, where’s the plumbing? Where are the rules? Where are
the standards?” DeMarco said. “What we’re trying to do with
these strategic goals is to build out that infrastructure and
those standards so it would ease the transition.”  Policies aiding the return of private capital to mortgage
finance will be positive for investors, according to Jaret Seiberg, senior policy analyst at Washington Research Group, a
unit of Guggenheim Securities LLC.  New Opportunities  “This suggests opportunities for the big banks and for
fixed-income investors looking for new ways to invest in the
mortgage space,” Seiberg wrote in a market commentary.  Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac of McLean,
 Virginia , buy mortgages and package them into securities on
which they guarantee principal and interest. The companies,
seized by federal regulators amid soaring losses in 2008,
returned to profitability last year after drawing $190 billion
in taxpayer aid.  Their new joint securitization company will have its own
chief executive officer and chairman, and will be funded by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, DeMarco said yesterday. It will
create a single standard for issuing securities that could
survive independently if the two companies no longer exist, he
said.  The two enterprises this year also will aim to execute $30
billion each in transactions in which they share the risk of
backing single-family loans with private participants in the
market. Those could involve mortgage insurance or include the
issuance of different types of securities.  “What we’re looking for is to have some portion of the
risk sold off to private owners and that way reduce the exposure
of the taxpayer and demonstrate the viability of these types of
transactions,” DeMarco said on the call.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will also try to reduce their
backing of multifamily loans by 10 percent this year, largely
through raising prices and tightening underwriting, he said.
They’ll also attempt to sell off at least 5 percent of the
illiquid assets in their retained portfolios.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  