-- Fed’s Powell Sees Progress Ending Too-Big-to-Fail
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-03-04T19:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/fed-s-powell-sees-progress-ending-too-big-to-fail-subsidies.html
Federal Reserve Governor Jerome Powell said regulators are developing the tools needed to
dismantle large and failing financial institutions to help
remove the benefit from being seen as too big to fail.  “Today, the market still appears to provide a subsidy, of
changing and uncertain amount, to very large banks to account
for the possibility of a government bailout in the event of
failure,” Powell said today in a speech in  Washington . “The
market needs to believe -- and it needs to be the case -- that
every private financial institution can fail and be resolved
under our laws without imposing undue costs on society.”  Proposed regulations are “designed to accomplish just
that,” Powell said at an Institute of International Bankers
conference, citing efforts initially to implement stronger
capital and liquidity rules and then to create a liquidation
authority to resolve a failing bank.  Lawmakers and regulators, including the Fed, are pushing to
limit the risk that the government will need to rescue a big
U.S. bank. Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo , Dallas Fed President
 Richard Fisher  and Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, are
among the policy makers and legislators who have said the 2010
Dodd-Frank act overhauling financial regulation failed to curb
the growth of large lenders and protect taxpayers against
bailouts.  “My own view is that the framework of current reforms is
promising and should be given time to work,” Powell said. “In
any case, too-big-to-fail must end, even if more intrusive
measures prove necessary in the end.”  Yield Rises  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,518.96 at 1:46 p.m. in  New York , while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury note climbed 0.03 percentage point to 1.87
percent.  Regulators and lawmakers from both parties raised concerns
at a Feb. 14 Senate Banking Committee hearing about whether the
government will have to step in to rescue firms whose collapse
would threaten the broader economy. Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said the number of prosecutions of
executives after the 2008 financial crisis was inadequate and
suggested that regulators consider  Wall Street  “too big for
trial.”  Powell said in response to audience questions that
creditors and managers of a failing bank would suffer under the
new resolution regime.  ‘Wiped Out’  “We’re envisioning a world in which the equity is wiped
out, the creditors bear losses, the senior management bears the
loss of their job and quite possibly a lot else,” Powell said.
“At that point, you’ve eliminated any moral hazard that might
exist.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , at a Feb. 26 banking
committee hearing, was pressed to curb too-big-to-fail banks by
Warren and  David Vitter , a Republican from  Louisiana .  “We’ve now understood this problem for nearly five years,
so when are we going to get rid of too big to fail?” Warren
said to Bernanke.  The central bank is putting “a lot of effort into this,”
Bernanke said. “As somebody who has spent a lot of late nights
trying to deal with these problems during the crisis, I would
very much like to have the confidence that we could close down a
large institution without causing damage to the rest of the
economy,” he said.  More Capital  Strategies under consideration range from legislation that
would cap the size of big banks or make them raise more capital,
to regulatory actions to discourage mergers or require that
financial firms hold specified levels of long-term debt to
convert into equity in a failure.  Powell said that if the current measures “achieve their
purpose, in my view they would be preferable to a government-
imposed break-up, which would likely involve arbitrary
judgments, efficiency losses and a difficult transition.”  Lawmakers from both political parties have expressed
support for renewed efforts to limit the kind of systemic risk
that fueled the 2008 financial crisis. Representative  John Campbell , a Republican from  California , said Feb. 11 he plans to
offer legislation intended to shrink too-big-to-fail banks by
requiring them to hold more capital, including long-term debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  