-- Flacco Lands NFL’s Richest Pact as Eight Get Franchise Tags
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-03-05T05:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/flacco-signs-richest-deal-in-nfl-history-8-get-franchise-label.html
Baltimore Ravens quarterback  Joe Flacco  cashed in on his championship season by signing the
richest contract in National Football League history -- a six-
year, $120.6 million deal that includes a $29 million signing
bonus and $52 million in guaranteed money.  The agreement allows Flacco, 28, to avoid being labeled the
team’s franchise player, which would have forced him to sign a
one-year contract worth $14.9 million and place all the risk of
injury on the  Super Bowl ’s Most Valuable Player.  “It was never about the money, it was about earning the
respect,” Flacco, who threw for three touchdowns in leading the
Ravens to a 34-31 Super Bowl victory last month against the  San
Francisco 49ers , said yesterday in a news conference.  The  Kansas City Chiefs  re-signed wide receiver Dwayne Bowe,
who has led the team in receptions and yards receiving each of
the past four seasons and is projected as the top target for new
quarterback  Alex Smith . Bowe signed a five-year contract, ESPN
reported, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
negotiations.  Eight players weren’t as lucky as Flacco, receiving the
franchise tag that keeps them with their teams for at least
another season rather than long-term deals.  Franchise Tags  Buffalo Bills safety Jairus Byrd, Cincinnati Bengals
defensive end  Michael Johnson , Indianapolis Colts punter Pat McAfee, Chicago Bears defensive tackle Henry Melton, Miami
Dolphins defensive tackle Randy Starks, Denver Broncos offensive
tackle Ryan Clady, Chiefs offensive tackle Branden Albert and
Dallas Cowboys linebacker Anthony Spencer all received the non-
exclusive franchise tag. No players were given the exclusive
franchise label.  The NFL’s collective bargaining agreement creates two types
of franchise labels.  A non-exclusive tag requires a team to offer a one-year
contract based on the five-year average salary for the top five
players at the position and the league-wide salary cap, or 120
percent of a player’s salary from the previous year, whichever
is greater. If another team lures the player with a better
contract, the original team is compensated with two first-round
draft picks.  An exclusive tag bars a player from signing with another
club. The team is required to pay a one-year salary equal to the
average of the top five salaries at the player’s position in the
current league year, or 120 percent of the previous year’s
salary, whichever is higher.  Guaranteed Money  Both player and team are motivated to avoid the franchise
tag.  The player gets more guaranteed money if he signs a long-
term deal, protecting him from the risk of a career-ending
injury or a decline in performance.  A long-term agreement allows a team to pay a big signing
bonus and smaller annual salaries. Because the signing bonus is
pro-rated over the life of the contract for salary cap purposes,
it eats up less of the team’s cap room and allows the team to
sign more top players.  The impact of Flacco’s contract on the Ravens’ salary cap
will increase over time, with  Sports Illustrated  reporting that
it will account for $29 million against the salary cap in the
fourth year of the agreement.  Flacco’s salary cap number this upcoming season is $6.8
million of the team’s $123 million total, according to NFL.com,
which gives the Super Bowl champions a lot of room to sign other
players.  The non-exclusive franchise tag minimum salary for each
position is: quarterback $14,896,000, running back $8,219,000,
wide receiver $10,537,000, tight end $6,066,000, offensive
lineman $9,828,000, defensive tackle $8,450,000, defensive end
$11,175,000, linebacker $9,619,000, cornerback $10,854,000,
safety $6,916,000 and kicker/punter $2,977,000, according to the
NFL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  