-- Foes Try to Shrink NRA by Ending Members’ Hotel Discounts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-03-04T19:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/foes-try-to-shrink-nra-by-ending-member-s-hotel-discounts.html
Supporters of tighter restrictions
on guns are deploying a new tactic: pressing companies such as
 Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN)  and  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  to stop
giving discounts to members of the  National Rifle Association .  Organizations with ties to Moveon.org, an antiwar advocacy
group that backed President  Barack Obama ’s re-election, want to
shrink the NRA’s membership by eliminating an incentive to join
-- cheaper hotel rooms and car rentals.  That would diminish the gun lobby’s clout as it tries to
block congressional legislation in the aftermath of the December
shootings at an elementary school in Newtown,  Connecticut , the
advocacy groups reason.  “The NRA takes those members and translates that into
power in Washington,” said Kaytee Riek, who is managing the
campaign for the New York-based group SumOfUs. “The companies
leaving” the discount programs “will pressure the NRA.”  SumOfUs, which has received help from Moveon.org, has
garnered more than 70,000 signatures urging companies such as
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Wyndham, which also owns the Ramada
hotel brand, and  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz to stop its
discounts for NRA members.  Cigna Corp. (CI) , based in Bloomfield, Connecticut, also was
asked to stop underwriting the NRA’s accidental death and
dismemberment insurance policy for members.  ‘Corporate Partners’  Logos of several companies, described as “the NRA’s
corporate partners,” are displayed on the SumOfUs  website . Riek
said the group plans to present its petition signatures to all
of the companies this week.  Margo Happer, a spokeswoman for Wyndham; Paula Rivera, a
Hertz spokeswoman; and Joe Mondy of Cigna declined to comment.  The campaign’s effect on the NRA, which claims more than 4
million members, may be muted because the benefits being
spotlighted are widely available elsewhere and aren’t a major
reason to sign up with the gun lobby, said Z. John Zhang, a
marketing professor at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School in Philadelphia.  “People join the NRA not because Hertz offers a
discount,” Zhang said.  In addition, he said, companies will be loath to cave into
pressure from one campaign lest they be barraged by others
objecting to some of the groups with which they are partners.  “There’s no good place to stop once you get into that
slippery slope,” Zhang said.  ‘Political Cover’  Avaaz.org, an advocacy group that claims 19 million members
internationally, asked its supporters to post complaints on
Wyndham’s Facebook page, saying the hotel chain was “giving
political cover to the extremists of the NRA,” according to
campaign director Ian Bassin. Those postings later were removed.  New York-based Avaaz counts among its co-founders
Moveon.org and former Democratic U.S. Representative Tom Perriello of  Virginia , president of the Committee for American
Progress Action Fund, whose executive committee includes
veterans of the Bill Clinton and Obama presidential
administrations.  Bassin said the efforts to pressure companies with links to
the NRA mirrored the tactics used to persuade corporations to
end their funding of the American Legislative Exchange Council.
More than three dozen companies left ALEC following pressure
from the New York-based civil rights group  ColorofChange.org  and
other organizations.  Florida Killing  ALEC championed voter-identification laws that the U.S.
Justice Department said discriminated against minorities. It
also backed “stand your ground” self-defense laws such as the
one cited by authorities in Sanford,  Florida , when they didn’t
initially arrest George Zimmerman, who claimed self-defense in
the killing last year of teenager Trayvon Martin. Zimmerman,
later charged with second-degree murder, has pleaded not guilty.  Obama has called for a ban on assault-style weapons in
addition to expanded background checks and limits on ammunition
magazines, in response to the killing of 20 children and six
adults at the Newtown school.  In January, Obama took executive actions aimed at curbing
gun violence, including encouraging states to share criminal and
mental-health records for the background-check database.  Background Checks  The NRA has opposed mandatory background checks for all gun
buyers and limits on large-capacity ammunition magazines. The
group spent more than $25 million on the 2012 elections and its
political action committee contributed almost $1 million
directly to candidates, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a research group in  Washington .  A spokesman for the NRA, Andrew Arulanandam, didn’t respond
to a request for comment on the effort to eliminate its members’
hotel and car-rental discounts.  Supporters of gun legislation say companies that continue
their association with the NRA risk being tainted.  “When companies give their stamps of approval, not only is
that a powerful validator for that group, but the company owns
it,” Bassin said. “Those companies need to be forewarned that
consumers are going to hold them accountable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 