-- Forint Weakens as Government Consolidates Power at Central Bank
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-04T10:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/forint-weakens-as-government-consolidates-power-at-central-bank.html
The forint weakened, leading
declines among emerging-market peers, on speculation the
government may use expanded powers at the central bank to
utilize foreign-currency reserves to stimulate the economy.  Hungary ’s currency depreciated after former economy
minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  began his six-year tenure as Magyar
Nemzeti Bank president by rewriting the central bank’s founding
document to concentrate power in his hands. Hungary has
“ideas” for using the reserves for stimulus or helping
foreign-currency borrowers,  Mihaly Varga , who is taking over
from Matolcsy in the government, told TV2 in an interview today.  “This will likely put pressure on both the forint and
Hungary’s foreign-currency bonds,” Erste Group Bank AG wrote in
an said in a research note by analysts including Zoltan Arokszallasi on Varga’s comments.  The forint fell 0.6 percent to 296.46 per euro by 10:31
a.m. in Budapest. Yields on Hungary’s dollar-denominated bonds
maturing in 2041 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.612 percent, the lowest in a week.  Matolcsy stripped central bank vice presidents, including
two current ones who were appointed by his predecessor, of the
right to independently represent the MNB, according to the
document, which Matolcsy signed on Feb. 28 as Economy Minister
and which entered into force today.  The central bank president will also decide all
appointments, firings and salaries, which he can delegate to the
managing director, according to the document published on the
bank’s website.  Rate Cuts  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  announced the appointments of
Matolcsy and Varga on March 1, after policy makers delivered
seven consecutive quarter-point rate cuts, bringing the
benchmark to 5.25 percent, matching the lowest on record.
Outgoing central bank president Andras Simor and his two
deputies opposed the easing, citing an inflation rate above the
central bank’s 3 percent target and the limited impact on
lending and economic output.  The forint tumbled to a seven-month low after Matolcsy said
in December the new central bank leadership should “bravely”
turn to “unorthodox” monetary-policy tools to create growth.
The Magyar Nemzeti Bank should help the government boost growth
as long as that doesn’t threaten price and financial stability,
Matolcsy told lawmakers on March 1.  “Until it becomes clear whether Matolcsy might be the wolf
in sheep’s clothing after all, euro-forint is likely to trade
well above the 290 mark,” Carolin Hecht, Frankfurt-based
strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  