-- Fraport Looks at Brazil Entry as Airport Rivalries Grow
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-04T14:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/fraport-looks-at-brazil-entry-as-airport-rivalries-grow.html
Fraport AG, the operator of Europe’s
third-busiest airport, is looking at entering Brazil as
competition intensifies with financial investors and
construction companies running global aviation hubs.  The owner of Frankfurt airport is  seeking  assets in
emerging economies, including locations in  Africa , that may
boost earnings faster than growth from units in developed
nations, said Alexander Zinell, the head of Fraport’s global
investments. The company is also considering additional projects
in  Turkey , potentially increasing competition there with
 Aeroports de Paris .  “We have a strong interest in  emerging markets , as our
value-added there is highest,” Zinell said in an interview at
Frankfurt airport. “There is currently enormous demand from
financial investors for airport assets,” while only a few
industry operators such as Fraport can commit the capital and
time needed to develop business in those markets, he said.  Fraport was outbid by 600 million euros ($796 million) in
December by  Vinci SA (DG)  for state-owned ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal
SA as the Paris-based builder, Europe’s largest, expanded
airport operations beyond its home market and Cambodia. The
acquisition was the second-biggest in the industry after
 Ferrovial SA (FER) ’s purchase in 2006 of the company running the
U.K.’s main airports including  London Heathrow , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Frankfurt airport, the main hub for Deutsche Lufthansa AG,
ranks third in Europe by annual passenger numbers, with Heathrow
the biggest in the region and Aeroports de Paris’s  Charles de
Gaulle  placing second.  Brazil’s Contracts  Brazil’s government announced plans in December to auction
a majority stake in Rio de Janeiro’s international airport to
upgrade aging terminals in time for a traffic boost from the
World Cup soccer tournament the country is hosting next year.  After a 24 billion-real ($12.1 billion) sale a year ago of
operating licenses for three airports, including Sao Paulo’s
Guarulhos, to smaller operators, authorities are restricting
suitors for the Rio de Janeiro contract to companies with
experience handling at least 35 million passengers a year and
able to pledge a minimum 25 percent stake.  Aeroports de Paris , Munich operator Flughafen Muenchen GmbH
and Fraport were among companies that Brazilian officials
visited to explain the project. The South American country’s
airports are suffering from capacity and efficiency constraints,
though an airport concession there may not require Fraport to
spend large amounts of money, Zinell said.  Fraport has no fixed budget for investments, he said,
declining to comment on strategy for the Brazilian tender.  Assets Abroad  Majority-owned operations outside Germany include airports
in  Lima , the Bulgarian Black Sea cities of Burgas and Varna, and
Antalya on Turkey’s Mediterranean coast. Fraport also has
operating contracts or minority stakes at the main hubs serving
Cairo;  New Delhi ; Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; and Xi’an,  China .  Aeroports de Paris (ADP)  bought a 38 percent holding last year in
 TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , Turkey’s biggest airport operator,
whose assets include Istanbul’s main commercial aviation base.  Turkey is seeking bids to run a new airport in Istanbul
that would be the busiest in the country, with initial capacity
for 90 million passengers a year and eventual annual traffic of
150 million travelers. Zinell, who used to manage Fraport’s
Antalya operation, declined to comment on the German company’s
stance on the Istanbul project.  Delhi Disposal  Fraport has encountered some obstacles in its push abroad.
The company is in arbitration to seek $425 million in
compensation from the Philippines over a Manila airport terminal
project, which the government scrapped in 2002. Robert Payne, a
Fraport spokesman, declined today to comment on the case.  The German company outlined in June the possible sale of
its 10 percent stake in the New Delhi site, which it entered in
2006, to partner  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)   Zinell said Fraport closed a marketing office in India
because of a lack of prospective contracts. It has held onto the
stake in New Delhi airport, which is generating “good” traffic
growth, he said.  China is “difficult” for foreign investors seeking
management control of airports as the government restricts their
holdings to a one-quarter stake, Zinell said. Fraport would like
to expand in China beyond its 24.5 percent participation at
Xi’an, he said.  Hochtief AG (HOT) , Germany’s largest builder, said on Feb. 28
that it’s still evaluating the sale of airport operations.
Hochtief scrapped the disposal a year ago after failing to get
the price it wanted. Bidders at the time included Vinci and
China’s HNA Group, and Fraport said in August 2011 that it had
made an offer with a partner for Hochtief’s non-German airports.
Spokesman Payne declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  