-- French Ruling Party Chief Rejects Diesel Tax as Ministers Split
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-03-04T11:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/french-ruling-party-chief-rejects-diesel-tax-as-ministers-split.html
France  doesn’t plan to raise diesel
tax, the ruling Socialist Party chief said after its ministers
contradicted each other on whether to increase the tariff.  “We can’t have more taxes,” Harlem Desir told France Info
radio. “No increase is planned either by the government or the
majority. We have to avoid discord between ministers.”  Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg yesterday said France
shouldn’t refill state coffers with a tax change that may hurt
local carmakers. The comment contrasts with Environment Minister
Delphine Batho’s backing last month of a higher tariff to curb
pollution dangerous to health and demand pressure on refineries.
Montebourg has sparred with Batho in the past over a decision to
ban fracking, used to extract oil and gas from shale formations.  Diesel, making up about 80 percent of the market for fuel
used by French cars, has been taxed less than gasoline for
decades because of its use for trucks and farm vehicles.  “We can’t create worry or anxiety among the French,”
Desir said. “We have to reconcile public health, ecology and
industry and jobs. Clean motors would more likely be hybrids.”  French refiners have complained for years that demand for
diesel exceeds supply from domestic producers. France imported
20.5 million tons of the fuel last year and exported 4 million
tons of gasoline, the  Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres 
lobby says. Diesel demand grew 7.5 percent to 38.1 million tons
last year, while gasoline fell 6.5 percent to 7.3 million tons.  Total SA,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil company, has invested
in its largest French refinery to produce more diesel. About 73
percent of new cars sold in France last year ran on the fuel,
 figures  from the French automakers’ association show.  The diesel tax rate makes it 20 cents cheaper than gasoline
per liter (0.26 gallon), according to UFIP. Making the rates the
same would hand the government about 8 billion euros ($10.4
billion) of revenue a year based on demand in 2012, it says.  New diesel cars sold in France with pollution filters are
“safe,” Montebourg said yesterday in an interview with iTele.
“The problem is old diesel cars that pollute.” A program to
encourge replacing old vehicles for new may help, he said.  “This should not benefit foreign carmakers,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  