-- Genting to Buy Las Vegas Echelon Resort From Boyd
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-04T15:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/genting-to-buy-unfinished-echelon-resort-in-las-vegas-from-boyd.html
Genting Bhd. (GENT) , Southeast  Asia ’s
largest casino operator, will buy and complete  Boyd Gaming
Corp. (BYD) ’s unfinished Echelon resort in Las Vegas, a sign of
renewed confidence in the city’s economy.  Genting will pay $350 million in cash for the 87-acre site,
once home to the Stardust, Las Vegas-based Boyd said today in a
statement. Boyd took an impairment charge of about $994 million
in the fourth quarter, increasing its adjusted loss more than
ninefold from a year earlier.  The project will be rebranded Resorts World Las Vegas, with
the opening of phase one planned for 2015, Kuala Lumpur-based
Genting said separately.  “This is an unparalleled opportunity to showcase what has
made the Resorts World brand a globally recognized success for
the past several decades,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Lim Kok Thay said in a statement.  Genting, which also has interests in plantations and
energy, has been pushing into U.S. gambling. The company runs
the Resorts World Casino at Aqueduct race track in  New York
City , the top-grossing U.S. slot machine parlor, and is pursuing
one in Miami. The uncompleted Echelon became a symbol of U.S.
real estate excesses and  Las Vegas ’s woes after Boyd stopped
construction in August 2008.  The project sits along the northern part of the  Las Vegas
Strip , near  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s properties. It will feature more
than 3,500 rooms in the first phase, 175,000 square feet of
gaming space, luxury dining and retail, Genting said.  Governor’s Optimism  “The entrance of one of the world’s leading resort gaming
developers into Nevada is another fantastic sign that Las Vegas
and the Strip are poised for great things moving forward in 2013
and beyond,” Governor Brian Sandoval said in the statement.  Genting, founded in 1965, has interests in five publicly
traded companies with a combined market value of $46 billion.
The company purchased the downtown Miami Herald building in
 Florida  in 2011 with the intent of building a casino. Florida’s
Legislature has not passed a law permitting one there, however.  The company opened its  New York  casino in October 2011. It
 generated  $638 million in revenue last year, becoming the top
slot machine location in the country, according Genting. It also
owns one of two casinos in  Singapore , and plans to use its name
recognition in Asia to attract foreign travelers to Las Vegas.  Boyd began construction on the $4.75 billion resort in 2007
before stopping a year later amid the financial crisis. The
company said at the time it incurred $500 million in capitalized
expenses and that it would be three to five years before it
would be interested in restarting.  Sale Proceeds  Boyd said today it will receive about $157 million from the
sale after paying a portion of the $350 million in proceeds to
fulfil the company’s obligations to LVE Energy Partners LLC, the
company said.  “The sale of the Echelon site is another important step in
the ongoing effort to improve our long-term financial
position,” Chief Executive Officer  Keith Smith  said in the
statement. Boyd remains “committed to the Las Vegas market”
after determining that building a large project on the Strip
“was not consistent with our current strategy.”  Boyd’s adjusted loss widened to $27.7 million in the fourth
quarter, excluding the $994 million charge for ditching the
Echelon development, from a deficit of $2.9 million a year
earlier. The figure also ignores $39.4 million in impairment
charges related to excess land holdings and a $17.5 million
charge involving a gaming license in Shreveport,  Louisiana .  Net Loss  The net loss was $899.9 million, or $10.24 a share,
compared with a loss of about $500,000 in the same period last
year.  Revenue gained 3.2 percent to $625.8 million in the fourth
quarter, Boyd said, though sales at the Borgata, the company’s
50 percent-owned joint venture in  Atlantic City , fell 16 percent
on a five-day closure due to superstorm Sandy. Sales also
declined at downtown Las Vegas properties and Boyd’s “locals”
segment in the  Nevada  city. Revenue was helped by the Peninsula
division, including the Kansas Star Casino.  Boyd gained 11 percent to $7.17 at 10:29 a.m. in New York.
The shares had gained 2.7 percent this year through March 1.  Genting will face new local competition when it opens
Resorts World. Los Angeles-based SBE broke ground last month on
the SLS Las Vegas, a $400 million remodeling of the Sahara
hotel, expected to open in late 2014 farther up the Strip.  Visitors to Las Vegas broke an all-time record of 39.7
million last year, while gambling revenue on the Strip rose 2.3
percent to $6.21 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries. Gambling revenue remained below the 2007
high of $6.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  