-- German Euro Foes to Found Party in Merkel Election Challenge
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-03-04T14:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/german-euro-foes-to-found-party-in-merkel-election-challenge.html
German economists and former
politicians plan to start up an anti-euro party that challenges
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s support for euro-area financial
bailouts in the country’s Sept. 22 election.  The party, to be called “Alternative for  Germany ,” will
hold its inaugural event in April, Joachim Starbatty, a
University of Tuebingen economist who backs the initiative, said
in a telephone interview today.  The party will “demand the dissolution of the euro in
favor of national currencies or smaller currency alliances,”
according to the initiative’s  website . Policy makers should
lighten the debt of euro-area countries through “orderly
sovereign insolvency,” with private creditors paying the cost.  Starbatty and law professor Karl Schachtschneider, another
backer of “Alternative for Germany,” lost a bid in 2011 to get
the nation’s constitutional court to stop German participation
in the 110 billion-euro ($143 billion) first bailout for Greece.
Other supporters include Hans-Olaf Henkel, the former head of
Germany’s BDI industry association, and Bernd Lucke, an
economist at Hamburg University.  The party would be at least the second in Germany to try to
channel public anger at bailouts for  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal 
and Spain. Merkel’s Christian Democrat-led coalition backed the
rescues with the support of the two biggest opposition parties
in parliament, the Social Democrats and Greens. The Free Voters
party, which doesn’t have seats in the federal parliament, has
also made the debt crisis a theme of its 2013 campaign.  In response to the challenges to Merkel’s crisis policy,
the Federal Constitutional Court has limited her leeway in EU
bailouts in at least three rulings. Last June, the court said
the government must give lawmakers a say on European Union
integration, which also covers the European Stability Mechanism,
the euro area’s permanent rescue fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  