-- Italian Bonds Fall 2nd Day as EU Finance Ministers Meet
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-03-04T16:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/german-bunds-rise-2nd-day-before-euro-area-inflation-data.html
Italy ’s government bonds fell for a
second day as the nation moved closer to a new election and
European leaders demanded euro members press on with budget cuts
to end the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Italian 10-year yields approached the  highest  level in more
than three months as European Union finance ministers meet in
Brussels today to discuss issues including a bailout for Cyprus.
In  Rome , Stefano Fassina, a top aide to Democratic Party leader
Pier Luigi Bersani, said Italy may need to hold another vote
this year after passing new electoral laws. Spanish 10-year
securities and benchmark German bunds were little changed.  “Given past events the market is a bit wary of policy
risks for the time being and this will be the key story for
today,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in London. “Bunds should remain supported while
peripherals should trade with a widening bias or yields
rising,” he said, referring to higher-yielding euro-sovereign
debt.  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 4.88 percent at 4:35 p.m. London time. The
rate rose to 4.96 percent on Feb. 27, the most since Nov. 15.
The 5.5 percent security maturing in November 2022 fell 0.66, or
6.60 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,300) face amount, to 105.21.  Italy may hold new elections this year if Bersani and his
Democratic Party fail to find enough backing in parliament to
form a government, Fassina, the group’s economic policy
spokesman, told Sky TG24 TV yesterday.  Italian Stalemate  Hours later, Bersani insisted he would form a government on
his own without seeking an alliance with his main rivals, ex-
premier Silvio Berlusconi and comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo, who both campaigned to reverse austerity measures
implemented by outgoing Prime Minister Mario Monti to contain
the country’s financial crisis.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn
told Der Spiegel magazine at the weekend there’s no scope for
the bloc to let up on budget discipline, while German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  last week urged Italy to stick to the path of
reform after the success of anti-austerity parties in last
month’s election.  Spanish bonds advanced earlier as a report showed the
number of jobless claims slowed in February, lending support to
the government’s view that the country has overcome the worst of
a six-year slump.  Spanish Unemployment  The number of  registered unemployed  in the euro region’s
fourth-largest economy rose by 59,444 from the previous month,
less than half the increase in January, to 5.04 million, the
Labor Ministry in  Madrid  said in an e-mailed statement.  Spanish 10-year bond yields dropped less than one basis
point to 5.09 percent, after falling as much as six basis
points. The Iberian nation is scheduled to sell bonds maturing
in two-, five- and 10-years on March 7.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yielded 1.42 percent after declining
to 1.39 percent, the  lowest  level in more than eight weeks. The
difference in yield, or spread, between Italian 10-year yields
and their German equivalents, widened eight basis points to 346
basis points. It increased to 351 basis points on Feb. 27, the
most since Dec. 11.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets, followed by those of the Netherlands and  Austria ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  The rate on Dutch two-year notes was little changed at 0.14
percent after the Netherlands sold treasury bills maturing in 86
and 208 days at minus 0.021 percent and minus 0.014 percent
respectively. A negative yield means investors who hold the
security until it matures will receive less than they paid to
buy it.  Italian bonds handed investors a loss of 0.5 percent this
year through March 1, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Spanish securities gained 2.8 percent, while German bunds
dropped 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in  London  at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  