-- Ghana’s Terkper Faces Budget Gap as Mahama Plans Spending
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-03-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/ghana-s-terkper-faces-budget-gap-as-mahama-plans-spending.html
Ghana’s finance minister will face
challenges of curbing a  budget deficit  that widened the most in
four years and warding off a ratings downgrade even as the
president promises spending on schools, roads and hospitals in
West  Africa ’s second-biggest economy.  Seth Terkper, the deputy who was promoted to minister in
January, will present the country’s fiscal plan for 2013 to
lawmakers tomorrow at about 10 a.m. Accra time. The budget gap
jumped to 12.1 percent of gross domestic product last year,
almost double a target of 6.7 percent, the  Bank of Ghana  said
Feb. 13. Two days later,  Fitch Ratings  cut its outlook on
Ghana’s debt to negative from stable.  “The government will be keen to cut the deficit
significantly,” Angus Downie, head of economic research at
Ecobank Transnational Inc. in  London , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Its ability to do so is hampered by
some of the election manifesto spending pledges that were made,
which include more schools, clinics, housing, roads and power
amongst others.”  Spending climbed before an election in December, which was
won by John Dramani Mahama who reiterated promises made during
the campaign in a speech to lawmakers on Feb. 21. Rising wages
for government workers and higher fuel subsidies added spending
pressure as the country earned less than anticipated from
exports of crude oil.  Ghana’s currency, the cedi, was Africa’s third-worst
performer against the dollar in 2012, weakening 14 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s gained 0.7 percent
this year and traded little changed at 1.9175 per dollar by 5:04
p.m. on March 1. The yield on  Ghana ’s 8.5 percent Eurobonds, due
October 2017, eased 6.3 basis points, or 0.06 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  