-- Gilead Drugs to Prevent HIV Spurned by African Women in Study
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-03-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/gilead-drugs-to-prevent-hiv-spurned-by-african-women-in-study.html
Drugs made by  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) 
that can prevent healthy adults from getting HIV didn’t reduce
infections in African women because of lack of adherence to
treatment, raising questions about the medicines’ usefulness in
stopping the spread of AIDS.  About two thirds of women didn’t consistently use Gilead’s
daily pill Truvada or Viread, which came in the form of a pill
or vaginal gel, according to the study released yesterday at the
 Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections  in
Atlanta. The women in the study said they were deterred from
using the medicines because of stigma associated with AIDS drugs
and side effects, which can include diarrhea and nightmares.  “Women were not using the product and those women least
likely to use the product are the ones most at risk for HIV
infection, they are young women and those who are not married,”
said Jeanne Marrazzo, a researcher at  University of Washington 
in  Seattle  who led the study.  The finding may cause global health officials to rethink
their strategies for using the treatments as a form of
prevention. U.S. regulators approved Gilead’s Truvada last year
as the first drug to prevent HIV infection in healthy adults.
Health organizations worldwide have been studying ways to get
the pill to regions hardest hit by the epidemic and have called
it a new tool in ending the epidemic.  In addition to being used as a form of pre-exposure
prophylaxis, known as PrEP in the AIDS community, Truvada is a
main treatment for people infected with AIDS and works by
stopping the virus from taking hold and replicating in the body.
It had more than $3 billion in sales last year.  5,000 Women  Because of the irregular use, there was no significant
difference in AIDS infection rates in the women taking the drugs
compared to a placebo.  Some of the 5,000 women in the study, many who enrolled for
the free  health services , said they weren’t using the products
because of the stigma associated with taking an AIDS medication,
even with the knowledge that it was to prevent the disease,
Marrazzo said. Others had issues with the side effects though
those typically clear up over time, she said.  The findings “reinforce what we already know from previous
trials -- these interventions work when they are used, and they
don’t work when they are not used,” said  Mitchell Warren ,
executive director of AVAC , a New York-based AIDS advocacy
group. ”Now we have a dual responsibility to understand who
might benefit from daily PrEP and ensure that they can access
it, and to accelerate the development of additional options that
can meet the urgent needs of others.”  Study Findings  In the study, women received either Gilead’s Viread as a
pill or vaginal gel, the daily pill Truvada, which combines
Viread with Gilead’s emtricitabine, or a placebo pill or gel.
Most of the women were in  South Africa  with the remainder in
Uganda and  Zimbabwe .  About 6 percent of patients assigned to the Viread daily
pill or vaginal gel group developed HIV and 4.7 percent in the
Truvada group become infected. That compares to 6.8 percent who
became infected using a placebo gel and 4.2 percent infection
rate among the placebo pill group.  About half of the patients in the study had no traces of
the drug in their system after the first four months, an
indicator they had never regularly taken the medications. Those
most likely to use the products were older women who were
married, the ones at least risk for becoming infected with HIV,
said Marrazzo.  Low Adherence  “Given the low levels of adherence in the study, this
result is not surprising: PrEP must be taken consistently to
work effectively,” said Jonathan Mermin, director of the
division of HIV/AIDS Prevention at the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, in a statement. “Anyone considering
using PrEP to help protect themselves from HIV infection should
recognize that adherence to the daily regimen is critical.”  Past studies have found that Truvada can reduce the risk of
HIV as much as 94 percent for people who take the pill
regularly, according to a study cited by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in May. In other trials, only 10 percent of
participants took the medicine as prescribed, and one study was
halted after no benefit was gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  