-- Gilead-Medivir Hepatitis C Drug Clears Virus in Patients
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-03-04T21:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/gilead-medivir-hepatitis-c-drug-clears-virus-in-patients.html
An experimental drug combination
from  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,  Medivir AB (MVIRB)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
eradicated the virus that causes hepatitis C in patients with
the liver disease in a study.  The trial’s 80 patients, who had tried and failed other
medications, took a two-drug mixture of Medivir’s simeprevir and
Gilead’s sofosbuvir, according to research presented at the
 Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections  today in
Atlanta. The patients took the combination for 12 or 24 weeks,
with and without the antiviral ribavirin, researchers said.  “We went for the most difficult to cure, with the idea if
we could show good efficacy there, it could be assumed the
regimen could be efficacious in other patient populations,”
Gaston Picchio, hepatitis disease area leader for J&J’s Janssen
unit, said in a telephone interview. Medivir, based in Huddinge,
Sweden, is working with J&J to develop simeprevir.  The interim results showed that among the 10 patients who
had been off the treatment for 12 weeks, all of them still had
their virus suppressed.  Gilead, Medivir and J&J are competing with  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  to develop a new generation of oral
hepatitis C treatments. The goal is to eliminate the standard
therapy that requires ribavirin and an injection of interferon,
an immune-boosting protein that can cause flu-like side effects
for as long as 48 weeks.  Fewer Effects  Hepatitis C affects about 150 million people worldwide,
according to the  World Health Organization . The new drug
regimens in testing are designed to be taken as pills, with
shorter treatment durations and fewer side effects.  “Sofosbuvir continues to look like a backbone treatment,”
said Brian Skorney, an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co in a
note to clients. “These results support our belief that
sofosbuvir’s profile allows it to be combined with virtually any
active HCV agent and eliminate the need for interferon and
ribavirin.”  Gilead rose 1 percent to $43.87 at the close of trading in
 New York . The shares of the Foster City, California-based
company had gained 87 percent in the past 12 months. Medivir
climbed 3.8 percent to 90 kronor.  Gilead Therapy  While Gilead is unlikely to pursue a partnership with
Medivir and J&J since the company is developing a combination of
its own therapies, doctors may prescribe the pair reported in
the study off-label,  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with Wells Fargo
Securities in New York, said in a note today.  “Of course, this would depend on pricing of the two
components and payer acceptability, though with elimination of
interferon and possibly ribavirin costs and side effects and
substantial sustained virologic responses we believe the would
likely be amenable,” Abrahams wrote.  Vertex is also testing an experimental drug, VX-135, with
Medivir’s Simeprevir, and today’s clinical trial results could
make that combination more likely, if no safety issues emerge,
Abrahams said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  