-- Theravance Rises on Speculation of Possible Glaxo Buyout
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-04T21:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/glaxo-may-buy-theravance-to-gain-new-drugs-piper-analysts-say.html
Theravance Inc. (THRX)  rose the most in 11
months on investor speculation that  GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)  Plc may
purchase the remaining 73 percent of the company that it doesn’t
already own.  Theravance gained 16 percent to $24.29 at the close in  New
York , its biggest climb since April 2. Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest
drugmaker, may consider acquiring Theravance to fully control
respiratory drugs the companies developed together, Piper
Jaffray analysts said today in a note to clients.  A Food and Drug Administration advisory committee will
review the companies’ Breo drug on March 7. Glaxo owns 27
percent of Theravance and may pay $51 a share for the rest of
the South  San Francisco , California-based drugmaker,  Piper
Jaffray (PJC)  said. That would be more than double the March 1 closing
price and would value the remaining stake at about $3.6 billion.  Glaxo and Theravance formed an alliance a decade ago to
develop respiratory drugs including Breo and Anoro to help
succeed Advair, Glaxo’s aging best-seller. The U.K. company
raised its stake in Theravance from 18 percent in April 2012. A
regulatory decision on Breo is scheduled for May 12 and on Anoro
on Dec. 18.  “We believe approval for Anoro by year end could lead to
an eventual takeout,” Piper Jaffray analysts M. Ian Somaiya, Do
Kim and Matthew Luchini said.  No Comment  Sarah Spencer, a spokeswoman for Glaxo, declined to
comment. A voice mail left at Theravance’s headquarters, asking
for comment on the Piper Jaffray note, wasn’t immediately
returned.  Breo is a once-daily treatment for chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, an umbrella term for emphysema and chronic
bronchitis often caused by cigarette smoking. The medicine would
compete with Novartis AG’s Arcapta Neohaler approved in July and
similar twice-daily products made by Glaxo and London-based
 AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)   Glaxo has said a once-daily formulation has better patient
compliance than drugs that must be used more often.  While pneumonia-related deaths observed in clinical trials
is cause for uncertainty, only one death occurred at the lower
dose that Glaxo is seeking approval for, Piper Jaffray said.  The drug may generate $738 million in sales for Glaxo in
2016, according to the average of seven analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Glaxo fell less than 1 percent to 1,460.5 pence in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  