-- GMP Falls the Most in 5 Months on CIBC Downgrade: Toronto Mover
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-04T21:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/gmp-falls-the-most-in-5-months-on-cibc-downgrade-toronto-mover.html
GMP Capital Inc. (GMP) , Canada’s second-
biggest non-bank brokerage, fell the most in more than five
months after a Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce analyst
downgraded the stock.  GMP  dropped  6.8 percent to C$6.47 today in Toronto, the
most since Sept. 21. The decline came after Toronto-based GMP
posted fourth-quarter profit on March 1 that beat analysts’
estimates on increased investment-banking revenue and higher
fees from its funds.  “We do not see the higher level of revenue continuing into
the current quarter,” said CIBC’s Paul Holden, who downgraded
the stock to sector perform from sector outperform.
“Transaction volumes have slowed once again.”  GMP’s fourth-quarter profit almost tripled to C$6.7 million
($6.5 million), or 8 cents a share, from C$2.4 million, or 2
cents, a year earlier. Revenue rose 11 percent to C$80.5
million. Excluding some items, GMP said it earned 17 cents a
share, beating the 12-cent average  estimate  of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  GMP has climbed 11 percent this year, outperforming the 2.2
percent  gain  of  Canada ’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index.  “Given the run-up in GMP’s share price and the reduction
to our price target, the risk/reward is not as compelling
today,” Holden said.  Comments about Canada’s capital markets by GMP Chief
Executive Officer Harris Fricker during a March 1 conference
call prompted Sumit Malhotra, a Macquarie Capital Markets
analyst, to say in a note today that a better revenue backdrop
remains elusive.  “Fricker was typically candid in referring to the equity
underwriting pipeline as ‘tepid,’ an issue that remains one of
our biggest obstacles in getting more bullish on GMP shares,”
said Malhotra, who rates the shares underperform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  