-- Gonzaga Poised to Take No. 1 Basketball Ranking for First Time
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/gonzaga-poised-to-claim-no-1-basketball-ranking-for-first-time.html
Gonzaga University is poised to
claim the No. 1 spot in college basketball’s national rankings
for the first time in school history when the media and coaches’
polls are released today.  The Bulldogs have a 29-2 record after finishing their
regular season schedule with 12 straight victories and a 10th
West Coast Conference title. Gonzaga went 16-0 in the WCC and is
the top seed entering the league tournament in  Las Vegas .  With top-ranked  Indiana University  (25-4) losing to
Minnesota 77-73 on Feb. 26, No. 2 Gonzaga is in position to
supplant the Hoosiers atop the Associated Press and  USA Today 
coaches’ polls. It would be a first for the Spokane, Washington-
based school, which is the alma mater of Hall of Fame guard John Stockton and has made 14 straight trips to the National
Collegiate Athletic Association men’s tournament.  “They are a very good basketball team without any
weaknesses,” University of Portland coach Eric Reveno said
after his team lost to Gonzaga 81-52 two days ago. “They should
be No. 1.”  Gonzaga, which has an enrollment of  7,874 , had been best
known as the school that produced Stockton before rising to
prominence by making the round of 16 at the NCAA tournament
three straight times from 1999 to 2001.  The Bulldogs have been to the NCAA tournament every year
since. Only  Duke University , the University of  Kansas  and
Michigan State have longer active streaks. Gonzaga’s 15th
straight trip to the tournament may come as the nation’s No. 1
team and one of the four top regional seeds.  Numbers Game  “I don’t think we’re too caught up in what number we’re at
or what we’re seeded,” Gonzaga coach Mark Few told reporters.
“We’re just going to go play. We’re going to go down to Vegas
to try to win the thing. We’re going to go into the NCAA
tournament trying to win the thing.”  Gonzaga’s next game will be March 9 in the semifinals of
the WCC tournament at the Orleans Arena in Las Vegas.  Stockton, who played at Gonzaga from 1980-84 before going
onto a 19-year career with the  National Basketball Association ’s
 Utah Jazz , grew up in Spokane, as did his son David, who’s now a
 junior guard  for the Bulldogs. Yet the younger Stockton is among
only three players from the state of Washington on Gonzaga’s  14-
man roster .  The Bulldogs have become an international program during
Few’s 13-year tenure as coach. Two of Gonzaga’s top three
scorers this season -- 7-foot forward Kelly Olynyk and guard
Kevin Pangos -- hail from  Canada  while second-leading scorer
Elias Harris is a senior forward from Germany. Guy Landry Edi, a
senior forward who’s started 14 of the 28 games he’s played this
season, is from the  Ivory Coast .  Top Seed?  In addition to a possible No. 1 national ranking, Gonzaga
this season is seeking to become just the fourth school since
2000 to earn a top NCAA tournament seeding while playing outside
one of college basketball’s six top conferences. The only
schools in that span to get a No. 1 regional seed from leagues
outside the  Big East , Atlantic Coast, Big Ten, Pac-12, Big 12
and Southeastern conferences were Cincinnati in 2002, St.
Joseph’s in 2004 and  Memphis  in 2008.  Gonzaga, which played against schools such as Portland,
Pepperdine and Loyola Marymount in the WCC, has the nation’s
60th-strongest schedule, according to  USA Today . Having faced
one ranked team since Jan. 1 -- losing 64-63 at  Butler
University  on Jan. 19 -- Gonzaga could end up with the worst
strength of schedule rating for an NCAA tournament top seed in
nine years, USA Today said.  “We played every game with a huge bull’s-eye on our chest
and we played pretty darn well in almost all of them,” Few
said. “They’ve been really, really focused. We’ve been so
consistent with our effort and preparation. That’s the most
impressive thing about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  