-- Gonzaga Ranked No. 1 in College Basketball Poll for First Time
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-04T18:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/gonzaga-ranked-no-1-in-college-basketball-poll-for-first-time.html
Gonzaga University is college
basketball’s top-ranked team for the first time.  The Bulldogs (29-2) received 51 of the 65 first-place votes
to take the No. 1 ranking in the Associated Press poll.  Indiana
University  (25-4), which fell to second after losing last week,
received seven first-place votes from a national panel of media
members, followed by third-ranked Duke (25-4) with five.  It is the first No. 1 ranking for Gonzaga, the Spokane,
Washington-based school that is the alma mater of Hall of Fame
guard John Stockton and has made 14 straight trips to the
National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s tournament. The
Bulldogs are the only two-loss program in college basketball’s
top level, having been beaten by the only ranked opponent
they’ve played since Jan. 1.  “They are a very good basketball team without any
weaknesses,” University of Portland coach Eric Reveno said
after his team was defeated by  Gonzaga 81-52 two days ago.
“They should be No. 1.”  The Bulldogs finished their regular-season schedule with 12
straight victories and a 10th West Coast Conference title.
Gonzaga went 16-0 in the WCC and is the top seed entering the
league tournament in  Las Vegas .  Indiana , which held the top spot for the previous four
weeks, fell to Minnesota 77-73 on Feb. 26. Kansas (25-4) is
ranked fourth in the AP poll, followed by Georgetown (23-4),
which received the final two first-place votes.  Miami (23-5), Michigan (24-5), Louisville (24-5), Kansas
State (24-5) and Michigan State (22-7) finish the top 10.  NCAA Streak  Gonzaga, with an enrollment of  7,874 , had been best known
as the school that produced Stockton before rising to prominence
by making the round of 16 at the NCAA tournament three straight
times from 1999 to 2001.  The Bulldogs have been to the NCAA tournament every year
since. Only Duke,  Kansas  and Michigan State have longer active
streaks. Gonzaga’s 15th straight trip to the tournament may come
as the nation’s No. 1 team and one of the four top regional
seeds.  “I don’t think we’re too caught up in what number we’re at
or what we’re seeded,” Gonzaga coach Mark Few told reporters.
“We’re just going to go play. We’re going to go down to Vegas
to try to win the thing. We’re going to go into the NCAA
tournament trying to win the thing.”  Gonzaga’s next game will be March 9 in the semifinals of
the WCC tournament at the Orleans Arena in Las Vegas.  Stockton Family  Stockton, who played at Gonzaga from 1980 to 1984 before a
19-year career with the  National Basketball Association ’s  Utah
Jazz , grew up in Spokane, as did his son David, who’s now a
 junior guard  for the Bulldogs. The younger Stockton is among
only three players from the state of  Washington  on Gonzaga’s  14-
man roster .  The Bulldogs have become an international program during
Few’s 13-year tenure. Two of Gonzaga’s top three scorers this
season -- 7-foot forward Kelly Olynyk and guard Kevin Pangos --
are from  Canada , while second-leading scorer Elias Harris is a
senior forward from  Germany . Guy Landry Edi, a senior forward
who’s started 14 of the 28 games he’s played this season, is
from the  Ivory Coast .  In addition to its first No. 1 ranking, Gonzaga is seeking
to become just the fourth school since 2000 to earn a top NCAA
tournament seeding while playing outside one of college
basketball’s six top conferences. The only schools in that span
to get a No. 1 regional seed from leagues outside the  Big East ,
Atlantic Coast, Big Ten, Pac-12, Big 12 and Southeastern
conferences were Cincinnati in 2002, St. Joseph’s in 2004 and
 Memphis  in 2008.  Ranked Loss  Gonzaga, which played against schools such as Portland,
Pepperdine and Loyola Marymount in the WCC, has the nation’s
60th-strongest schedule, according to  USA Today . Having faced
one ranked team since Jan. 1 -- losing 64-63 at  Butler
University  on Jan. 19 -- Gonzaga may end up with the worst
strength-of-schedule rating for an NCAA tournament top seed in
nine years,  USA Today  said.  “We played every game with a huge bull’s-eye on our chest
and we played pretty darn well in almost all of them,” Few
said. “They’ve been really, really focused. We’ve been so
consistent with our effort and preparation. That’s the most
impressive thing about it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  