-- Grillo’s Party May Consider Senate Walk-Out on Gridlock
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-04T17:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/grillo-s-party-may-consider-senate-walk-out-to-ease-gridlock.html
Beppe Grillo’s senators-elect, who
hold a blocking minority in  Italy ’s upper house of parliament,
may consider staging a confidence-vote walk-out to allow a
political rival to form a government and ease gridlock.  Grillo’s Five Star Movement is seeking to influence the
program of Italy’s next government and would require policy
concessions in exchange for a walk-out, said two senators-elect
who declined to be identified because no deal has been made.
Five Star won’t vote to support any government, they said.  Italian politicians are wrangling for control after an
inconclusive result to the general election last week. Pier Luigi Bersani, the top vote getter, has a majority in the lower
house and is seeking help from Five Star to secure the Senate.
The negotiations pose a dilemma for Grillo and his adherents, or
so-called Grillini, as Five Star ran on a platform of expunging
established politicians like Bersani from power.  “My guess is that he, and above all his people, both the
people in parliament and those outside parliament, will bring
him around to some sort of compromise,” said  James Walston , a
politics professor at  Rome ’s American University. “They’re
going to have to spin it in such a way that it looks like a
compromise because Grillo and the Grillini don’t know what that
word means.”  Senate Walk-Out  A Senate walk-out would lower the threshold for achieving a
majority, making it easier to secure enough backing for a new
government. It would also allow Five Star to let a government to
form while sparing its senators from voting “yes” in a
confidence ballot. Vito Crimi, Five Star’s head in the Senate,
reiterated in a webcast meeting today that his party won’t vote
to support any government headed by politicians.  “Whoever doesn’t want to understand it hasn’t yet, and
never will,” Crimi said. “We have already said many times that
we won’t give a confidence vote to a partisan government.”  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose 9 basis points to 4.88
percent at 5:59 p.m. in Rome, approaching the highest level in
more than three months.  Bersani, head of Italy’s Democratic Party, is seeking help
from Five Star as he resists renewing an alliance with three-
time former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi . Bersani and Berlusconi,
whose parties partnered in November 2011 to bring Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  to power, resumed their traditional rivalry during
the two-month election campaign.  New Election  Italy may be heading for a new election if Grillo blocks a
Democratic Party-led government, Bersani said late yesterday in
an interview on state-owned RAI3 television.  “He needs to decide what he will do or we will all be sent
packing, including Grillo,” Bersani said.  The Five Star representatives, comprised of 54 senators-
elect and 109 future members of the Chamber of Deputies, are
meeting in Rome for the first time since the Feb. 24-25 vote to
discuss strategy. The party held a webcast that Grillo opened
with brief remarks before each of the representatives introduced
themselves. Grillo reiterated his push for a citizenship stipend
and said the party members were resolved to keep campaign
promises.  “We talked about this phenomenon that is gathering a
European and world following,” Grillo said on the webcast. “We
created something that wasn’t there before, and now the world is
watching us.”  Protest Against Corruption  Grillo, 64, started his party from scratch as a protest
against corruption in politics. An ex-comic and former yogurt
pitchman, Grillo shunned television appearances and built a
following through his blog and a series of rallies throughout
Italy. The party blamed established politicians during the
campaign for Italy’s recession and ran on a platform of
reversing Monti’s fiscal austerity.  The Five Star representatives, ranging from scientists and
lawyers to the formerly unemployed, said they would focus on
issues including rooting out corruption, protecting the
environment and providing stimulus for small businesses.  Bersani’s coalition won a majority of Italy’s lower house
of parliament and finished with 123 lawmakers in the 315-seat
Senate to 117 for Berlusconi and his allies.  In the event of a Five Star walk-out, Berlusconi could
complicate a Bersani confidence vote by withdrawing his own
forces from the upper house and denying the body a quorum. If
that happens, Five Star would have to send some of its senators
back into the hall to secure the quorum. Bersani’s  Democratic
Party , or PD, would probably also need the voting support of
Monti and the 19 seats his party won in the election.  “This would square the circle of the maths giving birth to
an extremely weak minority government between PD and Monti with
some sort of ‘external support’ from Five Star,” according to
the Italian elections bulletin by Mediobanca Securities,
published last week in a daily note to clients by a team headed
by Antonio Guglielmi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  