-- Gucci-Owner PPR Said to Consider Changing Its Name to Kering
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-03-04T16:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/gucci-owner-ppr-said-to-consider-changing-its-name-to-kering.html
PPR SA (PP) , the French owner of  Gucci 
and Puma, is considering changing its name to Kering to cap its
transformation into a luxury and sporting-goods specialist,
according to people with knowledge of the plan.  The re-branding of Paris-based PPR may be announced this
month, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information is confidential. The name, which would be the
company’s fifth since listing on the Paris stock exchange in
1988, is supposed to evoke the idea of caring and signal a new
chapter in the company’s development, one of the people said.  PPR, known formerly as Pinault-Printemps-Redoute and before
that as Pinault-Printemps and Pinault SA, is disposing of retail
assets it amassed in the past two decades to focus on luxury and
sporting goods, which are more profitable and have better growth
prospects. Chief Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault’s goal
is to lift PPR’s  sales  to 24 billion euros ($31 billion) by 2020
from 9.7 billion euros in 2012.  Louise Beveridge, who heads communications at PPR, declined
to comment on the name change to Kering, which means dry or
dried in Indonesian. The stock rose 0.4 percent to 173.55 euros
at the close of trading in Paris, and has added 23 percent  this
year , giving the company a market value of 21.9 billion euros.  Existing Equity  PPR sought to register the name Kering with the U.S. Patent
& Trademark’s office in November of last year, according to the
department’s  website . The application to use the name on
everything from clothing and leather goods to business
management is under review.  PPR, which on Feb. 25 agreed to sell two home-shopping
brands to a Swedish buyout firm, aims to complete its
transformation this year after spinning off the Fnac media and
consumer-electronics chain and selling online retailer La
Redoute, Pinault told Bloomberg News Feb. 15. Once that happens,
PPR’s name would no longer reflect businesses it still owns,
having  sold  department-store operator Printemps in 2006.  If a company is changing strategy and its current brand
equity no longer plays a role, “then, to get something which
demonstrates that you have a particular point, purpose, vision
that is appropriate for your brand, can mean that it’s worth
signaling a new name,” said Graham Hales,  London  CEO of brand
consultant  Interbrand .  With a new name and focus, PPR, whose brands include
handbag maker Bottega Veneta and surf and snowboarding clothier
Volcom, aims to boost its share price, which has traded at a
discount to its luxury peers because of its retail businesses.  ’Borderline Useless’  While PPR’s price-to-earnings  multiple  will probably rise
after disposing of Fnac and the remainder of online fashion
retailer Redcats, it may still trail rivals’ because of the
sports lifestyle division, according to Luca Solca, an analyst
at Exane BNP Paribas.  A “re-rating is hampered by PPR having turned into a
different kind of conglomerate,” Solca said.  Puma,  Europe ’s second-largest sporting-goods maker that PPR
acquired in 2007, is taking longer than anticipated to turn
round, Pinault said last month.  Corporate re-branding exercises can cost from tens of
thousands of euros to millions of euros depending on their
strategic objectives and intended audience, according to Charles
Skinner, strategy director of brand and design consultant
 FutureBrand  in London. Such an investment would be better spent
on PPR’s underlying business as the effect of changing the name
is going to be cosmetic only, said Solca.  “To me, this is just nice-to-have or borderline useless,”
the analyst said. “I don’t think this is going to provide any
material benefit.”  The case studies on major re-brandings that have made no
difference to companies’ revenue “could fill a library,” said
Roger Tredre, senior vice president of content at research and
advisory firm  Stylus .  “PPR should tread with caution,” Tredre said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  