-- Iberia Limits Strike Impact as Walsh Told Not to Draft BA Pilots
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-04T11:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/iberia-limits-strike-impact-as-walsh-told-not-to-draft-ba-pilots.html
Spanish airline  Iberia (IAG)  said it found
seats elsewhere for 95 percent of the 40,000 customers due to be
affected by a strike this week, as a U.K. union warned against
using pilots at sister unit British Airways to break the action.  Madrid-based Iberia has rebooked 38,000 passengers with
other carriers flying the same day after scrapping 431 services,
or 39 percent of its schedule, through March 8. The other 2,000
can change departure date or receive a refund, the airline said.  Iberia plans to operate 85 percent of long-haul flights, 47
percent of domestic services and 62 percent of other short-haul
trips during the second of three strikes over 3,807 job losses.
The British Airline Pilots Association said in a statement that
the cuts are disproportionate and that Chief Executive Officer
Willie Walsh mustn’t seek to involve crews at British Airways.  “Balpa is seriously concerned that Iberia’s inability to
secure support amongst its own employees for its restructuring
plans will engulf the Spanish flag carrier in industrial turmoil
for months,” the union said. “Balpa stresses that it will resist
any management move to draw BA pilots into Iberia operations.”  The first five-day strike last month cost about 3 million
euros ($3.9 million) a day at IAG, as International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA is known. During that walkout, Iberia managed
to accommodate only 85 percent of passengers booked on canceled
flights, leaving 10,000 people unable to travel as planned.  The task has been easier for this week’s strike period,
since the greater advance warning meant fewer people had bought
tickets before Iberia stopped taking reservations.  Iberia had an operating loss of 351 million euros last
year, dragging IAG to a 23 million-euro shortfall. Walsh is
seeking a 600 million-euro earnings turnaround by 2015.  The airline and its Spanish unions have entered a non-
binding meditation process set to conclude by March 12. Labor
groups are planning a third week-long strike from March 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  