-- Michelin-Star Heaven Costs $650 for One at Oslo’s Maaemo
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-03-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/michelin-star-heaven-costs-650-for-one-at-oslo-s-maaemo.html
I wouldn’t describe Maaemo as
expensive. That would hardly cover it.  Dinner with matching wines for one in this  Oslo restaurant 
costs 3,250 kroner ($570). There’s no choice on the menu, and
almost all diners take the drinks pairing. Add an aperitif,
water, coffee, taxes and service, and you exceed $650. OK, I’ll
admit: I tipped less than 10 percent to keep the price down.  You might think  Maaemo  is for the very rich and/or the very
stupid. If so, there are a lot of us. It’s tough to get a table,
and I didn’t spot anyone in the dining room sporting bling or a
dunce’s cap. They were mostly quiet middle-aged people like
myself. I wasn’t saying much (apart from the occasional “wow”)
because I was alone.  The food, fortunately, is sublime. The 10-course menu runs
to 26 plates, if you include the canapes etc. (Elsewhere, these
extras are termed “freebies”: The word hardly applies here.)
The pairings are inspired, and the service is faultless.  (Restaurants in Norway’s capital are generally hideously
expensive, and cost doesn’t necessarily equate to value.)  Maaemo, which opened in December 2010, landed two Michelin
stars last year. Michelin’s 2013 assessment is due later this
month. The chef,  Esben Holmboe Bang  -- a Dane -- is 30 years
old. “Maaemo” means “Mother Earth,” or “all that is
living” in old Norse, according to Bang.  Glass Kitchen  Maaemo is housed in a new office building on the wrong side
of the tracks -- near the city’s central railway station. It’s
hushed and dark, and every table is illuminated by a spotlight.
Candles are dotted around a room that seats 25 to 30. The
kitchen is in a glass box on a mezzanine overlooking the diners.  Ingredients are predominantly from  Norway  or the Nordic
region. Your waiter can tell you the area, the supplier, and
sometimes even the farm where they’re from. The meal begins with
as many as 10 small plates before you get to the first course.  These appetizers may include frozen cow’s milk; salsify
pickled in juniper; red-cabbage gel with horseradish; a
traditional porridge with reindeer heart and brown butter; a
cornet of chicken liver cream with dried chanterelle gel;
grilled cucumber and parsley; and an oyster emulsion served in a
beautiful dish with oyster shells. The presentation of each
plate is striking.  Spruce Juice  The first course of two langoustines with a glaze of
pickled spruce juice comes atop a rock and cuttings of spruce,
with spruce smoke.  Two of the four hand-dived scallops from Norway’s west
coast that follow come as a mousseline, with sea buckthorn. They
are served with  Sydre Argelette Eric Bordelet 2011 , a cider made
by chef Alain Passard’s former sommelier at Arpege.  Bread is a course in itself, served on a warm millstone
together with  Bogedal Hvede 2012  wheat beer from  Denmark  with
orange peel and coriander seeds. Celeriac & apple is followed by
cod with aquavit jelly, charred shallots and cheese-fat jus,
then potatoes with mutton-infused butter.  Other dishes include reindeer with Jerusalem artichoke and
walnut muesli, with Swedish truffle foam; blue cheese from  Eggen
Farm  with trompette gel (with  Mas Amiel  1980); buttermilk sorbet
with mountain herbs; fried rye-bread cream with a disc of mead
gel; burnt marzipan and wheat-beer vinegar; brown-butter ice
cream; birch macaroon; brown cheese with last year’s strawberry.  Noma, Ego  This may all sound rather a lot to eat -- I’ve skipped a
few of the plates for brevity -- and I wouldn’t recommend Maaemo
for those short on passion for gastronomy. This is cooking at
the highest level, and it’s cooking with no ego: Search the
website all you want, you won’t find the name of the chef.  When you think of what $650 could buy you, dinner for one
might not figure. (If it did, how about a round-trip air fare
and a visit to Noma -- the world’s best restaurant -- where
 dinner with wine costs $440 , including tax?)  Yet I do hope to go back to Maaemo. This is a chef with a
unique voice surrounded by a team with which he is in harmony.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? The set menu is 1,900 kroner ($333); the drinks
pairing is 1,350 kroner ($236) plus taxes and service.  Sound level? Below 70 decibels. You can hear your jaw drop.  Inside tip? Book early.  Special feature? It’s one of the best restaurants in the
world and it’s in Norway. What could be more special?  Will I be back? I’d like to.  Date place? Yes, if you’re planning to propose.  Rating? ****. (I don’t have five to give.)  Maaemo is at 15 Schweigaards Gate, Oslo, 0191. Information:
+47-91-994-805 or  http://maaemo.no/ .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Richard Vines 
on food,  John Mariani  on wine,  Lance Esplund  on art and  Jeremy
Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Oslo at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 