-- Michigan Governor’s Move Sets Detroit Takeover in Motion
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-03-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/michigan-governor-s-move-sets-detroit-takeover-in-motion.html
Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder ’s
formal declaration that a financial emergency besets Detroit
started the clock ticking for city leaders who may want to try
to block a state takeover. It gave them 10 days.  Opponents can request a hearing before a Snyder-appointed
representative to appeal his decision. Information presented in
the session would be reported to the governor, who would then
decide whether to stick by his declaration or revoke it, said
 Terry Stanton , a state Treasury department spokesman.  The governor has no deadline to make his call. If he keeps
to his decision, a three-member state panel called the emergency
loan board -- all appointees of the governor -- would select an
emergency manager. Snyder, 54, would have input. City leaders
can appeal to a court if he doesn’t relent, Stanton said.
Critics of a takeover say it would hurt  Detroit  voters by
letting a state manager strip power from their elected leaders.  “I fundamentally disagree with taking measures that
disenfranchise the families I represent in Detroit,” U.S.
Representative Gary Peters, a suburban Detroit Democrat, said in
a statement. “Emergency managers in Michigan have consistently
failed to address the systemic problems plaguing older urban
areas like Detroit.”  Not Alone  The Motor City isn’t alone coping with deficits, climbing
pension and debt costs and falling property values. From
 California  to  Rhode Island , communities have struggled as the
lingering effects of the recession that ended in June 2009
constrained revenue.  Detroit, with a deficit of about $327 million and more than
$14 billion in long-term obligations, would be the sixth
 Michigan  city put under state control as Snyder tries to prevent
what could be the largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy. No Michigan
localities have sought court protection.  A review panel’s determination Feb. 19 that a financial
crisis grips Michigan’s biggest city by population cleared the
way for the March 1 declaration. State Treasurer Andy Dillon, a
member of that panel, said last month the city’s fiscal straits
are “fixable” without bankruptcy.  A state takeover is preferable to bankruptcy because it
would keep control in the state and city and out of federal
court, Dillon said. An emergency manager could recommend a
Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing to Snyder and Dillon, and would have
the authority to seek such protection.  Broad Power  Snyder made the declaration of a financial emergency under
a 1990 state law. The process, weakened by voters last year,
will be reinvigorated on March 27, when a new version of the law
takes effect. It gives overseers in place at that time broader
powers to restructure municipalities and school districts. They
can sell assets, cancel union contracts and request elections to
raise taxes.  A year ago, the governor avoided seeking an emergency
manager in Detroit. Last week’s decision followed decades of
decline in the home town of  General Motors Co. (GM)  The move fueled
political tensions as it would mean a white Republican’s
appointee taking control of a community that is predominantly
Democratic and more than 80 percent black.  Mayor Dave Bing, a Democrat, said March 1 that he’d weigh
Snyder’s decision and the options open to him in response.  Working Together  “If, in fact, the appointment of an emergency financial
manager both stabilizes the city fiscally and supports our
restructuring initiatives which improve the quality of life for
our citizens, then I think there is a way for us to work
together,” Bing said in a statement. “We have always said that
we need help from Lansing to implement our initiatives such as
public safety, transportation, lighting and others.”  The law that takes effect March 27 would let Detroit’s City
Council remove an emergency manager after a year, with a two-
thirds vote.  Snyder called for cooperation and constructive input in
announcing his decision. He said those who “yell and say it
doesn’t work and don’t come forward with solutions, I don’t
expect they’re going to have a lot of influence on decisions.”  “Detroit can’t wait,” Snyder said. “We need to solve
real issues here today, because citizens aren’t getting the
services they need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 