-- Milbank, Fried Frank, Morgan Lewis: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-04T17:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/milbank-fried-frank-morgan-lewis-venable-business-of-law.html
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP
litigator Scott A. Edelman, 49, will take the helm of the firm
this week succeeding Mel Immergut, 66, who has led the firm
since 1995.  Edelman, who will become chairman on March 8, is following
through on a  succession plan  that was voted into place by the
firm partners four years ago when they voted him into the
position of vice chairman. Immergut, a corporate partner at the
firm since 1980, resigns from the firm effective April 30.  “We pride ourselves on being a small big firm,” Edelman
said in an interview. “At our firm, the partners really know
each other and know the expertise people can bring. There is a
spirit of team work and that’s a culture I’m committed to
preserve.”  Edelman says that the 600-lawyer firm has no interest in
mergers and doesn’t expect to open any new offices in the near
future. The firm currently has 11 offices in North and South
America,  Europe  and  Asia . Edelman expects to see growth, through
opportunistic hires as good people come along and on the
corporate side, with a focus on high value complex legal work.
Specifically, that means corporate hires in the antitrust and
real estate practices.  Edelman clients include Citigroup, which he has represented
in several cases including litigation arising out of the
Adelphia Bankruptcy, as well as the REFCO Trustee and Cerberus
Capital Management. He has no plans to tamp down on his
practice. The last four years, as vice chairman of the firm,
he’d already taken an active role in the firm’s management.
“I’ve been involved in all our decisions, client relationships,
dealing with partners and associates,” he said. “I recognize
that management of the firm is a substantial time commitment and
that it will be balanced with my practice.”  Patton Boggs Fires 22 Associates Among 65 Jobs at Firm  Washington   law firm  Patton Boggs LLP fired 65 staff members
March 1, including 22 associates, managing partner Edward J. Newberry, said, citing increasing economic pressures in the
legal services business.  “We are one of the only large firms in the U.S. that made
no reductions during any point during the recession,” Newberry,
50, said in an interview. “What we’re doing is exactly what a
prudent firm would do in aligning revenues and headcount.”  The reductions came as a result of several large litigation
matters, which Newberry declined to identify, that are winding
down.  Patton Boggs financial performance in 2012 wasn’t
particularly strong, Newberry said. Revenue fell 6.5 percent
from the $339.7 posted in 2011.  Firings may reflect weaknesses at a firm or can be a sign
of good management, said Ward Bower, a principal at law firm
consultant Altman Weil Inc.  “Anybody would be smart if they have an opportunity to
trade up to do so,” he said. “There’s a lot of talent out
there in the job market.”  The 550-lawyer firm had 209 associates before the layoffs.
The cuts included three in Denver, three in  New York , three in
 Dallas , four in Washington and the rest in the firm’s  Newark ,
 New Jersey , office, Newberry said.  The firm also let go eight staff attorneys, 15 staff
managers and eight paralegals. No partners were included in the
moves, Newberry said, adding that in the past two and a half
years the firm has trimmed partners from its ranks. In recent
months about 20 partners were asked to find other employment, he
said. Those cuts aren’t tied to a declining volume of work, he
said.  “It’s a response to a generally competitive environment.
Partner productivity becomes particularly important to the
success of a law firm,” Newberry said. “Recognizing that, over
time, we’re reducing the number of less productive partners.”  Newberry said the firm has made some significant hires
since the start of the year, highlighting James T. Jacks, a
former U.S. attorney for the Northern District of  Texas  in the
Dallas office and Elizabeth Ames Jones, former chairwoman of the
Texas Railroad Commission, who joined the firm in Dallas and
Washington.  The firm, which has six U.S. offices and three in the
 Middle East , is investing in overseas expansion. Patton Boggs
last year acquired the Saudi Arabia office of the liquidating
Dewey & LeBouef LLP and the partners voted to open an office in
Dubai this year.  Newberry also said Patton Boggs had its biggest January
revenue in five years this year, a 35 percent jump from a year
earlier.  “Assuming we don’t have general additional revenue, we
will have a good year,” Newberry said. “If we have general
additional revenue we will have an excellent year.”  Moves  Aerospace and Defense Lawyer Howe Joins Fried Frank  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP hired Jerry Howe as a partner in the government contracts and aerospace and
defense practices, in Washington. He was most recently senior
vice president and general counsel at the aerospace and defense
company TASC.  “His aerospace and government contracts experience and
strengths in matters ranging from corporate M&A to litigation
and compliance will be a tremendous asset to our clients,”
Valerie Ford Jacob, chairwoman of  Fried Frank , said in a
statement.  Howe will provide regulatory/industry counsel on M&A and
private equity transactions in the aerospace & defense industry
as well as government contracts litigation, investigations and
bid protests, the firm said in a statement.  At TASC, Howe oversaw the company’s legal affairs,
corporate development and M&A, ethics and compliance programs,
government relations and security.  Fried Frank has lawyers at seven offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Morgan Lewis Hires Energy Transactions Partner in London  Morgan Lewis  & Bockius LLP hired Mathew Kidwell, an energy
transactions attorney with more than 18 years of experience, in
the firm’s business and finance practice, in  London . He was
previously at K&L Gates LLP.  Kidwell has handled projects including oil and gas
exploration and production, including deepwater operations and
enhanced oil recovery; processing and refining; pipelines and
transportation, the firm said in a statement.  Morgan Lewis has more than 1,600 lawyers and legal
professionals in 24 offices across the U.S., Europe, and Asia.  Venable Hires Two for Los Angeles Corporate Practice  Venable LLP hired Ronn Davids as a partner along with
another lawyer in the Los Angeles office in the corporate group.
Davids was previously a member at Klee, Tuchin, Bogdanoff &
Stern LLP, with a practice working with middle-market and
emerging growth companies in distressed and non-distressed
situations, Venable said in a statement.  Davids handles mergers and acquisitions, public and private
equity and debt financings, leveraged buyouts, corporate
restructurings and bankruptcies. He advises clients on the
purchase and sale of core assets, negotiations with creditors,
venture capital investments, executive compensation and other
general corporate matters, the firm said.  Venable has more than 500 attorneys at eight U.S. offices.  Litigation  Ex-Lawyer Guerin Gets 8 Years in Tax-Shelter Fraud Case  Donna Guerin, a former partner in the defunct law firm
Jenkens & Gilchrist, was sentenced to eight years in prison and
ordered to pay $190 million for her role in what the U.S. called
the largest criminal  tax fraud  in history.  Guerin pleaded guilty in September 2012 just as she was set
to be retried with three other defendants for running a 10-year
scheme that created $7 billion in fraudulent  tax deductions ,
more than $1.5 billion in phony losses and $92 million in actual
losses to the  U.S. Treasury . On March 1, U.S. District Judge
William Pauley in New York ordered Guerin to pay $190 million in
restitution and to report to prison on May 14.  Guerin was initially convicted by a federal jury in
 Manhattan  in May 2011 with her three co-defendants. Those
convictions were overturned after U.S. District Judge William Pauley found that a juror in the trial lied about her past,
including that she was an alcoholic and a suspended attorney.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Stanley Okula and Nanette Davis
said in court papers that Guerin deserved a “significant”
prison term of at least 10 years, saying she had served as a
“manager and supervisor of the criminal activity.”  Her lawyers sought something shorter than the 10-year term
calculated by U.S. probation officials and said she was merely a
“junior” law partner when it came to implementing the tax
shelters.  Guerin pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and one
count of  tax evasion . She had faced a maximum of 10 years in
prison on both counts and agreed to pay $1.6 million in
penalties.  During her guilty plea Guerin said she worked on tax
shelters with Paul Daugerdas, also a defendant in the case,
while the two were lawyers at former Chicago-based firm
Altheimer & Gray. The two joined Dallas-based Jenkens &
Gilchrist in 1998, she said, and continued their work in helping
clients shelter income.  Guerin admitted to helping advise clients on how to conduct
complex transactions that allowed them to wipe out financial
gains. Guerin said she also provided opinion letters to her
clients helping them assert that the deals were legitimate.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 