-- India Investor Tax, BofA Bonus, EnBW Raid: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/india-investor-tax-bofa-bonus-enbw-raid-compliance.html
India dumped a proposal to tighten
rules for overseas investors seeking to benefit from double
taxation treaties after money managers said the change was too
onerous and foreign funds sold the most shares in a year.  The so-called tax residency certificate needed to claim
benefits is “necessary but not sufficient,” according to the
budget documents released Feb. 28, stoking investor concerns
that tax treaty benefits will become harder to avail. The
 finance ministry  said March 1 the certificate will be accepted
as proof and authorities won’t “go behind the TRC and question
his resident status.”  Overseas and local companies often route investment into
India through Mauritius-based firms because  capital gains  these
firms make on Indian shares aren’t taxed in the Asian nation.
Overseas funds sold a net $237 million of stocks Feb. 28, the
most in almost a year, paring this year’s inflow to
$8.23 billion, data from the regulator show.  The rule would have created ambiguity regarding the
additional documents that will have to be produced to enjoy
these benefits, Shefali Goradia, a partner at BMR Advisors, a
Mumbai-based tax and deals advisory, said Feb. 28.  Bilateral treaties are meant to ensure that capital gains
arising from sale of shares are taxed only in the investors’
country of residence and not where the company is based, thus
avoiding the payment of taxes twice over.  Compliance Action  Citigroup Says Credit-Card Abuse Probes Fuel $266 Million Cost  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the world’s biggest credit-card lender, is
facing rising costs from the misselling of so-called add-on card
products in the U.K. and U.S.  Citigroup boosted reserves by $266 million last year to
compensate U.K. customers wrongly sold payment protection
insurance, or PPI, according to a regulatory filing March 1 by
the New York-based lender. The bank may also face penalties from
U.S. regulators amid an industrywide probe into the sale of
payment protection and identity monitoring products, according
to the filing.  Lenders including  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  are dealing with the costs from the improper
selling of products such as PPI, which is used to cover payments
on credits cards if customers get sick or lose their jobs.
Britain’s biggest banks have reserved more than 13 billion
pounds ($19.5 billion) for PPI compensation, while U.S. firms
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp.  are retreating from the market for
add-on card products amid scrutiny from regulators.  “While the number of customer complaints regarding the
sale of PPI significantly increased in 2012, and the number
could continue to increase, the potential losses and impact on
Citi remain volatile and are subject to significant
uncertainty,” Citigroup said in the filing.  The boost brought the amount set aside for PPI claims in
the U.K. to $376 million at Dec. 31, Citigroup said. Rising U.K.
customer complaints triggered by “continued regulatory focus”
prompted the increase, according to the filing.  The complaints stem primarily from two Citigroup consumer-
finance entities, CitiFinancial Europe Plc and Canada Square
Operations Ltd., formerly known as Egg Banking Plc, the lender
said. While Citigroup has sold or is winding down these
businesses, it retains potential liability for the PPI sales,
the bank said.  Customers who bought PPI rarely compared prices and terms
or switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they could
purchase the insurance from other companies, the U.K.’s
Competition Commission has said.  EDF, Morgan Stanley Offices Raided in Probe Over EnBW Deal  Electricite de France SA  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Paris offices
were raided as part of German prosecutors’ probe into the
4.7 billion-euro ($6.1 billion) repurchase of a stake in  EnBW
Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG. (EBK)   The raids took place the third week in February at the
request of Stuttgart prosecutors who are investigating former
Baden-Wuerttemberg state Prime Minister Stefan Mappus and Dirk
Notheis, the former head of Morgan Stanley’s German business.
EDF and Morgan Stanley aren’t targets in the case, prosecutors’
spokesman Jan Dietzel said by phone March 1.  The Stuttgart probe is looking at whether Mappus misused
his power to authorize the state’s repurchase of a 45 percent
stake in EnBW from EDF without involving legislators. Morgan
Stanley advised the state government on the deal. Notheis left
the bank shortly after the probe became public.  Baden-Wuerttemberg has also started arbitration over the
price on the December 2010 stake purchase, which it claims was
too high.  EDF and Morgan Stanley declined to comment, as did Wolf
Schiller, Notheis’s attorney. Stephan Holthoff-Pfoertner, a
lawyer for Mappus, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment. Frank Mastiaux, EnBW’s chief executive officer,
declined to comment.  Osborne Said to Recover RBS Bailout at 19% Below Rescue Cost  The U.K. would recover the cost of rescuing  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  at a share price 19 percent below what the
government paid to bail out the lender in 2008, said three
officials familiar with the matter.  The government would break even on its investment at 407
pence a share compared with the average 502 pence paid during
its rescue, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. That’s
because the price takes into account fees paid by RBS to the
Treasury for the bailout and other programs during the crisis,
the people said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Chief Executive Officer  Stephen
Hester  on Feb. 28 said the lender, which received the biggest
banking bailout in the world, may be ready to be returned to
private hands before the 2015 vote. A Treasury official said the
government hasn’t set out a target price or a timetable for the
sale.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  could
potentially use the proceeds of a sale to fund tax cuts or more
spending before a general election in two years that polls say
his Conservative Party may lose. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
has kept open the option of giving away RBS shares to the
public.  Osborne is also seeking to sell the government’s stake in
Lloyds Banking Group Plc, which it rescued in 2008.  Libya’s Sovereign Fund Cooperating With SEC on Goldman Probe  The  Libyan Investment Authority , the nation’s sovereign
wealth fund, is cooperating with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on its probe into the fund’s dealings with
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The LIA is also considering legal action against Goldman
Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, to recover losses
on its investments, the fund said in an e-mailed statement Feb.
28. The SEC has been investigating possible violations of U.S.
anti-corruption laws by Goldman Sachs for more than a year.
Reuters reported the LIA’s cooperation Feb. 28.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, and  Michael DuVally , a
Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News Feb. 28.  Under  Muammar Qaddafi , the sovereign wealth fund had assets
of about $60 billion and turned to financial firms including
Goldman Sachs to achieve its goal of 8 percent annual returns.
The bets didn’t always work out, leading to losses of
$1.75 billion on structured products bought in 2007 and 2008,
$900 million of which was with Goldman Sachs, the fund’s former
chairman said in June.  Courts  Credit Suisse Not Liable for Saudi Woman’s $31 Million Loss  A  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  unit wasn’t negligent when it
advised a Saudi Arabian investor who lost $31 million on
structured notes after failing to make a margin call, a London
judge ruled.  Basma Al Sulaiman, a Saudi national, was given about $40
million in a 2003 divorce settlement with Walid Al Juffali, a
member of one of Saudi Arabia’s richest families, according to
the ruling. Al Sulaiman invested some $28 million of her money
into 23 structured notes from Credit Suisse Securities Europe
Ltd. and Plurimi Capital LLP, almost all of which were leveraged
by loans from the bank.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Notes backed by certain types of
 mortgage loans  fell in value during the financial crisis.  Paul Howcroft, a lawyer for Al Sulaiman, declined through a
law firm spokeswoman to comment. Credit Suisse also declined to
comment.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  Merrill Sued by Private Equity Banker for $14 Million Bonus  Matthew Turner, a former private equity executive at  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch unit, sued the company for
about $14 million in bonuses he says were promised and never
paid.  Turner, who was head of private equity for Europe, the
Middle East and Africa before leaving the bank in June 2011,
claimed its Merrill Lynch International subsidiary breached the
terms of his contract, according to documents from his London
lawsuit filed in December.  The $14 million includes a share of profits from two
Merrill Lynch funds and some of the proceeds from deals he
worked on, including the bank’s sale of Foxtons Ltd. loans to
Haymarket Financial LLP in 2010.  Turner’s lawsuit is one of the largest individual bonus
claims filed in London.  Bank of America spokeswoman Victoria Garrod declined to
comment. Turner’s lawyer Joanna Blackburn didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Turner gave up “valuable compensation” including bonuses
and carried interest, or a share of a fund’s profits, from his
former employer Palamon Capital Partners to join Merrill in
2007, he said in court documents.  Merrill Lynch denied breach of contract, in court documents
setting out its defense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  