-- Mining Minnows Burning Cash Signal More Mergers Coming
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-03-04T21:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/mining-minnows-burning-cash-signal-more-mergers-coming.html
Prospectors and mine developers, the
lifeblood of the wider $1.5 trillion industry, are running low
on cash as funding dries up, increasing the chances they’ll need
to consider sales and mergers to survive.  So-called juniors have enough cash to last 5.7 months,
according to the median multiple among 1,273 companies with a
market value of no more than $500 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s 25 percent less than a year earlier,
according to the data.  The situation facing the juniors will be a hot topic for
the 30,000 geologists, promoters and investors expected to
attend the Prospectors & Developers Association of  Canada 
 convention , the world’s biggest mining gathering, which started
yesterday in Toronto.  Smaller companies probably will seek to merge, or they may
“just cease to exist,” said Dan Barnholden, a Toronto-based
investment banker at Cormark Securities Inc.  “We’ve been counseling guys to manage their treasury very
carefully because there really isn’t a lot of money out there,”
Barnholden said last week in a telephone interview. “It’s sort
of desperate times here now.”  Stock sales, one of the few options available to smaller
companies to cover costs and advance projects, fell in 2012 for
a third straight year, according to Bloomberg data. Canadian
mining companies raised $726.8 million in equity and equity-
linked financings this year, 45 percent less than the year-
earlier period.  ‘Hit the Wall’  “The  capital markets  have been largely shut down for the
juniors,” said Mitchell Krebs, chief executive officer of  Coeur
d’Alene Mines Corp. (CDE) , which agreed last month to pay about C$373
million ($363 million) for junior miner  Orko Silver Corp. (OK)  “You
will see a lot of companies hit the wall in 2013.”  QMX Gold Corp. (QMX) , which has projects in Quebec and Manitoba,
in May lined up a $45 million loan for its Snow Lake project
that was conditional on raising funds from a stock sale. The
Toronto-based company is now approaching “non-traditional”
funding sources such as private equity as public investors
remain reluctant, said CEO Francois Perron.  “The equity is more afraid than the debt lender, that’s
how difficult it is,” Perron said in a phone interview last
week. “I’ve been looking for equity for the last 12 months.”  Possible Consolidation  The lower level of funding, which has helped depress
company valuations, makes conditions “conducive” to
consolidation in the industry, said Rob McEwen, the founder of
 Goldcorp Inc. (G)  who is now chairman and CEO of Toronto-based
 McEwen Mining Inc. (MUX)  He’s seeking purchases to add about 300,000
ounces of annual gold output by the end of 2015.  Given the outlook, the juniors also are looking at
unorthodox financing options such as selling future revenue
streams for cash advances, and in some cases slashing spending
to conserve cash.  “As access to capital has dried up at this end of the
spectrum, we see a large number of juniors being challenged to
continue,” analysts at Dundee Capital Markets said in a Feb. 28
note. Small-cap or junior developers may sell their assets at
below net asset value, or look to merge with “rarer” cash-rich
juniors that lack flagship projects, they said.  Miranda Gold Corp. (MAD) , which has exploration prospects in
Colombia and  Nevada , is looking to acquire assets “on the
cheap” as companies face financial difficulties, CEO Ken Cunningham said.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  “We are doing a search right now for companies that have
less than a half a million dollars in their treasury,”
Cunningham said last week by phone. “A lot of companies are
wanting to finance and they are finding that there aren’t very
many people to talk to.”  Some companies are still able to access funds. White Rock,
British Columbia-based Miranda raised C$5 million in a private
placement in December, while Vancouver-based  Panoro Minerals
Ltd. (PML)  expects to close a C$15 million share sale in the middle of
this month.  The money that Panoro is raising, together with existing
cash, will fund its plans for about 18 months to two years, CEO
Luquman A. Shaheen said.  “It’s going to be survival mode for smaller companies with
little capital, and a buying opportunity for those companies who
are capitalized and looking to pick up new projects at probably
very cheap valuations,” Shaheen said. “We should see a number
of transformational changes.”  Private Equity  Companies that still may be in the hunt for assets include
 private-equity  firms, said Ken Hoffman, an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries who is unveiling a tool that values mine-company
assets at PDAC this week.  “Metals and mining is very interesting to these guys, just
because of the horrendous performance of these shares, and so I
think these guys will look at going and taking some one-mine
companies and two-mine companies private,” Hoffman said in a
phone interview last week.  Valuations in the  mining industry  have declined amid
soaring costs and about $50 billion of project writedowns in the
past year following expensive takeovers. The 122-company
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Global Mining  Index (TXGM)  has fallen 20 percent
in the past 12 months, compared with a 0.5 gain in Canada’s
 benchmark   S&P/TSX Composite Index. (SPTSX)   BHP, Rio  The world’s two largest miners,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio
Tinto Group, are among companies selling underperforming assets
to help trim debt.  Although valuations are attractive, the biggest companies
aren’t in buying mode, McEwen said.  “The seniors are frozen right now, they are like deer
caught in the headlights of a car at night,” McEwen said in a
Feb. 25 interview. “The majors as a group will be very
resistant to the thought of buying someone in the near term.”  Still, there are some large companies, including Hong Kong-
based MMG Ltd. and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the world’s second-
biggest gold producer after  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , that say this is
precisely the right time to be looking for deals.  “Everyone seems to be running away from it now and looking
at selling off assets,” Newmont CEO Gary Goldberg said in an
interview Feb. 25. “That’s the time to look in the opposite
direction from the herd to see what opportunities might be out
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  