-- Investors Least Bullish in 4 Years Pull Cash: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-03-04T22:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/investors-least-bullish-in-4-years-pull-cash-commodities.html
Investors cut wagers on a rally for
commodities to the lowest in almost four years and pulled a
record $4.23 billion from funds last week as prices erased this
year’s gain on a slowdown for manufacturing in  China .  Hedge funds  and other large speculators reduced net-long
 positions  across 18 U.S. futures and options in the week ended
Feb. 26 by 16 percent to 447,106 contracts, the lowest since
March 2009, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
Investors are betting on a decline in copper prices for the
first time since November, and reduced their crude-oil holdings
by the most in 11 weeks.  Manufacturing in China, the top consumer of cotton, copper
and soybeans, expanded at the weakest pace in five months in
February, the government said March 1. In  Europe , which accounts
for 18 percent of global copper use and 14 percent for energy,
unemployment climbed to a record in January. The International
Monetary Fund said Feb. 28 that spending cuts will erode growth
in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy.  “Commodity markets are worried about China and are sensing
possible trouble in the macro picture,” said  Stanley Crouch ,
who helps oversee $2 billion of assets as chief investment
officer at New York-based Aegis Capital Corp. “Commodities may
be out in front of a possible slowdown. The sentiment is
changing to cautious.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot gauge of 24 commodities is
down 1 percent this year. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities climbed 4.1 percent, while the dollar rose 3 percent
against a basket of six trading partners. Treasuries lost 0.2
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Record Outflows  Money managers removed a record $4.23 billion from
commodity funds in the week ended Feb. 27, including $4.03
billion from gold and precious-metals funds, said  Cameron Brandt , the director of research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based researcher EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. That’s
the highest of data going back to 2000.  China’s official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 50.1 in
February, down from 50.4 a month earlier and less than the
forecast of 50.5 in a Bloomberg survey of 31 analysts. Readings
above 50 indicate expansion. Steel reinforcement-bar futures
fell 1.8 percent in  Shanghai  last month, the first drop since
November, and iron-ore prices tumbled to a four-week low March
1. Almost half of China’s provinces have set lower targets for
growth this year than in 2012, Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates.  Europe Unemployment  Unemployment in the 17-nation euro area rose to 11.9
percent in January, the highest since the data series started in
1995, figures from the European Union’s statistics office
showed. Brent crude oil, the U.K. benchmark, tumbled to a seven-
week low on March 1, and an index tracking six London Metal
Exchange commodities including copper and aluminum dropped 4.8
percent in February, the most since October.  The  International Monetary Fund  said it will lower its
growth forecast for the U.S. this year because of $85 billion in
spending cuts that were set to begin last week. The U.S. is the
top user of crude oil and the second-biggest metals consumer.  Raw materials  from cocoa and hogs to zinc and crude oil are
slumping in 2013 after a four-year commodity rally led to
records prices for everything from copper and gold to cattle and
corn. Investors boosted purchases as central banks cut interest
rates and began asset purchases to revive growth after the after
the 2008 financial crisis, and crop-damaging droughts cut grain
output.  Commodity Investments  Commodity assets under management reached a record $451
billion in April, compared with $154 billion at the end of 2008,
and the investments have been above $400 billion for seven
straight months, and totaled $430 billion in January, according
to Barclays Plc.  Precious metals got a boost from concern that record-low
 interest rates  and surging government debt in the U.S. and
Europe would spur inflation. Gold held by exchange-traded funds
reached a record 2,632.5 metric tons on Dec. 20. Since then,
holdings have plunged 4.9 percent, and the drop in February was
the biggest since April 2008.  Open interest  in commodities is
down 2.5 percent since reaching the highest since at least 2006
on Feb. 19.  Stimulus policies from central banks and an improving
economic outlook in the U.S. will help buoy commodities, said
 James Paulsen , the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist
at Wells Capital Management, which oversees about $325 billion
of assets.  Bernanke Testimony  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
Congressional testimony last week that monetary easing is
helping to improve demand for housing and cars as he signaled
that the Fed is prepared to keep buying bonds at its present
pace of $85 billion a month. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said Feb. 27 the bank is “far” from considering
an exit from its stimulus measures.  American factories expanded in February at the fastest pace
in almost two years, an industry group said March 1. Personal
spending rose in January even as incomes dropped by the most in
20 years, a report from the Commerce Department showed the same
day. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said March 1 that the drop in
copper prices was an opportunity to buy because Chinese imports
will pick up in the next three to six months.  “We’re optimistic regarding the  U.S. economy ,” said Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based fund manager at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. which oversees about $130 billion of
assets. “Our bet is that there will slowly be a reacceleration
in global growth the second half of the year.”  Gold Prices  Bets on higher gold prices gained 28 percent to 54,180
contracts, the most since August, the CFTC data show. The
holdings are still down 47 percent this year. Those for silver
tumbled 31 percent to 11,652 contracts in the week to Feb. 26,
the lowest since August, and platinum wagers dropped 18 percent
to 33,642 contracts, the biggest drop since May.  Gold futures in  New York  dropped 5 percent in February, the
fifth straight monthly loss and the longest slump since 1997.
The cycle for gold prices, which climbed for 12 straight years,
has probably turned, Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a Feb. 25
report. The bank cut its three-month target to $1,615 an ounce
from $1,825 and lowered the six- and 12-month forecasts.  Crude-oil wagers slid 16 percent to 175,211 contracts,
while those on gasoline declined 2.9 percent to 87,914, the
first loss in six weeks. Money managers are holding a copper
net-short position, or bets on a decline, of 7,172 contracts.
That compares with a net-long holding of 11,413 contracts a week
earlier and is the most-bearish outlook since August.  Agriculture Slump  A  measure  of speculative positions across 11 agricultural
products from wheat to coffee to cattle fell 24 percent to
145,564, the lowest since March 2009.  Investors decreased their net-long  position  in hogs by 56
percent to 9,688 contracts, the lowest since September. Bullish
wagers on corn fell 20 percent to 52,075, the lowest since June.
Net-long positions in soybeans fell for a third straight week.  Celeres, an Uberlandia, Brazil-based research company, said
the soybean harvest in the South American nation was 28 percent
complete as of Feb. 25. Output may reach a record 83.5 million
metric tons as the country overtakes the U.S. as the world’s
biggest exporter, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  has said.  “The expectations for commodities had probably gotten a
little bit big, and the market needed a positive catalyst to
keep things going, and we haven’t gotten that,” said Anthony Valeri, a market strategist with LPL Financial Corp. in  San
Diego , which oversees $350 billion. “In agriculture, the bad
weather that would produce supply shortages hasn’t materialized,
so it’s tough to find a compelling case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  