-- Iran Nuclear Talks Require Urgency, IAEA Chief Amano Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-03-04T11:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/iran-nuclear-talks-require-urgency-iaea-chief-amano-says.html
Greater urgency is needed to break
the deadlock in talks between United Nations monitors and  Iran 
over greater access to suspected nuclear facilities,
International Atomic Energy Agency director Yukiya Amano said.  “Negotiations must proceed with a sense of urgency and a
focus on achieving results in the near term,” Amano said in a
speech in Vienna today to the IAEA’s board of governors. The 35-
member board is meeting in the Austrian capital less than a week
after diplomats adjourned a two-day round of talks about Iran’s
nuclear work in Almaty,  Kazakhstan .  The IAEA said on Feb. 21 that while Iran rolled out new
atomic technology and boosted its output of enriched uranium,
the Persian Gulf country hadn’t diverted any of its stockpile to
non-peaceful purposes. Iran, under dozens of international
sanctions for alleged atomic-weapons work, maintains its nuclear
program is for peaceful purposes.  Amano also called on Iran “to provide access to the
Parchin site without further delay, whether or not agreement has
been reached on the structured approach.” After more than a
year of talks, inspectors and Iran have failed to agree on a so-
called structured approach that would allow wider inspections.  The IAEA says it was provided with intelligence that Iran
built a blast chamber for testing nuclear-weapons components at
the Parchin military complex, about 20 kilometers (12 miles)
southeast of Tehran.  Iran and the P5+1 group -- comprising  China ,  France ,
Germany,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. -- will hold separate
technical talks in Istanbul on March 18 and another round of
political discussions in Almaty on April 5-6.  Separately, Amano announced the IAEA’s intention to
formally fund its Action Plan for Nuclear Safety, a program set
up after the March 11, 2011, tsunami caused the meltdown of
three nuclear reactors in Fukushima,  Japan . The agency has
budgeted 5.7 million euros ($7.4 million) to boost nuclear
safety, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  