-- Ireland, Portugal May Get Debt Relief Signal in April
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/ireland-portugal-may-get-debt-relief-signal-in-april.html
European Union finance ministers may
next month commit to giving Ireland and  Portugal  more time to
repay bailout loans, Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
Olli Rehn said.  “I hope we can conclude this work and give a strong
message of confidence” when the ministers meet in Dublin in
April, Rehn told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  The EU is considering easier repayment terms for rescue
loans to the two nations in a bid to ease their exit from aid
programs. The bloc’s 27 finance chiefs are slated to discuss
Ireland and Portugal in the Belgian capital today, a day after
euro-area ministers held similar talks.  Once the ministers give their assent, the so-called troika
of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the
International Monetary Fund will study options for helping
Ireland and Portugal return to markets for funding. The two
nations received loans from two different programs: the EU-wide
European Financial Stabilization Mechanism and the euro-area’s
temporary firewall, the European Financial Stability Facility.  “The troika will continue to examine an appropriate and
credible extension of the maturities on the early EFSF and EFSM
loans, with a view to smoothing the path back to durable market
access,” Rehn said.  Equal Concessions  Ireland and Portugal have sought to extend the terms of
European rescue loans, saying they deserve concessions similar
to those granted to  Greece  last year. Ireland is due to complete
its rescue program later this year, with Portugal set to follow
in 2014.  “Both programs are on track and performing well despite
challenging macroeconomic circumstances,” Dutch Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem told reporters after chairing last
night’s meeting.  Ireland’s rescue loans have maturities ranging from five
years to more than 20 years, Irish finance minister Michael Noonan said before yesterday’s talks.  “Our ask is an extension of 15 years on average,” Noonan
said. “We’ll see how that goes. I don’t think there’s a
disposition to go that long.”  Ireland also is seeking the possibility of retroactive
direct bank recapitalization from the euro area’s permanent
firewall, the European Stability Mechanism, once such aid
becomes available. Finance ministers are working toward a mid-
year deadline for designing how the program might work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  