-- EU Nears Deal on Basel Rules After Clashes on Bonuses
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-05T15:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/irish-to-seek-formal-approval-of-bank-bonus-deal-opposed-by-u-k-.html
European Union finance ministers
neared an accord on a wide-ranging plan to strengthen bank
capital requirements as they wrangled with U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne over proposed curbs to bankers’
bonuses.  “I can’t support the proposal currently on the table, but
I hope if we make progress over the next couple of weeks that we
have a proposal I can support,” Osborne said in Brussels. Other
nations backed the deal, with German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble endorsing a last search for common ground.  Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, pledged
to iron out the last elements of the agreement in coming weeks.
EU nations will seek technical adjustments to the timing for
adopting all the new rules, as well as on how big a slice of
banker bonuses can be eligible for a combination of deferred
payment and favorable accounting treatment.  “We will explore the possibility of nuancing the agreement
so that it has a wider level of support,” Irish Finance
Minister Michael Noonan told reporters today.  Pay rules were a late addition to EU legislation on how it
will apply global rules drawn up by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision. Talks had dragged on for 18 months before
the Irish presidency negotiated the bonus agreement, which says
bonuses can’t be bigger than salaries unless certain conditions
are met, in order to move the broader effort forward.  Hard-Fought Deal  European Parliament members won’t agree to go beyond last
week’s hard-fought compromise, said Othmar Karas, the lead
lawmaker on the capital rules, and European Parliament President
Martin Schulz. Both lawmakers said the measure would go before
the legislature for a vote in April based on the existing
framework.  “I deeply regret the fact that the Council has not been
able to reach agreement,” Schulz said today in a statement.
“The European Parliament negotiators consider that an agreement
has been reached on all aspects of the legislation including on
bankers’ bonuses.”  EU Financial Services Commissioner Michel Barnier said it’s
“crystal clear” that banker bonuses will face limits in line
with the framework agreed with lawmakers last week. In a press
conference in Brussels, he said any remaining adjustments would
be “technical points” that don’t undermine the deal.  Banks have criticized the bonus limits as a threat to
competitiveness, particularly since EU-based lenders will be
bound by European limits for employees all over the world.  Compromise Sought  Luxembourg, Austria and  Sweden  endorsed efforts to find a
solution that would ease the U.K.’s concerns before the new
rules take effect if possible, since London banks will be most
affected by the changes. At the same time, the EU shouldn’t
delay the new capital rules indefinitely, Swedish Finance
Minister Anders Borg told reporters in Brussels today.  “We would argue that we should make an extra effort if it
would be possible to get the U.K. on a compromise,” Borg said.
“If there’s a need for some further technical progress, let’s
try that. But at the end of the day, we are happy with the bank-
bonus compromise as it is.”  Ireland is now drawing up a new text of the capital rules
with an eye toward concluding the legislation by mid-year. The
bill must be approved by a weighted majority of EU states and
the Parliament.  Should the technical details of the law not be completed by
March 22, the EU may miss its January 2014 deadline for the
measures to take effect, the Irish presidency has said. The
target date has already been pushed back by one year.  January Deadline  Barnier urged nations to stick with the Jan. 1 deadline,
pledging accommodations for individual nations that need extra
time to adjust. The Netherlands led calls for a longer
transition period, saying 12 months was a more reasonable
transition period than the six months included in current plans.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said delays are
possible, depending on how negotiations proceed. He said changes
to pay rules could expand a 25 percent cap on the amount of a
bonus that could benefit from special accounting rules if paid
out after a five-year delay.  “This is still under discussion,” Dijsselbloem told
reporters after the meetings. He said his nation would impose
stricter rules than the EU standard as part of its own efforts
to shore up financial stability, a pledge echoed by Denmark.  The draft deal includes an outright ban on bonuses that are
more than twice fixed pay, with bonus payments limited to 100%
of fixed pay unless certain conditions are met. The plan also
would offer banks some leeway on how to apply the measure when
parts of the award are deferred for at least five years.  Hiring Disadvantage  Banks have warned that the bonus curbs would place them at
a disadvantage in hiring the best recruits and force them to
boost executives’ basic pay. The  Association for Financial
Markets in Europe , which represents international lenders
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , said last week
the proposals would “have a negative impact on the real
economy.”  The Federation of European Employers, which represents
corporate human resources departments, said last week that the
bonus curbs would go “beyond the powers vested in the European
Union under the EU Treaty.” The treaty “clearly states that EU
legislative powers shall not apply to pay,” the group said.  The European Commission said today that it was sure that
the plans are legal, as the treaty provisions on pay apply to
social policy, not bank regulation.  The EU “can make rules on financial incentives -- it has
done it before in regulating sales commissions,” Sharon Bowles,
chairwoman of the Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee, said in a telephone interview.  “The Parliament would have loved to put a cap on overall
pay, but we backed off from doing that over doubts about
legality,” she said. “In the past something similar has been
attempted for footballers and they discovered it exceeds the
treaty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  