-- Iron Ore Seen Slumping 24% by Deutsche Bank as Supply Expands
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-03-04T09:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/iron-ore-seen-slumping-24-by-deutsche-bank-as-supply-expands.html
Iron ore  may slump 24 percent by the
end of this year as miners expand production of the raw material
and Chinese restocking demand for the raw material slows,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The price of the commodity, last assessed at $150.60 a dry
metric ton by The Steel Index Ltd., will slide to $115 a ton by
December, Deutsche Bank analyst  Daniel Brebner  in  London  said in
a report dated March 1. Supply of the raw material will expand
by 9 million tons in the second quarter after shrinking in the
three months ending March 31, he said.  The Steel Index’s  benchmark , based on prices at Tianjin in
 China , rallied 74 percent from an almost-three-year low on Sept.
5, amid speculation Chinese government projects boosted demand
for the steelmaking raw material. Swaps used to hedge prices and
bet on Chinese growth are trading at $142.75 a ton for March,
$135.50 a ton for April, and $132 a ton for the second quarter,
according to SSY Futures Ltd., a broker.  “Confidence in Chinese government growth objectives,
expectations for steel mill restocking, improved seasonality and
a pause in seaborne supply growth have been important drivers”
of the rally, Brebner said in the report. “A number of these
factors could fade over the next couple of months -–
particularly the restocking, seasonality and supply dynamic -–
and we see a peak in spot prices by early Q2.”  Chinese steel-demand growth will slow during the next two
years and prices will fall toward domestic miners’ costs of $110
a ton, Deutsche Bank said. An increase in steel scrap available
from recycled  consumer goods  will curb demand for seaborne iron
ore by 2018, cutting prices toward $80 a ton, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  