-- MISC Rises as EPF Seeks Higher Buyout Offer: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-03-04T09:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/misc-jumps-as-epf-seeks-higher-buyout-offer-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
MISC Bhd. (MISC) , the world’s second-
largest liquefied natural gas shipper, gained in Kuala Lumpur
after its biggest minority shareholder said it wants Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. to raise its buyout price.  The stock advanced as much as 2.1 percent to 5.39 ringgit,
its steepest intraday increase since Feb. 4, with trading volume
about five times its three-month daily average. The stock pared
gains to close at 5.31 ringgit. The benchmark  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  fell 0.1 percent.  Petroliam Nasional,  Malaysia ’s state-owned oil and gas
group known as Petronas, should increase its 8.8 billion-ringgit
($2.8 billion), or 5.30 ringgit per share, general offer, Azlan Zainol, chief executive officer of Employees Provident Fund,
said in an interview after the market closed on March 1.
Petronas already owns 63 percent of MISC, while the nation’s
biggest pension fund holds 9.6 percent of MISC, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are betting on Petronas offering a higher
price, including EPF,”  Vincent Khoo , Kuala Lumpur-based head of
research at  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK) , wrote in an e-mail to
 Bloomberg News . “At the same time, it appears that Petronas is
not willing to up the general offer price, so there will be a
gridlock in the meantime.”  Minority shareholders Penang Development Corp. and Pacific
Mutual Fund Bhd. earlier told Bloomberg News the bid is too low.
Shareholders should reject it and “ask for more,” Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an analyst at  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , wrote in a
report, raising his price estimate to 6.12 ringgit from 6.03
ringgit.  ‘Sick’ Business  It’s “fine” if investors reject it, the Edge newspaper
reported over the weekend, citing Petronas Chief Executive
Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas. MISC has a “sick” business and
the takeover offer allows minority shareholders to exit at a
premium, he was quoted as saying.  A buyout would provide Petronas with greater flexibility in
deciding MISC’s strategic direction, the group said when making
the offer. Azman Ibrahim, a spokesman for Petronas, declined to
comment by phone today.  The Kuala Lumpur-based shipping group completed a rights
issue at 7 ringgit per share in February 2010. The stock tumbled
25 percent in 12 months before the Jan. 31 buyout offer, as the
company booked losses and exited the liner industry. It’s since
rebounded 19 percent to trade above the offer price.  MISC shuttered its container-ship business last year to
focus on LNG tankers after the cargo-box unit made $789 million
of losses over three years due to global overcapacity and
falling rates. Last month, it reported fourth-quarter net income
of  $231.9 million , recovering from a $571.6 million loss during
the same period a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  