-- ISE Topaz Venue Would Increase American Options Exchanges to 12
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-03-04T23:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/ise-files-with-sec-to-start-topaz-as-12th-u-s-options-exchange.html
International Securities Exchange
Holdings Inc. plans to start an options market that will become
the 12th U.S. exchange for equity derivatives.  Topaz Exchange will be owned by ISE, according to a
regulatory  filing  published on March 1. Gary Katz, president and
chief executive officer of the New York-based International
Securities Exchange, said last year that the company planned to
start a second market to compete with rivals CBOE Holdings Inc.,
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and NYSE Euronext.  “Exchanges are looking for anything to make money or make
new waves,” Ben Schwartz, Chicago-based chief market strategist
at broker New York-based Lightspeed Financial Inc., said by
phone. “I’d think exchanges would look to monetize products
they have, rather than expand,”  Market operators, most of which have become for-profit
companies since 2000, use multiple venues with different methods
of trading and sets of fees to attract orders from customers and
compete with rivals. Two American options exchanges began last
year even as volume  fell  12 percent to 4 billion contracts,
compared with a record 4.56 billion that changed hands in 2011,
according to Chicago-based OCC, which clears and settles all
equity derivatives trades.  ISE, which became the first all-electronic U.S. options
exchange in May 2000 and is now owned by Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , is the last major options exchange operator
to run just one venue. Nasdaq OMX has three and CBOE and NYSE
Euronext have two each. A unit of Deutsche Boerse bought New
York-based ISE for $2.8 billion in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Options Volume  The ISE exchange accounted for 16 percent of U.S. options
volume last month, OCC data show. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange was the largest with 23.4 percent, followed by Nasdaq
OMX PHLX with 19 percent.  ISE wanted to launch a venue that combined trading rules
and fees in novel ways and wasn’t simply “another maker-taker
or another pro-rata model,” Katz said in an interview in March
2012, referring to different rules for matching orders on
options exchange. The proposal published by the SEC is similar
to ISE’s existing structure. The fee schedule wasn’t included.  “We had hoped to come out of the box with something
different,” Boris Ilyevsky, managing director of ISE Options
Exchange, said by phone. “The initial market structure will
look almost identical to ISE. We will definitely have a
different fee structure and once we get it launched will be able
to make additional changes to differentiate the offering.”  Trading Percentage  ISE doesn’t have a target percentage of trading it expects
Topaz to gain this year, Ilyevsky said. The aim is to attract
“incremental business” by offering an alternative in a way
that doesn’t cannibalize the ISE’s volume, he said.  “There’s always a debate about the optimal number of
exchanges in a particular marketplace,” Andy Nybo, a principal
and head of derivatives at New York-based research firm Tabb
Group LLC, said in a phone interview. “Is it two or five or 20?
As long as a new exchange brings functionality and the ability
to execute against liquidity in a new environment, it provides
value to the marketplace.”  Industry participants already connected to ISE will be able
to link easily to Topaz, Ilyevsky said. The trading platform,
protocols for sending orders to the exchange and data center
that houses the computer engines will be the same, he said.  Federal Register  The public can comment on the Topaz application to become
an exchange for 45 days after it’s published in the Federal
Register, according to the SEC. The agency must approve the
application before the exchange can start trading.  Topaz will operate with at least $5 million from ISE and
will initially rely on the same management as its parent
company, the filing said. Its CEO and president will be Katz,
while Thomas Ascher will be chief strategy officer. Daniel Friel
will be chief information officer, Ilyevsky managing director,
and Michael Simon chief regulatory officer. It will also have a
15-person board of directors, according to the filing.  ISE owns 31.54 percent of Direct Edge Holdings LLC, the
operator of two U.S. stock markets. Topaz has no plans to start
an equities exchange, according to the filing.  Topaz will include market makers and brokers among its
members. Incoming orders will trade first against what the
exchange calls priority customers. If the requests aren’t
completely filled, they will trade against orders from
professionals and quotes from market makers on a pro-rata basis
that depends on the number of contracts those firms made
available. The exchange initially won’t allow complex or multi-
leg orders.  Topaz said it may offer an auction called a price-
improvement mechanism to enable users to get prices better than
the best nationally available bid and offer prices. It may also
provide systems for a minimum of 50 contracts that allow firms
to cross or trade larger orders, according to the filing. A so-
called solicited-order mechanism would also allow firms to get
executions for at least 500 contracts at a time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 