-- Lithuania Moves Ahead With Bank-Closure Process Praised by S&P
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-03-04T16:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/lithuania-moves-ahead-with-bank-closure-process-praised-by-s-p.html
Lithuania’s smooth closing of
insolvent lender  Ukio Bankas AB (UKB1L)  moved ahead as rival  Siauliu
Bankas AB (SAB1L)  bought state debt to fund the deposit-insurance fund
and said it was reopening some of Ukio’s former branches.  Siauliu will reopen 25 former Ukio branches, starting with
six tomorrow, the bank based in the city of Siauliai said in an
e-mailed statement today. Separately, Siauliu said today it
purchased 799 million litai ($301 million) of government debt to
help the state deposit-insurance fund finance a deal in which
Siauliu is taking over 2.7 billion litai of Ukio deposits.  The Baltic nation has managed to renew service to most
clients of the former sixth-largest bank less than three weeks
after the central bank suspended the lender, saying risky
lending to related parties led it to insolvency. Standard &
Poor’s Rating  Service  last week praised Lithuania for resolving
Ukio’s woes without destabilizing the country’s other banks.  “The authorities’ response serves as a demonstration of
strength,” S&P said in a report on Feb. 27. “We expect the
sale of Ukio’s stronger assets and guaranteed deposits to
Siauliu Bankas to be managed without causing a major disruption
in the sector, nor resulting in significant system-wide
withdrawals of deposits.”  EBRD Support  The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
Siauliu’s largest shareholder with a 19.6 percent stake, helped
strengthen Siauliu for the partial takeover by granting it a 20
million-euro ($26 million) subordinated loan.  The deal with Siauliu allowed the deposit-insurance fund to
reduce payouts related with Ukio’s collapse to 800 million
litai, instead of 2.7 billion litai. The fund will seek to
recover its money through bankruptcy proceedings for the Ukio
assets not taken over by Siauliu, the  Finance Ministry  has said.  Among those assets are loans that Ukio Bankas had made to a
sister investment company, Ukio Banko Investicine Grupe, or
UBIG, which is controlled by Ukio Bankas majority owner Vladimir Romanov and owns 79 percent of Scottish soccer club  Heart of
Midlothian  as well as property in other countries.  UBIG’s entire board of directors resigned last week and
hasn’t been replaced,  Baltic News Service  reported today, citing
the company registry in Vilnius. That includes both Romanov, who
was chairman of UBIG, and Hearts’ Director Sergejus Fedotovas,
who was also on the board, BNS said.  Fedotovas declined to comment on the board situation at
UBIG in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  