-- Liverpool, Standard Chartered Begin Sponsorship Renewal Talks
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-04T17:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/liverpool-standard-chartered-begin-sponsorship-renewal-talks.html
Standard Chartered (STAN)  Plc and 18-time
English soccer champion Liverpool are in talks for the
international bank to extend its agreement as the team’s
principal sponsor.  London-based Standard Chartered, which makes most of its
money in Asia, is negotiating with Liverpool even though the
team has wrestled with problems on and off the field since the
original four-year accord was reached in September 2009.  “We are engaged in ongoing conversations with Standard
Chartered regarding extending the partnership and continually
delivering excellent commercial and community value,” the team
said in a statement confirming the discussions.  Liverpool yesterday announced a pretax loss of 40.5
million pounds ($61 million) for the 10 months ended May 31,
2012. It’s seventh in the Premier League after 28 games and is
almost certain to miss out, for a fourth straight season, on
participating in the lucrative Champions League. Success clauses
in the agreement mean the Reds didn’t get a portion of the 20
million pounds Standard Chartered could pay annually.  Standard Chartered’s sponsorship of Liverpool is its only
agreement with a major sports team. The bank, which also
confirmed the discussions, said the “association with Liverpool
FC has proved to be positive for the bank and we remain very
pleased with the success of the partnership to date.”  The deal came into effect in 2010, the year the club was
sold to Fenway Sports Group, which also owns the Boston Red Sox
baseball team. Banks forced through the sale after former owners
George Gillett and Tom Hicks of the U.S. failed to refinance a
300 million-pound loan used to buy and operate the team.  Commercial Income  Liverpool, which hasn’t won the English championship since
1990, has managed to increase its commercial income even though
it’s fallen behind teams such as Manchester United, Chelsea and
Manchester City. Warrior Sports, a unit of New Balance Athletic
Shoe Inc., this season started a six-year, 25 million pounds-a-
season apparel agreement. General Motors Co.’s Chevrolet brand,
which is trying to expand its presence in Asia, and airline
Garuda  Indonesia  have also signed as sponsors.  Liverpool’s take from sponsors is second only to Manchester
United in the U.K. The Premier League leader’s 117 million
pounds in annual commercial income is 54 million pounds more
than Liverpool made in the 10 months to May 31, 2012.  Popularity in Asia  Standard Chartered has said it aligned with Liverpool
because of the team’s large supporter base in Asia, where a 2011
tour drew thousands of fans. Liverpool’s popularity in the
region is founded on its success in the late 1970s and 1980s
when it dominated English and European soccer, said Simon Chadwick, a professor of sports business at the University of
Coventry.  “I think there’s a predisposition toward Liverpool in
certain parts of the world like Singapore and  Malaysia  because
they are former colonies and Liverpool was the team they were
exposed to,” Chadwick said in a telephone interview.  Still, there are signs that Liverpool’s below-par playing
achievements may start to hurt negotiations with sponsors.
 Adidas AG (ADS)  Chief Executive Officer Herbert Hainer said in a July
2012 interview his company’s decision not to renew its apparel
agreement with Liverpool was linked to poor performance.  “The gap between their performance on the field and what
the number should be is not in balance,” he said.  European Cup  Chadwick said the club, which won its fifth European Cup in
2005, a record for a British club, remained in a strong position
in the “short to medium term” although it will struggle if it
continues to be unsuccessful on the field.  “The research we’ve done shows success in sport is one of
the best ways to brand your team, or your athletes,” he said.  Chadwick also said Liverpool may look to recruit players
from regions where the team is popular. Manchester United has
signed sponsors in  Japan  since acquiring forward Shinji Kagawa
last year.  “Kagawa is a great player but it appears to be very
important for Manchester United that he happens to be
Japanese,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  