-- Macy’s May Seek Expansion of Sales Ban of Stewart Goods
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-04T21:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/j-c-penney-ceo-says-no-stewart-deal-if-macy-s-pact-breached-1-.html
Macy’s Inc. may ask a judge later
this week to expand a preliminary ban against  Martha Stewart
Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  that would prevent  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  from
selling Stewart-designed goods in certain exclusive categories
even if they aren’t marked with her name.  Justice Jeffrey K. Oing, presiding over a nonjury trial in
 New York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan , said he will hear
lawyers’ arguments on the issue on March 8, when a trial over
the sales agreement had been scheduled to end. Oing and lawyers
for the two sides discussed the possibility that the trial may
go past that date.  Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department-store chain,
sued New York-based Martha Stewart Living in January 2012 to
stop it from going ahead with a sales agreement with J.C.
Penney, claiming it had the exclusive right to sell Stewart-
branded items in categories including bedding and cookware.
Macy’s sued Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney about three months
later.  Macy’s is trying to persuade Oing to permanently block J.C.
Penney’s agreement on goods in the exclusive categories. The
judge in July granted Macy’s request for an initial injunction
blocking Martha Stewart Living from taking any steps under the
deal on making, marketing, distributing or selling Martha
Stewart-branded products in the exclusive categories.  Window Treatments  J.C. Penney is allowed to sell items that aren’t in the
exclusive category, including window treatments designed by
Stewart. Oing declined to issue a similar injunction against
J.C. Penney after the retailer agreed to abide by the earlier
order against Martha Stewart.  Penney plans to sell products this spring in the exclusive
categories designed by Stewart’s company that are branded “JCP
Everyday” but don’t carry her name.  Mark Epstein, an attorney for J.C. Penney, told the judge
that those products are “on the ocean or in port” and that
there would be a “big problem” if those products aren’t on the
shelves.  “It would be a tremendous hardship to turn that boat
around,” Epstein said.  Additional Damages  Oing warned Epstein that J.C. Penney could face additional
damages if they sell unbranded, Stewart-designed products in the
exclusive categories and he determines that Stewart’s contract
with Macy’s forbids Penney from selling any goods designed by
Martha Stewart Living in those categories, whether adorned with
her name or not.  “It’s going to open a Pandora’s box if I find that Macy’s
prevails,” Oing said.  J.C. Penney Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson finished
testifying today at the trial, which began Feb. 20. Macy’s
Chairman Terry Lundgren testified last week. Stewart is slated
to take the stand tomorrow.  Lawyers for Cincinnati-based Macy’s have argued that J.C.
Penney is trying to “reap the rewards” of its work with the
Martha Stewart Living brand, which it says it rebuilt after
Stewart’s release from prison in 2005, when her products were
being sold at Kmart.  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also
said Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year renewal option
in January 2012 because of the breach.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 