-- Japex to Buy 10% of Petronas C$11 Billion LNG Project in Canada
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-03-04T07:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/japex-to-buy-10-of-petronas-c-11-billion-lng-project-in-canada.html
Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1662) , the
country’s second biggest oil and gas explorer, will buy a stake
in Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s C$11 billion ($10.7 billion)
liquefied natural gas project in Canada.  The company known as Japex will acquire 10 percent of the
plant to be built in the port of Prince Rupert, which will have
an annual capacity of 12 million metric tons, it said in a
statement today. It will also buy 10 percent of a shale gas
field in the North Montney area of British Columbia,  Japex is following trading companies and utilities who are
investing in North American shale gas fields to feed  Japan ’s
power needs. The country, the world’s biggest LNG importer, had
a record 1.63 trillion yen trade deficit in January as it bought
more fossil fuels, especially gas, for power plants to replace
nuclear reactors closed after the Fukushima disaster.  “We should work on ways to lower gas prices,” Japex’s
Managing Director Mitsuru Saito told reporters in Tokyo today.
He declined to give prices for gas imported from the  Canada 
project or how much it will pay for the stakes in the plant and
field. The LNG plant will cost between C$9 billion and C$11
billion, Japex said, citing estimates by the Malaysian state oil
company known as Petronas.  Japex will buy 1.2 million tons a year of LNG from the
plant and ship it to a receiving terminal it will build at Soma
port in Fukushima prefecture, northern Japan. The Canadian plant
and the Fukushima terminal will start operations by the end of
2018.  Japex shares reversed a decline of as much as 1 percent
today after the announcement. The stock rose 2.6 percent to
close at 3,625 yen on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  