-- Jets Want Competition for Tebow, NFL General Manager Tells Fans
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/jets-focused-on-competition-for-tebow-idzik-tells-ticketholders.html
The  New York  Jets are focused on
finding competition for backup quarterback  Tim Tebow  and on
cornerback  Darrelle Revis ’s recovery from a knee injury, General
Manager John Idzik told season-ticket holders.  The Jets decided not to start Tebow, the team’s No. 2
quarterback, when they benched  Mark Sanchez  late last season,
instead promoting third-stringer  Greg McElroy . The move led to
speculation that Tebow, a former Denver Broncos starter, would
be released during the offseason.  When asked during a conference call about the team’s plans
for Tebow, Idzik said the Jets are “trying to increase
competition at that position, at positions across the board.”  “We’re going to see who we’re able to bring on board and
let it play out this offseason and into training camp,” Idzik
said yesterday. “I think that will be healthy for all
concerned, including Tim.”  Idzik, hired in January to succeed the fired Mike Tannenbaum after a 6-10 season, and Jets coach  Rex Ryan  spoke on
the conference call with season-ticket holders.  The Jets talked with teams about trading Revis during the
NFL Combine on Feb. 23-26, the New York Daily News reported last
week, citing an unidentified person familiar with the situation.
It didn’t say which teams were involved. Revis said in an
interview last month with the NFL Network that he was
“speechless because I didn’t get a phone call” about trade
rumors since Idzik joined the staff.  “I know it’s a business, just call me,” Revis said.
“Don’t have it lingering out there. I need answers and I’m not
getting any.”  No Deal  Ryan yesterday repeated his denials of speculation about a
trade with the  San Francisco 49ers  for Revis, the 27-year-old
All-Pro who tore a knee ligament in September.  “I will stand firm by saying there was no truth to that,”
Ryan said on the call.  Idzik added that the team’s focus with Revis is “purely on
getting him better.”  “By his doctors’ accounts, he’s doing very well,” Idzik
said. “By their estimation he’s ahead of schedule, so we’re
anxious to get him back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  