-- Karachi Mourns 42 Bombing Dead as Attacks on Shiites Spread
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-03-04T08:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/karachi-mourns-42-killed-in-bombing-as-attacks-on-shiites-spread.html
Karachi shut schools and businesses
to mourn 42 people killed in a car bombing that targeted the
city’s Shiite minority and extended a spree of deadly attacks on
the Islamic sect to Pakistan’s finance capital.  Women and children were among the dead and more than 135
were wounded in the blast yesterday in a Shiite-dominated
neighborhood of the city, the country’s biggest. Apartments and
shops were reduced to rubble. While no group has yet claimed
responsibility, the Sunni militant Lashkar-e-Jhangvi has carried
out previous assaults on Shiites.  The escalation of sectarian attacks in a country already
roiled by a Taliban insurgency along its frontier with
 Afghanistan  will heighten tension ahead of a parliamentary
election that must be held by early May. Yesterday’s bombing
follows blasts this year on Shiite communities in the
southwestern city of Quetta that killed about 200 people.  Militants encouraged by the quick release of their leaders
following earlier spurts of violence no longer fear a crackdown
by security agencies, Tasneem Noorani, a former secretary with
the Ministry of Interior, said by phone. “The result is attacks
that are happening with such regularity and ferocity.”  While intelligence agencies are concerned they might become
targets of guerrilla groups if they act, Pakistani authorities
have raised the threshold for violence, he said. “We are now
quite comfortable with 10 people dying daily in Karachi or with
a blast or two every month,” Noorani said. “Only a breakdown
of law and order on a massive scale would delay the election,”
he added.  Historic Schism  Shiites make up about 15 percent of Pakistan’s population
of 200 million people and are considered heretics by extreme
groups among the Sunni majority due to differences in religious
doctrine dating back to near the beginnings of Islam.  “Government schools in Karachi will remain closed due to
mourning,” said Allah Bachayo Memon, spokesman for the  Chief
Minister’s House  in Sindh province of which Karachi is the
capital. Associations of transporters, traders and private
colleges will join the strike called by the Jafaria Alliance, a
Shiite body. Financial markets were open.  A suicide attacker rammed his explosives-laden car into
barriers placed to protect Abbas Town, a Shiite-dominated
housing complex, said Amjad Kayani, a police officer. Many of
the dead were leaving a local Imambargah, or congregation hall,
after saying prayers, he said.  Security Raid  The U.S. State Department in 2003 listed LeJ as a terrorist
group, saying it had links to al-Qaeda and was involved with the
2002 kidnapping and murder of Wall Street Journal correspondent
Daniel Pearl in  Pakistan .  Last week, Interior Minister Rehman Malik said the LeJ was
responsible for 80 percent of terrorist activity in the country,
Geo television reported.  As protests spread nationwide following a Feb. 16 bombing
in Quetta, Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf ordered a security
operation to detain those believed to be behind the strikes.
Some senior members of the LeJ were detained, Associated Press
reported, including Malik Ishaq, a founder.  Long used to militant violence, Pakistan’s main share
index, the benchmark KSE 100, has risen 7.5 percent this year
amid the surge in attacks on Shiite targets and fighting in the
northwestern tribal belt. The rupee has weakened 1 percent
against the dollar, as loan repayments squeezed the country’s
foreign-exchange reserves.  Violent City  Some 170 apartments, 70 shops and many vehicles were either
destroyed or damaged by the blast yesterday.  The city of 18 million people, whose banks and businesses
generate 45 percent of the country’s economy, has for years
witnessed spikes in violence involving members of rival
political parties, ethnic communities or criminal groups. More
than 2,000 people died in attacks in the city in 2012, according
to police data.  At least 400 Shiites died from violence in 2012 in
Pakistan, according to New York-based Human Rights Watch. More
than 120 were killed in Baluchistan, of which Quetta is the
provincial capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  