-- Kenya Counts Votes as Peaceful Polling Follows Separatist Attack
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-04T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/kenya-counts-votes-as-peaceful-polling-follows-separatist-attack.html
Kenya  began counting ballots from an
election that drew a large turnout and proceeded peacefully
across most of the country, after clashes blamed on a separatist
group killed at least 14 people before polls opened.  The poll is the first since fraud allegations after a
December 2007 vote spawned violence that killed 1,100 people and
made 350,000 homeless over two months. Opinion polls showed
Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta and Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , respectively the sons of Kenya’s first president and
vice president, tied in the lead ahead of six challengers.  “The next 24 hours or so will be a very apprehensive time,
and it may determine if people fight or not,” Emmanuel
Kisiangani, an Institute for Security Studies researcher, said
by phone from Nairobi, Kenya’s capital. “We don’t expect
violence because the electoral commission removed ghost voters
from the rolls and there has been a semblance of order.”  The vote is seen as a test of stability for  East Africa ’s
largest economy, which is the regional hub for companies
including Google Inc. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Economic growth has
attracted greater outside interest in the Nairobi Securities
Exchange. Foreign investors traded almost half of all shares in
2012 compared with about 10 percent five years earlier.  The  Nairobi All Share index  has advanced 13 percent this
year, the third-best performance in sub-Saharan  Africa  after
Nigeria and  Ghana  for dollar investors. The shilling appreciated
1.8 percent against the dollar last week, its strongest week in
more than 14 months and the best-performing African currency. It
traded down 0.1 percent at 86 shillings by 9 p.m. in Nairobi.  High Turnout  The election drew a “high” turnout from the 14.3 million
registered voters, Independent and Electoral Boundaries
Commission Chief Executive Officer James Oswago told reporters
yesterday, without giving a specific figure. Confusion over
voter records caused delays and long lines at some polling
stations, while people in some areas had to wait longer to cast
ballots after polls officially closed at 5 p.m., he said.  It was not clear if the three attacks in the Coast Province
blamed on the separatist Mombasa Republican Council were related
to the ballot, Kisiangani said.  Eight Kenyan security officers died and six members of the
group, which called for an election boycott and wants part of
the coast to secede from Kenya, died, according to Police
Inspector-General David Kimaiyo.  Scions’ Contest  Kenyatta, the 51-year-old son of Kenya’s first president,
Jomo Kenyatta, is facing trial at the  International Criminal
Court  for orchestrating violence during the last elections. He
is running along with his one-time political rival  William Ruto ,
a former Cabinet minister who has also been indicted by the
Hague-based ICC. Both deny the charges.  Odinga, 68 and the son of Kenya’s first vice-president, was
defeated in 1997 and 2007, when he accused President Mwai Kibaki
of stealing the vote.  The manifestos of both candidates show little difference in
policy. They have pledged to increase investment in building
infrastructure and developing agriculture to help accelerate
economic growth and cut poverty.  Kenya, ranked a low-income nation by the  World Bank , is the
world’s largest exporter of black tea and supplies a third of
the flowers traded in  Europe . It may also become an oil producer
after  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  last year found the country’s first crude
deposits, which it’s now testing for financial viability.  Materially Indifferent  “We do not expect any materially different market
implications, as the flag-bearers of both leading coalitions are
successful businessmen in their own rights,” Michael Kafe, a
pan-African economist at Morgan Stanley in Johannesburg, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “The independence of the
 Central Bank  of Kenya and Ministry of Finance should be
preserved under either candidate’s government.”  Kenyatta’s family controls land holdings, Brookside Dairy
Ltd., which also has units in Tanzania and  Uganda , and has
stakes in the K24 television station, banking and other
companies, according to Forbes magazine. Odinga’s family owns
East African Spectre, a Nairobi-based gas cylinder manufacturer,
and a Kisumu molasses plant.  Kenya’s economy is expected to grow by as much as 6 percent
this year, from an estimated 5 percent last year, as long as the
elections go smoothly and produce no serious violence, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  Besides Kibaki’s replacement, voters chose 290 lawmakers as
well as governors, women’s representatives and senators for 47
counties and 1,450 delegates for county assemblies. Kibaki, 81,
is retiring after serving his two-term constitutional limit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  