-- Kenyan Police Deaths Mar Election Amid ‘Huge’ Turnout
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   B e n a r d   S a n g a
-- 2013-03-04T13:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/kenyans-vote-amid-heightened-security-to-avoid-violence-1-.html
Kenyan voters flocked to polling
stations to elect a new president as police reinforcements were
deployed in its Coast province after at least 14 people died in
a series of separatist attacks.  The Mombasa Republican Council, which seeks autonomy for
the coastal region and has called for a boycott of the vote,
carried out at least three attacks last night that left eight
policemen dead, Samuel Kilele, the provincial commissioner, said
in a phone interview. Six of the group’s members died and four
were arrested, according to Police Inspector-General David Kimaiyo. Police reinforcements were sent to the province “and
all other hot-spot areas in our country,” Kimaiyo said.  Today’s election is the first since a disputed vote five
years ago led to ethnic clashes in which about 1,100 died and
more than 350,000 were displaced. Economic growth slowed to 1.5
percent in 2008 from 7 percent a year earlier, after farmers
fled their fields and tourists stayed away.  The outcome of the election is being closely watched by
foreign investors in a country that serves as the regional hub
for companies including Google Inc., International Business
Machines Corp., Visa Inc. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Dead Heat  An increase in support for Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, 51, has put him in a dead heat with Premier  Raila Odinga , 68, in a race that includes six other challengers,
according to a Feb. 22 poll conducted by Ipsos-Synovate Kenya,
the Nairobi-based research company. The first round may fail to
produce an outright winner, which would mean Kenyatta and Odinga
face off in a second round within 30 days.  Kenyatta and his running mate  William Ruto , a former
Cabinet minister, are facing trial at the  International Criminal
Court . They, along with two other Kenyan suspects, are accused
of crimes against humanity for orchestrating violence after the
last ballot. The men, who were rivals in the 2007 vote, deny the
allegations.  Voter turnout has exceeded the Independent Electoral and
Boundaries Commission’s expectations and many of the country’s
polling stations will remain open beyond the scheduled 5 p.m.
close, Chief Executive Officer James Oswago said.  “Huge turn outs have been witnessed,” Oswago told
reporters in the capital, Nairobi. “The voter turnout
throughout the day has been very encouraging throughout the
republic.”  Shares Surge  Kenya ’s NSE  All Share index  has gained 13 percent this
year, adding to a 39 percent rise last year that ranked the
gauge as sub-Saharan  Africa ’s best performer in local currency.
Foreign investment represented 49 percent of all trading in
Kenyan equities last year, compared with 10 percent in 2007,
according to the Nairobi Securities Exchange.  The shilling posted its biggest weekly advance in 14 months
last week, climbing 1.8 percent to 85.88 per dollar on March 1,
its strongest level this year. It weakened less than 0.1 percent
to 85.89 per dollar by 4:22 p.m. in Nairobi  “Investors seeking growth and profitability are attracted
to Kenya since the country and companies in the country are
growing at a good pace,”  Mark Mobius , who oversees more than
$50 billion as executive chairman of Templeton  Emerging Markets 
Group, said in an e-mailed response to questions last month.
“The election turmoil has not yet impacted the economy and is
unlikely to do so unless widespread violence breaks out.”  Third Attempt  Odinga is running for the presidency a third time, after
unsuccessful campaigns in 1997 and 2007. His allegation that
incumbent Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki stole the 2007 election
triggered the violence. Odinga became prime minister as part of
power-sharing deal with Kibaki to stop the unrest. Kibaki, 81,
is retiring after he served the two-term limit.  The platforms of the top candidates show little difference
in policy. Both men have promised to target spending on
infrastructure and agricultural development to help boost the
economy and create jobs. About 40 percent of Kenyans are
unemployed. The rate is worse for youth; 70 percent don’t have
work, according to the International Labour Organization.  Still, the $33.6 billion economy is expanding, driven by an
emerging middle class and growth in banking and technology.
Economic growth may reach as much as 6 percent this year from an
estimated 5 percent in 2012, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  The winner will also assume management of possible future
oil and gas revenue. The discovery of Kenya’s first crude by
 Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  a year ago has accelerated exploration in the
region and raises the chance of it becoming an oil producer.  Equal Support  To win the first round, a candidate must secure more than
50 percent of the votes cast and a quarter of support in the
majority of Kenya’s 47 counties. Kenyatta polled 45 percent,
while Odinga garnered 44 percent support in Ipsos-Synovate’s
survey of 5,971 Kenyans between Feb. 15 and Feb. 19.  Kenya has taken steps over the past five years to prevent
tensions from escalating at elections, overhauling the judiciary
and enacting a constitution in 2010 designed to distribute power
and resources more equitably.  “Hopes are high because we’ve seen a lot of changes to
mechanisms such as the police and courts since 2007-08, which
should help us avoid seeing the same kind of misery we did the
last time,” Tom Ocholla, a professor of politics at the
University of Nairobi, said by phone.  Violence has accompanied every election in Kenya since
multiparty democracy in 1992, save for one in 2002. The clashes
have affected the Rift Valley breadbasket where land disputes
have been rife since before Kenya’s independence from Britain in
1963. Kenya is the world’s largest black tea exporter and it
supplies a third of the flowers sold in  Europe .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Benard Onyari in Mombasa at 
 bonyari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  