-- Kerry Says Nuclear Talks Offer to Iran Are Time-Limited
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-03-04T10:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/kerry-says-nuclear-talks-offer-to-iran-are-time-limited.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said an offer to negotiate with  Iran  about its nuclear program
is limited in time and warned about the proliferation of nuclear
weapons in the Middle East.  Kerry said confronting the Iranian nuclear program remains
“the most urgent” priority and that the talks offer was not
open-ended. Negotiations between six world powers and Iran were
held in Almaty,  Kazakhstan  on Feb. 26 and 27 without concrete
results. The discussions are slated to continue on a technical
level in Istanbul before resuming in Kazakhstan on April 5.  “It is absolutely not unlimited,” Kerry said of the
negotiations. “Talks will not go on for the sake of talks.”  World powers led by the U.S. are seeking a deal to curb
 Iran’s nuclear program , which they say may have a secret
military dimension, in return for the removal of economic
sanctions imposed because of illicit atomic work. The stakes are
high as both the U.S. and  Israel  have said that military action
is possible to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons.
Iran says its program is for civilian energy and medical
research.  International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Yukiya Amano said today in Vienna that greater efforts must be made to
reach a deal.  Nuclear Proliferation  “Negotiations must proceed with a sense of urgency and a
focus on achieving concrete results in the near term,” Amano
said. ‘I request Iran once again to provide access to the
Parchin site without further delay.’’  Kerry stressed the danger of nuclear proliferation and the
destabilizing effect on the  Middle East  if Iran gains a nuclear
weapons capability. “The road to a world with less nuclear
weapons does not lead through a nuclear Iran,” he said during a
conference in Riyadh today with his Saudi counterpart Prince
Saud al-Faisal. “The threat isn’t just of a nuclear bomb, but
of a dirty bomb.”  The Iranians continue to negotiate even as they work to
build an atomic weapon, Prince Saud said during the conference.
The talks must not drag on, he said.  “We can’t be like philosophers who keep talking about how
many angels a pinhead can hold,” Prince Saud said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in  Riyadh  at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  