-- Kim Dotcom Seeks CFO for Data Venture Before IPO
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-03-04T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/kim-dotcom-seeks-cfo-for-data-venture-before-ipo.html
Kim Dotcom, the businessman accused
of the biggest U.S. copyright infringement, is seeking a chief
financial officer for his new venture Mega ahead of a potential
initial public offering.  The venture, started a year after his Megaupload.com file-
sharing site was shut down, is seeking a New Zealand-based CFO,
Dotcom said on Twitter Inc.’s website, linking to an
 advertisement . The site has “aggressive growth plans” and will
pursue an IPO within 18 months, according to the job posting on
the  Trade Me Ltd. (TME)  website.  Dotcom announced Mega in January and began accepting
registrations for the site, which lets users upload, download
and share files including music and video. The website, similar
to Megaupload.com, competes with services such as Dropbox.com
and Google Inc.’s YouTube, Dotcom said.  Dotcom, 39, is fighting extradition to the U.S., where he
was indicted by prosecutors who said his file-sharing website
generated more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchanges of film, music, book and software files. The site
accounted for 4 percent of  Internet traffic , U.S. prosecutors
said in court filings.  New Zealand police raided Dotcom’s rented mansion in
Auckland on Jan. 20, 2012, and Megaupload sites were shut down
worldwide by the  U.S. Department of Justice . The businessman had
his bank accounts frozen in  Hong Kong  and spent four weeks in
jail before winning his release on bail.  Dotcom, who changed his name legally from Kim Schmitz, said
in January the 220 workers at Megaupload will be offered jobs
with the new project. Mega will allow file encryption through an
Internet browser with the user having the only key to unlock the
file, preventing governments and storage providers from viewing
the contents, he said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  