-- Kinnucan Refuses to Settle Insider-Trading Suit, SEC Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/kinnucan-refuses-to-settle-insider-trading-suit-sec-says.html
John Kinnucan, the expert-networker
sentenced to four years and three months in prison for his role
in passing inside tips to hedge-fund clients, refuses to settle
an  insider-trading  lawsuit, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said.  Kinnucan, 55, who is acting as his own lawyer and
incarcerated at the Metropolitan Detention Center, the federal
jail in Brooklyn, New York, had previously told the SEC he
intended to resolve his case, Mathew Watkins, an SEC lawyer,
said in a letter yesterday to U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan.  As the founder of Broadband Research LLC, an expert-
networking firm, Kinnucan pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiracy and two counts of  securities fraud  for obtaining and
passing illegal tips to hedge fund clients, including two in New
York. U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in Manhattan sentenced
him in January.  “I spoke with him again today and he informed me that he
now does not intend to attempt to settle this matter,” Watkins
said.  Nathan, who is presiding over the SEC case, directed that
the SEC file a motion for a ruling before trial by March 22.
Kinnucan was directed to respond no later than April 19.  Kinnucan admitted getting inside information about  SanDisk
Corp. (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  and  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI) ,
including quarterly revenue numbers, after befriending employees
of technology companies between 2008 to 2010.  Paid Sources  He paid his sources in a variety of ways, prosecutors said,
including by buying them meals at high-end restaurants and was
sentenced to prison as part of a federal crackdown of insider
trading at  hedge funds , technology companies and expert
networking firm consultants.  Kinnucan announced in October 2010 that he had refused a
request by FBI agents to wear a wire and inform on his clients,
a move that presaged more than dozen insider-trading arrests in
an initiative by Bharara’s office and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in New York known as “ Perfect Hedge .”  He has been in federal custody since his arrest in February
2012.  Prosecutors said that during the time between the approach
by FBI agents and his arrest, he engaged in a “campaign” of
threats and anti-Semitic rants against prosecutors, cooperating
witnesses and others involved in the case.  The civil case is SEC v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-01230, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan); the criminal case is U.S. v.
Kinnucan, 12-cv-00163, U.S District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  