-- Klesch Claims $402 Million in Damages as Deal Sours
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-03-05T10:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/klesch-claims-402-million-compensation-after-arkema-deal-sours.html
(Corrects spelling of Kem One in second paragraph in story
published March 4.)  Klesch Group is seeking 310 million
euros ($402 million) in compensation from  Arkema SA (AKE)  after
alleging the French chemical maker failed to provide accurate
financial information about PVC assets sold to the investor.  Klesch had already lost 100 million euros six month’s into
its investment, and a business plan for the renamed Kem One put
together by Arkema was flawed, founder Gary Klesch said in a
phone interview. Arkema, in a statement, said it was shocked by
the allegations and “categorically” denies them.  “Who knows where this is going but we’ve had enough,”
Klesch said by phone. “The first objective is to seek
damages.”  The transaction was a landmark one for  Europe ’s struggling
PVC industry when announced in November 2011, allowing Arkema to
release an unprofitable business into the hands of an investor
that saw cost-cutting and consolidation as a means to restoring
profit.  Solvay SA (SOLB)  is looking into the options for its PVC
business and Advent International Corp. has struggled to secure
an exit from its Vinnolit business.  Klesch said the foundations of the deal fell apart when
Arkema failed to provide monthly results, misrepresented income,
and the executive coming over from the French company to lead
the business stepped down just after the transaction was signed.  Carve Out  “When it comes to the upstream business it’s a carve
out,” Klesch said. “It’s not a business where you have
historics, you’re really relying on the seller.”  The Klesch group said it reserves the right to ask an
arbitration court to annul the purchase of Kem One, the so-
called upstream business that makes chlorine, caustic soda and
PVC. The downstream business, which makes profiles and
compounds, “operates under satisfactory conditions,” it said.  Shares of Arkema fell as much as 5.1 percent in Paris
trading, and were down 2.5 percent at 74.86 euros at 4:45 p.m.  “In the business plan they gave us, they were a lot of
entry items of income that we should expect that never
materialized,” the Klesch head told Bloomberg. He gave license
income as an example of revenue that fell short.  Deal Risk  The Klesch group “had access” to “all the necessary
information” to “assess the financial situation and the
prospects of this activity, and performed the in-depth due
diligence that it wanted,” the French chemicals maker said.
“Arkema is launching all the necessary initiatives to defend
its rights and prove its good faith to the relevant authorities.  ‘‘Given the experience of Arkema’s management in
restructuring and disposing of activities, we would be very
surprised to see the transaction being canceled,’’ Caroline Brugere, an analyst at  Credit Agricole  in Paris, said in a
research note. The risk of cash outflow related to potential
damages may slow an upgrade of Arkema’s credit rating, she said.  Arkema, based in Colombes near Paris, said last week that
the discontinued vinyls activities sold in July 2012 had a net
loss from operations of 73 million euros last year, and 127
million euros of other losses due to expenses such as
warranties, write-offs and costs to establish the business into
a self-sufficient structure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  