-- Korea Structured Notes Soar as Lehman Minibonds Bite Hong Kong
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-03-04T06:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/korea-structured-notes-soar-as-lehman-minibonds-bite-hong-kong.html
Structured-note sales in South  Korea 
are soaring as individuals pile in, bucking the trend in  Asia ’s
financial hubs, where losses from Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse led to rules that paralyzed the industry.  Issuance in South Korea surged 54 percent to a record 70
trillion won ($64 billion) last year in about 20,000 offerings,
including private placements, according to data from Korea
Financial Investment Association. That dwarfs 26 comparable
products approved for public sales in  Hong Kong  and two
registered in  Singapore  in 2012, based on listings posted by the
two markets’ regulators.  Issuers have balked at public sales in the regional
financial centers since the introduction of stricter rules to
avoid a repeat of losses from Lehman-linked securities known as
minibonds. In  South Korea , changes have been less dramatic,
thanks to limited exposure to the notes, giving issuers more
freedom to introduce new products and lure individuals seeking
high-return investments amid falling interest rates.  “For those who didn’t lose money during the Lehman crisis,
they developed trust in these products,” Lee Jeong Hwan,
general manager for derivatives sales at Daewoo Securities Co.,
said by phone. In South Korea, “regulations haven’t really been
an obstacle. They actually helped strengthen investors’ trust.”  Korean Market  The securities are issued by licensed local brokerages that
work with foreign banks for hedging and product development.
Over the past decade, the industry has evolved to use assets
from overseas equities to currencies to commodities.  South Korea probably now has the largest structured-note
market for individuals in Asia, as sales in other markets
including  Hong Kong  have been led by private bankers, according
to Harold Moon, head of equities derivatives at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Seoul. About 30 percent of the issuance last year went
to individual investors, according to the Korea Financial
Investment Association figures.  When the securities were introduced in South Korea in 2003,
structured-product sales to individuals amounted to an estimated
$12 billion in Hong Kong and $5 billion in Singapore, according
to 2005  research  by Global Fund Services, based on surveys of
issuers.  By the end of last year, the Hong Kong market shrank to
HK$4.5 billion ($580 million) in outstanding investments,
 according to  the Securities and Futures Commission. In dollar
terms, that’s less than 1 percent of the 225 trillion won held
in publicly sold securities in South Korea, according to the
Korea Financial Investment Association data.  New Regulations  In Hong Kong, where more than 43,000 investors bought an
estimated HK$20 billion of minibonds from banks, the Securities
and Futures Commission has begun  requiring  reviews and
regulatory approvals for all structured products sold to
individuals.  Singapore ’s  Monetary Authority of Singapore  last year
started to ask distributors to assess clients’ investment
knowledge before sales, after S$508 million ($410 million) of
structured products tied to Lehman lost most or all of their
value. The city-state in 2009 also banned banks including DBS
Bank Ltd. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc from selling
structured notes for six months to two years.  Streamlining Issuance  South Korean regulators also have taken steps to better
protect investors, such as requirements to disclose risks and
restrictions on sales to individuals older than 65. The
authorities are also watching the growth of securities linked to
non-equity assets and plan to set up a system to monitor how
brokerages manage the products, Financial Services Commission
said in an e-mailed response to queries.  The new rules haven’t slowed down issuance in the country.
South Korea’s brokerages can issue securities after submitting
documents for the new notes, including prospectuses, to
regulators through an electronic filing system that processes
them as quickly as within a few hours, said Ha Chul Kyoo, who
heads the structured-securities team at Woori Investment &
Securities in  Seoul .  For investors, the appeal of the products, which typically
pay monthly coupons, are their returns averaging about 9 percent
annually over the past five years, Nomura’s Moon said. Bank
deposits currently yield about 3 percent in South Korea,
according to the  Bank of Korea .  Brokerages are making it easier to buy the securities to
further capture surging demand. Companies led by Samsung
Securities Co., the country’s largest brokerage by market value,
are letting investors sign up for the products via the Internet,
while some, including Mirae Asset Securities Co., have
introduced similar applications for smartphones.  South Korea “offers economies of scale,” Moon said.
“Given the market volume, it’s a good place for foreign banks
to get in, as long as they trade and hedge properly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  