-- Kuehne & Nagel Targets Outperformance While Seeking Chief
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-04T08:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/kuehne-ceo-resigns-for-health-reasons-as-profit-misses-estimates.html
Kuehne & Nagel International AG (KNIN)   fell 
the most in 10 months after the world’s biggest sea-freight
forwarder said Chief Executive Officer Reinhard Lange is
resigning and reported profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  The shares fell as much as 5.7 percent, the steepest
intraday decline since April 16, 2012. They traded 5.4 percent
lower at 100.30 Swiss francs as of 9:28 a.m. in Zurich, valuing
the company at 12.1 billion francs ($12.8 billion). The decline
made them the worst performer on the 13-member  Bloomberg Europe
Transportation Index (BETRANS)  today.  Lange will step down for health reasons on May 7, with
Chairman Karl Gernandt leading a group of executives assuming
his responsibilities as the company seeks a successor, the
logistics operator said. Kuehne & Nagel said full-year profit
fell 19 percent to 485 million Swiss francs ($515 million). That
missed the 523 million-franc average of 19 analysts’ estimated
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The key concern for investors is the news that CEO
Reinhard Lange will be stepping down early,” William Foggon, an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London  said in a note to clients.
“Kuehne’s succession plans were already under way but there is
now a seven-month interim gap during which there will be no
CEO.”  Kuehne & Nagel expects its  sea freight  volume to rise as
much as 6 percent this year, compared with market growth of 2
percent to 3 percent, the company said in a  presentation  today.
Airfreight flown will increase 1 percent to 3 percent, compared
with a forecast of as much as 2 percent growth for the market.  Missed Targets  The Schindellegi, Switzerland-based company failed to meet
its growth targets for road and rail shipments last year as well
as for contract logistics. The units’ volumes rose 7 percent and
4 percent respectively, with targets calling for as much as 10
percent in rail and road, and 5 percent in contract logistics.  “Volume development in the industry suffered from the
slowdown of growth in  China  and restrained consumer and
investment spending in large parts of  Europe ,” CEO Lange said
in a statement today. “With the worsening of the sovereign-debt
crisis, the economic climate deteriorated rapidly.”  Kuehne & Nagel on March 1 said it will realign its regional
structure to cut costs and be able to react faster to changing
markets. Chairman Gernandt today said the company didn’t adjust
costs in a timely manner last year.  The company proposed cutting its dividend 9.1 percent to
3.50 francs a share, compared with a Bloomberg  forecast  of 3.80
francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  