-- N.J. Unfunded Pension Liabilities Widen to $47.2 Billion
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/n-j-unfunded-pension-deficit-rises-to-47-2-billion.html
New Jersey’s public pension deficit
swelled 13 percent to $47.2 billion in fiscal 2012 as the state
continued to make partial contributions to its  retirement plans .  The system had about 64.5 percent of assets needed to cover
promises to current and future retirees as of July 1, 2012,
compared with 67.5 percent a year earlier, when the gap stood at
$41.7 billion, according to data posted on the state Treasury
Department’s website.  “It’s getting to be an issue” for investors, Dan Solender, director at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City , said
yesterday by telephone. “They’re making reforms, which is good.
But that liability is still growing.”  New Jersey’s pension shortfall reached $53.9 billion in
2010 after a decade of expanded benefits and skipped payments.
The gap narrowed to $36.3 billion after Governor  Chris Christie 
signed bills that boosted contributions from employees, raised
the minimum  retirement age  for new workers and froze cost-of-
living adjustments for retirees. It swelled when Christie
skipped a $3 billion pension payment in fiscal 2011.  Christie, a Republican who took office in 2010, signed a
law that year requiring the state to make one-seventh of its
pension contribution in fiscal 2012 and then raise the payment
each year until it reaches the full annual amount in 2018.  Widening Deficits  “The unfunded liability, even under the reforms, is going
to increase because of the way we’re staging our pension
payments,” the governor, 50, told reporters yesterday in Jersey
City. “We’re falling behind by a heck of a lot less than we
were in the years before I got here, when we were making no
pension payments.”  Christie’s proposed $32.9 billion budget for fiscal 2014,
which begins July 1, includes a record $1.67 billion pension
payment. While that’s the largest contribution in state history,
it’s still less than half -- three-sevenths -- of what actuaries
say it should be, the governor said.  New Jersey ’s seven public-employee pensions cover more than
780,000 working and retired teachers, police officers and
government workers, and had assets with a market value of almost
$74.4 billion in July, down 3.2 percent from a year earlier.
The teachers’ plan had the biggest deficit, widening 12 percent
in a year to $21.4 billion, or 59.3 percent of needed assets.  Cost Pressure  “It’s not really surprising,” said Solender, whose
company  manages about $19.5 billion in assets. Still, he said
that because of the deficits, the state may face mounting costs
to borrow in the $3.7 trillion municipal market over the long
term. In the short-term, the state’s biggest risk is that the
growing pension gap may lead credit-rating firms to lower the
state’s scores, currently fourth highest.  “The shortfall is far less than it would have been without
pension reform,” Bob Grady, chairman of the State Investment
Council, said yesterday by telephone. “It has long been
projected that the funded ratio would decline over time in the
near term before it turned back up.”  The council sets policy for investing the state’s pension-
fund assets. Investments produced a 2.5 percent gain for fiscal
2012, trailing a projected rate of return of 7.95 percent,
according to an October report to the council. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index had a  total return  of about 5.4 percent in the
same period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Anthony Miskowski, secretary of  Communications Workers of
America  Local 1033, said Christie’s proposed state contribution
may be “too little, too late.”  “The pension fund hasn’t flat-lined yet, but we’re going
to need to keep on top of the whole thing,” Miskowski said by
telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  