-- Netanyahu Warns Iran Stalling While Biden Presses Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-03-04T20:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/netanyahu-warns-iran-stalling-while-biden-presses-talks.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said that  Iran  is using negotiations over its nuclear
program to stall for time to develop an atomic weapon, even as
Vice President  Joe Biden  said the U.S. favors diplomacy to stop
Iran from getting one.  “Diplomacy has not worked,” Netanyahu, speaking via
satellite, today told the largest gathering in  Washington  of a
pro- Israel  U.S. lobbying group. Iran is “running out the
clock,” he said. “It has used negotiations, including the most
recent ones, in order to buy time to press ahead with its
nuclear program.”  Biden, who addressed the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee’s annual conference in person, said the Obama
administration’s “strong preference” is for a diplomatic deal,
which it believes is possible, to resolve international concerns
that Iran is using its atomic energy program as a cover for a
secret pursuit of nuclear weapons.  Biden said that if it became necessary to use force to stop
Iran from acquiring an atomic weapon, the U.S. and Israel would
have proved to the world that “we did everything in our power”
to avoid a military conflict.  If Iran seeks a weapon despite diplomacy and sanctions,
President  Barack Obama  “is not bluffing” when he says that
“all options, including military force, are on the table,”
Biden said in a speech punctuated by rounds of applause. He said
the U.S. pledge is to “prevent” Iran from getting a nuclear
weapon, “not contain” a nuclear-armed Iran.  Stopping Iran from pursuing such weapons will top the
agenda when Obama visits Israel this month, Netanyahu said in
his remarks.  ‘Words Alone’  “Words alone will not stop Iran; sanctions alone will not
stop Iran,” the Israeli leader said. “Sanctions must be
coupled with a clear and credible military threat if diplomacy
and sanctions fail.”  Netanyahu said Iran hasn’t yet crossed the “red line”
that he laid out in a speech at the  United Nations  last
September, meaning the Islamic Republic hasn’t stockpiled enough
medium-enriched uranium to be further enriched into bomb-grade
fuel for a nuclear weapon. At the same time, the Israeli leader
said, “Iran is getting closer to that red line.”  World powers led by the U.S. are seeking a deal to curb the
country’s nuclear program, which they say may have a secret
military dimension, in return for the removal of economic
sanctions imposed to punish Iran for illicit atomic work.  Gaps ‘Considerable’  “The prime minister made clear that the gaps between his
position on Iran and President Obama’s remain considerable,”
Shimon Stein, a research fellow at Tel Aviv University’s
Institute for National Security Studies, said in a telephone
interview.  “We may face some more friction down the road between the
U.S. and Israel on this issue,” said Stein, a former Israeli
ambassador to  Germany .  Iran hailed what it called a positive “turning point”
last week after two days of negotiations with six world powers
over the Islamic Republic’s disputed nuclear program, as Western
officials sounded a cautious note and urged concrete steps
toward a deal at follow-up talks in March and April.  In remarks today in  Riyadh  with the Saudi foreign minister,
Secretary of State  John Kerry  repeated the U.S. priority on
negotiations to stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, while
cautioning that time is running out for talks.  ‘Engage Seriously’  “We both prefer diplomacy as the first choice,” Kerry
said. “But the window for a diplomatic solution simply cannot,
by definition, remain open indefinitely. There is time to
resolve this issue, providing that Iranians are prepared to
engage seriously.”  Iran was the No. 6 producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. West Texas Intermediate crude
fell below $90 a barrel for the first time this year, with crude
for April delivery slipping to $89.33 in intraday trading today.
WTI settled at $90.12, the lowest close since Dec. 24 as  service
industries  in  China  expanded at the weakest pace in five months.  Netanyahu, who has had tense relations with White House
over issues including Iran and Israel’s expansion of settlements
in the  West Bank , said Obama’s first visit to Israel as
president will give the Israeli leader and public “an
opportunity to express our appreciation for what he has done for
Israel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  