-- Nordic Power Price Climbs to Six-Week High on Cold, Dry Weather
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-03-04T08:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/nordic-power-price-climbs-to-six-week-high-on-cold-dry-weather.html
Nordic electricity for April traded
at the highest in six weeks after  weather forecasts  pointed to
lower supply and higher demand.  The April contract gained as much as 2.3 percent to 39.75
euros ($51.71) a megawatt-hour on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s energy
exchange in Oslo, the highest since Jan. 17 and the biggest gain
since Jan. 7. The benchmark Nordic next-quarter contract
advanced as much as 2.2 percent to at 37.85 euros, the highest
since Jan. 18, before paring its advance to 37.70 euros.  The Nordic region gets more than half of its power from
hydroelectric plants. The amount of water and snow available to
generate electricity in the region may be 16.9 terawatt-hours
below normal for the time of year in two weeks, down from 14.5
terawatt-hours today, Markedskraft data on Bloomberg show. Drier
weather signals less supply and indicates higher prices.  “Weather forecasts have shifted, and become drier and
slightly colder than last week,” John Brottemsmo senior analyst
at energy adviser Bergen Energi AS said today by phone from
Bergen,  Norway .  Temperatures in  Sweden  may average minus 1.7 degrees
Celsius (31 Fahrenheit) through March 14, compared with an
earlier forecast of minus 1.5, MetraWeather data on Bloomberg
using the ECMWF model show. Lower temperatures boost demand for
electric heating.  “If the weather stays dry and cold the Nordic next-quarter
may rise significantly, to more than 40 euros, especially if the
day-ahead prices continue to climb,” Brottemsmo said.  Power for delivery in the Nordic area  today  costs 42.69
euros a megawatt-hour on average, according to yesterday’s
auction on the the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange in Oslo. That
compares with an average price of 40.05 euros for supply from
Feb. 25 through March 2. Forward prices frequently track
movements in day-ahead prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  