-- Obama Naming Moniz at Energy, McCarthy at EPA, Official Says
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n ,   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-04T13:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/obama-naming-moniz-at-energy-mccarthy-at-epa-official-says-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  will name
Ernest Moniz as head of the Energy Department and Gina McCarthy
to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, according to a
White House official who requested anonymity in advance of an
announcement.  Moniz is a physics and engineering professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge. McCarthy is
an assistant administrator for air pollution at the EPA.  While both will pick up the broad approach laid out over
the past four years, they also have a political touch that
analysts say will be necessary to counter longstanding
criticisms from congressional Republicans and some industry
lobbyists.  The two nominees would round out Obama’s second-term energy
and environment team as he seeks to combat the risks associated
with  climate change  and weighs regulation of hydraulic
fracturing, a drilling technique behind increasing domestic oil
and natural gas production.  Obama last month nominated Sally Jewell, chief executive
officer at outdoor retailer Recreation Equipment Inc., as
Interior secretary, a position that oversees energy development
on federal land. Moniz would replace Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize-
winning physicist, who announced Feb. 1 that he’ll leave to
return to academia. McCarthy would take over the EPA from  Lisa Jackson , who left the agency on Feb. 14.  Pollution Regulations  McCarthy currently leads the EPA’s Office of Air and
Radiation, which during Obama’s first term issued broad
regulations to cut pollution from coal-fired power plants and
automobiles.  “Gina’s a true-blue environmentalist,” said Jeffrey Holmstead, a Bracewell & Giuliani LLP lobbyist who represents
energy companies, including Atlanta-based  Southern Co. (SO)  “But I
have to say she is at least willing to sit down and listen and
understand the issues people have with EPA’s regulations.”  Environmentalists have praised her efforts, saying the U.S.
rules would cut mercury, sulfur dioxide and other toxic
emissions now responsible for causing asthma, heart attacks and
premature death.  They have come under fire from Republicans in Congress, who
contend the new regulations would put a drag on the economy
without offering significant health benefits. That criticism
probably will be renewed in McCarthy’s confirmation hearings.  Romney, Rell  McCarthy, a Boston native, worked for Republicans before
joining the Obama administration, including for Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney  as a top state environmental official. She
left to head up the Connecticut’s Department of Environmental
Protection from 2004 to 2009, where she worked with Republican
Governor M. Jodi Rell.  Moniz served as Energy Department undersecretary from 1997
to 2001 after an earlier stint as science adviser to President
 Bill Clinton .  He now directs MIT’s Energy Initiative, which is supported
by energy companies such as  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and has promoted natural gas as a bridge fuel -- a
way to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions as cleaner sources of
energy are developed.  Even while at MIT, Moniz was a frequent visitor to
Washington, testifying before congressional panels on energy
issues and serving both on the President’s Council of Advisors
on Science and Technology as well as a blue-ribbon commission
Obama formed to study nuclear waste storage after he pulled the
plug on Yucca Mountain in Nevada as the nation’s permanent
repository.  Moniz has advocated that the U.S. develop a national energy
strategy to drive investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  