-- Obama Backs Changing Rules to Let Consumers Unlock Phones
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-03-04T19:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/obama-backs-changing-rules-to-let-consumers-unlock-phones.html
The Obama administration said
consumers should be allowed to unlock smartphones and tablet
computers without risking criminal penalties, siding with
critics of a ruling from the U.S.  Library of Congress .  More than 114,000 people endorsed an Internet petition to
rescind a decision by the library that took effect in January.
“The White House agrees,”  R. David Edelman , senior adviser for
Internet, innovation, and privacy, said in  a blog posting  today
entitled, “It’s Time to Legalize Cell Phone Unlocking.”  “If you have paid for your mobile device, and aren’t bound
by a service agreement or other obligation, you should be able
to use it on another network,” Edelman wrote. “It’s common
sense.”  The Federal Communications Commission and the National
Telecommunications & Information Administration, a Commerce
Department branch that advises President  Barack Obama  on
airwaves policy, will deal with the issue, Edelman said.  The FCC will look into “into whether the agency, wireless
providers, or others should take action,” FCC Chairman  Julius
Genachowski  said in a  statement  posted today on the agency’s
website.  The Obama administration wants it to be clear that neither
criminal law nor technological locks should prevent consumers
from switching carriers when they are no longer bound by a
service agreement or other obligation, Edelman said.  Carriers led by  Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. mobile
carrier, and No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T)  backed the library’s ruling. Under
the decision made under U.S. copyright law, consumers aren’t
allowed to unlock new mobile phones purchased from wireless
providers.  Business Model  The Library of Congress’s Copyright Office, as part of a
periodic review, said altering software to let one carrier’s
phones work on other networks wasn’t among activities expressly
permitted under copyright law.  CTIA-The Wireless Association, with members including the
four largest U.S. mobile carriers -- Verizon, AT&T,  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc. -- had argued that “locking
cell phones is an essential part of the wireless industry’s
dominant business model” involving handset subsidies and
contracts, Librarian of Congress James Billington said in the
notice.  Consumers can still choose to buy unlocked phones that will
work with multiple carriers, giving them an alternative,
Billington said. Partly because of that possibility, unlocking
newly purchased phones doesn’t merit an exemption under
copyright law, he said. The rule change allowed consumers who
had previously purchased phones to unlock their handsets.  Unlocking Requests  “When the contract terms are satisfied, or for a reason
that is included in the carrier’s unlocking policy -- such as a
trip outside the U.S. -- carriers will unlock a phone at their
customer’s request,” Michael Altschul, senior vice president
with the trade group, said in an e-mailed statement today.  CTIA said in a  filing  last year with the Library of
Congress that subsidies “depend on ensuring that the handset
will be used, as contemplated, with the carrier’s service.”  Circumventing barriers to unauthorized use “will have
significant adverse effects on the wireless industry and on the
public,” the Washington-based trade group said in its February
2012 filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  