-- Obama Names Three to Cabinet for EPA, Energy, Budget
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-03-04T15:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/obama-names-three-to-second-term-cabinet-for-epa-energy-budget.html
President  Barack Obama  announced
three cabinet-level nominations, choosing Sylvia Mathews Burwell
of the Wal-Mart Foundation as director of the Office of
Management and Budget, scientist Ernest Moniz as head of the
Energy Department, and Gina McCarthy to lead the Environmental
Protection Agency, where she’s been an assistant administrator.  “I can promise you that as soon as the Senate gives them
the go-ahead, they’re going to hit the ground running and
they’re going to help make America a stronger and more
prosperous country,” Obama said at the White House today.  Burwell, 47, president of the Wal-Mart Foundation, was
deputy OMB director during President  Bill Clinton ’s
administration and also was chief of staff to then-Treasury
Secretary  Robert Rubin . Her tenure included the 1995 budget
standoffs between the president and Congress that led to partial
government shutdowns.  From 1990 to 1992, she was an associate at McKinsey & Co.
She worked for Clinton’s presidential transition team in Little
Rock after the 1992 election and later helped Rubin set up the
National Economic Council in 1993.  Burwell was named executive vice president of the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation in 2000, rising to chief operating
officer on Aug. 1, 2002, according to a company press release.  In January 2012 she was named president of the Wal-Mart
Foundation, which made $959 million in cash and in-kind
contributions worldwide in 2011, according to its website.  She would be the second woman, after  Alice Rivlin  in the
Clinton administration, to head the White House budget office.  MIT Professor  Moniz, 68, is a physics and engineering professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge. He served as
Energy Department undersecretary from 1997 to 2001 after an
earlier stint as science adviser to Clinton.  He now directs MIT’s Energy Initiative, which is supported
by energy companies such as  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and has promoted natural gas as a bridge fuel -- a
way to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions as cleaner sources of
energy are developed.  Even while at MIT, Moniz was a frequent visitor to
Washington, testifying before congressional panels on energy
issues and serving both on the President’s Council of Advisers
on Science and Technology as well as a blue-ribbon commission
Obama formed to study nuclear waste storage after he pulled the
plug on Yucca Mountain in Nevada as the nation’s permanent
repository.  Romney Connection  McCarthy, 58, is a Boston native who worked for then-
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  as an environmental adviser
and later as head of the Connecticut Department of Environmental
Protection. She currently leads the EPA’s Office of Air and
Radiation, which during Obama’s first term issued broad
regulations to cut pollution from coal-fired power plants and
automobiles.  Environmentalists have praised her efforts, saying the U.S.
rules would cut mercury, sulfur dioxide and other toxic
emissions now responsible for causing asthma, heart attacks and
premature death.  They have come under fire from Republicans in Congress, who
contend the new regulations would put a drag on the economy
without offering significant health benefits. That criticism
probably will be renewed in McCarthy’s confirmation hearings.  Moniz and McCarthy round out Obama’s second-term energy and
environment team as he seeks to combat the risks associated with
 climate change  and weighs regulation of hydraulic fracturing, a
drilling technique behind increasing domestic oil and natural
gas production.  Obama last month nominated Sally Jewell, chief executive
officer at outdoor retailer Recreation Equipment Inc., as
Interior secretary, a position that oversees energy development
on federal land.  All three of today’s nominations are subject to Senate
confirmation. Moniz would replace Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize-
winning physicist, who announced Feb. 1 that he is returning to
academia. McCarthy would follow  Lisa Jackson , who left the EPA
on Feb. 14. Burwell would succeed acting OMB director Jeffrey Zients, who took over when  Jacob Lew , now Treasury secretary,
became White House chief of staff in January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  