-- Obama Tour Must Aid Palestinian Peace Effort, Erekat Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-03-04T15:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/obama-visit-may-buoy-sagging-palestinian-hope-negotiator-says.html
Palestinian leaders are counting on
President  Barack Obama ’s visit this month to bolster peace
prospects with  Israel  and help stem the frustration that has led
to renewed violence, chief negotiator Saeb Erekat said.  “Take the element of hope from the minds of Palestinians
and Israelis and you’re going to have disasters,” Erekat said
in an interview at his office in Jericho, days after returning
from preparatory talks in  Washington . “We’ve been there before
and we don’t want this to happen.”  The Israeli government is getting ready for Obama to arrive
March 20 on a three-day visit, though no official schedule has
been released. The trip -- Obama’s first to Israel as president
-- comes after a diplomatic stalemate that has eroded hopes for
a peaceful resolution of the conflict. Recent episodes of
violence have fueled calls for a new Palestinian uprising.  The president will probably meet Palestinian President
Mahmoud Abbas at his headquarters in Ramallah in the  West Bank ,
according to a U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity
because of the trip’s political sensitivity. The visit has been
billed by the White House as a “listening tour” that won’t
introduce a new peace plan.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  met Abbas for lunch today in
 Saudi Arabia ’s capital,  Riyadh , where they discussed “political
developments,” according to the official Palestinian  news
agency , Wafa.  Settlement Building  Any boost that Abbas may get from hosting Obama will
quickly dissipate unless it’s accompanied by a U.S. push against
settlement expansion and new ideas for a peace agreement, said
Mukhemer Abu Sada, a Palestinian political scientist at Al-Azhar
University in Gaza City.  “The legitimacy of  Mahmoud Abbas  is deteriorating and the
violence we’re starting to see again is an indication that
people are growing impatient,” Abu Sada said in a telephone
interview. “Hosting Obama won’t help him for long if it’s not
backed up by signs that a peace agreement is in the works.”  Clashes between Palestinians and Israeli troops have
increased in the past month, galvanized by hunger-striking
Palestinian prisoners and the death of a West Bank man in
Israeli custody amid charges he was tortured. Israeli
authorities said the man, Arafat Jaradat, 30, died of a heart
attack and was not physically harmed after his arrest last month
for throwing stones at soldiers.  Ramallah Visit  Israelis warn that traveling to Ramallah will entangle
Obama in the question of Palestinian statehood, which was
endorsed by the  United Nations General Assembly  last November
against U.S. objections. An official welcome for U.S. leader to
the State of  Palestine  by Abbas may annoy Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  and turn into ammunition for Obama’s critics
in Congress.  “The Obama administration opposed the upgrade of the
 Palestinian Authority  to the status of a non-member observer
state in the General Assembly,” said Dore Gold, Netanyahu’s
former ambassador to the UN, who now runs the  Jerusalem  Center
for Public Affairs. “Should the Palestinians elect to adopt a
diplomatic protocol based on the results of that vote, it would
put the Obama administration in an awkward position.”  Former President  George W. Bush  traveled to both Ramallah
and Bethlehem when he met Abbas in January 2008. Obama visited
Abbas in Ramallah later that year during his campaign for
president.  Peace Process  Erekat said Palestinian leaders are determined to make sure
the Obama visit goes smoothly, though he declined to discuss
specific arrangements or confirm that the president will meet
Abbas in Ramallah.  “No one benefits more from the success of the  peace
process  than Palestinians and no one loses more from the absence
of the peace process than the Palestinians,” Erekat said in the
March 1 interview. “We plan to exert every possible effort in
order to ensure the success of President Obama.”  Still, Erekat, 57, gave no indication that Abbas will ease
his insistence that Israel freeze all settlement construction in
the West Bank and east Jerusalem to revive peace negotiations.
Talks broke down after Abbas and Netanyahu met three times in
September 2010 after prodding from former U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton .  Israeli Conditions  “How can anyone succeed when you see an intensification of
settlement construction -- 17 percent in 2012, more than any
previous year since 1967,” Erekat said. “That’s not
negotiation, that’s dictation.”  Netanyahu, 63, instituted a partial settlement freeze that
expired two weeks after his 2010 meetings with Abbas and has
refused to stop construction since. The Israeli leader, who is
negotiating to form a governing coalition that would make him
prime minister for a third term, has said he supports a two-
state solution under a series of conditions.  Those include assurances that the Palestinian state is
demilitarized, renounces the right of return for refugees,
formally recognizes Israel as a Jewish state and allows Israel
to keep full control of Jerusalem and major settlements.  Erekat, a native of Jericho who earned two political
science degrees at San Francisco State University, suffered a
heart attack last year after more than two decades as a
negotiator, spokesman and adviser for Abbas and former
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.  Islamic Negotiating  Amid the lull in peace talks, Erekat jogs an hour a day on
a treadmill and has written two books in Arabic now awaiting
publication. The first, on Islamic negotiating, describes al-
Qaeda,  Islamic Jihad  and Hamas -- the rival Palestinian movement
that controls the  Gaza Strip  -- as “alien to Islamic
behavior.” The other, titled “Changes in the Arab World as
They Impact on Israel and Palestine,” argues that “nobody
should be afraid of” the Arab Spring, “especially Israel,” he
said.  Erekat says he believes a two-state solution is inevitable
and is determined to bring about a peace agreement.  “I’m trying my best but I’m failing,” Erekat said. “I
hope we’ll succeed one day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Ramallah at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Ramallah at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  