-- Lockheed, Austal Share $1.38 Billion for Littoral Ships
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/lockheed-austal-share-1-38-billion-for-littoral-ships.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Austal
Ltd. (ASB)  today received a combined $1.38 billion in orders for
continued purchases of the Littoral Combat Ship, according to
the Pentagon.  The Navy’s orders, made under existing contracts, will pay
for the 13th through 16th vessels in the program’s initial
purchase of 20 ships divided between Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed and Austal based in Henderson, Australia, the Defense
Department said today in a summary of contracts.  Lockheed is getting $697 million and Austal’s U.S. unit is
receiving $682 million to complete work on their new vessels by
mid-2018.  The Navy action underscores the service’s commitment to the
$37 billion program in the face of automatic budget cuts known
as sequestration that started to take effect on March 1. The
ship is designed to operate in littoral waters, those close to
shore, for missions from clearing mines to delivering
humanitarian aid.  Critics have questioned the Navy’s decision to go with two
versions of the ship, increasing long-term maintenance costs.
The estimated price to build each Littoral Combat Ship has
doubled to $440 million. Cracks and corrosion plagued the first
completed vessels. The Pentagon’s chief weapons tester has cited
flaws with the ship’s guns, said its helicopter isn’t powerful
enough to tow mine-hunting equipment and questioned whether it
could carry on its mission after being hit in combat.  First Deployment  The first vessel of a planned 52, Lockheed Martin’s USS
Freedom, is sailing to Singapore in a deployment intended to
test the vessel’s crew and maintenance operations. It’s also the
first visible step in the Pentagon’s new strategy that places a
greater emphasis on  Asia .  Lockheed makes one version in partnership with Marinette
Marine Corp., a subsidiary of Fincantieri SpA, based in Trieste,
Italy. Their steel-bodied ships, which includes the Freedom, are
built at Marinette’s yard in Marinette,  Wisconsin . Under the new
order, 56 percent of the work on the new order will be performed
in Marinette, the Pentagon said.  The other is made by Austal in partnership with  Falls
Church , Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  Their ships are
built at Austal’s yard in Mobile,  Alabama . The Pentagon said 51
percent of the work will be performed at that location.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  