-- Modi Attacks Congress as Calls Grow for India Premier Nomination
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-03-04T07:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/modi-attacks-congress-as-calls-grow-for-india-premier-nomination.html
Narendra Modi  stepped up his
offensive against  India ’s government at a weekend conclave amid
growing clamor within the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party 
for him to be named its candidate for prime minister.  Modi, who won a third term in power in the western state of
Gujarat in December based on his reputation as an economic
reformer, attacked the government 14 months before a general
election over its record on development and the ruling Congress
party’s reliance on the country’s foremost political dynasty.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government “has doomed the
country,” Modi told party delegates in New Delhi. Singh is a
“night watchman” for the Gandhi family, he said using a term
used in cricket to describe a stand-in batsman. He likened
Congress to “termites” eating away at the nation.  The chorus of support for Modi to lead the BJP into the
polls scheduled for May 2014 has grown stronger in recent weeks
as leaders of the Hindu-nationalist party weigh his credentials
as an administrator against opposition to his candidacy from
some of the allies they would likely need to build a coalition.
Rahul Gandhi will lead Congress into the election and may be
nominated as premier if the party wins a third successive term.  “There are hardly any other choices left for the BJP than
making Modi its prime ministerial candidate, irrespective of its
allies’ opinions,” said Satish Misra, an analyst at the
Observer Research Foundation, a policy group based in  New Delhi .
“Modi is successfully projecting himself as the man who can
meet the growing aspirations of India.”  Gujarat Rioting  Some of the worst rioting in India’s independent history
took place in Gujarat under Modi, when rampaging Hindu mobs
killed least 1,000 people, most of them Muslims, in 2002. The
carnage followed a deadly blaze aboard a train that left 59
Hindu pilgrims dead. No decision on the BJP’s pick for prime
minister is expected for months and other leaders are likely to
pitch for the job, other analysts say.  “A range of leaders from the BJP see themselves as
prospective prime ministers,” said Sandeep Shastri, pro-vice
chancellor of Jain University in Bangalore. “It is critical for
Modi to get the backing of BJP in an unquestionable way.”  The  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School in
Philadelphia canceled a planned video address by Modi later this
month after faculty and students protested the invitation citing
the U.S.’ refusal to issue him with a diplomatic visa since the
riots, the  Press Trust of India  reported.  While Singh’s administration is struggling to turn around
an economy growing at its weakest pace in a decade, Modi’s
government has been hailed by  Tata Group ’s former chairman  Ratan Tata , and billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , chairman of  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL) , both of which have investments in Gujarat.  Allies Wary  The Gujarat state’s economy has grown an  annual  10.2
percent on average over the last decade, against 7.8 percent for
the national economy. Under Modi, Gujarat has raised power
generation capacity more than fivefold, while his government
says it is the only state in India to have surplus electricity.
Its success in improving health and education indicators has
lagged behind other states.  In the Jan. 22-24 survey of 800 voters in eight cities for
Outlook Magazine, 41 percent said they would vote for a Congress
party headed by its new vice-president,  Rahul Gandhi . A BJP led
by Modi won the support of 38 percent. The poll had a margin of
error of 3.46 percent.  At the weekend conclave, Modi won praise from BJP President
Rajnath Singh. “It won’t be proper to welcome Modi with mere
words,” Singh said in his address. “He deserves a good round
of applause, a standing ovation.” He also garlanded Modi amid
shouting of slogans by party members.  While being credited for development in Gujarat, Modi has
also been blamed by opposition parties and human rights groups
for not doing enough to protect Muslims during the rioting.  The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, whose state
has a large community of Muslim voters, has signaled he’ll quit
the BJP-led opposition bloc if Modi becomes its face.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  