-- Holder Memo to Workers Outlines Concerns on Justice Budget Cuts
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-04T22:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/holder-memo-to-workers-outlines-concerns-on-justice-budget-cuts.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
told  Justice Department  employees he is “extremely concerned
about the negative impacts” that will come from the spending
cuts that went into effect on March 1.  Holder, in a memo to employees obtained by  Bloomberg News ,
said the “precise” effect of $1.6 billion in cuts to the
Justice Department’s approximately $27 billion budget are yet to
be determined. What’s clear, the country’s top law enforcement
official said, was that the across-the-board reductions known as
sequestration will bring “unavoidable uncertainty until the
ultimate resolution is reached.”  “To maintain our essential missions while holding to a
minimum the number of temporary furloughs we face, we are
heightening our scrutiny of all our spending and redoubling our
efforts to trim expenses,” he said.  Holder has previously warned that the Justice Department
may be forced to cut the equivalent of 1,000 federal agents and
1,300 correctional officers. Last week, the department sent
preliminary furlough notices to about 115,000 employees, White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters today in
Washington. Those notices didn’t outline the details of
reductions in work hours and overtime.  Holder has joined other officials in President  Barack Obama ’s cabinet warning of the potential dangers of the $85
billion in across-the-board cuts required by law that will
unfold over the final seven months of the fiscal year. Obama and
lawmakers failed to reach agreement on a proposal to postpone or
reshape the spending reductions before they went into effect
last week.  In a speech today in Washington, Holder said the cuts will
“undoubtedly have a negative impact” on programs that protect
U.S. citizens.  “It will curtail our ability to respond to crimes and
other threats, and to investigate wrongdoing,” Holder said in
remarks to the  National Association of Counties  legislative
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  