-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Trades Near Lowest Price in 10 Weeks
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-03-04T07:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/top-oil-market-news-crude-trades-near-lowest-price-in-10-weeks.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Oil Trades Near 10-Week Low; Libya Halts Zawara Crude Output  West Texas Intermediate crude traded near the lowest level
in 10 weeks after a report showed money managers cut their bets
prices will rise. Libya halted some oil production and natural
gas shipments amid fighting.  Keystone Report Spurs Opponents to Vow Stiffer Fight on Pipeline  Opponents of TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline say
they intend to make President  Barack Obama  hear their concerns
after a March 1 report helped clear a way for White House
approval of the project.  Marathon Said to Join Oil CEO Search as Bid War Looms: Energy  A wave of shareholder rebellions and executive retirements
that’s left at least six North American oil and gas companies
searching for chief executive officers is leading toward a
bidding war for the industry’s best leaders.  Ophir Seen Luring Shell in  Africa  Amid Cash Crunch: Real M&A  Ophir Energy Plc, the U.K. explorer with natural gas assets
in Africa, is turning into a takeover target for producers
including Royal Dutch Shell Plc as its limited cash hampers the
ability to develop finds on its own.  Hedge Fund Bullish Gas Bets Rise to 3-Month High: Energy Markets  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on natural gas to the
highest since November as cold weather across the U.S. boosted
heating demand and eroded a stockpile glut.  Brazil Anticipates Chevron Bid at Auction After Oil Spill  Brazil’s oil regulator anticipates Chevron Corp., which
suspended operations in the country last year after an off-shore
spill, will submit a bid in an auction for new oil blocks this
year.  Mangalore Refinery Offers Jet Fuel, Vacuum Gasoil, Naphtha  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. offered naphtha,
 jet fuel  and vacuum gasoil for April loading, according to
notices sent to potential buyers.  Idemitsu, Marubeni Said to Buy March Naphtha From MRPL, ONGC (1)  Idemitsu Kosan Co. and Marubeni Corp. bought a total of
70,000 metric tons of naphtha for March from Mangalore Refinery
& Petrochemicals Ltd. and its parent, Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,
said three traders who asked not to be identified because the
information is confidential.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Showa Shell Plans ‘Major’ Maintenance at Yokkaichi Plant in June  Co. plans maintenance at plant in western Japan with
refining capacity of 210,000 barrels a day from early June to
early August, spokesman Satoshi Yoshida says by phone.  Sinopec Maoming Refinery Starts New Hydrocracking Unit  Maoming refinery started the unit with processing capacity
of 2.4 million mt a year March 2, China Petrochemical Corp.,
parent company, says in online newsletter today.  Tesoro Golden Eagle Refinery Reports Unit Startup  Tesoro Corp. reported a unit startup at its Golden Eagle
refinery in Martinez, Calif., at 2pm local time.  California Gasoline Little Changed as BP Delays Refinery Restart  Gasoline on the  spot market  in California was little
changed as BP Plc delayed the restart of fuel-making units at
its Carson refinery in Southern California.  BP Carson Delays Start of Catalytic Cracker, Alkylation Unit  BP Plc expects to restart the units following planned
maintenance between March 4 and March 12, according to a person
familiar with operations at the Southern California refinery.  BP Carson Delays Start of Catalytic Cracker, Alkylation Unit  BP Carson plans to start units March 4-12 after planned
work.  Phillips 66 Wood River Said to Cut Crude Unit Rates for Work  Phillips 66’s Wood River, Illinois, refinery has cut rates
at two crude distillation units for planned work, a person
familiar with the turnaround said.  Gulf Diesel Strengthens as Shell Begins Deer Park Refinery Work  U.S. Gulf Coast diesel fuel strengthened against futures as
Royal Dutch Shell Plc began planned maintenance at its 340,000-
barrel-a-day Deer Park, Texas, refinery following a drop in area
supplies.  Gasoline Rises on Factory Expansion, Rising Consumer Confidence  Gasoline rose, reversing an earlier loss, as reports showed
U.S. manufacturing expanded in February and  consumer confidence 
climbed, indicating demand may strengthen.  Canadian Heavy Crude Weakens as Spring Refinery Turnarounds Near  Canadian heavy  crude oil  weakened to the lowest discount in
three weeks against futures as pending maintenance at Midwestern
refineries was expected to cut into demand.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Iran to Start Liquid Gas Plant on Kharg in 2014, Times Says  Iran  plans to complete a 1.2 billion euro ($1.6 billion)
natural gas liquid production plant on Kharg island by March
2014, the Tehran Times newspaper reported.  Taiwan’s CPC Offers to Sell April-Loading Gasoline Cargo (1)  CPC Corp., Taiwan’s state-owned oil refiner, is offering to
sell 30,000 metric tons of gasoline for second-half April
loading, according to a tender document obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan was unchanged at 10.14 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  CNPC to Spend $2.4 Billion on Upgrades to Produce Cleaner Fuel  China National Petroleum Corp., the nation’s biggest energy
company, will spend 15 billion  yuan  ($2.4 billion) to upgrade
the quality of fuel it refines, General Manager Zhou Jiping
said.  Dow Chemical Compensation Awaits Kuwaiti Government Directive  Petrochemical Industries Co. said it’s waiting for a
directive from Kuwait’s government on compensation to Dow
Chemical Co. after the U.S. company said it expected to receive
$2.5 billion for a canceled joint venture.  Cnooc Said to Cede Operating Control of Nexen’s U.S. Gulf Assets  Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil and natural gas
producer, was barred from controlling  Gulf of Mexico  oilfields
under U.S. terms for its $15.1 billion takeover of Nexen Inc.,
people familiar with the matter said.  Libya Halts Italy Gas Exports, Oil Output After Clashes in West  Libya ceased natural-gas exports to Italy and oil
production remained halted armed clashes yesterday in the North
African country’s western town of Zawara, company and government
officials said.  MISC Jumps as EPF Seeks Higher Buyout Offer:  Kuala Lumpur  Mover  MISC Bhd., the world’s second- largest liquefied natural
gas shipper, gained the most in a month in Kuala Lumpur after
its biggest minority shareholder said it wants Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. to raise its buyout price.  Mexico’s Pena Nieto Gets Nod From Party to End Pemex Monopoly  Mexico’s President Enrique Pena Nieto won support from his
party to advance with his growth plan that includes ending a 75-
year-old state monopoly on the oil industry.  U.K. Needs Energy Plan B Should New Nuclear Fail, Lawmakers Say  The U.K. government, planning to close almost all nuclear
power stations within 10 years, needs a “plan B” in case new
reactors aren’t built on time, according to a cross-party panel
of lawmakers.  BP Spill Judge to Hear From Rig Explosion Survivor This Week  The judge presiding over the trial  of BP Plc for the
Macondo well disaster is set to hear from a survivor of the
fatal rig explosion that sent millions of gallons of oil pouring
into the Gulf of Mexico, according to a witness list prepared
for the case.  Investors Least Bullish in Four Years Pulling Funds: Commodities  Investors cut wagers on a rally for commodities to the
lowest in almost four years and pulled a record $4.23 billion
from funds last week as prices erased this year’s gain on a
slowdown for manufacturing in China.  China Qinhuangdao Coal Price Unchanged at 620-630 Yuan/Ton  Price of China benchmark power- station coal with energy
value of 5,500 kilocalories/kilogram unchanged from a week
earlier as of yesterday, according to data today from China Coal
Transport and Distribution Association.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Fall on China Property Declines; Yen, JGBs Advance  Asian stocks fell as China property companies slumped after
the government ordered measures to cool prices. The yen
strengthened against all its major peers, while Japanese and
Indian bonds gained.  Yen Rallies as Italy Rekindles Debt Crisis Concern; Aussie Drops  The yen strengthened against all of its 16 major peers as
signs Europe’s debt crisis is deepening boosted demand for haven
assets.  Currency War Turns Stimulus War as Brazil Surrenders: Currencies  The currency wars declared by Brazilian Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  are proving more a battle to salvage economic
growth than a spiral of competitive devaluations.  Asian Stocks Drop on China Property Curbs; Nikkei 225 Pares Gain  Asian stocks dropped, with the regional benchmark index
heading for its second day of decline, after China tightened
mortgage rules to cool the  property market . Japanese shares
pared gains.  Short Sales Fall 53% With U.S. Bull Market Starting Fifth Year  Investors reduced bearish stock bets to the lowest level
since at least 2007 as the  bull market  in American equities
begins its fifth year.  Indonesian Palm Reserves Seen Declining by Bangun on Demand (2)  Palm oil inventories in Indonesia, the world’s largest
producer, may drop 8 percent this year as a significant increase
in demand outstrips record supplies, according to Derom Bangun,
chairman of the nation’s palm board. Prices rallied, snapping
eight days of losses.  Gold Snaps Three-Day Decline as Data Signals Extended Stimulus  Gold rebounded from a one-week low on speculation that
stimulus by central banks around the world will be maintained as
economic data signaled the global recovery may be losing
momentum. Silver advanced for a second day.  Obama Rings Up Lawmakers Searching for Deal on Budget Cuts (1)  President Barack Obama has begun contacting Republican and
Democratic senators in search of a budget compromise even as
each party blamed the other for across-the-board cuts in
 government spending .  Euro Leaders Demand Austerity as Italy Edges Closer to New Vote  European leaders demanded that euro members press on with
budget cuts to end the debt crisis as Italy edged closer to a
new election after an anti-austerity vote last week resulted in
political deadlock.  SPORTS  Beckham to Serve as Global Ambassador for Chinese Soccer (1)  David Beckham  will help promote soccer in China by taking a
role as a global ambassador for the game in the world’s most
populous country.  Bayern Munich Secures 10th Straight Win; Atletico Draws in Spain  Bayern Munich  extended its winning run to 10 matches to
maintain a 17-point advantage atop German soccer’s Bundesliga.
 Atletico Madrid  missed a chance to cut Barcelona’s lead in Spain
down to single figures.  James Strong, Former Qantas CEO, Kathmandu Chairman, Dies (1)  James Strong, the former chief executive officer of
Australia’s biggest carrier Qantas Airways Ltd. and former
chairman of the country’s largest retailer Woolworths Ltd., died
yesterday at age 68 in Sydney.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       90.34  -0.34  -0.4  Nymex    April
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    110.31  -0.09  -0.1    Ice    April
Gasoil ($/Ton)         925.00  +2.50  +0.3    Ice    April
Gasoline (c/Gal)       311.95  -0.91  -0.3  Nymex    April
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.43  -0.02  -0.6  Nymex    April
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    109.89  -0.37  -0.3    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            292.76  -0.25  -0.1  Nymex    April
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.37  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,572.30  -0.4
MSCI World Index     1,401.24    --
Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  