-- Ophir Seen Luring Shell With Africa Gas Assets: Real M&A
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-03-04T19:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/ophir-seen-luring-shell-with-africa-gas-assets-real-m-a.html
Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR) , the U.K. explorer
with natural gas assets in  Africa , is turning into a takeover
target for producers including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  as its
limited cash hampers the ability to develop finds on its own.  Shares of London-based Ophir have fallen 27 percent from
their high in September after the company indicated it will be
short of money needed for drilling projects this year and  BG
Group Plc (BG/) , its partner in Tanzania, opted to slow development of
a liquefied natural gas venture there. The drop, also fueled as
shareholders Mittal Investments Sarl and Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group sold shares, left the $2.8 billion explorer
trading last week at 3.2 times its net assets, the lowest in
almost a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ophir offers buyers the chance to gain a foothold or expand
in Africa with access to assets that have the potential to
supply enough fuel for the continent for at least a decade. The
company could attract Shell, which lost a bidding war last year
for East African explorer Cove Energy Plc, according to SVM
Asset Management Ltd. Chinese state-owned firms  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,
which has projects in  Uganda , and  China  Petrochemical Corp., the
refiner known as Sinopec Group, also could be interested,
Guinness Atkinson Asset Management Inc. said.  Ophir has “got to the size where it’s going to be
difficult for them to develop those assets on their own,” Will Riley, a London-based  fund manager  who helps oversee $330
million including Ophir shares at Guinness Atkinson, said in a
telephone interview. “The stock looks reasonably valued
relative to the assets it has. They are a logical takeover
candidate.”  Africa Play  Ophir Chief Executive Officer Nick Cooper declined through
an outside spokesman to comment on the potential for the company
to become a takeover target.  Cooper, a former BG geophysicist and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. banker, has been focusing on gas projects off  Equatorial
Guinea  and Tanzania, where Ophir plans to produce LNG for
export. It has interests in areas off  East Africa ’s coast with
an indicated resource potential of more than 40 trillion cubic
feet, enough to supply the continent for a decade, based on the
most recent  consumption data  compiled by BP Plc.  Ophir, which has yet to turn a profit and will  release  its
2012 results later this week, also has  exploration assets  in the
Republic of Congo, Gabon, Madagascar and some other African
nations.  Shares of Ophir, which peaked at 641 pence in September,
have since declined as the company announced plans in October to
spend $650 million on its 2013 drilling program, an amount
exceeding its cash available for investments by about $450
million, according to Morgan Stanley.  Shareholder Sales  The stock fell further last month after BG said on Feb. 5
that it would slow development of an LNG project in Tanzania
because of a lack of infrastructure and government capacity to
handle large investments. The same week, Ophir investors Mittal,
run by billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal , and  Och-Ziff (OZM)  sold shares
representing 9 percent of the company’s outstanding stock
through Credit Suisse Group AG. Separately,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s largest money manager, also sold Ophir stock, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Ophir’s 27 percent decline from its Sept. 14 high was the
second-worst during the period among stocks in the FTSE All-
Share Oil and Gas Producers  Index. (FAOILG)  The stock ended last week at
its cheapest to  book value  since last March, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Ophir’s share price has been hurt by the fact that people
know” about its funding problems, Stuart Amor, a London-based
analyst at RFC Ambrian Ltd., said in a phone interview. “That
makes them more susceptible to a takeover.”  Today, the explorer’s  shares  fell 1.1 percent to close at
461.7 pence. After the close of trading, Ophir announced a plan
to raise about 553 pounds ($835 million) by selling shares and
rights.  ‘Attractive Target’  For energy companies seeking new reserves to increase
production, “Ophir would make an attractive target in terms of
its exploration portfolio,” he said.  Ophir is undertaking a drilling program involving as many
as 15 wells targeting about 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent
resources, it said Nov. 15. The explorer is searching for
partners to share project costs, and has opened its books to
energy companies seeking to perform due diligence on the African
explorer.  Buying Ophir outright offers “a combination of acquiring
discovered resources in Equatorial Guinea and Tanzania to
potential LNG projects plus very interesting exploration
potential,” said Anish Kapadia, an analyst at Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co. in  London , who recommends investors buy Ophir shares.
“Any companies with holes in those areas in their portfolios
could look at it.”  Shell Motive  Shell, which explores Tanzanian waters nearby Ophir, may be
interested because of its gas reserves, said Colin McLean, CEO
of Edinburgh-based SVM Asset Management, who helps manage $800
million, including Ophir shares. The Hague-based company, the
world’s largest LNG supplier, has been expanding its business
and last month agreed to buy LNG assets from Repsol SA.  Shell predicts LNG demand will increase to 400 million tons
a year by 2020, a fourfold increase from 2000. It has been in
talks with  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  about joining
larger gas discoveries off Mozambique to the south of Tanzania.  Ross Whittam, a London-based spokesman at Shell, which has
a market capitalization of $213 billion, declined to comment on
a possible purchase of Ophir.  China Demand  Cnooc, which just completed a $15.1 billion takeover of
Canadian explorer Nexen Inc., has joined London-based Tullow Oil
Plc and Total SA of  France  in developing Uganda oil fields in
East Africa. Cnooc, along with refiner Sinopec, may be
interested in Ophir’s LNG projects, which target exports to fuel
 China’s economy , Guinness Atkinson’s Riley said.  Representatives for Cnooc weren’t immediately available for
comment. Lv Dapeng, a Beijing-based spokesman for Sinopec,
didn’t answer two calls made to his office.  Ophir is more likely to secure partners for projects rather
than attract a corporate acquisition, given the investments a
buyer would have to make in the company, said Stuart Joyner, an
analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in London. Any buyer would
have to be prepared to provide “potentially billions of
dollars” in LNG project development, he said in a phone
interview.  “The data room has been open for quite some period, and
they have not been able to do a deal,” Joyner said. “Industry
prices for these assets are probably below the stock market
valuation at the moment.”  Relative Value  Even after Ophir’s recent declines, the stock is still
almost 90 percent  higher  than when it first started trading in
July 2011. While the explorer’s price-book ratio is at the
lowest level in almost a year, it’s still more than the median
1.97 for exploration and production companies with a market
value larger than $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  As Ophir pursues its drilling projects, analysts expect the
stock to rise more than 50 percent in the next year to 709.71
pence, data  compiled  by Bloomberg show.  “You’ve got a few catalysts coming up that we expect to
drive the share price,” Al Stanton, an Edinburgh-based analyst
at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a phone interview. For an
acquirer, “Ophir offers material stakes in material projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  