-- OTMT Dividend Boosts Shares to Seven-Month High: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-03-04T10:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/otmt-dividend-boosts-shares-to-seven-month-high-cairo-mover.html
Orascom Telecom Media & Technology
Holding SAE (OTMT) , controlled by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ,
rose to the highest level in more than seven months after its
board recommended a 41 percent dividend payout.  Shares of the Cairo-based company climbed 4.4 percent to 72
piasters at 11:57 a.m. local time, the highest intraday level
since July 16. That brings its two-day gain since the dividend
announcement to 14 percent. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  lost 1.4
percent today.  The company also known as OTMT, which controls assets in
Egypt, Lebanon and North Korea, recommended yesterday a 1.35
billion dividend distribution for 2012. That’s a 26-piaster per
share bonus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg ,
representing 41 percent of the closing share price before the
announcement. OTMT was established in 2011 to split the assets
of Sawiris’  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  and facilitate its
merger with Russia’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   “The move is positive as it signals OTMT’s readiness to
give cash back to shareholders in the absence of a good M&A
opportunity,” Karim Khadr and Sarah Shabayek, analysts at
Cairo-based CI Capital, who have an overweight recommendation on
the stock, wrote in a report today. “This should increase
shareholder trust in management.”  The company, which owns 75 percent of North Korea’s
monopoly mobile phone service, said last week the country’s
regime issued new policies that allow uncensored mobile-phone
internet access for foreigners. It paid a 1.05 dividend per
share in July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock is a  recommended  buy by five analysts on
Bloomberg and a hold by two. “Downside risks” include a
deterioration in the North Korean operating environment and the
sustainability of the losses in the company’s media and
technology business, CI Capital said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  