-- Tottenham Beats Arsenal 2-1 to Boost Chances of Champions League
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-03-04T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/tottenham-beats-arsenal-2-1-to-boost-chances-of-champions-league.html
Tottenham won 2-1 at Arsenal to
boost its chances of a top-four finish in English soccer’s
Premier League and qualification for Europe’s Champions League.  Gareth Bale and  Aaron Lennon  got first-half goals for
Tottenham against its north London rival at White Hart Lane
yesterday. Per Mertesacker scored for the visiting team.  The victory lifted Spurs into third place and extended
their advantage over fifth-place Arsenal to seven points. Leader
Manchester United has 71 points, 15 more than defending champion
Manchester City, which visits Aston Villa tonight. Chelsea has
52 points in fourth spot ahead of Arsenal with 47.  “It’s massive to go seven points clear in a north London
derby,” Tottenham defender  Michael Dawson  told Sky Sports. “We
have a long way to go, but it’s a good day.”  Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas said his team will have to
fight hard in the remaining 10 games as is seeks to qualify for
 Europe ’s elite club competition next season.  “It was very, very important for what it means,” Villas-
Boas said of the win against Arsenal. “We try to profit from
another important fixture and keep doing our job. It is
important we gather as many points as we can to finish where we
want to be.”  Bale opened the scoring in the 37th minute, beating the
offside trap as he latched on to Gylfi Sigurdsson’s pass and
slipped the ball past goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny. It was his
20th goal for Spurs this season, including nine in his past
seven games for the club.  Lead Doubled  Two minutes later Spurs doubled their lead in similar
fashion, as Lennon ran on to a defense-splitting pass from  Scott Parker  before slotting past the goalkeeper.  Mertesacker got a goal back for Arsenal in the 51st minute,
heading in from a free kick with the ball taking a slight
deflection off Bale.  Arsenal stepped up the pressure in search of the tying goal.
Nacho Monreal shot just wide and Spurs goalkeeper  Hugo Lloris 
beat Olivier Giroud to Carl Jenkinson’s cross.  Bale should have scored again, though skied the ball from
close range. Szczesny then cleared from Sigurdsson.  Aaron Ramsey  had a chance to tie the scores, though his
shot was deflected wide. Arsenal’s  Lukas Podolski  had a shot
deflected over the crossbar in stoppage time as Spurs held out
for the win.  Tottenham last finished above Arsenal in the league in the
1994-95 season, although the Gunners haven’t won a trophy since
2005. That’s led to pressure on manager  Arsene Wenger , who said
his team now faces a difficult task to finish in the top four.  ‘Massive Challenge’  “It will be a massive challenge,” Wenger said. “I said
before the game that we could not afford to drop points. It
happened to us many times this season and only in big games.
It’s difficult to say why, there’s no common thing.”  Yesterday morning, Arsenal said majority owner  Stan Kroenke 
is committed to the 13-time English champion for the long term
and wouldn’t consider a sale. A Gulf-based group is planning a
record 1.5 billion-pound ($2.3 billion) bid for the Gunners, the
Sunday Telegraph and the Sun said.  The club said last week it had cash reserves of 123 million
pounds at the end of the financial half-year to Nov. 30. The
Arsenal Supporters’ Trust has said the figures showed the club
should spend more money on the team after players including
 Robin van Persie  and Cesc Fabregas left.  After yesterday’s game, Wenger told  Sky Sports  he knew
nothing about a bid and said any decision on whether to sell was
a matter for the club’s owners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 