-- House Budget Bill Would Continue Automatic Spending Cuts
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-03-04T22:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/house-budget-bill-would-continue-automatic-spending-cuts.html
House Republicans  introduced a
measure that would finance the U.S. government at an annual rate
of about $982 billion through Sept. 30, keeping the automatic
spending cuts that began March 1.  The stopgap measure unveiled today, known as a continuing
resolution, would include new 2013 spending bills for the
Pentagon and the Department of  Veterans Affairs , which also
would be subject to the reductions.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican, said the spending plan would avert a
federal government shutdown when current funding expires March
27. He said it would give the Defense and Veterans Affairs
departments more leeway to decide how to spend their money and
implement the mandated cuts.  “It is clear that this nation is facing some very hard
choices, and it’s up to Congress to pave the way for our
financial future,” he said in a statement. “This bill will
fund essential federal programs and services, help maintain our
national security, and take a potential shutdown off the
table.”  The House is set to vote by March 7 on the measure. It
would apply the federal spending cuts to the current level of
$1.043 trillion in government funding, resulting in an annual
spending rate of about $982 billion.  Defense Budget  Under Rogers’s bill, the Defense Department would have a
base budget of $518.1 billion and $87.2 billion for war
operations. Most of those funds would be reduced under the
federal spending cuts. Some accounts such as military personnel
and pay are exempt from the automatic cuts.  The measure also would cancel a 0.5 percent pay raise for
federal civilian employees scheduled to take effect in April,
the first time the federal pay schedule was to be increased
since 2010. The provision is expected to save $11 billion over
10 years, Republicans have said.  The House passed almost identical legislation affecting
federal pay on Feb. 15 over the objections of President  Barack Obama  and  House Democrats . House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, a
Maryland Democrat, said Republicans were pushing federal
employees to “give up their hard-earned pay because Congress
cannot reach a balanced solution to deficits.”  ‘Outdated Plans’  New York Representative  Nita Lowey , the Appropriations
Committee’s top Democrat, said in a statement she was
“disappointed” that Rogers’s proposal “would lock most of the
federal government into outdated plans and spending levels.”  Lowey said the automatic discretionary spending cuts that
are preserved in the legislation “will result in job losses and
furloughs, slowed economic growth” and a reduction of
government services.  Investors haven’t been deterred much by the budget
negotiations. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent
to 1,525.25 at 4 p.m. in New York, after falling as much as 0.3
percent earlier. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 37.86
points, or 0.3 percent, to 14,127.52.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.87 percent at 2:01 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  