-- Palm Reserves in Malaysia Seen Lower in February on Output
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-03-05T07:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/palm-reserves-in-malaysia-seen-lower-in-february-as-output-drops.html
Palm oil  stockpiles in  Malaysia ,
which held near a record in January, probably shrank by the most
in 10 months in February as output declined in the second-
largest supplier, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Stockpiles contracted 5.4 percent on month, the steepest
drop since April, to 2.44 million metric tons, the median of
estimates from two plantation companies and six analysts showed.
Output fell 13 percent to 1.4 million tons, while  exports 
dropped 7.4 percent to 1.5 million tons, the median of seven
estimates showed. Official data are due for release on March 11.  Declining stockpiles may help to pave the way for a rebound
in prices of the world’s most-used edible oil, which tumbled 23
percent last year as global supply reached a record. Dorab Mistry, a director at Godrej International Ltd., who’s due to
address an industry conference in  Kuala Lumpur  tomorrow, has
said palm’s outlook is bearish this year as global oilseed
production increases, including soybean harvests in the Americas.  “Prices should gain some ground from here,” said Alvin Tai, an analyst at OSK Investment Bank Bhd. “The inventory
cycle hits a trough in May or June, so this is the time for
prices to strengthen.”  Palm for May delivery traded 0.4 percent lower at 2,404
ringgit ($775) a ton on Bursa Malaysia Derivatives at 3:33 p.m.
in Kuala Lumpur. The Palm and Lauric Oils Conference &
Exhibition, arranged by Bursa Malaysia Bhd., opened today. Yusof Basiron, chief executive officer of the Malaysian Palm Oil
Council, told delegates at the gathering that prices may range
from 2,500 ringgit to 3,200 ringgit a ton.  Tax Reform  Malaysia announced export-tax changes last year to try to
reduce the inventories, which stood at 2.58 million tons in
January after peaking at 2.63 million tons in December. The
reform resulted in a zero tariff for January and February.
Shipments will be taxed at a 4.5 percent rate this month.  Stockpiles remained high last month due to a drop in
exports to  China  as inventory there is high, said  Ben Santoso ,
an analyst at DBS Vickers Securities Pte in  Singapore . While
output is seen rebounding in March, exports will also pick up as
demand for the oil, which clouds in cooler temperatures,
recovers as the winter season ends, he said.  Palm inventory at ports in China, the largest cooking oil
user, rose to a record 1.22 million tons, state-owned researcher
Grain.gov.cn said March 1. Shipments to China from Malaysia
dropped 15 percent last month from January, an estimate from
surveyor  Societe Generale  de Surveillance shows. Total exports
declined 8.8 percent to 1.3 million tons, according to SGS.  UBS’s Outlook  Palm will gain as demand recovers and output in Malaysia
and Indonesia declines, Sebastian Tobing and Bonny Setiawan,
analysts at UBS AG, wrote in a report dated Feb. 26. Stockpiles
were expected to drop to 2.4 million tons last month due to the
seasonal slowdown in production, which may continue into the
second quarter, they said.  Output of the oil, which is produced year-round, is
typically lowest in the first two months of the year. Still,
production last month was 18 percent higher than a year ago,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on the projection in
the survey and data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board.  Demand for palm oil in 2013 may grow more than the usual
annual rate of 4 percent to 5 percent as the low prices will
boost consumption for energy purposes such as biofuels and
burning in  power plants , said OSK’s Tai.  Global stockpiles will gain to a record 7.203 million tons
this season, according to a projection from the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture . Record global supply of 53.3 million tons will
outpace demand of 51.8 million tons, USDA forecasts show.  Godrej’s Mistry told Bloomberg last month that palm
probably will drop this year after producers boosted acreage and
global oilseed supplies rose. Chris de Lavigne, at  Frost &
Sullivan , another speaker at the conference, said today that
suppliers need to find new uses for palm to absorb the biggest-
ever harvests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  