-- Parisiennes Dress to Thrill in Corsets, Bustles at Met
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-03-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/parisiennes-dress-to-thrill-in-corsets-bustles-at-met.html
I felt woefully underdressed taking
in the sumptuous new show at the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  Here were enormous bustles and hoops, flowing trains and
billowing, tent-sized dresses, plus parasols, gloves, slippers,
fans, bonnets, shawls and canes.  Poised rows of hourglass-shaped corsets and regal men’s
hats herald the dawn of abstract modernist sculpture and our
penchant for the spare and unadorned.  In masterful figure paintings by Degas, Manet, Monet and
Renoir, ample bosoms and bare shoulders blossom from untold
yards of satin and silk, iridescent flesh emerging from a sea of
flickering fabric.  “Impressionism, Fashion and Modernity” displays 79
paintings alongside 14 lavish evening gowns and day dresses,
some actually worn by the models depicted.  In a gallery devoted to white, Renoir treats the woman’s
gown as downy cloud and frost-licked snow.  In a gallery featuring black, which Renoir called “the
queen of colors,” Manet turns his “Parisienne” into a charming
feathered bird with yellow-gloved claws.  Haute Couture  Glamorous period fashion magazines, photographs and prints
provide context for this ravishing show devoted to the
intersection of French Impressionist painting and late 19th-
century Parisian haute couture.  Though posed standing or sitting still, these uneasy women
can also appear to be in constant motion -- conflicted. At
times, galloping legs seem to be hidden under voluminous skirts.  Some dresses, solid as architecture, soar like cathedrals.
Others trail roiling wakes. In many of these portraits, the
figure almost disappears and clothing becomes the real subject.  Seen in profile, the prominent bustle of Corot’s pensive
“Lady in Blue” turns toward the viewer, as if she is about to
snub us. In several canvases by Manet, the women’s spreading
lower bodies pour and roll like waves.  Monet’s portrait of his wife, “Camille,” tilts the ground
plane upward beneath her beautiful gray and green striped dress,
giving her the appearance of climbing stairs, of ascension.  Caillebotte’s large, misty-gray “Paris Street; Rainy Day”
ends the show. That iconic foggy scene depicting sharply
dressed, umbrella-wielding Parisians looks as wet as the day it
was painted.  Easy Virtue  It will get a lot of attention, but the real showstopper
here is Courbet’s “Young Ladies on the Banks of the Seine
(Summer).” This masterpiece features two women of easy virtue,
one of whom, with fingers curled and eyes closed, lies on her
stomach. Her legs are parted, exposing her petticoats, and her
midsection is telescoped, pushing into the earth, as if her body
were responding to an imaginary lover.  Erotic, pleasurable and informative, this exhibition
chronicles the rise of the department store and off-the-rack
clothing, as well as the birth and decline of the bustle.  It also shows the Impressionist love of depicting modernity
by capturing changing fashion. As Monet painted “Luncheon on the
Grass,” he swapped out dresses and accessories and changed color
combinations to ensure that his elegant Parisians were au
courant.  What “Impressionism, Fashion and Modernity” demonstrates is
not simply the ongoing relationship between fashion and art and,
by extension, the interaction of high and popular culture.  It gives permanence to the transient.  “Impressionism, Fashion and Modernity” runs through May 27
at the  Metropolitan Museum of Art , 1000 Fifth Ave. Information:
+1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  wine  and Patrick
Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 