-- Pearson CEO Is Said to Tell FT Staff to Brace for Fewer Jobs
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-03-05T17:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/pearson-ceo-is-said-to-tell-ft-employees-to-prepare-for-job-cuts.html
Pearson Plc (PSON)  Chief Executive Officer
John Fallon, who has announced a plan to generate 100 million
pounds ($151 million) in cost savings in 2014, told staff at the
Financial Times unit yesterday that there will be fewer jobs in
the U.S. and U.K. as the publisher focuses on  emerging markets ,
according to a person who attended the meeting.  Fallon told FT employees at the gathering in  London  that as
the company tries to do in one year a restructuring that would
normally be spread over six, the changes will include fewer
roles to do with Pearson’s print-led publishing businesses, said
the person, asking not to be identified because the meeting was
private. No potential job-cut numbers were given, said the
person.  Pearson forecast last week its 2013 operating profit will
be “broadly level” with 2012 before restructuring costs and
including the Penguin book business it’s separating from. The
London-based company plans to spend 150 million pounds on the
reorganization this year as it accelerates the move of its
education business to fast-growing regions and digital services.  “The FT is now primarily a digital operation and not a
print one, so you’d need fewer journalists and you can scale
that down with print,” said Ian Whittaker, an analyst at
 Liberum Capital . “Looking at the detail they’ve announced they
said they’d do significant restructuring and that would include
the FT.”  Staff Update  The cuts and restructuring outlined by Fallon are Pearson-
wide and not just specific to the FT, a spokeswoman for the
newspaper said. A Pearson spokesman confirmed that there was an
employee presentation at the FT yesterday, adding that it was
traditional that staff are updated on company results.  The Financial Times employs about 2,000 people, 600 of whom
are on the editorial staff, according to the newspaper’s
website.  Shares of Pearson rose 1 percent to close at 1,180 pence in
London trading, valuing the company at 9.6 billion pounds. They
have  fallen  2.2 percent in the past 12 months, while the FTSE
All-Share Media Index gained 25 percent.  FT Group CEO John Ridding, who joined Fallon at the
meeting, said that while losing some positions will be the most
difficult part of the restructuring, maintaining the current
situation isn’t possible, the person said. Neither executive
specified which departments would be affected, according to the
person.  The structural change under way in the newspaper industry
makes it necessary to act more hastily, Ridding said, according
to the person. Changes include adding more jobs in  Brazil ,  India 
and  China , and embedding FT videos in educational materials at
Pearson-owned schools.  Fallon, who took over from Marjorie Scardino in January,
also told staff that the Financial Times isn’t for sale and that
every Pearson unit has to be sustainable, according to the
person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  