-- Pension Funds Clash With Semeta on Transaction-Tax Harm
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-04T11:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/pension-funds-clash-with-semeta-on-transaction-tax-harm.html
Opponents of a European Union
financial-transactions tax say pension funds will be hurt even
if their home governments don’t sign up.  Households across  Europe  will see retirement-planning costs
rise if the EU imposes the transaction tax, according to APG,
the largest Dutch pension fund. Brussels-based industry group
PensionsEurope said the proposed tax, which aims to raise
revenue for national governments, would have a heavy effect on
taxpayers already reeling from bailout costs.  “Even small differences in return on long-term savings
make huge differences in final pension outcomes,” Matti
Leppala, PensionsEurope’s executive director, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Taxes like FTT would hurt the
returns and would have to be paid by current and future
retirees.”  The proposed levy would tax trades on stocks, bonds and
derivatives with any connection to the nations that sign up to
participate. Pension funds aren’t exempt from the effort, which
has the backing of 11 nations.  EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta said the levy would
encourage pension funds to shun secondary markets and stick to
long-term investments. “Our analysis demonstrates that pension
funds do not actively participate in trading as such,” he said
in a Feb. 25 interview in  Washington .  APG  disagrees. Pension plans trade frequently, in large
volumes, to hedge risk and comply with investor-protection
regulations, said spokesman Harmen Geers.  ‘High Concern’  “It starts to become a matter of high concern when an EU
commissioner wants to intervene in how pension funds invest,”
Geers said by telephone. “Huge sums or notional sums are
involved for a lot of trades, just to be able to comply with the
requirement that a fund hedges its risk.”  Even if pension funds were exempted from the proposed levy,
they’d still be affected by its effects on their trading
partners, Geers said. “The cost would still be passed on to us,
and therefore to our individual pension participants,” he said.  The EU on Feb. 14 unveiled its proposal for a 0.1 percent
tax for stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent on derivatives
trades with ties to participating countries. To prevent traders
from escaping the levy by operating outside the tax’s zone, the
EU plan invokes “residence” and “issuance” ties to firms in
participating nations. That means, for example, that a French
bond traded in  London  would still be affected.  Avoiding Exemptions  “A very important issue is that we do not create some
exemptions, we do not create the possibility to circumvent the
tax,” Semeta said this week. He said collection costs would not
be excessive because most trades take place electronically.  The EU estimates the arrangement could raise as much as 35
billion euros ($45 billion) annually. To become law, the
proposal must be approved by every nation that agrees to
participate -- so far  Belgium ,  Germany ,  Estonia , Greece,  Spain ,
 France ,  Italy ,  Austria ,  Portugal , Slovenia and Slovakia. All 27
EU nations can sit in on the talks and have the option to join.  The proposals exclude certain types of trading: day-to-day
transactions by individuals and non-financial firms; primary
offerings of stocks and bonds; and trades with central banks,
the European Stability Mechanism and other official
institutions. The tax also excludes primary-market trades in
units of collective investment funds along with certain
restructuring operations.  Deutsche Boerse AG, the operator of the Frankfurt stock
exchange, said the tax would undermine the financial stability
it’s supposed to promote. The tax would be passed through to
small businesses and pension investors who already have been
victims of Europe’s sovereign-debt and banking crisis, said
Deutsche Boerse spokesman  Frank Herkenhoff .  “The impacts of this potential tax show a striking
discrepancy between political objectives derived from the
financial crisis,” he said in e-mailed comments on Feb. 27. It
“will lead to a situation in which financial transactions will
migrate to less regulated and non-transparent markets. Potential
systemic risks will remain unchanged, but they will merely be
detracted from the influence and control of the supervision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  