-- Persian Gulf Tanker Supply Seen at Record by Morgan Stanley
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-03-04T17:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/persian-gulf-tanker-supply-seen-at-record-by-morgan-stanley-1-.html
A record supply of very large crude
carriers will be available in the Persian Gulf over the next 30
days, according to  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   More than 25 percent of the global fleet, or 159 ships each
able to hold 2 million barrels of crude, will be available for
loading during the period, Fotis Giannakoulis, a New York-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mailed report today. The
Persian Gulf remains “heavily” oversupplied, keeping VLCC
rates at $5,000 a day as vessel availability climbs to a record,
he said.  VLCCs “are still stuck in a rut with quoted rates in
negative territory in what should be the last part of a strong
season,” according to an e-mailed report today from Oslo-based
Arctic Securities ASA. This is “giving a worrying outlook for
the summer months,” according to the report.  Daily  losses  for VLCCs hauling Middle East crude to Asia as
determined by the London-based Baltic Exchange, a global
benchmark, widened to $3,514 from $3,082 on March 1. The ships
lost $5,072 a day last month on average, exchange data show.  The exchange’s assessments fail to account for owners’
efforts to improve returns by securing cargoes for a voyage’s
return leg or reducing speed to burn less fuel, known as slow-
steaming. The price of fuel, or bunkers, the industry’s main
expense, fell 0.7 percent to $629.26 a metric ton, figures
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports showed.  Demand Growth  The combined carrying capacity of the world VLCC fleet will
expand 5.1 percent this year, similar to demand growth of 5.2
percent, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the biggest shipbroker.  Charter rates for VLCCs on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage
added 0.2 percent to 32.36 industry-standard Worldscale points,
figures from the London-based Baltic Exchange showed today. The
Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes on
thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat rate,
expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s level
means hire costs on the benchmark route are 32.36 percent of the
nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, lost
0.6 percent to 696, according to the bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  