-- Pescanova Shares Fall 60% as Company Negotiates Refinancing
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-03-04T18:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/pescanova-may-plunge-60-as-seeks-to-refinance-sell-assets.html
Pescanova SA (PVA) ,  Europe ’s second-
biggest fish processor, plunged 60 percent after it started the
initial phase of seeking creditors’ protection and delayed
results pending asset sales and a debt renegotiation.  The shares tumbled to 6.96 euros in Madrid, or 60 percent
lower than its previous close at 17.40 euros on Feb. 28, a day
before it was suspended from trading by stock market regulator
CNMV. The one-day decline was the most since at least 1994,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pescanova, based in Pontevedra, northwest  Spain , said last
week it would not provide financial results for 2012 until it
proceeds with either the “certainty” of a sale of some salmon-
farming assets or the renegotiation of its debt. The company
also said it entered a preliminary phase of seeking protection
from creditors.  “This was totally unexpected,” Joao Safara Silva, a
Madrid-based analyst at Banco BPI, said in a telephone interview
today. “Like many other Spanish firms, Pescanova had debt-
related problems, but it was still regarded as a solid company.
It should have been able to avoid this situation.”  The company’s  160 million euros ($208 million) of 8.75
percent convertible bonds due 2019 dropped and were quoted at 46
cents on the euro by KNG Securities LLP in  London . Its two other
convertible securities, due 2017 and 2015, were quoted at
similar levels, KNG said.  Significant Development  “The company continues to carry out its regular activities
and it will announce any significant development about the debt
and asset-sale negotiations through the stock-market
regulator,” Angel Matamoro, general manager at Pescanova
Alimentacion, the unit that sells products in Spain, said in a
phone interview today.  Matamoro declined to comment on when the company will agree
new terms on its debt or sell assets. He also wouldn’t say when
Pescanova will release its earnings.  Pescanova  shares  had gained 24 percent in the year through
Feb. 28, valuing the company at 500 million euros. As of today,
Pescanova has fallen 50 percent this year, valuing the business
at 200 million euros. The benchmark  IBEX 35 index  has risen 1
percent in the year to date.  There are many more sellers than buyers of the stock and it
is difficult to match buyers to sellers’ prices, according to
Pablo Malumbres, a spokesman at Bolsas & Mercados Espanoles SA,
the operator of Spain’s biggest securities exchange. More than
1.6 million shares couldn’t be sold today, while there were bids
for only about 650 shares at 6.80 euros, according to Fernando
Canales, another spokesman for BME. That means the company may
face further losses tomorrow, he said.  Pescanova, which has about 10,000 employees and a presence
in more than 20 countries, counts more than 100 vessels and
almost 50 fish-farming plants among its assets, according to the
company’s Website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  