-- Philippines in Talks to Ease Investment Limits, Balisacan Says
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-03-04T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/philippines-in-talks-to-ease-investment-limits-balisacan-says.html
The  Philippines  plans to propose
legislative measures to ease curbs on foreign direct investments
and help the government reduce unemployment, Economic Planning
Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said.  Discussions with lawmakers are taking place on ways to ease
foreign ownership limits in areas such as utilities, trade and
education, and loosen rules on practice of profession, Balisacan
said in an interview in his office in  Manila  yesterday.  “Many of these restrictions are out of place, out of
context,” Balisacan said. “The intention is to improve the
investment climate. We want to make the economy more efficient
and create more jobs.”  President Benigno Aquino is seeking more overseas
investments that will lessen the nation’s dependence on
remittances and lower Asia’s second-highest  unemployment rate .
The government plans to double its job creation target to at
least 2 million a year, Balisacan said.  Investment pledges climbed to a record $15.9 billion last
year, Trade Secretary Gregory Domingo said last month, as
Japanese companies including Murata Manufacturing Co. boosted
expansion plans. The nation’s jobless rate of 6.8 percent was
the highest in the region after New Zealand’s 6.9 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government is also studying looser restrictions on
aviation and may allow foreign airlines greater access to boost
tourism, Balisacan said. The review on ownership curbs won’t
include areas restricted by the Constitution, Finance Secretary
Cesar Purisima said in a Feb. 19 e-mail.  Peso, Inflows  The Philippine economy grew 6.8 percent last quarter,
beating expansions in Malaysia and  Indonesia  and helping propel
the peso to near a five-year high in February. The  Philippine
Stock Exchange (PCOMP)  Index surged to a record last week, and net
portfolio inflows were almost  six times more  in January compared
with the previous month.  Gains in the peso and rising portfolio inflows are
concerns, Balisacan said. The government is working to boost
demand for dollars by accelerating its infrastructure program to
help slow the currency’s appreciation, he said.  “The trick is to grow the demand side as fast the supply
side,” he said. “If we get our infrastructure moving, we
should be able to generate demand for dollars, increase
productivity and make companies more competitive.”  The government may review the current exchange rate
assumption of a range of 42 pesos to 45 pesos per dollar, he
said. The peso, the best performer in Asia and among  emerging
markets  in the past 12 months, fell 0.2 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  