-- Pimco Says 10-Year Note Losses Not a ’Slam Dunk’ in Bond Outlook
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-03-04T19:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/pimco-says-10-year-note-losses-not-a-slam-dunk-in-bond-outlook.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, projects Treasury 10-
year notes will return 2 percent to 3 percent per year during
the next 10 years, trailing the average of the past decade.  The security returned an average of 5.3 percent during the
past 10 years, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The return was 4.2 percent in 2012, down from 20.1
percent in 2008.  U.S. government yields have plunged to record lows as the
economy struggles to grow amid a phenomenon Pimco officials call
the “New Normal” of sluggish growth and below-average
investment returns. The company said slow growth means
Treasuries investors won’t be pummeled by falling bonds prices
and restrained inflation indicates real returns adjusted for
changes may be greater than zero.  “It’s not a slam dunk that low yields equal negative
returns,” said Saumil Parikh, a  money manager  and member of the
investment committee at the  Newport Beach , California-based
company, in a telephone interview yesterday. “You would need a
rapid improvement in the economy and in  interest rates , which is
unlikely to happen.”  Yield Outlook  The benchmark note is projected to deliver an average total
return ranging from 2 percent to 3 percent, he wrote in an
investment report issued today. When adjusted for inflation,
predicted by Pimco to rise 2 percent this year and 2.5 percent
in 2014, the real yield on the 10-year note drops to zero to 0.5
percent.  “The comparison is your cash is likely to earn between
negative 1 and negative 2 percent after inflation,” Parikh
said.  The yield on the 10-year note reached a record low of 1.379
percent in July. It traded at 1.87 percent today, according to
Bloomberg Bond Traders prices. Economists forecast it will end
2013 at 2.25 percent, climbing to 2.61 percent by the end of the
second quarter of 2014, according to the median estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “We expect the  Federal Reserve  to keep interest rates low
for a very extended period of time, and that’s different from
what the market expects,” Parikh said, adding that the rate
will remain at the current level beyond 2015.  Gross Update  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
Feb. 27 asset-price irrationality is rising after years of
record low benchmark interest rates by the Fed. The level of
asset prices signal investors should be cautious and the degree
of irrationality is about six on a scale of one to 10 and
rising, Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook posted on
Pimco’s website.  “Corporate credit and high-yield bonds are somewhat
exuberantly and irrationally priced,” Gross wrote. “Spreads are
tight, corporate profit margins are at record peaks with room to
fall, and the economy is still fragile.”  Pimco increased the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in the $288.2 billion flagship  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) 
to 30 percent in January, a six-month high, from 26 percent of
assets in December, according to a report on the company’s
 website . The fund doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in
its portfolio holdings.  Pimco has been advising investors to purchase five-year
Treasuries and inflation-indexed debt as central banks implement
low interest-rate policies globally. The firm has suggested
investors should avoid longer-term securities due to the risk of
future inflation.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $2 trillion in  assets  as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  