-- Pound Advances Against Euro on Italy Speculation; Gilts Decline
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-03-04T16:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/pound-falls-a-second-day-against-dollar-before-construction-data.html
The pound strengthened against the
euro amid concern  Italy ’s struggle to form a government may drag
on the 17-nation currency bloc’s economic recovery, boosting
demand for U.K. assets.  Sterling rose against all but two of its 16 major peers
after a report showed U.K. house prices increased for the first
time in nine months in February. Britain’s currency advanced
from close to a 2 1/2-year low against the dollar even as an
industry report showed U.K. construction output shrank. The 10-
year gilt yield fell to a  two-month low  after the Bank of
England said net lending to consumers and companies dropped 2.43
billion pounds ($3.66 billion) in the fourth quarter.  “The euro is trading more heavily against sterling
following the Italian elections until we have more clarity,”
said Lee Hardman, a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . In the U.K. “we had
disappointing construction data and also the latest report on
the usage of the funding for lending scheme was relatively
disappointing. We think both the euro and the pound will weaken
further against the dollar over six-to-12 months.”  The pound appreciated 0.5 percent to 86.18 pence per euro
at 4:44 p.m. London time. Sterling gained 0.2 percent to
$1.5072, after sliding to $1.4986 on March 1, the lowest level
since July 2010.  The yield on 10-year gilts rose three basis points to 1.90
percent after falling to 1.86 percent, the least since Dec. 31.  The rate dropped 24 basis points last week after
inconclusive elections in Italy sparked concern lawmakers will
fail to form a government, hampering the progress of austerity
measures put in place by the previous administration.  Construction Slides  An index of U.K.  construction activity  fell to 46.8 from
48.7 in January, Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply said in an e-mailed report today in
London. That’s the lowest since October 2009 and below
economists’ forecast for a reading of 49, based on the median of
nine estimates. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Bank of England policy makers meeting this week have said
they are considering new measures to revive growth as the
economy shows signs of slipping into an unprecedented triple-dip
recession.  “Recent U.K. data have been much worse than expected,
showing that the economy is struggling,” said Bernd Berg, a
currency strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “This
gives plenty of arguments for the Bank of England to announce
further monetary easing measures. The pound will therefore
remain under intense pressure and fall towards $1.48.”  Rate Expectations  Money markets are factoring in a 25 basis-point cut in the
central bank’s main rate by December, according to sterling
overnight index average forwards, so-called Sonia rates, Tullett
Prebon Plc data show. The bank’s key interest rate has been at a
 record-low  0.5 percent since March 2009.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King, who will retire in
June and will be replaced by Mark Carney, and two other policy
makers were last month defeated in a push for more asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing, according to minutes of
the bank’s Feb. 7 meeting.  “There’s been a big surge in expectations for more QE
especially since we got the minutes,” said Elsa Lignos, senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “People
say that in the past when Mervyn King, the governor, has voted
for something, in the following month everyone shifted to join
him. He’s on his way out. I don’t think we’ll get the same
pattern playing out.”  Lignos, who spoke with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move,” expects the pound to strengthen
against the dollar this year.  The pound has depreciated 5.3 percent this year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 3
percent and the euro rose 1.3 percent.  U.K. government bonds lost 0.2 percent this year through
March 1, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds dropped 0.3 percent and Treasuries fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  