-- Principal Agrees to Buy 55% Stake in Liongate Hedge Fund
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-03-04T21:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/principal-agrees-to-buy-55-stake-in-liongate-hedge-fund.html
Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) , the
seller of  life insurance  and retirement products, agreed to buy
a 55 percent stake in Liongate Capital Management LLP to expand
in  hedge funds  and meet demand for alternative investments.  Liongate, with offices in London and New York, oversees
about $2.1 billion for pension funds, insurers and sovereign-
wealth funds, Principal said today in a statement. The deal may
be completed in the second quarter and add to earnings in the
first year, Principal said. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Principal has added asset managers as clients demand higher
yields, Jim McCaughan, chief executive officer of Principal
Global Investors LLC, said in a phone interview. Des Moines,
Iowa-based Principal has been moving toward an investment
management model, he said.  “We’ve been quietly building areas like alternatives and
 emerging markets , which is really where our client demand is
shifting to,” McCaughan said.  Principal gained 1.1 percent to $31.89 at 4:10 p.m. in New
York and has advanced about 16 percent in the past year.  The company bought a majority stake in hedge fund
Finisterre Capital LLP in 2011 to expand in emerging markets,
and agreed last year to buy Chile’s fourth-largest pension
manager,  AFP Cuprum (CUPRUM)  SA. In 2005, Principal bought a controlling
stake in Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund Columbus Circle
Investors.  “The evolution of the business is very clearly toward fee-
based business,” McCaughan said.  Liongate’s partners will continue to manage the firm and
keep a 45 percent stake. The partners will reinvest “a
significant share” of the proceeds into funds managed by the
firm, according to the statement.  Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP advised Principal on the
transaction and Fenchurch Advisory Partners Ltd. advised
Liongate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in  New York  at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  