-- Puerto Rico Pension Fix Allays Insolvency Concern: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-03-04T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/puerto-rico-pension-fix-allays-insolvency-concern-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico debt is set to extend
its longest rally in a year as proposals to fix a pension system
on the brink of insolvency encourage investors that the U.S.
commonwealth is tackling its biggest fiscal challenges.  The island’s bonds, which are tax-exempt in all U.S.
states, have lured buyers nationwide hunting for extra yield.
Puerto Rico revenue-backed securities due in 2023 yield  2.08
percentage points  more than top-rated municipal debt, close to a
two-month low, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They have been
gaining since mid-January.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 41, a Democrat who took
office Jan. 2, wants to boost the 6.8 percent funding level of
Puerto Rico’s largest pension system and keep the island’s
general obligations from being cut to junk. Officials last week
recommended steps such as raising the retirement age and
employee contributions. If passed by the legislature, the plan
would address Puerto Rico’s toughest financial hurdle and
sustain the debt rally, said Tom Weyl, director of muni research
at Barclays Plc in New York.  “It’s one of the most comprehensive reform plans we’ve
seen proposed for a state or local pension plan,” he said.  Island’s Challenge  While local governments nationwide face unfunded pension
liabilities after the recession that ended in 2009, Puerto Rico
has additional challenges. The commonwealth’s economy grew last
year for the first time since 2006, according to the Puerto Rico
Planning Board. Its December jobless  rate  of 14.4 percent was
higher than in any U.S. state.  The commonwealth must also absorb federal spending cuts
that were set to begin March 1. Under the reductions, Puerto
Rico would lose financing for job-search assistance affecting
17,770 residents, and get $4.9 million less in primary and
secondary education funding, according to the White House.  Moody’s Investors Service in December cut the island to
Baa3, its lowest investment grade, citing the unfunded pension
liability and “reduced prospects for a strong economic
recovery.” The outlook is negative.  The commonwealth’s Government Employees Retirement System,
with 131,361 workers and 116,658 retirees, had 6.8 percent of
assets needed for $25.5 billion in projected obligations,
according to the most recent actuarial report.  Illinois , the
weakest among U.S. states, had about 43 percent of needed
assets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asset Wall  Puerto Rico’s system will run out of net assets in 2014 and
total assets, which includes pension-bond proceeds, in 2019,
according to the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico.
The governor’s recommendations would extend the life of the
system to about 2040, according to the bank, the commonwealth’s
fiscal agent.  “As far as the credit goes, this is positive,” said
Joseph Pangallozzi, a managing director with New York-based
BlackRock Inc., which is the world’s biggest asset manager and
handles $109 billion of munis.  If history is any guide, there’s room for Puerto Rico bonds
to gain. The additional yield that investors demand to buy 10-
year revenue debt sold by Puerto Rico issuers is still wider
than the average of  1.4 percentage points  since 1996, the data
show.  Climbing Price  Puerto Rico general-obligation bonds maturing in July 2041
traded March 1 as high as 100.6 cents on the dollar, up from
95.3 cents when the debt was issued in March 2012, Bloomberg
data show. The securities yield about 5 percent.  The governor’s plan includes lifting the retirement age in
stages, to 65 from 58 for workers who have been in the system
the longest, and to 67 from 60 for the newest employees,
according to a press release from the Development Bank.
Employees would also pay 10 percent of their salaries toward
retirement, from about 8 percent.  He would also lower bonuses and direct $100 million per
year from the commonwealth’s general fund to bolster the
pensions. The changes would give employees hired in 2000 an
annuity after retirement rather than a one-time payment.  “Each one of these measures is needed to preserve the
system’s solvency and to guarantee our public employees a
dignified retirement,” Javier Ferrer, president of the
Development Bank, said in a statement.  Ratings View  The proposal would help keep the commonwealth’s general-
obligation grade above junk, Weyl said.  “We do look at this as stabilizing the ratings process
here,” Weyl said. “The pension is the largest problem that the
rating agencies are focused on.”  Puerto Rico debt has earned 3.3 percent this year through
Feb. 28, beating all U.S. states and the broader muni market’s
0.7 percent gain, according to Barclays data.  The proposals don’t include selling pension bonds. Puerto
Rico had almost $3 billion of such bonds and $9.8 billion of
general-obligation debt as of March 31, according to the
commonwealth.  Investors still want more information, such as how the
changes would affect estimated funding levels, Pangallozzi said.  Betsy Nazario, spokeswoman for the Development Bank, said
Ferrer was unable to answer questions about the proposal. Puerto
Rico Treasurer Melba Acosta was also unable to comment, said Eva
Lizardi, a spokeswoman.  In trading last week in the $3.7 trillion muni market,
local debt was little changed, trailing gains in Treasuries.
Benchmark 10-year munis yielded about 1.88 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  