-- Qatar Telecom Drops Most Since June on Profit Miss: Doha Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-04T12:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/qatar-telecom-drops-most-since-june-on-profit-miss-doha-mover.html
Qatar Telecom QSC fell the most in
more than eight months after the phone operator’s fourth-quarter
profit missed analysts’ estimates.  Shares of the company, known as Ooredoo, dropped 3 percent,
the most since June 28, to 112 riyals at the close in Doha.
Trading volume was more than double the three-month daily
average at 184,875 shares and the stock was the biggest decliner
on the benchmark QE Index, which slipped 0.2 percent.  Ooredoo, the Arab world’s second-biggest phone company by
sales, said yesterday quarterly net income rose 15 percent to
523 million riyals ($144 million), missing the 762 million-riyal
median estimate of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
growth of 6 percent was driven “by healthy increases in Iraq,
Algeria, Qatar and Indonesia supported by a stable performance
by Nawras,” the company’s Oman unit, Ooredoo said, without
providing further detail.  “Although international business is supporting the
company’s earnings, its local business has shown flat figures,”
said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset management at Dubai-
based Al Mal Capital PSC. “For a company which is looking to
acquire more assets, they need cash for future growth.”  Ooredoo, which derived 18 percent of third-quarter revenue
from Qatar, posted a 29 percent drop in cash holdings in 2012,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company, which is mulling
expansion into Libya and Southeast Asia, is considering a bid
for  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s 53 percent stake in  Maroc Telecom SA (IAM)  and
expects no difficulty financing the deal, Nasser Marafih, chief
executive officer  said last week.  Emirates Telecommunications
Corp. (ETISALAT) , or Etisalat, is also vying for the stake.  Nine analysts recommend investors buy the shares of
Ooredoo. The company, which recommended a 2012 cash dividend of
5 riyals a share, has a 12-month dividend yield of 1.8 percent,
compared with 5.9 percent for Etisalat, the Middle East and
North Africa’s largest phone company by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  