-- Tractebel Leads Utilities by Avoiding Rousseff Rate Cuts
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-03-04T17:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/tractebel-leads-utilities-by-avoiding-rousseff-rate-cuts.html
Tractebel Energia SA (TBLE3) ,  Brazil ’s
biggest power utility, is becoming the favorite among investors
after it avoided rate cuts that wiped out $3.9 billion in the
market value of rivals.  The generator -- whose $11 billion market value surpassed
 Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais , or Cemig;  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  and
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , or Eletrobras, last quarter
after ranking fourth since 2004 -- gained 8.7 percent in the
past year. Shares of Cemig, CPFL and Eletrobras each fell at
least 27 percent in the period.  While Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s plan to force
utilities to cut power prices in exchange for early renewal of
concessions triggered a selloff among electricity stocks,
Tractebel sidestepped the pressure because its contracts don’t
expire for at least 14 years. The unit of  France ’s  GDF Suez (GSZ)  is
also taking advantage of record prices by selling more of its
power in the spot market than rivals amid a shortage of hydro-
power.  “What makes this an attractive company is low risk and
very good management,” Oswaldo Telles, an equity analyst at
 Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  who rates Tractebel a buy, said by
telephone from Sao Paulo. “The low risk comes from being a non-
state-owned company, with good management and concessions that
aren’t expiring.”  Florianopolis, Brazil-based Tractebel trades at 13 times
estimated 2013 earnings, compared with a 6.6 ratio for Cemig and
14 for CPFL, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tractebel
rose 0.3 percent to 33.51 reais at 2:14 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  Best Returns  Tractebel’s 27 percent return on equity in the fourth
quarter was the highest among power utilities worldwide worth at
least $5 billion after Chile’s  Empresa Electrica Pehuenche SA (PEHUEN) 
and the Philippines’s  Aboitiz Power Corp. (AP) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Eletrobras ranked 51st with a return of
5.3 percent.  Rousseff said in September she aimed to cut power costs for
companies and consumers by as much as 28 percent and in January
extended the goal to as much as 32 percent. Under the plan,
generation and transmission utilities were asked to lower rates
now in exchange for the renewal of concessions set to expire in
2015 and 2017.  Eletrobras, Cemig  State-controlled Eletrobras, based in  Rio de Janeiro , was
the hardest hit by the measures because it was the only major
generator that accepted the proposal and holds most of the
concessions affected. Cemig has dropped after it rejected the
offer and instead agreed to give up concessions. CPFL’s
distribution business has been hurt by rising costs after a dry
spell drained hydroelectric dam reservoirs, forcing Brazil to
fire up more-expensive thermal plants.  Thermal  generation  represents about 17 percent of
Tractebel’s output capacity, most of which isn’t contracted to
clients. That means the company can sell the energy in the  spot
market  for prices near a five-year high.  GDF’s plan to transfer its 60 percent stake in the Jirau
dam project in the Amazon to Tractabel once it’s completed
threatens to derail the stock’s rally because the handover
includes debt, Geracao Corretora de Valores’s Cristiane Fensterseifer said.  Risk to Rally  “There’s still the risk that it could be transfered this
year,” said Fensterseifer, an equity analyst at the brokerage
that manages 6 billion reais ($3.03 billion) of stocks. While
the company is attractive, its strengths have already been
“priced in,” she said.  Tractebel’s press office declined to comment in an e-mailed
response to questions.  While South American operations represented about 5 percent
of  2012 sales at GDF ,  Europe ’s biggest utility by market value,
it’s focusing on “fast-growing markets” such as Brazil, Chief
Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said Feb. 28 on a call with
investors.  Faith in management is a key driver for investors’ interest
in Tractebel, said Sergio Tamashiro, a utilities analyst at
Banco Safra SA, who rates the stock the equivalent of a buy.  “Many companies lost money rather than win with the high
spot prices,” Tamashiro said in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “Tractebel has a good portfolio, so they manage at least
not to lose money in this crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  