-- Transocean Restores Dividend After Investor Icahn Pressure
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-03-04T21:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/transocean-restores-dividend-after-pressure-from-investor-icahn.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner of the
Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded while drilling in the U.S.
 Gulf of Mexico  in 2010, reinstated dividend payments following
pressure from billionaire shareholder  Carl Icahn .  The board will recommend an annual payout of $2.24 a share,
about $800 million in total, and boost debt repayments by
retiring another $1 billion by the end of next year on top of
current payment obligations, Transocean said today in a
statement. The Vernier, Switzerland-based company, which had
$5.13 billion in cash at the end of 2012, stopped payments a
year ago to defend its investment-grade  credit rating  and
maintain a “strong, flexible balance sheet.”  Icahn, Transocean’s largest shareholder with a 5.6 percent
 stake , still expects to propose a $4-a-share dividend at the
company’s annual meeting, Icahn said in a federal filing today
following the company’s announcement. He will offer “at least”
three new board members. Before last year, the company  paid  out
$3.16 annually to stockholders.  “Transocean’s recent announcement further highlights a
long track record of weak capital allocation strategy,” Icahn
said in the filing. “It is astounding to us that the board
would authorize debt repayments which will make no material
impact to earnings as opposed to authorizing an additional $1.76
per share dividend to shareholders.”  Permanent Dividend  Transocean’s dividend announcement follows the start of a
trial in  New Orleans  to determine liability for the explosion at
the Macondo well, which resulted in the largest offshore  oil
spill  in U.S. history. Transocean won court approval on Feb. 19
for a $1 billion settlement of claims it violated the U.S. Clean
Water Act.  “The board’s decision to recommend a payment for 2013 is
based upon the consideration of multiple factors relevant to the
company’s business, including remaining uncertainties related to
the Macondo well incident,” Transocean said in an earlier
statement.  Transocean should target a permanent dividend that
“approaches a minimum” of 85 percent of net income, Icahn
said. Transocean is expected to earn $4.79 a share this year,
according to the average of 28 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg, and $6.10 in 2014, according to 22 analyst estimates.  The company wasn’t immediately available to comment on
Icahn’s latest filing.  Satisfy Shareholders  “While it is not the full $4/share for which Carl Icahn is
advocating, we believe it is large enough to satisfy many
shareholders while maintaining balance sheet flexibility,” J.B. Lowe and  James Crandell , analysts at Dahlman Rose & Co. in  New
York , wrote today in a note to investors.  Transocean rose 0.1 percent to $52.19 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 17 percent this year.  Tranocean’s previous stance was that the dividend would
resume in 2014,  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global Hunter
Securities LLC in Houston, wrote today in a note to investors.  This decision “now suggests to us that it is more
comfortable with internal and operational controls, as well as
the recent progress made with respect to the Macondo settlement
agreements,” he wrote.  Considering Partnership  Transocean is “quite seriously” evaluating whether to put
as many as three ultra-deepwater rigs into a partnership and
sell shares, Chief Financial Officer Esa Ikaeheimonen said on a
conference call today. Ikaeheimonen worked at Norway’s  Seadrill
Ltd. (SDRL)  when that company put some of its drilling rigs into a
partnership.  Icahn’s director nominees will be able to assist the
Transocean board in evaluating and executing on a financing
structure similar to a master limited partnership, according to
the filing.  The company last week reported a fourth-quarter profit for
the first time since 2009 as added drilling in the Gulf of
 Mexico  helped boost rig demand.  Transocean posted net income of $456 million, or $1.19 a
share, compared with a loss of $6.17 billion, or $18.67, a year
earlier that followed a writedown on the value of its contract
drilling business.  The blowout and explosion aboard Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon rig in April 2010 spilled more than 4 million barrels of
oil into the Gulf. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , the  oil company  that hired the rig,
Transocean and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which handled
cement work on the well.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  