-- Treasury Yields Rise From 5-Week Low Before Jobs Report
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-03-04T22:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/treasuries-rise-for-third-day-on-italy-election-concern.html
Treasury 10-year yields rose from
the lowest level in five weeks before reports this forecast to
show payrolls in the U.S. increased last month and services
businesses kept growing.  The benchmark yields dropped earlier as  Italy  moved closer
to a new election, boosting demand for the safest assets, after
an anti-austerity vote last week left  Europe ’s third-largest
economy in political deadlock. Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, projected returns
on U.S. 10-year notes during the next 10 years will trail the
average of the past decade.  Until the jobs report, “it’s going to be wait-and-see,
with some movement of a couple of basis points on one side or
the other,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income
strategies at GMP Securities LLC in  New York . “You have the
European and Italian issues playing out in the background.”  Ten-year  yields  increased three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.88 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The yield fell earlier
to 1.83 percent, the lowest since Jan. 24. It slid 12 basis
points last week, the most since the five days ended Aug. 31.
The price of the 2 percent notes maturing in February 2023
declined 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 1/8.  Trading Range  The 10-year yield will trade between 1.85 percent and 1.9
percent before the payrolls report on March 8, Miller estimated.
It has held between 1.83 percent and 1.91 percent since Feb. 26.
A day earlier, it dropped as much as 11 basis points, the most
since November, as polls signaled Italy might be left with a
hung parliament.  Thirty-year bond yields rose four basis points today to
3.09 percent after falling earlier to 3.04 percent.  Trading volume  fell to $182 billion today, the lowest level
this year and the fifth straight daily decline, according to
ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government
debt . Daily Treasury volume reached $491 billion on Feb. 1, the
highest since August 2011. The average daily volume for 2013 is
$301 billion, compared with $238 billion for 2012.  Treasury volatility as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch  MOVE index  fell to 55 on March 1, the lowest level
since Jan. 23. The gauge, which tracks the outlook for swings in
U.S. government debt rates, has averaged 66.7 percent over the
past year.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.46 billion of Treasuries
today due from February 2036 to August 2042. It will purchase as
much as $9 billion of Treasuries in three more operations this
week, according to a  schedule  on the New York Fed’s website. The
acquisitions are part of its purchases of $85 billion a month of
Treasury and mortgage debt to support the economy.  Yellen, Bernanke  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , the Fed’s No. 2 official,
said the central bank should continue its monthly bond buying
while tracking the costs of the program. Yellen echoed in a
speech in Washington Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comment last
week that the benefits of the Fed’s historically low  interest
rates  and near-record $3.09 trillion balance sheet outweigh any
risk of financial instability. The benchmark rate target has
been zero to 0.25 percent since 2008.  Bernanke, speaking March 1 in  San Francisco , signaled he
will keep the Fed’s target rate low to support the economy.  “Premature rate increases would carry a high risk of
short-circuiting the recovery, possibly leading -- ironically
enough -- to an even longer period of low long-term rates,”
Bernanke said. “Only a strong economy can deliver persistently
high real returns to savers and investors.”  U.S. government securities returned 0.6 percent in
February, after losing 1 percent in January, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury index.  Pimco Projections  U.S. 10-year notes are projected to deliver an average
total return of 2 percent to 3 percent a year during the next
decade, Saumil Parikh, a  money manager  and member of the
investment committee at  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco,
wrote in an investment report. Adjusted for inflation, predicted
by Pimco to rise 2 percent this year and 2.5 percent in 2014,
the real yield on the 10-year note drops to zero to 0.5 percent.  The security returned an average of 5.3 percent during the
past 10 years, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The return was 4.2 percent in 2012, down from 20.1
percent in 2008.  “We expect the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates low
for a very extended period of time, and that’s different from
what the market expects,” Parikh said.  U.S. employers added 160,000 jobs in February, economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the Labor Department
reports the data March 8. Payrolls grew by 157,000 positions in
January. The  unemployment rate  stayed at 7.9 percent last month,
economists estimated.  Services Report  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing
index , which covers almost 90 percent of the  U.S. economy , was
at 55 last month, versus  55.2 in January, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group will report tomorrow, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings
above 50 signal expansion.  Treasuries rose earlier today as investors sought safety
after a survey showed growth in  China ’s services industries
slowed last month. In  Rome , Stefano Fassina, a top aide to
Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, said Italy may need
to hold another vote this year after passing new electoral laws.  Italian political instability, after last week’s election
ended in a four-way split, threatens to reignite concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will deepen. Italy may hold new elections
this year if Bersani and his  Democratic Party  fail to find
enough backing in parliament to form a government, Fassina, the
group’s economic policy spokesman, told Sky TG24 TV yesterday.  In China, the non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
fell to 54.5 in February from 56.2 in January, the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  