-- Repressive Laws Are Bad, Even If Unenforced
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r i e d m a n
-- 2013-03-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/repressive-laws-are-bad-even-if-unenforced.html
The creeping infringement on human
rights in  Russia  under President Vladimir Putin raises a broader
quandary for the international community: Do repressive laws
matter if they’re rarely or never enforced?  Over the past year, Russia’s parliament has passed a raft
of measures impinging upon the human rights of its citizens.
They allow authorities to impose onerous fines for unsanctioned
gatherings, shut down websites they view as extremist and
imprison journalists for slander.  Because the laws are often vaguely worded and have not yet
been aggressively enforced, some might see them as something
less than serious. As Bloomberg View writer Leonid Bershidsky
 put it : “The parliament has used its year in power to turn
Russia from a pretend democracy into an equally fake
dictatorship.”  Such analysis overlooks the powerful effect of simply
having repressive rules on the books. The selective enforcement
of draconian laws and regulations is a well-used tool of
dictators around the world. The strategy allows them to single
out opponents of their regimes, and has a chilling effect on
those who would like to push for a government that respects
human rights.  Last Dictatorship  Consider  Europe ’s last dictatorship, the ex-Soviet state of
Belarus. Any assembly requires advanced permission from the
government, a common stipulation even in free societies. In
Belarus, permission can be denied arbitrarily. This results in
the refusal of permits for regime opponents, who are then beaten
and arrested should they dare to go ahead with gatherings.
Prison sentences have been handed out for activities as
innocuous as clapping hands along with a protest.  Belarusian elections offer an even starker example. In the
2010 presidential race, 7 of 9 opposition candidates were
jailed, and several received lengthy prison sentences.
Opposition candidate Andrei Sannikau was convicted of breaching
the public order for his role in organizing a protest. Put
simply, in Belarus, if you agree with the regime, you are
welcome to take to the streets in support or stand for
elections. If you disagree, you are welcome to head to jail.  Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and his regime have a
similarly selective approach to enforcement. Regulators have
used a 2004 content law to shut down opposition media outlets, a
campaign that has resulted in an extremely pro-government media.
The crackdown promises to expand under a 2010 law extending
content restrictions to the internet.  Belarus and  Venezuela  are positive examples, in that they
are real instances where selective enforcement of laws was used
to dissuade opposition. The unseen, negative effects could be
still greater.  If you were an activist in a country that is something less
than free, would the possibility of substantial punishment
dissuade you from pursuing your liberties? Most activists would
say no, that the fight for freedom is worth it. What if you were
merely considering becoming an activist? How about if you were
an ordinary citizen who had only recently become frustrated by
government policies and were looking for a way to express that
anger? Then the answer becomes much more difficult.  It’s overly simplistic to assume that dictators and despots
do whatever they want without any regard for the law. In the
seminal volume “ Constitutions in a Non-Constitutional World ,”
legal scholar Nathan J. Brown details Arab Basic Laws under
autocrats who had no interest in respecting freedom or human
rights. Instead of writing such legal documents and then
violating them, oppressive governments instead simply wrote laws
that allowed them to be oppressive and then used those powers
primarily against opponents.  No Excuse  Getting countries to abide by international law, which
forbids such repressive legislation, has always been difficult.
This is no excuse for giving up. There are several steps that
can be taken to encourage states to respect fundamental human
rights.  First and foremost, the world’s single superpower, the
U.S., must show a renewed respect for international law. This
could begin with ratification of the  Law of the Sea Convention 
and a renewed conversation regarding U.S. participation in other
global legal regimes, such as the  International Criminal Court .  The United Nations can also take steps. For example,
Venezuela is currently a  member  of the UN Human Rights Council.
Participation on such bodies by serial human rights violators
should not be tolerated. Only if leadership comes from the U.S.
and the U.N. will international law have a chance of becoming a
consideration for despotic governments.  (Andrew Freidman is an international human rights lawyer
and consultant. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article: Andrew Friedman at
 afriedm2@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 