-- Repsol Sells $1.3 Billion Stake to Singapore’s Temasek
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-03-04T17:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/repsol-sells-5-stake-to-singapore-s-temasek-for-1-3-billion.html
Repsol SA (REP) , Spain’s biggest  oil
company , sold treasury shares to Singapore’s Temasek Holdings
Pte for 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) to bolster finances and
protect its  credit rating .  Temasek, a state-owned  investment company , bought the 5.04
percent stake for 16.01 euros a share, a 1.7 percent discount to
the previous close, in Singapore’s largest investment in Spain,
Repsol said today. Repsol’s 2.5 percent gain in Madrid made it
the top performer on the  MSCI EMU/Energy (MXEM0EN)  index.  The sale “solves any lingering doubts over the credit
rating,” Lydia Rainforth, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
London, said in an e-mailed response to questions. It leaves
Repsol “as a very well-funded company with better-than-average
growth prospects in the sector.” Rainforth has an overweight
rating on the stock.  The deal caps a flurry of events for the Spanish driller
that has struggled to avoid being the largest oil company
worldwide to be downgraded to junk. Last week, Moody’s Investors
Service changed Repsol’s outlook to stable from negative after
the Spanish driller announced the sale of most of its liquefied
natural gas assets to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for $4.4 billion in
cash excluding debt.  Repsol had said it would consider selling treasury shares
or converting preferred shares to improve its  debt position  and
avoid a credit-rating downgrade after the Argentine government
seized its YPF business in April and refused to pay
compensation.  Preferred Stock  The company will still have to convert its preferred shares
to a different security to improve its financial position,
Stuart Joyner, head of oil and gas analysis at Investec
Securities Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail. On the positive
side, he said today’s transaction removes a negative on the
common shares, an “overhang” caused by doubt over a treasury-
stock sale.  Repsol gained 2.5 percent in  Madrid  to close at 16.70 euros
on about six times the three-month average volume.  For Singapore, the transaction marks an increasing appetite
for energy investments, with Temasek raising its Repsol stake to
6.3 percent with the latest purchase.  The energy sector “is a good proxy for the needs of
transforming economies and growing middle-income populations,
both of which are part of Temasek’s investment themes,” Tay Sulian, managing director for investment at Temasek, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Temasek’s Energy Interests  The share of energy and resources-related assets in
Temasek’s portfolio doubled to 6 percent at the end of March
2012 from a year earlier, according the latest annual report,
published in July. Temasek spokesman  Stephen Forshaw  confirmed
the details of the report.  The Spanish driller sold the first 5 percent stake of the
10 percent acquired from Sacyr in the stock market in January
2012. That transaction and today’s together will have “a
negative effect on reserves” of 148 million euros, Repsol said
today.  “With this move, Repsol delivers on its objective to
reinforce the balance sheet, not diluting shareholders,” BPI
analysts wrote in a report e-mailed today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  