-- RES Says Future U.K. Green Investment at Risk Without Carbon Cap
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-03-04T14:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/res-says-future-u-k-green-investment-at-risk-without-carbon-cap.html
Renewable Energy Systems Ltd., the
developer planning to attract as much as 2 billion pounds ($3
billion) into U.K. wind this decade, says investment beyond 2020
is at risk unless power industry carbon emissions are capped.  The company may look to other markets should the U.K. fail
to set a limit for 2030, Gordon MacDougall, chief operating
officer at RES U.K. & Ireland Ltd., said in an interview.  “There is a risk that given the uncertainty and increasing
political risk, other markets probably offer better long-term
prospects and we may look at allocating more development capital
to those,” he said. “We can be quite sure that our peers and
manufacturing supply chain would be doing likewise.”  The developer is among utilities, environmental groups and
lawmakers from all three main political parties calling for a
so-called decarbonization target next year.  Vestas Wind Systems
A/S (VWS)  is among companies saying the lack of a goal would increase
the risks attached to committing to long-term investments.  “You’re not going to invest in the infrastructure and
manufacturing capability if it’s only going to serve us a few
years,” MacDougall said. His comments come after regulator
Ofgem said consumers will see bills rise as higher gas imports
counter closing oil and coal-fired stations.  RES, based in Hertfordshire, plans to build more than 1,000
megawatts of U.K. and Irish wind power by the end of the decade,
with 1.5 billion pounds to 2 billion pounds of investment, said
MacDougall. Projects can take 10 years to build, he said.  The government proposes deciding on the carbon target in
2016 after opposition from Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne , who has pushed for gas-fired generation as cheaper than
renewables. Lawmakers are scrutinizing legislation that seeks to
spur 110 billion pounds of new power infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  