-- Rice Glut Expands With Farms Poised for Record Crop: Commodities
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-03-05T14:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/rice-glut-expands-with-farms-poised-for-record-crop-commodities.html
Farmers are preparing to plant a
record rice crop that will boost inventories held by the world’s
biggest exporters to the highest ever.  Harvests will climb 1.2 percent to 472 million metric tons
as the five largest shippers hoard 38 million tons, or a year of
global imports, International Grains Council data show. Thailand
may run out of warehouse space as reserves jump 40 percent to a
record 18.2 million tons, according to the  United Nations .
Prices in  Vietnam , an Asian benchmark, will drop 6.6 percent by
December to $377.50 a ton, the lowest level since 2010, based on
the median of 10 trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Global food supplies are rising as the worst U.S. drought
since the 1930s abates and the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
predicts record corn and soybean harvests. Expanding stockpiles
may help contain world food  costs  that have tumbled 12 percent
from an all-time high in 2011. Production of rice, the staple
for half the world, is set to climb to an all-time high for a
fourth season in 2013-2014 while inventories in Thailand have
almost doubled in three years, IGC data show.  “The price outlook in the long run looks rather bleak,”
said Jac Luyendijk, chief executive officer at Swiss Agri
Trading SA, which handles about 600,000 tons a year. “We have
to keep in mind that with these increasing rice stocks in
 Thailand , the problem will become bigger and bigger. Once
Thailand unloads its stockpiles, we will look to very depressed
rice prices for the years to come.”  Government Buying  In Vietnam, supplier of 20 percent of global exports, 5
percent broken white rice has fallen 9.4 percent to $404 in the
past year, UN data show. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture
 Index (MXWD)  of eight commodities lost 0.7 percent, while the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities advanced 7.9 percent. Treasuries
returned 2.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index showed.  Global inventories are already rising 7 percent to a record
171 million tons in 2012-2013 as supply beats consumption for an
eighth season, according to the UN Food & Agriculture
Organization. Governments from China to Thailand are buying from
farmers at above-market rates, boosting harvests, the FAO says.  “Production could well surpass the 2012 record and even
outpace consumption,” said  Concepcion Calpe , the secretary of
the FAO’s inter-governmental rice group, who has tracked the
market since 1998. Harvests contracted only once in the past
decade, she said by e-mail.  Yingluck’s Pledge  Stockpiles in Thailand, set to become the biggest exporter
this year, jumped after Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra
started buying from farmers in 2011, fulfilling an election
pledge to boost rural incomes. The program may cost as much as
440 billion baht ($14.8 billion) this season compared with 376
billion baht, or about 3.4 percent of gross domestic product, a
year earlier, the World Bank estimates.  “Thailand will have to get rid of the surplus in the next
few months to be able to continue the program and purchase rice
again,” said Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist at the
International Rice Research Institute, a group based in the
 Philippines . “Thailand cannot continue to hold these stocks for
a long time due to quality issues and also the space.”  The country is seeking to reduce reserves by selling 7
million tons to foreign governments including China,  Permanent
Secretary  for Commerce Vatchari Vimooktayon said in January.  The government may also build more warehouses and increase
borrowing to sustain its program without being forced to reduce
rates to match competitors’ prices, said Kiattisak
Kanlayasirivat, a Bangkok-based director with Novel Commodities
SA, which trades about $600 million of rice a year.  China, India  In the U.S., the fifth-biggest exporter, farmers will sow 2
percent less as they shift to more profitable crops, the USDA
said Feb. 22. Rough-rice futures traded in  Chicago  climbed 8.4
percent in the past year, helped by purchases of higher quality
grain by the European Union and  Africa . U.S. export sales rose
to 2.42 million tons as of Feb. 21 from 2.09 million tons a year
earlier, government  data  show. Domestic inventories will fall to
the lowest level in five years, the USDA says.  China , the top consumer, may increase imports because
foreign rice is cheaper than the home-grown variety, the state-
owned China National Grain & Oils Information Center said Feb.
1. Purchases rose fourfold to 2.4 million tons last year from
about 600,000 tons in 2011,  customs  data show. Shipments from
 India , the largest supplier in 2012, will drop 18 percent to 7.5
million tons this year, the FAO said.  Nigeria Purchases  Demand elsewhere is declining. Purchases by  Nigeria , the
world’s biggest importer, will  drop  to 2.9 million tons in
2012-2013 from a record 3.2 million tons a year earlier, USDA
data show. In the Philippines, the largest buyer until 2010, the
crop may exceed consumption and spur exports by the end of the
year, President  Benigno Aquino  said Jan. 25.  “There’s just too much supply in the market and I don’t
see any buyers around except China,” said  Rakesh Singh , a New
Delhi-based trader at  Emmsons International Ltd. (EMSI) , who has traded
the grain since 1993. “Global producers, except India, are
looking at a  bumper crop  and that’s pressuring prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  