-- Trichet Says Policies Aimed at Weaker Currencies Detrimental
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-03-04T10:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/trichet-says-policies-aimed-at-weakening-currencies-not-positive.html
Former European Central Bank
president Jean-Claude Trichet said policies targeted at
weakening a country’s exchange rate can trigger competitive
devaluations without having any benefit.  “We know that these kind of policies are not positive for
all participants,” Trichet said in an interview in  Tokyo  today.
“If all currencies are going down it doesn’t change anything.”  The yen has declined about 8 percent against the dollar
this year after a change of government prompted the central bank
to raise its inflation target with the aim of stopping prices
from falling. Leaders of the Group of 20 industrialized nations
agreed last month that countries wouldn’t target their exchange
rates for competitive purposes. The Group of Seven also issued a
statement calling for market-based exchange rates.  “It’s been reaffirmed by the G-7 that the fundamentals and
the market had to determine the value of the various
currencies,” Trichet said. “It was an appropriate reminder.”  Trichet, who was president of the Frankfurt-based ECB from
2003 until 2011, said he believes  Italy  will continue with
economic reforms even after an election last week handed a
quarter of the vote to an anti-austerity party led by former
comedian Beppe Grillo.  Lack of Confidence  “I cannot help thinking that they will find out a way to
continue to proceed in a direction, which is adjustment,
structural reforms, and improving the growth potential of the
country,” he said.  The main problem the euro area currently has is a lack of
confidence in national and European institutions, Trichet said.  “In a number of countries and economies you still have an
absence of confidence because the adjustment process has not yet
finished,” Trichet said, adding that he doesn’t see a risk of
deflation in the single currency area.  “The countries that were highly imbalanced are
undoubtedly, progressively, but very effectively, correcting
these imbalances,” he said. “We are in a situation that calls
for no complacency.”  Trichet is currently the chairman of the Group of Thirty
and a board member of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  