-- Ringgit Falls as U.S. Spending Cuts Seen Weakening Global Growth
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-03-04T01:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/ringgit-falls-as-u-s-spending-cuts-seen-weakening-global-growth.html
Malaysia’s ringgit declined to a
one-week low as concern that U.S. spending cuts will slow global
growth damped demand for riskier assets.  President  Barack Obama  is negotiating with lawmakers to
address $1.2 trillion in expenditure reduction spread over nine
years as part of a 2011 deal to increase the debt limit. Italy
may hold fresh elections within months should Democratic Party
leader Pier Luigi Bersani fail to win support to form a
government, Stefano Fassina, economic-policy spokesman for
Bersani, said yesterday. Malaysia’s national polls, which must
be held by late June, “could lead to some market volatility”,
according to a Feb. 28 International Monetary Fund report.  “The thing that’s dragging down the market is the
sequester issue,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-
exchange research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in Singapore. “If you
take all the Italian election uncertainty, the impact from that
is creating a bit of  risk aversion .”  The ringgit retreated 0.2 percent to 3.1063 per dollar as
of 9:16 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 3.1104, the weakest since Feb. 22. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in
exchange rates used to price options, was little changed at 6.94
percent.  Malaysia’s steady economic growth will continue this year,
led by consumption demand and investment activity, central bank
Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in a CCTV interview.  Government bonds  advanced March 1. The yield on the 3.314
percent notes due October 2017 fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.23 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 