-- Robert Elberson, Hanes’s Man Behind L’eggs Pantyhose, Dies at 84
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-03-04T00:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/robert-elberson-hanes-s-man-behind-l-eggs-pantyhose-dies-at-84.html
Robert E. Elberson, the Hanes Corp.
executive who introduced L’eggs, the pantyhose sold in unique
egg-shaped containers, and made it the best-selling U.S. hosiery
brand by marketing it in supermarkets and drugstores, has died.
He was 84.  He died on Feb. 26 at his home in Charlotte, North Carolina,
according to the  website  of Hankins & Whittington Funeral
Service. No cause of death was given.  On his way up the corporate ladder to chief executive
officer of Hanes Corp. and then president of its parent, Sara
Lee Corp., Elberson played a role in the creation of one of
America’s most distinctively packaged and displayed brands.  “Nothing beats a great pair of L’eggs” went its famous
marketing campaign.  As Forbes magazine recounted in a 1980 article, Elberson
discovered as president of Hanes’s hosiery division in 1968 that
the company was still relying on department-store sales even
though pantyhose was becoming big business in supermarkets and
drugstores.  A market analyst tasked by Elberson to study Hanes’ hosiery
competition reported a highly fragmented market in food and drug
stores. So Elberson, in what Forbes called “his methodical,
building-block way,” then asked an advertising agency to design
a hosiery product with a memorable name and consistent quality
that was easy to keep in stock and wouldn’t share a rack with
the competition.  Idea Hatched  The designer, Roger Ferriter of Herb Lubalin Inc.,
“compressed a pair of pantyhose in his fist and noticed that
the package would be an egg,” which he realized rhymed with leg,
which could be rendered with a French flair as L’egg, Rob
Wallace and Bronwen Edwards  wrote  in “Really Good Packaging
Explained” (2009).  As Elberson had wished, the egg-shaped product required a
display that wouldn’t hold competitors’ hosiery. To make sure
the displays were always full, Elberson distributed L’eggs to
stores on consignment, with Hanes representatives responsible
for keeping them stocked.  The system worked so well, Forbes reported, that Elberson
cut short a planned year-long test and began rolling out the
displays nationally in the fall of 1970.  “We have the entire country gridded by square block,”
Elberson said in 1980, according to Forbes. “We know where
every rack of L’eggs is. Our competition has underestimated the
effectiveness of these elaborate controls.”  Takeover History  Hanes was acquired in 1979 by Chicago-based Consolidated
Foods Corp., which in 1985 changed its name to Sara Lee Corp.
Sara Lee in 2006 spun off its apparel business into  Hanesbrands
Inc. (HBI) , based in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.  Robert Evans Elberson was born on Nov. 9, 1928, in Winston-
Salem, according to Marquis Who’s Who. His parents were Charles
E. and Harriet B. Elberson, according to Hankins & Whittington,
the Charlotte-based funeral home.  He earned an undergraduate degree in engineering from
Princeton University in New Jersey and a master’s in business
administration from Harvard University in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, joining Hanes in 1954 following two years in the
U.S. Air Force, according to a 1978  New York  Times  profile .  Following his tenure as head of the Hanes hosiery division,
he became president and CEO of Hanes Corp. in 1972 and president
and chief operating officer of Sara Lee Corp. in 1983. From 1986
until his retirement in 1989 he was vice chairman of Sara Lee
responsible for international operations.  His survivors include a daughter, Ann Lee, of Port Orchard,
Washington; a son, Charlie Elberson, of Charlotte; and three
grandchildren, according to Hankins & Whittington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  