-- Romanian Leu Slips Second Day as Central Bank Scraps Repo Limit
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-03-04T12:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/romanian-leu-slips-second-day-as-central-bank-scraps-repo-limit.html
The leu weakened for a second day as
 Romania ’s central bank scrapped a limit on the size of its
weekly repo auctions almost five months after imposing the cap,
increasing currency supply to commercial banks.  The leu pared the second-best advance this year among
eastern European, Middle Eastern and African peers tracked by
Bloomberg after Banca Nationala a Romaniei lent the 7.3 billion
lei ($2 billion) demanded today, compared with bids for 29.8
billion lei last week. The central bank, which has a managed-
float policy for the currency, has restricted its repurchase
agreement operations since Oct. 8.  “Withdrawing the limit for one-week repo operation
represents another step of the relaxation of the money market
liquidity conditions,” Florentina Cozmanca, a Bucharest-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a note.
This follows an “increase” in the capped “amount in January
from 4 billion lei,” Cozmanca said.  The leu depreciated less than 0.1 percent to 4.3650 per
euro by 2:34 p.m. in Bucharest, cutting its gain this year to
1.9 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency had slid to its lowest level in two months on Oct. 5.  Romania plans to raise 3 billion lei through debt sales
this month, below the 3.7 billion lei target and 4 billion lei
of securities sold last month.  The country last issued 398 million lei in July 2016 bonds
on Feb. 14 at an average yield of 5.73 percent. That compared
with a rate of 6.03 percent at a similar-maturity sale on Jan.
10.  “We may see some softening pressure for the leu today,
possibly to 4.37 per euro, with losses for the local currency
limited by the recent positive momentum of domestic debt,”
Mihai Tantaru, a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank Romania
SA, wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  