-- Rosberg Goes Fastest in Final F-1 Test; Red Bull in ‘Good Shape’
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-04T03:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/rosberg-goes-fastest-in-final-f-1-test-red-bull-in-good-shape-.html
Mercedes driver  Nico Rosberg  went
quickest in the final Formula One preseason testing session
before the 2013 world championship starts March 17.  Rosberg’s best time of 1 minute, 20.13 seconds over 131
laps of the Circuit de Catalunya yesterday was the fastest in
this year’s tests at the track near Barcelona.  Rosberg, his Mercedes teammate Lewis Hamilton and  Romain
Grosjean  of Lotus were the only drivers to have topped the
timesheets more than once in the 12 days of preseason testing in
Barcelona and Jerez,  Spain . The cars are next due on the
racetrack March 15 for two practice sessions ahead of the
season-opening Australian Grand Prix in  Melbourne .  “I am pleased with the progress that the team has made
over the last month and the steps forward that have been made
with the car,” Mercedes Team Principal Ross Brawn said in a
statement. “We’re realistic about our performance here and our
position once we get to Melbourne.”  Mercedes, which finished fifth in the 2012 world
championship, hired 2008 series winner Hamilton in September to
replace record seven-time champion  Michael Schumacher .  Red Bull , which is seeking its fourth straight
constructors’ title, was fastest once in the 12 preseason
testing sessions. The team’s lead driver Sebastian Vettel is the
bookmakers’ favorite to win his fourth championship in a row.  “We’re in good enough shape,” Vettel said after posting
the eighth-fastest time yesterday. “Over the past couple of
days we maybe didn’t tick all the boxes that we wanted to, but
we have a bit of time left to prepare before the season starts.
The target is there to improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  