-- Roubini Says Global Equity Rally Masks Risk From Europe to U.S.
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-03-04T10:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/roubini-says-global-equity-rally-masks-risk-from-europe-to-u-s-.html
The rally in global equity markets
isn’t reflecting risks to economic growth from the  European debt
crisis  and U.S. spending cuts, said Nouriel Roubini, the  New
York  University professor famous for predicting the 2008 crisis.  Global stocks have gained more than $2 trillion since the
start of 2013 as central banks move to stimulate economic
growth. Risks including a deeper recession in Europe triggered
by austerity measures and political turmoil as well as slower
U.S. economic growth may return in the second half of the year,
said Roubini, chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC.  “Those risks are currently somehow under-priced by the
market,” he said today in an interview. “They may be contained
in the first half of the year, but they may re-emerge.”  European leaders are demanding that euro members press on
with budget cuts to end the sovereign debt crisis as Italy edged
closer to a new election after voting last week ended in
deadlock. In the U.S., automatic spending cuts after Republicans
and Democrats failed to reach an agreement on the budget may
slow the expansion of the world’s biggest economy to 1.4 percent
this year, Roubini said in Dubai. That’s below the 1.8 percent
median estimate of 77 economists on Bloomberg.  Across-the-board spending cuts to U.S. defense and domestic
programs, known as sequestration, took effect on March 1. Aides
to President  Barack Obama  and Congressional leaders are
signaling that the reductions could continue for months.  “Markets are underestimating how much the sequester and
the gridlock in the United States could have negative effects on
the economy and eventually on the market,” Roubini said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
NI STK
NI US
NI MKT
NI EM 