-- Russia to Reduce Import Duties to Match Kazakhstan’s WTO Pledges
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-03-04T12:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/russia-to-reduce-import-duties-to-match-kazakhstan-s-wto-pledges.html
Russia  will have to cut some import
tariffs nearer levels accepted by its customs union partner
Kazakhstan in World Trade Organization accession talks, said
Eurasian Economic Commission Trade Minister Andrey Slepnev.  Kazakhstan, which has been negotiating to join the WTO
since February 1996, has already agreed to cut duties on some
goods to levels lower than Russia accepted during its accession
process, Slepnev said in an interview in Geneva and confirmed by
e-mail today. Russia became the global trade arbiter’s 156th
member in August.  “We suggested a formula which allowed to adjust the level
of the common tariff on the goods in accordance with the share
of markets of these goods,” said Slepnev, a former Russian
deputy economy minister. “It’s a fair deal, and it’s a case
when Russia will provide some concessions to WTO members.”  The customs union of Russia,  Kazakhstan  and Belarus was set
up as a first step toward forming a broader economic alliance of
former Soviet states modeled after the European Union. The three
members, which have scrapped customs borders between each other
and introduced a single economic space, are working to foster
closer ties and plan to create the Eurasian Union, which won’t
be formed before 2015. Kyrgyzstan wants to enter the customs
union, whose annual trade amounted to $939 billion last year,
and Russia is pushing for Ukraine to join.  99.99% Consistent  About “99.99 percent” of the customs union’s tariff lines
are already consistent with WTO obligations and the regional
group’s regulations have been brought in compliance with WTO
rules, Slepnev said in the Feb. 26 interview. Even so,
“Kazakhstan still needs to finalize some issues that are
bilateral and aren’t directly linked with customs union
obligations, such as agriculture-support levels.” The WTO will
probably admit Kazakhstan this year, he said.  Slepnev also said he’s unconcerned about businesses fleeing
Russia for the more favorable tax regimes of its customs union
partners. Some companies with headquarters near the Russian-
Kazakh border have opted to relocate to Kazakhstan because of
the lower levies while others prefer  Belarus  because it’s
located closer to  Europe , he said. Companies that sell
“ordinary goods like coffee and clothes and shoes” tend to
remain in Moscow because the market is larger, Slepnev said.  “I don’t have any big worries about” large numbers of
businesses leaving Russia’s border regions with Kazakhstan, he
said, adding that some competition between jurisdictions will
help improve the business climate of the trade group.  The Eurasian Economic Commission is the customs union’s
managing body.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  