-- Russian Inflation Probably Quickened to Fastest in 18 Months
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-03-05T10:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/russian-price-growth-probably-quickened-to-fastest-in-18-months.html
Russian inflation probably
accelerated in February to the fastest pace in 18 months, adding
to arguments for the central bank to leave  interest rates 
unchanged.  Consumer  prices  rose 7.3 percent from a year earlier after
7.1 percent in January, according to the median estimate of 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices rose 0.6 percent from
the previous month, a second poll of 17 economists showed. The
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow will report the data today
or tomorrow.  Policy makers are contending with price growth breaching
their 5 percent to 6 percent target range for a sixth month as
economic growth stutters at less than half of the 5 percent pace
that Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  seeks for  Russia . President
 Vladimir Putin  said Jan. 31 borrowing costs “substantially”
higher than inflation were a source of concern, weeks before the
central bank kept rates unchanged for a fifth month.  “A fast rise in food expenses, higher excise taxes and
transport costs are putting increased pressure” on headline
inflation, Maria Pomelnikova, an analyst with ZAO Raiffeisenbank
in Moscow, said by e-mail before the data release. “But these
are consequences of one-time effects.  Core inflation  isn’t
accelerating, which gives hope that improved anti-inflation
policies of the central bank are bearing fruit.”  Alcohol, Transport  The ruble weakened 1.8 percent last month against the
dollar, its worst performance since May. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Russian debt rather than U.S.
Treasuries fell three basis points to 187, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  indexes. The difference compares with 176 for debt
of similarly-rated  Mexico  and 173 for  Brazil .  Inflation is surging after the government raised costs for
items including alcohol and transport. Price growth may remain
above the bank’s target range in the first half and output
remains near full capacity, the central bank said Feb. 12 in a
statement accompanying its rate decision.  Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, whose third and final
term ends in June, said Feb. 15 that he “hopes” inflation will
start to slow in the coming months and with slower price growth
rate cuts are “possible.”  Putin’s Candidates  The central bank is forecast to cut rates 25 basis points
in the third quarter, according to the median estimate of 17
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Traders are betting on 18 basis
points of reductions in September compared with little change by
June, forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg show.  Putin must name a candidate to replace Ignatiev, 65, three
months before his term ends in June. Bank Rossii First Deputy
Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev, former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin 
and VTB24 President Mikhail Zadornov were among those being
considered for the post, three officials with knowledge of the
discussions said in January.  A majority of Russians ranked fast price growth alongside
problems in housing and utilities as their main concern,
according to a poll published Jan. 31 by the state-run All-
Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion .  February’s  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, is projected to remain at 0.5 percent in the
month, according to the median estimate of 10 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Necessary Cuts  “Rate cuts are necessary in the current situation,”
Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of America Merill
Lynch in Moscow, said by telephone yesterday. “Core inflation
shows that inflationary pressure is low. We expect that with
inflation slowing down in April or May, the central bank may
start to cut rates.”  Risks to economic growth have increased, Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Feb. 25. Russian seasonally
adjusted gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in January from
the previous month, the first decline since March 2012, he said.  In February, services PMI rose to 56.1 compared with 55.7
in January, the first increase in four months, HSBC Holdings Plc
said today in an e-mailed statement, citing data compiled by
London-based Markit Economics. The manufacturing Purchasing
Manager’s Index was unchanged at 52. A reading above 50
indicates an improvement in business conditions, while a result
below that suggests a deterioration.  “Given the quite robust PMI one can note contradictions
with official data on a slowing of economic growth in Russia,”
Dmitry Savchenko, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Moscow, said
today in an e-mailed research note. “Ambiguous data will make
the central bank’s decision more complicated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  