-- Russian Stocks Decline 3rd Day as Crude, Metals Retreat on China
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-03-04T15:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/russian-stocks-decline-3rd-day-as-crude-metals-retreat-on-china.html
Russian stocks retreated for a third
day as oil traded near the lowest level in 10 weeks and  China 
tightened mortgage rules to cool its  property market , damping
demand for emerging-market assets.  The 50-stock Micex Index fell 0.6 percent to close at
1,464.45 in Moscow, with 20 stocks climbing and 30 declining.
United Co. Rusal slid 3.6 percent after the world’s biggest
aluminum producer said it will reduce output by more than 7
percent this year after prices retreated and stockpiles swelled.
Preferred shares of Rostelecom were the biggest gainer, rising
by 3.6 percent, as Morgan Stanley said the new strategic
shareholder may “please the market”.  Oil, Russia’s main export earner, sank 0.2 percent to
$90.50 a barrel in New York. China called for higher down-
payments and  interest rates  for second-home mortgages in cities
with “excessively fast” price gains. The nation is the second-
largest consumer of oil.  “Commodities,  emerging markets  and  Russian (INDEXCF)  equities are
starting March on a weak note due to lost China momentum,”
Slava Smolyaninov, an equity analyst at Uralsib Financial Corp.,
wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg. Russia receives about half of its budget revenue from
oil and natural gas industry sales.  Arkady Rotenberg’s purchase of a 10.7 percent stake in
Rostelecom could be positive for the company’s equity story, and
the stock could continue to outperform in the short term, Morgan
Stanley analysts Polina Ugryumova and Edward Hill-Wood said in a
note to clients.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, fell 1.6 percent to $28.36 by 6:47
p.m., dropping for a third day. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the  stock futures , rose 5.9 percent
to 23.66.  The Micex trades at about 5.5 times  estimated earnings 
after losing 0.7 percent this year. That compares with a
multiple of 10.4 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and a
drop of 1.3 percent.  -- Editors: Peter Branton, Tim Farrand  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  