-- Same-Sex Marriage and the Long Arc of History
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-03-04T23:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/same-sex-marriage-and-the-long-arc-of-history.html
It is too soon to predict how the
U.S.  Supreme Court  will deal with the issue of same-sex
marriage, but history has already  been made .  The Department of Justice argued last week that in the
context of marriage (and everywhere else), courts should treat
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation with
essentially the same hostility they apply to discrimination on
the basis of race and sex. To understand the importance of that
argument, detailed  in a brief  opposing a 2008  California  law
banning same-sex marriage, we need to step back a bit.  Whenever the government treats some people differently from
others, it may be acting unfairly, and its action can be
challenged as discriminatory. The Supreme Court has responded to
this problem by  ruling  that under the Equal Protection Clause of
the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, the government can do
whatever it likes so long as its action is “rational.”  This is not meant to be a demanding test. If the government
says that people younger than 16 can’t drive, that the antitrust
laws don’t apply to labor unions or that small companies are
exempt from pollution-control  requirements , there is no
constitutional problem, because in each of these cases, the
government can be said to be acting rationally.  In a few areas, however, the court requires the government
to show far more than mere rationality. In these areas, the
government is subject to “heightened scrutiny,” in the sense
that the courts will require a convincing demonstration that the
discrimination is genuinely necessary to promote an important
social goal.  Heightened Scrutiny  Under heightened scrutiny, racial discrimination is usually
struck down. If the government treats white people better, or
worse, than African-Americans, it has to explain that the
difference is required for some neutral reason, not involving
prejudice, stereotyping or hostility.  It took many years, and a lot of vigorous advocacy (above
all from then lawyer and now Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ), but
the court was eventually convinced that discrimination on the
basis of sex should similarly be subject to heightened scrutiny.  The basic idea is that women have faced a long history of
unfair stereotyping and have lacked the political power of men,
so sex discrimination is likely to reflect prejudice. As Justice
William Brennan wrote for the court  40 years ago , such
discrimination tended to put women “not on a pedestal, but in a
cage.” Whenever the government discriminates on the basis of
sex, it will run into serious constitutional trouble.  Until very recently, it would have been adventurous, and
possibly even absurd, for anyone to suggest that the court
should apply heightened scrutiny to discrimination on the basis
of sexual orientation. In these circumstances, it is historic
that the  Department of Justice  has so argued, especially in the
context of marriage.  In 2011, Attorney General Eric Holder and President  Barack Obama  initially signaled their acceptance of the argument in
favor of heightened scrutiny, but it wasn’t until late last
month that the department formally made the argument to the
Supreme Court. It did so by asking the court to strike down the
Defense of Marriage Act, which bans the federal government from
recognizing same-sex marriages.  In an even more important and far-reaching step, the
department  suggested  the court should invalidate the California
law, enacted as a result of a ballot initiative, that denies
same-sex couples entry into the formal institution of marriage
while allowing them to become domestic partners.  The department’s brief says that heightened scrutiny is
appropriate in light of the history of discrimination against
gay men and lesbians, the absence of a relationship between
sexual orientation and a person’s ability to contribute to
society, the fact that the group is unified by a distinguishing
characteristic, and the limited ability of gay men and lesbians
to protect themselves in the political process.  California’s Law  The  department  insists that California’s law cannot survive
heightened scrutiny because the purported justifications -- that
it promotes responsible child-rearing, for example -- aren’t
adequately supported by either logic or evidence.  By emphasizing heightened scrutiny for discrimination
against gay men and lesbians, the department deftly avoids the
objection, raised by some critics, that if states are required
to recognize  same-sex marriages , they will have to recognize
polygamous ones as well. Indeed, the department doesn’t even
contend that all states must recognize same-sex marriages. If
the court accepted the department’s argument, it would be
committed only to the narrow proposition that states can’t
forbid same-sex marriages if they authorize same-sex domestic
partnerships.  Nonetheless, if the department is right, it would not be so
easy to avoid accepting a much broader proposition, which is
that states engage in impermissible discrimination if they
forbid gay men and lesbians from entering into marital
relationships. That proposition doesn’t yet command a social
consensus, but the nation, no less than the executive branch, is
 unquestionably moving  in its direction.  Whatever the Supreme Court ultimately rules, the arc of
American history is  bending , and it is bending toward justice.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University Professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“ Simpler : The Future of Government,” to be published in April.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 