-- Samsung to Seek Further Review on Apple Patent Damages
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-03-04T05:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/samsung-to-seek-further-review-on-apple-patent-damages.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said it will
seek a further review of patent damages awarded to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
even after winning a reduction of about 45 percent of the $1.05
billion amount.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose,  California , on
March 1 cut the damages award after finding that the jury based
its decision on an incorrect legal theory.  “We are pleased that the court decided to strike
$450,514,650 from the jury’s award,” Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman
at Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Samsung intends to seek further review as to
the remaining award.”  Samsung and Apple have each scored victories in patent
disputes fought over four continents since the iPad maker
accused  Asia ’s biggest electronics producer in April 2011 of
“slavishly copying” its devices. The companies continue to
battle over patents as they seek dominance of a mobile-device
market estimated by researcher  Yankee Group  at $346 billion in
2012, even as Apple remains one of Samsung’s biggest customers.  Koh, who previously rejected Cupertino, California-based
Apple’s bid to ban U.S. sales of 26 Samsung devices, also denied
the iPhone maker’s request to increase the jury’s award. The
judge said the amount owed by the Galaxy maker was heavily
disputed, and the jury wasn’t bound to accept either side’s
damages estimate. The jury’s award for 14 other products stands
at $598.9 million, she said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, had said the company
had no comment on the ruling.  New Trial  Koh ordered a new trial on damages for some Samsung
products. The companies should consider appealing her ruling
before the trial begins, the judge said.  A witness for Apple whose testimony the jury relied on
“presented a theory that the court had ruled legally
impermissible,” Koh said in her ruling. The judge said despite
her explicit instruction that the theory couldn’t be used, “the
amount of the award made plain that the jury had applied the
impermissible theory anyway.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
( San Jose ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  