-- San Francisco Gasoline Hits Five-Week Low on Tesoro Unit Startup
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-04T22:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/san-francisco-gasoline-hits-five-week-low-on-tesoro-unit-startup.html
Spot gasoline in  San Francisco 
dropped to the lowest level against futures in more than five
weeks after  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s Golden Eagle refinery reported a unit
startup and was said to have returned a reformer to service.  The 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle plant reported a unit
startup on March 1, a notice to Contra Costa County regulators
showed. The refinery brought a continuous catalytic reformer
back online late yesterday after about a week of repairs, a
person with direct knowledge of the work said today.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in San Francisco
weakened 4.88 cents to 16.38 cents a gallon under futures traded
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:33 p.m. East Coast
time, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. That’s the biggest
discount for the fuel since Jan. 22 and its lowest level for
this time of year since at least 2008.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  climbed 1.62 cents against futures to
a discount of 2.38 cents a gallon.  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Carson refinery in Southern California is
restarting a catalytic cracker and an alkylation unit after
finishing a planned maintenance turnaround, a person familiar
with operations there said today. The units will take several
days to reach normal rates, the person said.  The  spread  between the fuel in San Francisco and Los
Angeles widened 6.5 cents to 14 cents a gallon, the biggest
since Feb. 25. San Francisco Carbob weakened to a record 32.5
cents a gallon under Los Angeles on Jan. 14.  Los Angeles  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles fell 1.5
cents against Nymex heating oil futures to a premium of 13 cents
a gallon. The same fuel in San Francisco held at 12 cents a
gallon above futures.  In  Portland ,  Oregon ,  low-sulfur diesel  weakened 0.5 cent
against futures to a premium of 11 cents a gallon. Conventional,
84-octane gasoline there gained against gasoline futures for the
first time in four days, rising 2 cents to a discount of 1.5
cents a gallon.  Tesoro’s Anacortes refinery in Washington state is
performing planned maintenance, Tina Barbee, a company
spokeswoman in  San Antonio , said by e-mail Feb. 27. The plant
was scheduled to shut equipment, including the crude unit, for a
turnaround that’s expected to last until April 13, a person with
direct knowledge of the work said Jan. 28. The company said Feb.
7 that the refinery would also perform work on the fluid
catalytic cracker toward the end of this quarter.  The  3-2-1 refinery crack spread  of Alaska North Slope
crude, Carbob in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles
narrowed 76.3 cents to $21.839 a barrel at 4:03 p.m.  New York 
time. The spread, a measure of refining profitability, hit a
one-month low last week.  -- Editors: Richard Stubbe, Bill Banker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  