-- Saudi Spending Fuels Fastest Gulf Inflation: Arab Credit
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-03-05T13:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/saudi-spending-fuels-fastest-gulf-inflation-arab-credit.html
Saudi Arabian  King Abdullah ’s
spending plan to diversify the economy and keep at bay the
protests that have toppled four leaders is helping to fuel the
regional Gulf Cooperation Council’s fastest inflation rate.  Inflation in the Arab world’s biggest economy was 3.9
percent in January, up from 3 percent in September. By
comparison, inflation in the United Arab Emirates, the next
largest economy, was 0.4 percent in January, according to the
country’s statistics bureau. Qatari prices advanced 3.4 percent
in January.  King Abdullah, who turns 89 this year, promised in the
first quarter of 2011 to spend $130 billion on additional
subsidies for housing and benefits to avert the unrest that’s
swept through the Arab world, leading to civil war in  Syria , as
well as protests in neighboring Bahrain and in  Egypt .  “Inflation is rising because loan growth is finally
rising, led by the consumer,” said Emad Mostaque, a London-
based strategist at Noah Capital Markets.  The three-month Saudi Interbank Offered Rate, or so-called
Saibor, is the only comparable rate to climb in the six-nation
GCC since September. The three-month Saibor was unchanged at
0.98500 percent today, up from 0.95625 percent six months ago.  The Saibor’s  spread  over the  London  Interbank Offered Rate
more than tripled since the start of 2012 to 70 basis points,
the widest since January 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Increasing Demand’  “ Government spending  is also increasing demand for Saudi
riyals and local assets,” Mostaque said. “This has an
inflationary impact.”  The king raised spending by almost a fifth this year to
$219 billion as the government builds schools, paves roads and
lays rail lines across the desert country.  The spending is part of a broader plan valued at more than
$500 billion and is feeding through to economic growth. Saudi
Arabia’s $657 billion economy expanded 6.8 percent last year,
according to the  Finance Ministry , and will outpace growth in
the U.A.E. every year until at least 2017, IMF projections show.
The economy will grow 4.2 percent in 2013, according to the
Washington-based fund.  “Credit growth was directed mainly to projects,” said
Abdulwahid Al-Matar, Riyadh-based head of trading at  Saudi
Hollandi Bank. (AAAL)  “It might contribute to inflation, but the
biggest chunk of inflation is for rent and food supplies.”  Price Rises  Syria’s agriculture industry is “in tatters” as almost
two years of conflict cut vegetable, cereal and fruit output by
more than half, the Food & Agriculture Organization said on Jan.
22. Saudi food prices were “aggravated by disruption to supply
chains caused by the conflict,” said  Paul Gamble , an analyst at
 Fitch Ratings  in London.  Food and rental prices may stabilize, tempering consumer
price increases.  “Take a tour in  Riyadh  and you can see how many new
buildings there are,” Al-Matar said.“Housing inflation isn’t
at the same magnitude we saw the past few years.”  Saudi Arabia’s central bank governor agrees. “Current
inflation is tolerable, and if you compare to other  emerging
markets  we are well below,” Governor Fahad al-Mubarak told
reporters on March 3.  Still, consumer prices will average 4.6 percent in 2013,
the fastest in the six-member GCC, which also includes the
U.A.E., Kuwait, Qatar, Oman and Bahrain, according to the IMF.  Consumer Loans  Consumer loans for cars and equipment increased 20 percent
in the second quarter, according to central bank data.  In 2009, the central bank cut the repurchase rate to 2
percent, the lowest since 2004, and the reverse repurchase rate
to 0.25 percent. Saudi monetary policy often tracks that of the
U.S., where the  Federal Reserve ’s benchmark  interest-rate  target
has been zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to support the economy.  “The current interest rate serves financial institutions
quite well,” al-Mubarak said. “Lending among banks is very
high, which reflects the confidence among banks. The only fear
is if it causes overheating to the economy. We don’t see that
there is an overheating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  