-- HSBC Sees Yuan-Tied Structured Product Sales Reaching $1 Billion
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-03-04T08:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/hsbc-sees-yuan-tied-structured-product-sales-reaching-1-billion.html
Global sales of structured products
tied to the offshore yuan may reach $1 billion for the first
time this year, spurred by  China ’s economic acceleration,
according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   In  Asia  alone, sales of yuan-linked notes to investors and
similar deposits have amounted to “a few hundred million
dollars” this year, with estimated monthly worldwide volume at
least doubling from 2012, Selene Chong, the bank’s global head
of foreign-exchange and precious-metal structuring in Hong Kong,
said in a phone interview. The pace will probably be sustained
at least for the next two to three months, she said.  China’s economic growth accelerated last quarter for the
first time since 2010, fueling speculation that the government
would allow the currency to rise at a faster pace. Demand for
the yuan is also getting a boost from the country’s effort to
increase its use in global finance.  “The increasing popularity of the structured products will
be coupled with an overall increase of interest in  renminbi 
investments,” Chong said in a telephone interview from Hong
Kong on Feb. 21. “As people are becoming more familiar with
renminbi and increasingly using it as a trade currency, this
will create more investment needs.”  HSBC and Barclays Plc have led sales of notes tied to the
offshore  yuan  this year, accounting for the most of the at least
27 offerings compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than any other
full year before, the data show.  ‘Branching Out’  Among popular products are principal-protected notes that
pay “high single-digit” coupons as long as the currency stays
at current levels or “slightly” appreciates, Chong said. The
offshore yuan has been little changed this year, after gaining
1.9 percent in 2012, according to Bloomberg data.  The securities are also drawing interest from companies in
Asia, as the currency is increasingly used for trade, Chong
said.  About 30 percent of China’s overseas trades will probably
be settled in the yuan by 2015, compared with about 10 percent
currently, said Candy Ho, HSBC’s head of renminbi business
development for Asia.  Offshore trading for the Chinese currency started in  Hong
Kong  in 2010, where the average volume of yuan deals has doubled
in the past year to the equivalent of at least $6 billion a day,
according to Standard Chartered Plc. Transactions in offshore
options in yuan swelled to between $300 million and $500 million
per day, JPMorgan Private Bank estimates show.  That’s boosting demand for products linked to other yuan-
denominated assets, in addition to the currency, Ho said. HSBC,
the top underwriter for Dim Sum bonds this year, has also
studied creating notes tied to the renminbi-denominated debt
sold outside China, she said.  “At the end of the day, you’ll need to use market
liquidity to hedge some of the risk,” Ho said. “We expect to
continue to see investors looking for opportunities branching
out into structured products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  