-- Securitization Lobby in Disarray After Most Directors Quit
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-04T19:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/securitization-lobby-in-disarray-after-most-directors-quit.html
The main trade association for the
securitization industry is in turmoil after most of the board
resigned in a dispute with the group’s executive director
over governance and bonuses, according to six people with
knowledge of the matter.  The exodus at the  American Securitization Forum  puts the
future of the group in question, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the dispute isn’t public. Members
that quit include  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Deutsche Bank AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and law firm Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP, the people said.  The resignations came after the board attempted to remove
the forum’s executive director, Tom Deutsch, but was unable to
fire him because of the way the association’s governing
documents are written, said the people. Part of the dispute
concerns bonuses that Deutsch was paid, the people added.  Deutsch, who  joined  the group’s staff in 2004 after working
as a lawyer at Cadwalader, issued a statement saying, “We
remain focused on the advocacy and educational needs of all of
the interests in the structured finance industry.”  While the statement didn’t directly address the mass
resignations, Deutsch said negotiations over the association’s
separation several years ago from the  Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association  have been “messier and more
difficult than expected.”  Other Firms  Other firms that have left the group or pulled their
employees off the board included Amherst Securities Group LP,
Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moody’s Investors Service and Natixis SA,
the people said. Ralph Daloisio of Natixis was the chairman of
the ASF board; he didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Zia Ahmed, a spokesman for Bank of America, confirmed that
the bank quit the forum, declining to comment further. Sean Dobson, head of Amherst Securities, left the board “due to
concerns around transparency and governance,” said Tom Johnson,
a spokesman for the bond broker. Spokesmen for other board
members either declined to comment, didn’t respond to messages,
or couldn’t be reached.  The ASF, based in New York, lobbies and holds conferences
for the industry, which packages loans and leases into
securities. Last year, securitization produced more than $500
billion of new bonds globally.  In testimony to Congress last year, Deutsch said the forum
had 330 members. According to the group’s website, members
include issuers, investors, financial intermediaries, rating
companies, legal and accounting firms, trustees and servicers.  Lavish Conferences  The group is known for hosting a lavish  annual meeting  that
has returned to Las Vegas after moving to less glitzy locations
after the 2008 financial crisis. It took place in January at the
Aria Hotel and Convention Center, home to Cirque du Soleil’s
show “Zarkana.” Attendance totaled more than 5,300, Deutsch
said at the time.  The ASF makes much of its money through conferences, said
the people familiar with the matter. In Las Vegas this year,
members paid as much as $1,810 to attend when registering on
site, while costs for non-members were up to $2,560, according
to the ASF  website .  Sifma Split  The association was founded in 2002 as part of Sifma, Wall
Street’s biggest lobbying group. In 2010, it split off from
Sifma -- a contentious divorce, during which Deutsch was allowed
to set up the ASF as a separate entity with himself as the sole
member and director of the new organization, one of the people
said.  That governing structure was supposed to be temporary
though it persists, and a committee established to negotiate
with Deutsch has made little headway on a new arrangement, the
person said.  Deutsch faced an earlier round of defections last year over
governance complaints highlighted in a letter of resignation to
the board from Vernon Wright, its first chairman. Directors
weren’t permitted to review some financial information,
including staff pay, and had no legal control over the group,
wrote Wright, an ASF founder who was chief financial officer of
credit-card issuer MBNA Corp.  The “corporate-governance concerns lead me to the
conclusion that the executive director is not being properly
supervised,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 