-- Shepherd Energy Says It Breached Nasdaq Power Rules by Mistake
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-03-04T14:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/shepherd-energy-says-it-breached-nasdaq-power-rules-by-mistake.html
Shepherd Energy AB, the Stockholm-
based investment firm, said it accidentally breached Nordic
power market-manipulation rules that led to its 150,000
Norwegian kroner ($26,200) fine from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)   “The fact that we bought and sold a contract at the same
price within a short time interval was unintentional, and we did
not intend to manipulate prices,” Arne Oesterlind, manager of
the firm’s Shepherd Energy Fund, said today by e-mail. “We have
not made any money from the transaction, nor have we caused
additional costs for other counter-parties.”  In April, Shepherd bought 1 megawatt-hour of Nasdaq OMX’s
July 2012 power contract while selling 7 megawatt-hours of the
same product at the same price in the over-the-counter market,
the exchange said in an e-mailed  statement  today.  The suspected manipulation is a “very serious violation,
as it can undermine the trust and integrity” of the  market ,
according to the statement. “Shepherd should have been aware of
what signals these actions gave or could give to other market
participants.” The exchange said it couldn’t rule out that
Shepherd’s actions were non-deliberate.  Nasdaq OMX’s Nordic energy exchange is the world’s largest
power derivatives market, with more than 330 trading and
clearing  members  in 15 countries. The bourse carried out eight
market-manipulation investigations in the three months through
December. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in Washington
has stepped up its drive to combat electricity market
manipulation in the U.S.  The exchange’s maximum sanction is a violation charge of as
much as 2.5 million Norwegian kroner, Erik Korsvold, head of
market surveillance at the Oslo-based exchange, said on Feb. 18
by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  