-- Aquino Sends Envoy to Malaysia as Sabah Death Toll Reaches 31
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-03-04T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/six-more-malaysian-police-die-after-shootout-with-insurgents.html
Philippine President Benigno Aquino
sent his top diplomat to Kuala Lumpur in a bid to avert further
bloodshed as Malaysian authorities seek to end a standoff with a
Muslim clan that invaded Sabah state last month.  Philippines  Foreign Secretary Albert del Rosario was
scheduled to meet with his Malaysian counterpart late yesterday
to “calm the situation,” Aquino said. At least 31 people have
died in clashes between Malaysian police and followers of
Jamalul Kiram, a Filipino who asserts he’s the sultan of Sulu
and is pressing a centuries-old territorial claim to Sabah.  “To the people who are behind this, even now, I tell you:
you will not succeed,” Aquino said yesterday. “All those who
have wronged our country will be held accountable.”  The rising death toll increases pressure on Malaysian Prime
Minister Najib Razak to end the standoff, which has revived a
decades-old sovereignty dispute. The opposition Pakatan Rakyat
alliance accused him of “weak leadership” as it seeks to end
his ruling Barisan Nasional coalition’s 55-year grip on power in
an election that must be called by April 28.  “Malaysia is left with only the military option,” James Chin, a professor of political science at the Malaysian campus
of  Australia ’s Monash University, said by phone. “There’s no
choice. If he doesn’t handle it well there will be an impact on
Barisan National.”  Najib’s government called for unity and asked opposition
politicians to avoid inflaming the situation.  “We are disappointed that the opposition has chosen this
moment to try and score cheap, pre-election political points,”
Najib’s office said in a statement yesterday.  Arroyo Administration  Aquino implicated allies of former Philippine President
Gloria Arroyo in the incident, saying that “certain members of
the past administration” assisted Jamalul Kiram, who ran for a
Senate seat in 2007 elections under Arroyo’s party. Aquino
called on the group to surrender and said they will face
charges.  “There are those who conspired to bring us to this
situation -- a situation that has no immediate solutions,”
Aquino said. “Some of their identities are clear to us, while
others continue to skulk in the shadows. The family of Sultan
Jamalul Kiram could not possibly have settled on this course of
action alone.”  Elena Horn, a spokeswoman for former president Arroyo,
didn’t return a phone call and a mobile phone message seeking
comment.  ‘Outpour of Anger’  Eight Malaysian police officers and 23 Kiram loyalists have
been killed in shootouts since March 1. Some of the 800,000
Filipinos living in Sabah seized the police headquarters in
Semporna on March 2 and took four local officials hostage in
retaliation for the deaths of a Muslim religious leader and his
four sons, according to Fatima Kiram, Jamalul Kiram’s wife.  “The Filipinos there banded together and retaliated,” she
said, adding that the group was not part of Kiram’s militia that
came from the Philippines. “They took over the police
headquarters and seized their arms because there has been an
outpour of anger.”  More Filipinos are heading to the Malaysian side of Borneo
island from the southern provinces of Sulu, Tawi-Tawi and
Basilan and the southern part of Palawan, Kiram said.  The situation is “under control” following the latest
violence, Ramli Mohamed Yoosuf,  Malaysia ’s assistant
commissioner of police, said yesterday in an interview.  The Sulu sultanate says it leased Sabah to the British
North Borneo Company in 1878, an agreement that Malaysia views
as a secession of the region. Sabah fell under British control
after World War II and joined Malaysia in 1963.  International Court  The Philippines is considering taking its claim to Sabah to
the International Court of Justice, Edwin Lacierda, a spokesman
for Aquino, told ABS-CBN News in a television interview
yesterday.  “We are seriously studying the claim of the Kirams to
Sabah,” Lacierda said. The territorial claim is enshrined in
the 1987  constitution  and “it’s still there,” he said.  The Philippines and Malaysia had been cooperating to
resolve the standoff peacefully, Aquino said last week. Najib
helped Aquino reach a peace deal with Muslim separatists in the
southern Philippines last year.  Sabah had a poverty rate of 19.7 percent in 2009, the
highest among Malaysia’s 13 states, according to government
statistics. It has a population of 3.21 million people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  