-- Slim’s America Movil Partnership Boosts NQ Mobile Shares
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-04T21:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/slim-s-america-movil-partnership-boosts-nq-mobile-shares.html
NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  surged the most on
record after the Chinese software security company said it will
provide its products to subscribers of America Movil SAB, the
Mexican wireless carrier controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim .  American depositary receipts of the NQ Mobile jumped 17
percent to $8.07 in New York. Trading volume was more than six
times the daily average over the past three months. The ADRs led
gains on the  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S., which fell 1.3 percent to 92.86.  America Movil will begin offering NQ Mobile’s products for
security, privacy and family protection to its 262 million
subscribers in  Latin America  this year, the Beijing-based
company said in a statement today. The agreement is the latest
partnership for NQ Mobile, which announced last month deals with
U.S. Cellular and a retailer of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   The partnership with  America Movil  “opens a new revenue
source for NQ, which sales mainly came from application
downloads and from phone manufacturers previously,” Andy Yeung,
an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who rates NQ the
equivalent of buy, said in a telephone interview. “It’s much
more significant to NQ in terms of size.”  America Movil, the largest mobile operator in the Americas
by subscribers, has helped make Slim the world’s richest person
with an estimated net worth of $71.2 billion, according to
Bloomberg’s Billionaires Index. NQ Mobile’s new venture will
begin in Mexico and spread to 17 other Latin American nations
throughout the year, the company said in the statement.  International Deal  “This is the biggest international deal in NQ’s history
and has probably been its No. 1 priority for the past year,”
 Mark Murphy , a San Francisco-based analyst for Piper Jaffray &
Co., wrote in an e-mailed  note  today. Murphy reiterated his
overweight rating, the equivalent of a buy, and a $17 price
target. “The partnership should benefit our revenue forecast
for 2013 and beyond.”  NQ Mobile will announce fourth-quarter earnings March 6
after the market closes. Revenue probably jumped 127 percent to
 $29.1 million , according to the average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  