-- Sony to Sell DeNA Stake to Book $438 Million Gain This Quarter
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2013-03-04T08:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/sony-to-sell-dena-stake-to-book-438-million-gain-this-quarter.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  will sell its entire
stake in social-game website operator DeNA Co., the electronics
maker’s fourth major asset sale this year as it tries to avoid a
fifth straight annual loss.  The world’s third-largest TV maker expects to book a 40.9
billion-yen ($438 million) gain this quarter from the sale of
17.7 million DeNA shares to Nomura Holdings Inc., it said in a
statement to the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange today. Sony will disclose
the price tomorrow, and the sale is expected to close March 7,
it said.  Sony sold a building in Tokyo last week for 111 billion yen
to help meet Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai ’s goal of
posting 20 billion yen of  net income  in the year ending March
31. TV and mobile phone-making operations are losing money at
the Tokyo-based company because of slow demand and competition
from Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc.  Nomura then said it will sell 6 million DeNA shares on
March 7, leaving it with 8.7 percent of  voting rights , according
to a statement to the exchange.  Sony agreed in January to sell its 37-story  New York 
headquarters to Chetrit Group for $1.1 billion. The company
expects a profit of about $685 million from the deal.  M3 Stake  The electronics maker also predicted a 115 billion-yen gain
following the sale of a stake in medical-data company  M3 Inc. (2413) 
The largely paper gain mainly derives from a change in the way
Sony accounts for its remaining stake in the health-care
information provider.  The gain from selling DeNA is factored into Sony’s most
recent forecasts, the electronics maker said, while reiterating
that it’s reevaluating the effect of recent asset sales on its
projections.  Hirai also agreed to sell a chemical unit and stakes in
display-making ventures as he sharpens Sony’s focus on mobile
devices, games and digital imaging. The company reiterated its
full-year profit forecast of 20 billion yen last month.  The electronics maker rose 3.5 percent to close at 1,438
yen in Tokyo trading before the announcement. The benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.4 percent. Sony has climbed 50
percent this year, buoyed by a  weaker yen  that’s boosting
earnings from overseas.  TV Slump  The manufacturer is heading for a ninth straight annual
loss at its TV-making unit amid slowing demand and rising
competition. Sales of Xperia smartphones and tablets also trail
Apple’s iPhones and iPads, and Samsung Galaxy handsets.  The company’s  credit rating  was cut three levels to BB-, a
non-investment grade, by  Fitch Ratings  in November. Slumping
demand for TVs and weakened economic conditions at home and
overseas will leave the company maker struggling to regain
technological leadership, Fitch said at the time.  Sony raised 150 billion yen selling five-year convertible
 bonds  in November, its first offering of similar securities
since 2003. The inventor of the Walkman, which is cutting 10,000
jobs, lost about 31 percent of its market value last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  