-- Sony Aims to Make Mobile-Device Unit Profitable Next Year
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-03-04T06:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/sony-aims-to-make-mobile-device-unit-profitable-next-year.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  plans to make its mobile-
device business profitable next fiscal year as it boosts
shipments of smartphones, the head of the unit said.  The maker of Xperia handsets and tablets plans to sell more
than 34 million smartphones in the year beginning April 1,
Kunimasa Suzuki, chief executive officer of the unit, told
reporters in Tokyo today, without giving a more specific figure.
The company said last month it’s targeting 34 million shipments
this fiscal year.  President Kazuo Hirai is focusing on mobile devices as a
key to reviving Sony, which is reeling from four straight annual
losses amid slumping demand for TVs and competition from Samsung
Electronics Co. and Apple Inc., the two largest smartphone
makers. Sony bought out its mobile-phone venture with Ericsson
AB last year for 1.05 billion euros ($1.4 billion) and is
eliminating about 15 percent of the unit’s workforce.  “Sony needs to sell about 50 million smartphones to rank
third, behind Apple and Samsung,” said Hideki Yasuda, an
analyst at Ace Securities Co. “I think Sony has the ability to
achieve it, but if it can’t reach 50 million, it will fade and
become irrelevant.”  The company is rolling out a global marketing campaign for
its Xperia Z smartphone in more than 20 countries, it said Feb.
26. The water-resistant handset was among new products released
at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas  in January.  Xperia Z  Sales of the model topped 160,000 units in  Japan  in the two
weeks after it was introduced Feb. 9, Sony said in a
presentation today, citing a survey by  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , the
nation’s largest wireless carrier. It was Japan’s top-selling
smartphone in the three weeks started Feb. 4, Sony said, citing
researcher  Keitai Watch .  The company is also introducing a new water-resistant
tablet, the Xperia Tablet Z. Sony began selling its first tablet
in 2011.  The Walkman inventor has  gained  50 percent in Tokyo trading
this year as a weaker yen buoys Japanese exporters’ earnings
from overseas. The stock rose 3.5 percent to 1,438 yen at the
close of trade in  Tokyo  today.  Sony can turn its handset business into a profit driver by
focusing more on high-end devices, Hirai said in January.  The electronics maker aims to generate 1.8 trillion yen in
annual sales of mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets and
laptop computers by March 2015, Hirai said in April. The section
making those devices had revenue of 904.8 billion yen during the
nine months ended Dec. 31, while posting an operating loss of
72.6 billion, Sony said Feb. 7.  Sales Targets  Sony last month cut sales targets for TVs, compact digital
cameras, personal computers, camcorders and portable game
players for the year ending March 31, while maintaining its goal
of boosting smartphone shipments 51 percent.  Worldwide smartphone sales jumped 36 percent to 219.4
million units in the fourth quarter, according to research firm
 IDC . Sony’s market share rose to 4.5 percent from 3.9 percent a
year earlier, making it the fourth biggest manufacturer, the
researcher said. Samsung was No. 1 with 29 percent of the
market, followed by Apple with about 22 percent.  Sony sold 8.7 million smartphones in the quarter ended Dec.
31, it said in a Feb. 7 statement. That compares with 27.4
million units for Apple’s iPhone 5 and 15.4 million units for
Samsung’s Galaxy S3 sold during the period, according to
 estimates  made by Boston-based  Strategy Analytics  last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  