-- SouFun Tops ADR Plunge on New Property Measures: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-04T18:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/soufun-tops-adr-plunge-on-new-property-measures-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell in New York
for the first time in a week, led by property companies, on
concern government steps to intensify a three-year effort to
tame the real estate market will damp an economic rebound.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. sank 1.5 percent to 92.63 at 1:35
p.m., the lowest level in three months.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the nation’s biggest real estate information website, tumbled
the most since May, and  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  extended a
five-week drop. Suntech Power Holdings Co. slid after appointing
a new chairwoman. Security software company NQ Mobile Inc.
jumped 18 percent on a partnership with America Movil SAB.  The China-US gauge’s retreat followed the Shanghai Stock
Exchange Property Index’s biggest decline since June 2008 as the
Cabinet ordered more measures to cool real estate prices and
after growth in the nation’s services industries slowed.  China ’s
legislature will start its annual meeting today to set economic
goals and elect new government leaders after the world’s second-
largest economy emerged from its seven-quarter slowdown in the
last three months of 2012.  “The property market is key to sentiment, so it’s
important for the government not to create the idea among the
public that they’re cracking down on property,” Christopher Palmer, who oversees about $2.5 billion as the London-based
director of global  emerging markets  at Henderson Global
Investors Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “If the market becomes
unstable or property developers’ access to loans is cut off,
they could have negative impact on the economy.”  ETF Plunges  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., sank 2.5 percent to $37.64,
set for the lowest close since Dec. 4. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  fell 0.3 percent to 1,514.27.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost 2.1 percent to
11,104.65 yesterday, the largest slump in a week, while the
Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares tumbled 3.7
percent to 2,273.40, sinking the most since August 2011.  SouFun’s American depositary receipts tumbled 7.8 percent
to $23.65, poised for the biggest slump since May 11. E-House
slipped 2 percent to $4.34, set for the lowest level in two
months.  Details on the property measures are “slightly stronger
than expected and sooner than expected,” Matthew Sutherland,
Senior Investment Director for Equities at Fidelity Worldwide
Investment, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We are at
the start of a tightening cycle which will make it hard for the
property sector to outperform.”  Suntech Slides  Suntech, the world’s biggest solar-panel maker, slumped 5.7
percent to $1.23, after losing 10 percent last week.  The company, based in Wuxi of Jiangsu province, said
yesterday Susan Wang, a director at Suntech since April 2009,
was appointed chairwoman of the board, replacing Zhengrong Shi.
Shi, who was also chief executive officer until August, will
remain as a director.  ADRs of Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., the world’s
biggest silicon-based solar panel maker by capacity, sank for a
sixth straight day, losing 1.7 percent to $2.36, the lowest
level this year.  The company, based in Baoding of China’s Hebei province,
reported fourth-quarter loss of $1.28 per ADR, more than the
average 57-cent loss predicted by nine analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Shipments last year surged 43 percent from 2011 to
2.3 gigawatts, boosting revenue by 13 percent to 2.9 billion
 yuan  ($470 million), Yingli said in a statement yesterday.  NQ Jumps  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , a Beijing-based mobile security software
developer, surged 18 percent to $8.14, the biggest jump on
record based on closing levels.  America Movil SAB, the world’s third-largest mobile network
operator, will offer three of NQ’s mobile security applications
to the carrier’s 262 million subscribers in 18 countries, NQ
said in a statement yesterday. The services will start from
 Mexico  through its Telcel unit with about 68 million
subscribers, NQ said.  The deal with America Movil, which is controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , is “much more significant to NQ in
terms of size” than its previous partnership with other
operators, Andy Yeung, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York who rates NQ the equivalent of buy, said by phone
yesterday. “It also opens a new revenue source for NQ, whose
sales mainly came from application downloads and from phone
manufacturers previously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  