-- Southern Cross Climbs to 22-Month High on Merger Report
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-04T06:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/southern-cross-climbs-to-22-month-high-on-merger-report.html
Southern Cross Media Group Ltd. (SXL) ,
Australia’s largest listed rural broadcaster, rose to a 22-month
high in Sydney trading after The Australian  reported  its board
met about a potential merger with Nine Entertainment Co.  The  shares  rose 3.3 percent to A$1.575 at the close in
Sydney, their highest since May 2011, after the newspaper said
the merger could create a A$4 billion ($4 billion) company.
Southern Cross “is reviewing a number of strategic options”
and such a deal is “effectively prohibited” under current
media regulations, the Melbourne-based company said in a
regulatory statement.  Rules that have stopped mergers between Australia’s main
free-to-air commercial broadcasters may change under laws the
government has promised to introduce to parliament this year. A
merger with Southern Cross would help Apollo Global Management
LLC and Oaktree Capital Group LLC, the funds which took control
of Nine in a debt-for-equity swap approved in January, prepare
an exit from the investment, said Fraser McLeish, an analyst at
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. in Sydney.  “This would bulk up the company before any initial public
offering,” said McLeish. “They’d both be able to generate
market share and revenue upsides from switching their regional
content from Ten to Nine.”  Media Rules  Under  Australia ’s current media rules, Nine, Ten Network
Holdings Ltd. and Seven West Media Ltd., which own the country’s
main free-to-air commercial networks, can only broadcast in
major cities. Southern Cross, Prime Media Group Ltd., and
closely-held WIN Corporation Pty. have agreements to rebroadcast
most of the major networks’ content in rural areas.  Southern Cross’s agreement with Ten expires in the middle
of this year, the company said today, and “there may be
speculation regarding the strategic direction of the company in
that context.”  The company Feb. 19 blamed weak audiences for Ten’s shows,
as well as the withdrawal of advertising after a hoax call to a
London hospital about the Duchess of Cambridge, for an 8.9
percent fall in trading revenue in the six months through
December.  The two companies had combined revenues of about A$1.71
billion in the year through June 2012, based on Southern Cross’s
 reported results  and Nine’s 35 percent share of Australia’s
A$2.97 billion television  advertising market  during the period.  That would value the combined group at A$6.16 billion
including debt, based on the median 3.6 multiple in 15
combinations of media companies worth at least $1 billion over
the past three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  