-- Spain’s Vega Sicilia Holds Its Own Against Bordeaux Wines
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-03-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/spain-s-vega-sicilia-holds-its-own-against-bordeaux-wines.html
Twenty years ago few wine lovers
outside Spain ever talked about the country’s wines, with one
exception: Vega Sicilia, long considered one of the greatest red
wines in the world by connoisseurs who rank it alongside
France’s Premier Cru Bordeaux.  Vega Sicilia has been produced in the Ribera del Duero
region of northern Spain for almost 150 years, primarily from
tempranillo grapes, usually blended with cabernet sauvignon,
merlot, and malbec.  The name is something of a mystery but has nothing to do
with the island of Sicily. Many believe it refers to Saint
Cecilia, revered in this part of Spain. The winery was founded
by Don Eloy Lacanda y Chaves in 1864, who brought French
varietals like cabernet sauvignon and merlot to the region.  Tempranillo is a thick-skinned grape that ripens early (the
word temprano means “early”) and has power and concentration
with alcohol levels between 13.5 and 14 percent.  The history of Vega Sicilia under various owners has had
its ups and downs, but since being purchased by the Alvarez
family in 1982, its eminence has been assured.  On Feb. 25 general manager Pablo Alvarez showcased a rare
tasting of Vega Sicilia wines to the media and buyers at New
York’s  Mandarin Oriental (JM)  hotel. (The U.S. is the wine’s number
one export market.)  Precipitous Drop  Alvarez outlined the challenges of wine making, noting that
the temperature in the vineyards can hit 105 degrees during the
day, then fall 30 degrees at night. In 2001 a frost killed off
the vineyard’s entire crop of grapes.  If the old wisdom is true that grapes must suffer to
produce great wine, then Vega Sicilia overcomes hardships with
admiral grace. “Our entire philosophy is to make a wine of
great elegance,” said Alvarez.  At the tasting of six wines, this philosophy was borne out
by silky, luscious wines with depth and vitality, even in old
vintages. The wine takes its time to mature and continues to do
so for decades, which is why the producer does not release
vintages for at least 10 years.  The exception to this is their lighter, leaner Valbuena 5
degrees, produced from somewhat younger vineyards and composed
of tempranillo, merlot, and cabernet. The 2008 vintage I tasted
was amazing for its depth and brightness, benefiting from a year
of aging in new oak barrels, three months in older barrels, and
six months in large oak vats. It is just being released this
year and should retail for $160 a bottle.  Huge Bouquet  A 1998 Valbuena 5 degrees has been in the market for a
decade and is no longer easy to find, but I located bottles  on
line  at about $140.  The wine has a huge bouquet with enormous,
but not plumy, fruit, long legs and a robust character amazing
for a 15-year-old “lighter” wine.  We then tasted the Vega Sicilia Unico, a Gran Reserva made
from the vineyards oldest vines and sometimes not produced at
all if the vintage is deemed unworthy of the label.  The oldest we tasted, a 1981 magnum, revealed a slightly
musty nose at first, but it blew off after a few minutes to
reveal a wine still taut, not yet giving up its dimensional
complexity.  Its composition was 87 percent tempranillo and 13 percent
cabernet. Released in 1998, it may still be found in magnum at
$1000 to $1200, while the 50ml bottles available run between
$300 and $550.  Tempranillo Bite  The 1994 vintage had more cabernet and merlot added to 80
percent tempranillo, and there was still plenty of grip and
tannin, with a true tempranillo bite and a very dry finish. You
can find it for about $500.  The youngster of the bunch was a 2004 vintage, with 87
percent tempranillo. It’s a very powerful wine though right now
a little out of balance in its fruit, acid and tannins, a little
jammy. But time will smooth it all out, maybe by next year when
it is released.  The last wine is Vega Sicilia Unico signature Reserva
Especial, a non-vintage blend of three wines from vintages that
might date back decades. It is an artisanal, handcrafted wine,
strictly allocated.  The wine I tasted was made in 2009 from 1990, 1994, and
1996 vintages, and it showed a magnificent complexity, with a
very pretty nose, plenty of strawberry-like fruit, impeccable
structure throughout, and a thickness of texture whose power was
sheathed in a velvet glove. It sells for about $500.  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  book  and  music  reviews.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 