-- Spanish Jobless Claims Slow, Boosting Rajoy Recovery
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-03-04T08:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/spanish-jobless-claims-slow-boosting-rajoy-recovery.html
Spanish jobless claims slowed in
February, lending support to the government’s view that the
country has overcome  the worst  of a six-year slump.  The number of registered unemployed rose by 59,444 from the
previous month, less than half the increase in January, to 5.04
million, the Labor Ministry in Madrid said in an e-mailed
statement. That’s the best February performance in five years.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is trying to persuade Spanish
voters and European Union officials he can get the economy back
on track after overshooting his  budget-deficit  target by more
than 50 percent in 2012. The EU last month predicted Spain’s
contraction will be almost three times the government’s 0.5
percent forecast.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has said
restarting the euro-region economy is his biggest challenge in
2013 after stabilizing the bloc’s financial system last year by
pledging to defend the euro. Output from the 17-nation currency
union will shrink by 0.3 percent this year, the EU forecasts.  “The worst of the threat is passing into memory,” Rajoy
told the Spanish parliament last month. “We have other
challenges to face, but they will not be so grave.”  Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre last week
said  Spain ’s recession will moderate in the first three months
of the year. Output fell by 0.8 percent in the last quarter of
2012, the most in four years.  Still, the Bank of Spain last week said the recession is
extending into the first quarter amid weak domestic demand.
Export growth slowed in the last quarter while tourism slowed in
recent months, it said. The number of tourist visits fell 2.6
percent in January from a year earlier.  The country’s record jobless rate will climb to 27 percent
this year, the EU forecast last month. A third of all unemployed
in the euro region are in Spain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid   at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  