-- Steinmetz Real Estate Hires RREEF’s Papachristophorou
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-03-04T13:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/steinmetz-real-estate-hires-rreef-s-papachristophorou-correct-.html
(Corrects Papachristophorou’s age in fifth paragraph.)  Chris Papachristophorou, former
global head of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s RREEF Opportunistic
Investments, is joining Beny Steinmetz Group Real Estate to run
a private-equity venture that aims to invest $2 billion.  Invel plans to buy European assets sold by companies and
governments that are reorganizing as well as distressed assets,
said Papachristophorou. Invel, based in  London , will provide
 seed capital  and try to find buyers to co-invest in each
transaction.  BSG Real Estate, a unit of the Beny Steinmetz Foundation,
is raising funds as European nations including Greece, Spain and
 Italy  strive to attract real estate investors to help cut debt.
The euro region’s recession, which deepened in the fourth
quarter, has also forced businesses including banks, airlines
and carmakers to scale back and reorganize.  “For sure, European real estate markets are seeing a
recovery, and the pace of deals will accelerate in 2013 and
2014,” Papachristophorou said in a phone interview.
Opportunities from European banks will increase as their
performance improves and they’re able to withstand losses on
sales, he said.  Printemps’ Restructuring  Papachristophorou, 44, who is also chief executive officer
of BSG Real Estate, left RREEF last year. His previous real
estate deals include the restructuring of  France ’s Printemps
department stores, which RREEF is now in talks to sell to the
co-owner, Borletti Group, and Qatari investors.  In February, Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest bank,
reorganized the management of the unit that invests in real
estate and infrastructure after scrapping a sale of the
business.  Invel will have enough capital to make investments before
attracting investors and is already looking at four assets,
Papachristophorou said. Invel is interested in properties in
Italy, France, Spain and Germany, he said.  Beny Steinmetz, Israel’s richest person, ranked 137th in
the Bloomberg Billionaires ranking published in December’s
Bloomberg Markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  