-- Sweden’s Borg Vows to Give Riksbank Free Hands on Krona Policy
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-03-04T12:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/sweden-s-borg-vows-to-give-riksbank-free-hands-on-krona-policy.html
Sweden’s government distanced itself
further from moves elsewhere across the globe to manipulate
currencies by pledging not to interfere in the central bank’s
exchange rate policy.  The stance is in contrast with efforts from France to
Japan, where governments have pushed for monetary policy steps
targeting exchange rates. In Japan, the government’s preferred
candidate to take over as central bank governor has spoken in
favor of additional stimulus measures.  “I would never dream of commenting on monetary policy,”
Swedish Finance MinisterAnders Borg said in an interview in 
Stockholm today. “The entire responsibility for monetary policy 
and currency interventions is with the Riksbank.”  Sweden’s central bank Governor Stefan Ingvessaid in an
interview last month the krona’s ascent is justified and has
brought the exchange rate to a level he’s “happy” with. Sweden
has distinguished itself as a nation unwilling to be dragged
into so-called currency wars as governments elsewhere try to
boost trade competitiveness through exchange-rate devaluations.  The krona gained as much as 0.3 percent against the euro
and traded 0.2 percent higher at 8.3633 as of 12:30 p.m. local
time. Versus the yen, the krona gained as much as 0.5 percent.  “In some other countries, governments and central banks
share duties with respect to the exchange rate,” Borg said.
Sweden’s decision to leave all monetary policy and currency
decisions to an independent central bank is “very wise,” he
said.  `Should Appreciate'  Comments by Ingves and other policy makers in the largest
Nordic economy show that “Sweden will stay side-lined on any
global currency war, being a lone rider among central banks in
not viewing its currency as overvalued,”  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  senior
analyst Christin Tuxen said in a note today. “This lends
support to our view that the krona is, if anything, slightly
undervalued and should appreciate further from here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  