-- Japanese Derivatives Halted After Osaka System Crashes
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a ,   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-03-04T10:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/system-error-halts-nikkei-225-derivatives-traded-in-osaka.html
Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures
volume plunged more than 90 percent today as a software error
forced a halt to  Osaka  trading of some derivatives, the first
outage for  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  technology installed in 2011.  Trading of Nikkei 225 options and  futures  in  Japan  resumed
at 2:10 p.m. The failure began at 10:20 a.m. when a program
processing index options stopped responding, Osaka Securities
Exchange Co. Managing Director Yoshinori Karino said at a press
briefing. The volume of March contracts traded  plummeted  to
5,718, about 7 percent of the 14-day moving average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Osaka is the only venue in Japan where Nikkei 225 futures
change hands. The trading system that failed today, known as J-
Gate, uses technology from Nasdaq OMX. The Japan bourse, formed
by the merger of Osaka Securities Exchange Co. and  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange Group Inc., which suffered two trading-system  halts
last year, plans to adopt J-Gate for all derivative transactions
by March 2014, it said in October.  “There’s nothing positive about the troubles we saw today
for the stock market,” Hidehiro Tomioka, who helps oversee $1.3
billion in Japanese equities at Manulife Asset Management
(Japan) Ltd. in Tokyo. “It’s going to breed distrust among
global investors, who are keeping a close eye on Japanese
stocks. Generally speaking, it’s easy for there to be problems
during and after a merger. It’s important that they clarify what
the problem was.”  TSE Failure  Investors from outside Japan have been net buyers of the
country’s stocks for the  last 15 weeks , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s helped propel a 34 percent rally
in the Nikkei 225 since Nov. 14, when elections were announced
that brought Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to power on a platform of
massive economic stimulus. Japan Exchange shares added 1 percent
today.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange in August had its second major
system error in seven months, halting derivatives trading for
about 95 minutes, cutting equity volumes, driving  government
bonds  lower and sending futures traders to Osaka. The error
occurred in servers hosting the bourse’s Tdex+ system, based on
NYSE Euronext’s Liffe Connect platform.  No Virus  Today’s problem wasn’t caused by a virus, Karino said. The
bourse is investigating the root cause of the outage, which was
remedied by restarting the system, he told reporters.  “It’s important to gain market trust by preventing this
from happening again,” said Motoharu Fujikura, president and
chief executive of the OSE, at the press briefing in Osaka. He
declined to comment on who will be accountable for the
disruption or on potential losses. “We would like to thoroughly
investigate the cause, and achieve a smooth integration.”  Volume on the  Nikkei 225  was 23 percent lower than the 30-
day intraday average as of the close, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The impact seems to be spreading to not only futures and
options, but also to the cash market,” said Naohide Une, head
of equity derivatives trading at Goldman Sachs Japan Co. said
before the system was restarted.  Nikkei 225 futures and options accounted for 80 percent of
 trading and clearing revenue  at the Osaka bourse in the quarter
ended Sept. 30, according to its most recent earnings statement.
Buying and selling of the futures contracts was the only area
that showed growth from the year-earlier period, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  