-- U.K. Lags Behind High-Income Peers in Health Measures
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-03-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/u-k-lags-behind-high-income-peers-in-health-measures.html
Almost 65 years after the creation
of a state-run medical system for all, the U.K. is falling
behind its peers in measures of health and lifespan as smoking
and drug use take their toll.  A “startling increase” in Alzheimer’s disease over the
past two decades as well as a spike in drug and alcohol abuse
among young people have held the U.K. back as 14 other members
of the European Union and the U.S. showed improvement, a team of
U.S. researchers reported today in The Lancet medical journal.  The only exception was among men older than 55, where the
U.K. saw significantly faster declines in premature death rates
compared with 18 other countries including the U.S., the study
showed. Deaths from drug and alcohol abuse among adults between
20 to 54 years old have offset the reduction in mortality from
cervical cancer and road injuries, the researchers said.  In 2010, the U.K. ranked 14th in both death rates and life
expectancy at birth, a decline from 12th place in 1990.
 Australia  was No. 1 in both measures. For healthy life
expectancy at birth, or the number of years before disability
sets in, the U.K. ranking was unchanged over the two decades at
12th place. Spain ranked No. 1.  Bold Action  “There is plenty of room for bold action by politicians
and the body politic: plain packaging for cigarettes, minimum
pricing for alcohol, banning of trans fats, improved control of
hypertension and attention to psychiatric disorders,” Edmund
Jessop, vice president of the U.K.’s  Faculty of Public Health ,
wrote in a comment alongside the study.  The news wasn’t all bad for Britons, whose taxes fund a
comprehensive medical system that is free at the point of care.
The U.K. had significantly lower premature death rates from
diabetes, liver cancer and chronic kidney diseases than its
European peers, the study found. In the last 20 years, diet has
improved, and the country has “some of the safest roads in
 Europe ,” Jessop said.  ‘Rational Review’  The findings “do not provide a simple verdict on the
performance of the U.K. health system,” Richard Horton, the
editor-in-chief of The Lancet, wrote in an editorial. “They do
offer a quantitative means to monitor measures of health and
disease and to enable more rational review and discussion of
health priorities.”  The researchers, led by Chris Murray from the  University of
Washington  in  Seattle , analyzed data from the Global Burden of
Diseases, Injuries and Risk Factors Study in 2010. They looked
at patterns of poor health and death, determined the impact of
preventable risk factors such as smoking, and ranked the U.K.
against 18 other high-income countries including  Germany ,
France, Canada and Australia. The study was funded by the Bill
and Melinda Gates Foundation.  In the U.S., the researchers found life expectancy lagged
behind men in 37 countries including  Greece , South Korea and
Lebanon. HIV infection is more of a health burden in the U.S.
than in the U.K., Germany and Australia, they found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  