-- U.K. Retailers Seek Tax Change to Account for Shift to Internet
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-03-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/u-k-retailers-seek-tax-change-to-account-for-shift-to-internet.html
U.K. retailers are pushing for
changes to the tax system so that high street stores aren’t at a
disadvantage to online sellers.  “We’ve got a 19th-century tax base whereby space and
people get taxed and digital activity doesn’t,” British Retail
Consortium Chairman Ian Cheshire said in a March 1 briefing in
 London . “All companies in the U.K. retail sector are going to
become increasingly multi-channel, so the danger for the
Treasury is their tax base will start to shrink.”  Amazon.com Inc. and Google Inc. were among companies
singled out by U.K. lawmakers last year for not paying enough
tax in Britain. With online retailing now reaching 11 percent of
sales in Britain, reorganizing the tax system is becoming a
“strategic issue for U.K. Plc,” said Cheshire, who pointed to
the collapse this year of HMV Group Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
seller of CDs and DVDs, and camera retailer Jessops Plc.  “One of the reasons we’re seeing the level of vacancies in
shops now is that this has begun to hit critical mass,” said
Cheshire, who is also chief executive officer of  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,
 Europe ’s largest home-improvement retailer. “So how do we
redesign the model that isn’t reliant on taxing space? We should
be paying tax but it needs to be a level playing field.”  Cheshire said he discussed business rates charged to shops
on the basis of their area with Chief Secretary to the Treasury
Danny Alexander, Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s
No. 2, on Feb. 25. The rates are more than corporation tax for
B&Q, a Kingfisher brand, he said.  Unintended Consequences  Alexander “really took it on board,” Cheshire said.
“We’re going to try and develop some thinking about how do you
take a future model and prescribe the way of taxing economic
activity, and avoid unintended consequences like creating high
street closures.”  Members of Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee last year
criticized Amazon, Google and Starbucks Corp. for using complex
accounting methods to reduce their U.K. tax liabilities.  Cheshire said if he were setting up a business now, it
would be designed along the lines of Screwfix, a Kingfisher
brand that’s geared toward online sales, rather then B&Q, which
“could probably do without the square footage.”  B&Q, which has annual profits of about 200 million pounds
($300 million), pays business rates for its stores totaling
about 120 million pounds, he said. Selling a power tool through
the B&Q website has a “minute” tax burden compared with
selling the same product in a store, he said.  “The challenge for government is they have to raise tax
from somewhere,” said Cheshire. “If they’re not careful
they’ll find a whole pile of new activity which isn’t generating
the tax take for the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  