-- U.K. Lending Drops as BOE Says Credit Plan to Take Time
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-04T15:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/u-k-fourth-quarter-lending-drops-led-by-lloyds-santander-1-.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  led a drop in U.K. lending in the fourth quarter as
the Bank of England said its credit-boosting program will “take
time” to feed through to loan growth.  The flow of net lending shrank 2.4 billion pounds ($3.6
billion), leaving the total down 1.5 billion pounds since June,
the central bank said in a report on its Funding for Lending
Scheme. Net loans at Lloyds plunged 3.1 billion pounds. A
separate report showed U.K. construction shrank at the fastest
pace in more than three years in February.  BOE policy makers meeting this week have said they are
considering new measures to revive growth as the economy shows
signs of slipping into an unprecedented triple-dip recession.
Markets Director Paul Fisher said last week the FLS had been
“remarkably successful” in reducing bank funding costs, though
its impact on loan rates had been slower.  “It is pretty clear that the FLS is not living up to
expectations,” said Michael Saunders, chief western Europe
economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London . “While mortgage lending
spreads have fallen, lending is weak and credit availability for
business is poor.”  In a statement, the BOE said there are “indications of an
improvement” in credit conditions, “but it will take time for
this to feed through to lending volumes, given the typical lags
involved.”  Lloyds Lending  Banks are cutting lending as they shrink their balance
sheets and bolster capital to meet tougher global regulations in
the wake of the financial crisiss.  Lloyds said the drop recorded in the BOE data is mostly due
to a reduction in “non-core business” and that it grew net
lending to borrowers such as smaller companies last year.  After Lloyds, the biggest drop was a 2.8 billion-pound
decline at Santander, followed by RBS, at 1.7 billion pounds.  “To meet our strategic goals of balancing the business and
supporting U.K. SMEs, we are reducing the size of our
residential mortgage book, which because of our building society
heritage, accounts for over 80 percent of our customer
lending,” Santander said. It increased net lending to small
businesses by 18 percent last year, it added.  In its response to the data, RBS said its “core bank
increased net lending to the real economy by over 1 billion
pounds.”  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led banks increasing loans in the fourth
quarter, with a 1.9 billion-pound expansion. It was followed by
Nationwide Building Society, at 1.8 billion pounds.  “The figures continue to reflect the difficulty that small
firms experience in getting finance,” said John Walker,
chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses. “It is clear
that Funding for Lending is benefitting the mortgage market more
than the small business sector.”  Construction Weakness  The  construction index  from Markit Economics fell to 46.8
last month from 48.7 in January. That’s the lowest since October
2009 and below economists’ forecast for a reading of 49, based
on the median of nine estimates.  A survey by Markit last week showed manufacturing
unexpectedly shrank in February, reviving concerns the economy
could shrink again this quarter.  Services growth  probably slowed
last month, economists said before another report tomorrow.  ‘Disappointing’  The Bank of England and the U.K. Treasury started the FLS
on Aug. 1 to specifically target lending to consumers and
companies. Under the program, the BOE lends banks treasury bills
that they can then use to access cheaper funding. Aggregate
drawdowns by banks from the program were 9.5 billion pounds in
the fourth quarter, pushing the total to 13.8 billion pounds
since it began.  The British Chambers of Commerce said that while the fourth
quarter is “typically a subdued period for lending,” the
latest data are “clearly disappointing.”  Fisher said Feb. 27 that while the FLS has been
“remarkably successful” in reducing bank funding costs, the
impact on loan rates has been slower. He also said it may take
until 2013 data to see the full impact on loan growth.  “Even though lending rates have fallen, that is still
quite early for much extra money to have flowed from the
application stage into actual loans,” Fisher said.  BOE policy makers begin their monthly two-day meeting on
March 6 and will keep their bond-purchase target unchanged,
according to the  median of 39 economists  in a Bloomberg survey.
Eleven economists in the poll predict an expansion of
quantitative easing.  In Asia today, Haruhiko Kuroda said the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will
do whatever is needed to end 15 years of deflation should he be
confirmed as governor and indicated that open-ended asset
purchases could start sooner than next year.  “I would like to make my stance clear that we will do
whatever we can do,” Kuroda, president of the Asian Development
Bank, said at a confirmation hearing in the parliament in  Tokyo .
The central bank hasn’t bought enough assets and should consider
buying large amounts of longer-term bonds, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  