-- U.K.’s Airport Deficiency Costs $1.5 Billion in Trade, CBI Says
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-03-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/u-k-s-airport-deficiency-costs-1-5-billion-in-trade-cbi-says.html
The U.K. needs to improve airport
connections and expand hub capacity to encourage direct flights
to emerging trade partners like Brazil,  Russia  and China,
according to the  Confederation of British Industry .  A new daily flight to each of the world’s eight fastest-
growing markets would boost U.K. trade by as much as 1 billion
pounds ($1.5 billion) a year, the London-based business lobby
said in a report today.  British airports, including Europe’s largest hub at  London
Heathrow , are not keeping pace with rival European facilities in
developing new direct connections, the CBI said. Operating at
full capacity on its two runways, Heathrow has only grown 53
percent in the last two decades, compared with growth rates
exceeding 80 percent at Frankfurt Airport, Paris’s Charles de
Gaulle and Amsterdam Schiphol.  “Every day we delay expanding our connections, we risk
falling further behind our competitors,” CBI Chief Policy
Director Katja Hall said in the report. “Firms need frequent
direct flights to the widest range of markets.”  Enough demand exists to support hub airports, which pool
passengers to fill long-haul flights, and point-to-point
facilities drawing from the local catchment areas, the CBI said.
The two types of airports have both seen an increase in demand
since 1993, they said.  While the “unique nature of a hub airport means it is
particularly well-positioned to act as the initial driver for
new long-haul routes,” the CBI said, the “substantial
population agglomerations” of people around  London  and other
British cities means point-to-point links also play a valuable
role.  A government-appointed  task force  led by  Howard Davies , a
former Financial Services Authority chief, is considering
various options to expand the U.K.’s airport capacity. The task
force is scheduled to publish an interim report next year,
recommending short-term options, and a final report by mid-2015,
after the next parliamentary election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  