-- U.K. Stocks Fall as China Services Slow; HSBC Declines
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-03-04T16:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/u-k-stocks-drop-as-china-tightens-housing-hsbc-falls.html
U.K. stocks  retreated as a report
showed growth in China’s services industries slowed last month,
and lawmakers tightened mortgage rules to cool the residential
property market in the world’s second-largest economy.  HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings Plc slid the most in seven months as it
posted 2012 profit that missed analyst estimates.  Debenhams (DEB)  Plc
dropped the most since November 2008 after saying first-half
profit will decline because snowfall in January disrupted sales.
 GKN Plc (GKN)  rose to the highest level since July 2007 after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation on the shares.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 32.97 points, or 0.5 percent, to
6,345.63 at the close in London. The gauge has still rallied 7.6
percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also fell
0.5 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 1.3 percent.  “With  China , we’ve had very strong credit growth and we’re
a little bit concerned that we’re starting to see some
tightening,” Nick Nelson, a strategist at UBS AG in London,
told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television. “On Friday, we
got a description of some tightening around the property market,
which may be the beginning of that process.”  China’s services industries expanded last month at the
slowest pace since September. The non-manufacturing Purchasing
Managers’ Index fell to 54.5 in February from 56.2 in January,
the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  Chinese Property  The Chinese government has also intensified its three-year
campaign to cool the real estate market, ordering larger
deposits and stricter enforcement of sales taxes.  In  Italy , Democratic Party Leader Pier Luigi Bersani, whose
coalition won the most votes in inconclusive polls, rejected the
possibility of forming a government with rival Silvio Berlusconi
and said he hadn’t met with politician Beppe Grillo.  Bersani’s economic policy spokesman, Stefano Fassina, said
the country may have to hold new elections “in a few months”
if Bersani doesn’t get a majority in parliament.  The volume of shares changing hands on FTSE 100-listed
companies was 8.2 percent higher than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HSBC dropped 2.5 percent to 710 pence, the most since July
23.  Europe ’s largest bank by market value said profit fell 5.6
percent after a record settlement for anti-money-laundering
sanctions in the U.S. and a charge to revalue its own debt.
Pretax earnings for 2012 slid to $20.65 billion, trailing the
$23.49 billion estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Banks Decline  A  gauge of U.K.-listed banking shares  declined 2 percent.
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  retreated 3.7 percent to 51.3 pence and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  slipped 2.3 percent to 306.9
pence.  Debenhams declined 15 percent to 80.7 pence. The U.K.’s
second-largest department-store company indicated that first-
half profit will miss  estimates . Pretax profit will fall to
about 120 million pounds ($180 million) from 127.1 million
pounds a year earlier, it said in a statement. Cantor Fitzgerald
analysts had estimated earnings of 131 million pounds.  GKN Plc climbed 2.4 percent to 275.9 pence after Goldman
Sachs raised its recommendation on the shares to neutral from
sell, citing better growth prospects and lower volatility of
returns in the aerospace division.  Bunzl Plc (BNZL)  advanced 1.9 percent to 1,310 pence, the highest
level since at least 1988, after it bought Brazilian health-care
supplier Labor Import Comercial Importadora Exportadora Ltda.
for an undisclosed amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  