-- U.K. Lawmakers See Need for Plan B if Nuclear Boom Fails
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-03-04T11:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/u-k-needs-energy-plan-b-should-new-nuclear-fail-lawmakers-say.html
The U.K. government, planning to
close almost all nuclear power stations within 10 years, needs a
“plan B” in case new reactors aren’t built on time, according
to a cross-party panel of lawmakers.  With all except one nuclear plant due to shut by 2023,
failure to build the planned 16 gigawatts of new capacity by
2025 will jeopardize legally binding emission targets, the
Energy and Climate Change Committee said today in a report. It
said lessons should be learned from reactor delays in  Europe .  “The government seems to be crossing its fingers that
private companies will deliver a fleet of new nuclear power
stations on time and on budget,” said Tim Yeo, a member of the
ruling Conservative Party who leads the committee. “Ministers
need to urgently come up with a contingency plan in case the
nuclear industry does not deliver.”  Lawmakers are weighing new energy laws designed to spur 110
billion pounds ($165 billion) of investment in generators and
grids by 2020. The draft includes support for low-carbon
projects such as nuclear and renewables, and plants that capture
emissions. The experience of  France  and  Finland , where new
reactors have overshot budgets and schedules, has fueled the
debate.  Britain is determined to build new nuclear to support new
jobs and boost low-carbon electricity, U.K. Energy Minister John Hayes said today. “We’re focused on bringing forward this
investment, but also getting the best deal for the consumer,”
he said.  Blackouts Possible  The government’s alternative to expanding atomic energy
would be “a huge step-change” in the priority given to energy
efficiency and renewables, Yeo said by phone. “Given that the
government is struggling even to meet its existing commitments
in those two areas, that plan B is scarcely plausible.”  Power failures are possible before the end of this decade
without a better strategy to build the reactors, David King, the
former government’s chief scientific adviser, said last year.
 Iberdrola SA (IBE)  Chairman  Ignacio Galan  also said last month that
Britain risks blackouts this decade unless it details proposed
capacity auctions soon. The auctions are aimed at driving
development of gas-fed plants.  Utility Positions  While  Electricite de France SA ,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , Iberdrola and
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA plan a combined 16 gigawatts of power stations in
the U.K., EDF is the only company making progress with its
proposals.  Centrica Plc (CNA) , EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  have withdrawn from
British nuclear projects.  The government is in talks with EDF to agree on a price for
power from a planned new nuclear plant at Hinkley Point in
southwest  England . The utility is seeking a so-called strike
price of 95 pounds to 99.50 pounds a megawatt-hour, or about
twice the current wholesale market rate, a person with knowledge
of the negotiations said last week.  “The consequence of not having a plan B means that the
government’s negotiating position vis-a-vis EDF is very weak,”
Yeo said. It may be easier for the government to compromise by
awarding longer contracts rather than by agreeing to pay higher
prices, he said.  EDF is seeking to lock in prices for 40 years under the
program, known as contracts for difference. The deal will be
fair and balanced for U.K. consumers and investors alike, EDF
said today in a separate statement.  Unlocking Funds  “Agreeing this contract is the key to attracting investors
and to unlock funding for this project which will give the U.K.
the secure, low carbon energy it needs for the future,” EDF
said in statement. “The government can act now to deliver
nuclear in time to avoid the need for a back-up plan.” A
planning decision at Hinkley Point is due from government by
March 19, EDF said.  In France, EDF has seen costs for its new Flamanville plant
more than double to 8.5 billion euros ($11 billion). That
project, under construction since 2007 and due for completion in
2016, is using an  Areva SA (AREVA)  reactor, the same model as proposed
in the U.K. It was originally intended for completion last year.  EDF’s Hinkley Point cost estimates given to the U.K.
government already include lessons learned from construction at
Flamanville, EDF said today.  In Finland, Teollisuuden Voima Oyj is targeting 2016 to
complete its Olkiluoto-3 reactor, about seven years behind its
original schedule. The company is also using the Areva model.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  