-- Ultra Electronics Looks at Defense Acquisitions, CEO Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-04T10:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/ultra-electronics-looks-at-defense-acquisitions-ceo-says.html
Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc (ULE)  said
it may consider a major defense acquisition as the U.K.
military-electronics maker takes advantage of industry disposals
prompted by government-budget cuts.  Ultra would go beyond its typical 150 million-pound ($225
million) purchase limit to buy an attractive asset should a top
defense contractor sell a unit that fits with long-term goals,
Chief Executive Officer  Rakesh Sharma  said in a telephone
interview. “If something came out that was quite strategic to
us, we would consider doing something larger.”  Slowdowns in U.K. and U.S.  defense spending  contributed to
a 9.2 percent drop in pretax profit last year, Greenford,
England-based Ultra said today in a statement. Protracted budget
negotiations between the  U.S. Congress  and the White House
reduced order bookings, the manufacturer said.  “The difficulty is the uncertainty, rather than the budget
cuts themselves.” Sharma said. “We want the cuts to happen so
everybody can readjust and move on.” Long-term prospects remain
positive as “there are elements within the military budget that
continue to grow.”  Ultra  fell  as much as 1 percent to 1,664 pence and was
trading down less than 0.1 percent at 10:08 a.m. in London,
valuing the company at 1.17 billion pounds ($1.75 billion).  Civilian Activities  The manufacturer has expanded sales in fields such as
energy and transport to make up for the decline in military
projects. Revenue from non-defense activities accounted for 44
percent of the total last year, Ultra said. That compares with
35 percent in 2011.  “Over the medium term, our non-defense business is going
to take a bigger share of the pie,” Sharma said. As production
ramps up for programs such as the  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner and
Gulfstream business jets, civilian-oriented sales may reach 50
percent of the total within three years, he said.  Revenue increased 4 percent in 2012 to 760.8 million
pounds. Information and power-systems sales jumped 23 percent
last year, while falling 12 percent drop in aircraft and vehicle
systems and 3.4 percent in tactical and sonar systems.  Acquisitions made last year and non-defense activities
should permit “marginal” group sales growth of 1 percent to
1.5 percent this year, more than making up for a shrinking
defense market, including the latest round of U.S. military-
spending cuts taking effect March 1 under so-called
sequestration, Sharma said.  The order backlog fell 4.8 percent to 905 million pounds,
largely because of delayed booking on an airport contract for
Oman. Sharma said it’s too early to tell whether the order book
will grow this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  