-- Turkey Bond Yields Rise as Lira Loss Damps Rate Cut Speculation
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-03-04T14:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/turkey-bond-yields-rise-as-lira-loss-damps-rate-cut-speculation.html
Turkish benchmark  bond yields  rose
for a second day as a weakening lira led investors to bet the
central bank will keep  interest rates  unchanged.  Bond yields rose two basis points to 5.77 percent, up from
a record low of 5.64 percent on Feb. 20. The lira declined 0.2
percent to 1.8016 per dollar, extending its fall in the past
month to 2.2 percent. It also dropped 0.2 percent to 2.07
against an equally-weighted basket of dollars and euros.  A weakening lira reduces expectations that the central bank
may cut rates at its next meeting on March 26 as it’s seeking to
stem unwanted currency appreciation, according to Gulay Girgin,
chief economist at Ata Invest in Istanbul. The central bank is
monitoring the lira against  Turkey ’s main trade partners, saying
that excessive appreciation could lead to a monetary policy
response.  “Investors are now pricing in that the central bank will
not cut at the next meeting, so we’re seeing an increase in the
benchmark,” Girgin said by phone today. “The lira is hovering
around 2.07 to 2.09 against the lira/dollar basket, and this is
okay for the central bank.”  Yields on benchmark two-year debt jumped the most in almost
two months on March 1 after bank Governor Erdem Basci said he
may tighten liquidity to curtail domestic demand. Yields have
dived 348 basis points over the past 12 months, the biggest
decline in  emerging markets .  The lira dropped 18 percent against the dollar in 2011,
then strenghthened 6 percent last year. It has declined 1
percent this year.  Basci’s policies of varying funding banks at three main
interest rates while making frequent changes to  reserve
requirements  have helped make the lira the least volatile among
eight currencies in Eastern Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa 
in the last three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The risk of an abrupt foreign exchange movement remains
high,” Citigroup Inc. economist Ilker Domac said in an e-mailed
report today, citing Turkey’s wide current-account deficit and
the “low level of interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  