-- US Airways CEO Says Mergers Herald Returns to Investors
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-03-04T18:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/us-airways-ceo-says-mergers-herald-returns-to-investors.html
Doug Parker, poised to run the
world’s biggest carrier after the pending merger of  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  and  American Airlines (AAMRQ) , said consolidation will create
a stronger industry able to provide returns to investors.  The airline formed in the American- US Airways  combination
will have a broad enough network to compete with larger rivals
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,
Parker, now US Airways’ chief executive officer, said today in
an interview set to air on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart” with  Adam Johnson .  Putting American and US Airways together will leave just
three major U.S. carriers with domestic and international
routes, down from seven in 2000. The merger, announced on Feb.
14, will close as American exits bankruptcy protection in this
year’s third quarter.  “This isn’t an industry that’s ever been able to meet its
return on capital,” said Parker, 51. “Investors are demanding
that and we need to go do it. We have the structure we need to
go do that and have a very competitive industry that could also
provide returns to investors. We are committed to doing that.”  While the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  surged 40 percent
in the 12 months that ended March 1, investors also have been
battered in recent years by airline losses and bankruptcies. The
index tumbled 53 percent from the end of 2006 through 2009, more
than twice the 21 percent drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Bankruptcies, Mergers  United and Delta were among the carriers restructuring in
court last decade, setting the stage for mergers that vaulted
them past American into the top spots in the global industry by
passenger traffic.  American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier, and No. 5 US
Airways are assembling a transition team from both companies
that will focus on how to integrate operations, Parker said.  The combination still must win approval from AMR’s
bankruptcy judge, shareholders of Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways and federal regulators. The merged airline will keep
American’s name and its Fort Worth, Texas, headquarters and
retain all seven hubs.  “They fit together perfectly,” Parker said. “We have a
very strong East Coast presence where American had a hole, and
we fill that hole very capably.”  Annual savings and new  revenue  from the merger should total
more than $1 billion by 2015, the airlines said. US Airways also
will spend about $400 million to bring its employees up to
American’s pay rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  