-- Luvata Sees 5% Growth for Copper Products Demand in U.S., China
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-04T14:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/luvata-sees-5-growth-for-copper-products-demand-in-u-s-china.html
Luvata, the maker of copper
components in everything from solar panels to zippers, expects
demand for its products in the U.S. and China to rise by at
least 5 percent this year.  A recovery in residential and commercial construction in
the U.S. is driving demand for the company’s copper products,
John Peter Leesi, chief executive officer, said in an interview
March 1. Luvata expects “flat-to-small growth” in demand for
its products in  Europe  in 2013 as the euro-area’s economy, which
is battling the debt crisis, is seen failing to expand, he said.  “We see the market recovering and we remain hopeful and
optimistic on the U.S.,” Leesi said in the company’s
headquarters in Brentford,  England . “Two sectors are very
important to us - residential and commercial construction. We
have now seen recovery in those sectors and that translates into
business and orders for us.”  The U.S. housing industry is “structurally improving” and
will become an important driver for copper demand and sentiment,
while Chinese imports of refined metal will pick up in the next
three to six months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a March 1
report. The Copper Development Association says construction
generates about 40 percent of demand.  Global copper demand growth will accelerate to 3.7 percent
in 2013 after the smallest increase in three years in 2012,
Credit Suisse Group AG estimates in a Jan. 3 report. Demand in
North America will expand 2 percent in 2013, while usage in
 China  will grow 6 percent, according to the bank. China accounts
for 41 percent of global consumption and North America makes up
9.9 percent, it said.  China  Air-conditioning shipments in China, Luvata’s second-
biggest market after the U.S., will likely improve this year
after a poor 2012 driven by construction and domestic
infrastructure investments, Leesi said. The country’s air-
conditioner output fell for the first time in three years in
2012, according to industrial production  data .  “We believe there is a potential for this number to
improve,” Leesi said. “We are rather positive about Asia,
where China is an important market.”  Urbanization in India makes it “important” for the copper
market, while the change there will be slower than China’s,
Leesi said.  India  accounts for about 3 percent of global copper
demand, according to Credit Suisse. The company sees
“significant double-digit growth” in technical precision air
cooling for data centers, including those in Bangalore, Leesi
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  