-- Venezuelans Protest as Maduro Says Chavez in Chemotherapy
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-03-04T13:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/venezuelans-protest-as-maduro-says-chavez-getting-chemotherapy.html
Venezuelans marched in Caracas
yesterday, demanding more information on President Hugo Chavez’s
health after the government said he’s undergoing chemotherapy
following cancer surgery.  Vice President Nicolas Maduro, who has been running the
country in the self-declared socialist’s absence, said March 1
that Chavez is undergoing chemotherapy after surgery for an
undisclosed type of cancer in Cuba more than two months ago.
Maduro said Chavez is in “good spirits,” in spite of the
severity of the treatment.  Hundreds gathered on the street outside the Supreme Court’s
offices to support a sit-down protest. About 50 students since
Feb. 26 have been demanding to meet with judges who ruled in
January that Chavez could skip his own swearing-in ceremony for
a new term as he recovers.  “We’re tired of these lies and of Chavez playing hide-and-
seek,” Franklin Gomez, a student taking part in the protest,
said in comments carried on Globovision. “We want to see him.
Where is he?”  Aside from photos released last month and Twitter messages
posted to Chavez’s account after he made a surprise return to
 Venezuela  Feb. 18, the 58-year-old leader hasn’t been seen in
public since traveling to Havana Dec. 10. No images of Chavez’s
return to Caracas were broadcast and the government said he
isn’t able to speak after a respiratory infection required the
insertion of a tracheal tube to aid breathing, fueling
speculation that he won’t be able to finish his term in office.  Government Support  Hundreds of supporters of Chavez also held an event in
Caracas yesterday.  “The treatments President Chavez is doing are difficult,
but he has right now a strength superior to what he is receiving
and is in good spirits,” Maduro said March 1 on state
television. From mid-January, “there was a general improvement
in the whole clinical picture of his vital organs, of his
strength and the doctors and President Chavez decided to begin
complementary treatments. Do you know what complementary
treatments are? Well, chemotherapy that they apply to patients
after operations.”  Information Seeking  Alfonso Henriquez, 67, said he attended the march to
support the students’ demands for more transparency on Chavez’s
health.  “I don’t believe in Maduro’s information,” he said. “One
day he says he was in five-hour meeting with Chavez, the next
that he’s getting chemotherapy. They need to say once and for
all if Chavez is in condition to govern.”  Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said today the
protesting students are being used by Chavez’s opponents to
invent “histrionic scenarios.”  “How would we dare to lie about President Chavez’s state
of health?” Villegas said in comments broadcast on state
television. “You know very well that a patient’s state can vary
- there are ups and downs. There can be sudden improvements and
deteriorations.”  In order to receive chemotherapy a patient has to be in
reasonable shape to withstand the treatment, though Chavez is
probably receiving palliative care to improve his quality of
life rather than to cure the disease, said Sunil Daryanani, a
Caracas-based oncologist.  “If someone’s on chemotherapy, that person should be in
relatively stable condition,” Daryanani said in a phone
interview. “In the case of Chavez, this would be second-line
treatment, having had first-line chemotherapy a year and a half
ago. Palliative treatment tries to hold off the disease for as
long as possible, though the first intention is for quality of
life.”  Surgery Schedule  While announcing Dec. 8 that he required further surgery to
treat his cancer, Chavez anointed Maduro as his successor and
called on Venezuelans to vote for the former bus driver and
union leader in the event that he didn’t survive the operation.  Under Venezuela’s constitution, if Chavez dies or steps
down an election must be held within 30 days.  Miranda state Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski, who was
defeated by Chavez in an election Oct. 7, said March 1 that
Maduro is lying about Chavez’s health, including that his
ministers held a five-hour meeting with Chavez Feb. 22.  “Maduro has repeatedly deceived the president’s followers
and Venezuelans over the real situation of the president,”
Capriles said in a  Twitter  message. “Let’s see how they explain
in the next few days the lies they’ve told over the president’s
situation.” Maduro denied the accusations.  ‘Conspire Abroad’  The government is monitoring Capriles’s movements and knows
he has traveled to Colombia, Miami and New York seeking funding
and plotting against Venezuela, Maduro said, adding that he
could pinpoint the exact street in  Manhattan  where Capriles
could be found at that moment. Capriles is planning to meet with
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs
Roberta Jacobson while there, Maduro said.  “Those who conspire abroad in Colombia, Miami or New York
against the Venezuelan people should be very careful in what
they do,” Maduro said. The government wouldn’t hesitate to
apply the law, Maduro said.  Chavez first told Venezuelans he had cancer in June 2011
after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an abscess from his
pelvic area during which he said doctors discovered a baseball-
sized tumor in the same area. The tumor was excised in a
subsequent operation, Chavez said, without specifying the exact
location or type of cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 