-- Verizon to Introduce Secure E-Mails for Medical Records
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-03-04T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/verizon-to-introduce-secure-e-mails-for-medical-records.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-biggest U.S. telephone company, will introduce the first
national service enabling doctors to securely exchange medical
records no matter what computer system they use.  The service will begin tomorrow following testing among
about a dozen U.S. hospital systems and other clients. Under the
program, medical providers who pay a monthly fee will be able to
share data, texts and e-mails while still meeting U.S. privacy
standards. About $5 billion of Verizon’s $111 billion in revenue
in 2011 came from health-related customers, said Peter Tippett,
the New York-based company’s chief medical officer.  A push by the Obama administration to computerize a U.S.
medical system that relies largely on paper records has been
hampered by the tendency of hospitals and software providers to
create closed systems that don’t communicate with one another.
Verizon is competing with Dallas-based AT&T, the biggest U.S.
phone company, and cable and Internet providers for a share of
the market in connecting the industry electronically.  “The vast majority of stuff shared by providers ends up
not digitizable and it’s a huge pain,” Tippett said in a
telephone interview. “There’s huge savings in this. There’s a
huge easing of access and care.”  Verizon will charge about $10 to $60 a month per user for
doctor’s offices and hospitals to be on the system, Tippett
said. The new service will consist of two components: an
information exchange for hospitals to securely move data, and a
web-based portal though which providers, from doctors to nurses
to ambulance drivers, can exchange messages and texts.  Security Concerns  Physicians have traditionally avoided e-mail because of
security concerns and data limits that often prevent them from
sending large files such as X-Rays and MRIs, Tippett said.
Verizon’s product, known as Secure Universal Message Services,
overcomes those problems and is likely to attract “thousands”
of medical providers, he said, declining to be more specific.  Verizon believes its new service will be a “game-
changing” solution, Tippet said.  “We really think it will be disruptive,” he said. “It’s
kind of like giving a gift of e-mail, but in a secure form, to
the entire health-care ecosystem.”  The Obama administration’s records initiative, enacted as
part of the economic stimulus law in 2009, makes hospitals
eligible for payments of as much as $11.5 million if they can
demonstrate “meaningful use” of computer system. Hospitals and
doctors who don’t adopt electronic records by 2015 will be
penalized with lower Medicare payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  