-- Villas-Boas Says Arsenal in Negative Spiral: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-04T08:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/villas-boas-says-arsenal-in-negative-spiral-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Spurs Upswing  Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas said his team is
confident of a top-four finish in the Premier League after
beating Arsenal 2-1 yesterday to move seven points ahead of its
north London rival, the  Guardian reported .  “The difference this year is that we are on an upward
spiral in terms of confidence whereas they are in a negative
spiral,” the Guardian cited Villas-Boas as saying. “Once you
get into that negative spiral it’s difficult to get out of it.”  Samba Stays  Queens Park Rangers rejected what coach Harry Redknapp said
was a “massive” offer for Chris Samba from Zenit St.
Petersburg, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The bid was for more than the 12.5 million pound ($18.8
million) fee Rangers paid Anzhi for the center half in the
January transfer window, the Mirror said, citing Redknapp.  Straight Talking  Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini wants players to
take more responsibility for results and said he won’t shy away
from criticizing them in public, the  Sun reported .  “I say what I think sometimes because I think it could be
good for my players to understand they could play better, they
can do more,” the Sun cited Mancini as saying.  Suarez Snub?  Stewart Downing said Liverpool teammate Luis Suarez’s
chances of winning the Professional Footballers’ Association
Player of the Year award may be hampered by how his peers
perceive him, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Downing said voters could be swayed by the Uruguayan
striker’s reputation for diving and his eight-match ban last
season for racially abusing Patrice Evra, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  