-- VirnetX Says Cisco Should Pay $258 Million Over Patents
-- B y   D e n n i s   R o b e r t s o n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-03-04T21:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/virnetx-says-cisco-should-pay-258-million-over-patents.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  should pay $258
million for infringing patents over secure private
communications technology, a lawyer for  VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC) 
told a federal jury today.  Cisco began using a VirnetX invention to improve security
in 2005 and has made more than $1 billion of revenue related to
the technology, VirnetX lawyer Doug Cawley, of  McKool Smith ,
said during opening arguments at a trial in Tyler,  Texas .  The dispute is over virtual private networks, through which
a website owner can securely interact with a customer or an
employee can work at home and have protected access to a
company’s electronic files. VirnetX won a $368.2 million verdict
against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in November over the same technology before a
different Tyler jury. Cisco denies infringing the four patents,
contends they are invalid, and argues VirnetX isn’t entitled to
any damages.  “VirnetX did not invent secure communication over the
Internet,” said John Desmarais of Desmarais LLP in  New York ,
representing Cisco.  San Jose , California-based Cisco “uses
industry standard parts” and doesn’t violate VirnetX’s patent
rights, he said.  Two of the patents in the Cisco case also were asserted
against Apple in the trial last year. VirnetX is asking the jury
to award it a “reasonable royalty,” while Cisco argued in
court documents that any damages should be limited or excluded
altogether because Zephyr Cove, Nevada-based VirnetX took too
long to file suit.  Networking Functions  The case targets Cisco routers, software and phones that
have virtual-private-networking functions including its Unified
Communications Manager product, Telepresence or AnyConnect.
Cisco, whose products handle traffic over the Internet, reported
sales of $12.1 billion in the quarter ended Jan. 26.  VirnetX, which reported in its annual report that it has an
accumulated deficit of $62.9 million, relies on patent licensing
for its revenue. It is beta testing its Gabriel Connection
Technology to create secure communications links, it said in the
annual report. The company received $200 million from Microsoft
Corp. from a settlement in 2010.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis, who is presiding over
both the Apple and Cisco cases, on Feb. 26 upheld the jury
verdict against Apple. Davis denied a VirnetX request for an
order that would have limited Apple’s ability to provide virtual
private networks on its products.  In rejecting the request, Davis said that VirnetX’s Gabriel
software isn’t commercially available, so Apple hadn’t damaged
the company’s business. He also said that cash would be
sufficient to compensate VirnetX for the infringement. In that
ruling, the judge ordered the two sides to confer to try to work
out a license for future royalties.  The case is VirnetX Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 10cv417,
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Dennis Robertson in Tyler, Texas.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  