-- Vitro Says Pact With Hedge Funds Ends Duel Over 2009 Default
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-03-04T22:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/vitro-says-pact-with-hedge-funds-ends-dispute-over-2009-default.html
Vitro SAB (VITROA) , Mexico’s largest
glassmaker, said it agreed to a settlement with U.S. creditors
including hedge fund manager  Paul Singer , ending a legal battle
over debt from the company’s $1.2 billion bond default in 2009.  Fintech Advisory Inc., a Vitro financial partner, will buy
creditors’ bonds with a face value of $729.2 million for 85.25
cents on the dollar and make a $57.5 million payment for fees
and expenses, court documents show. Fintech will also receive a
13 percent stake in a Vitro subsidiary and a $235 million two-
year note from the unit, according to a Vitro statement.  The pact followed a legal dispute that wound through courts
in  New York ,  Dallas , New Orleans and Mexico for more than two
years, pitting Vitro, Fintech and the Mexican government against
 hedge funds  including Singer’s Elliott Management Corp.,
Aurelius Capital Management LP and Davidson Kempner Capital
Management LLC.  “These agreements allow us to close the book on a
challenging period for our company,” Vitro Chairman Adrian Sada
said today in the statement.  Vitro  rose  5.2 percent to 32.54 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. Excluding today’s gain, the shares have advanced 85
percent this year as speculation mounted that the company would
reach a settlement.  Donald Cutler, a spokesman for the group of bondholders who
rejected last year’s restructuring, declined to comment. While
the earlier plan was approved in Mexico, it was rejected by
courts in the U.S., Vitro’s largest foreign market.  Court Approval  The deal with creditors, which requires court approval in
the U.S. and  Mexico , would end all legal actions between Vitro
and bondholders who spurned its 2012 restructuring, the maker of
windows, car windshields and bottles said. Approval by courts
and regulators is needed to complete the transaction with
Fintech, which is led by hedge fund manager David Martinez, San
Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico-based Vitro said.  The glassmaker’s agreements with bondholders and Fintech
would finalize its restructuring four years after the company
missed $44.8 million in interest payments as losses from
derivatives tied to natural-gas prices followed a slowing of
sales in Mexico and the U.S.  The holdout creditors “are making out better” than those
that accepted Vitro’s restructuring offer when it exited
bankruptcy in Mexico last year, according to  Jim Harper ,
director of corporate research at BCP Securities LLC, who valued
the earlier deal at about 59 cents on the dollar.  ‘Better’ Deal  Bonds issued in connection with the 2012 plan are likely to
rally in the wake of the settlement as investors focus on
Vitro’s rebounding business, he said.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed 25 percent to $105 million in the third
quarter from the same period a year earlier as sales to
automakers rose 13 percent and fees in connection with the debt
restructuring process fell. Exports were 33 percent of sales.  “When parties that are in litigation reach an agreement,
it’s a cloud that dissipates and you get to focus on the
business,” Harper said in a telephone interview from Greenwich,
 Connecticut .  Singer and his allies rejected Vitro’s original debt swap
more than a year ago, after the manufacturer used intercompany
debt to become its own biggest creditor. Vitro created the
intercompany loans less than a year after its bond default, as
part of a reorganization in exchange for $75 million in
financing from Fintech.  Mexico, U.S.  Vitro emerged from its Mexican bankruptcy in February last
year with Sada retaining control. In June, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Harlin Hale ruled that Vitro’s Mexican plan wasn’t worthy of
enforcement in the U.S. because it absolved company subsidiaries
of their bond guarantees without the units being in bankruptcy.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  upheld the
rejection, even after the Mexican government filed a brief
arguing U.S. courts should respect Mexican law and provide
enforcement for Vitro’s plan.  U.S. bondholders have contended that Vitro orchestrated
fraudulent transfers before and during bankruptcy. The company
has said it acted properly and in December it  began  legal action
in Mexico seeking damages of as much as $1.59 billion from
bondholders who sought to push it and 17 subsidiaries into
involuntary bankruptcy.  “The financial restructuring of Vitro’s indebtedness has
achieved its objective of creating low and sustainable leverage
after a decade of high debt levels,” Fintech’s Martinez said in
the Vitro statement. “Under the leadership of Adrian Sada and
its focused management, the company will capitalize on its
outstanding growth prospects, including those in the North
American market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  