-- Volcker Says Weakening the Fed’s Stimulus ‘Liquor’ a Challenge
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-04T19:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/volcker-says-weakening-the-fed-s-stimulus-liquor-a-challenge.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said U.S. central bank officials may find it difficult
to rein in their historic stimulus at the appropriate time
because “there is a lot of liquor out there now.”  “At some point when the worm turns and the party is
getting under way, to use that old analogy, at what point do you
begin retreating?” Volcker said today in a forum discussion in
 Washington . “You can make a mistake and go too quick, but the
much more frequent mistake in my judgment is you go too slow,
because it’s never popular to take the so-called punch bowl away
or to weaken the liquor.”  “There’s a lot of liquor out there now,” he said during
the  National Association for Business Economics  annual policy
conference today.  Fed officials have expanded the central bank’s balance
sheet to a near-record $3.09 trillion by purchasing assets in an
effort to stimulate economic growth and reduce an unemployment
rate at  7.9 percen t. The actions have raised concerns the Fed
may risk contributing to financial instability.  Earlier in the day, Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen told the
conference attendees that while “the potential costs” of asset
purchases “definitely need to be monitored over time,” she did
“not see any that would cause me to advocate a curtailment.”  Risk Balance  “I view the balance of risks as still calling for a highly
accommodative monetary policy to support a stronger recovery and
more rapid growth in employment,” Yellen said. The Fed should
press on with $85 billion in monthly bond buying, she said.  Volcker said the current policies Fed officials’ put in
place are “OK at the moment” because there’s “no inflationary
problem at the moment, and they want to support growth.”  Wrapping up the stimulus will be “mechanically” possible,
Volcker said. Doing it at the “crucial time, in a delicate way
that can be done without creating expectations in the other
direction that will be harmful” is the difficult part, he said.  “It’s not impossible, but it’s a real challenge,” said
Volcker, 85. He spoke at the event after receiving NABE’s first
lifetime achievement award for economic policy.  The Federal Open Market Committee in January affirmed its
plan to continue buying $40 billion per month in mortgage bonds
and $45 billion in Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  