-- Wegelin Must Pay $58 Million in U.S. Tax Prosecution
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-05T02:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/wegelin-may-pay-57-9-million-in-u-s-tax-prosecution.html
Wegelin & Co. was ordered to pay
U.S. authorities almost $58 million at the end of a criminal
case after the Swiss bank pleaded guilty to helping American
taxpayers hide more than $1.2 billion from the  Internal Revenue
Service .  U.S. prosecutors called the misconduct by Switzerland’s
oldest private bank, which started in the early 2000s and
continued until 2011, “extraordinarily willful.” Wegelin said
the U.S. investigation was responsible for forcing it out of
business after 272 years.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  approved the
sentence, which Wegelin had agreed to with prosecutors, after
crediting the bank with showing up to plead guilty rather than
fighting his court’s jurisdiction. Wegelin said it had believed
that Swiss banking secrecy laws and the fact it had no offices
in the U.S. shielded it from prosecution there.  “To me, what justifies this deal -- which is what it is --
is the practical reality that it would have been difficult for
the government to have obtained jurisdiction over the bank,”
Rakoff said in yesterday’s hearing. “Some credit has to be
given to the bank for coming forward in those circumstances.”  The fine, restitution and forfeiture ordered yesterday, in
addition to $16.3 million seized by the U.S. from Wegelin’s
correspondent bank account last year, totals a $74 million
recovery for the U.S. government. Rakoff also put the bank on
probation for a month to ensure it makes the ordered payments.  ‘Steep Price’  “Wegelin has now paid a steep price for aiding and
abetting  tax fraud  that should be heeded by other banks,
bankers, and advisers who engage in the same conduct,” U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement yesterday. “U.S.
taxpayers with undeclared accounts -- wherever those accounts
may be -- should know that their bank may be next, and they
should pay what they owe the IRS before we come find them.”  In January, Otto Bruderer, a managing partner at St.
Gallen-based Wegelin, entered the guilty plea to one count of
conspiracy in Manhattan federal court. Wegelin last year became
the first Swiss lender indicted in a crackdown on offshore firms
suspected of helping Americans evade taxes.  Under the financial terms approved by Rakoff, the bank will
pay $20 million in restitution to the U.S., forfeit $15.8
million in fees earned on the undeclared accounts and pay a fine
of more than $22 million. Wegelin also agreed not to fight the
$16.3 million seizure.  Wegelin’s lawyer,  Richard Strassberg , argued against a term
of probation, telling Rakoff it wasn’t necessary to force
Wegelin to pay.  Judge Joked  “I could send the corporate charter to jail,” Rakoff
joked. “That would be interesting.”  Before approving the plea agreement, Rakoff questioned both
sides whether the government had settled for too little after
calling Wegelin’s crime “extraordinarily willful.”  Prosecutors claimed that U.S. taxpayers conspired with
Wegelin and with three of its client advisers, Michael Berlinka,
Urs Frei and Roger Keller, to hide income from the IRS. The
individual defendants, who live outside the U.S., were indicted
in January 2012 and haven’t appeared in court to answer the
charges. The bank held more than $1.2 billion in assets not
declared to the IRS, according to the indictment.  The U.S. said Wegelin and the three advisers wooed U.S.
clients fleeing  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, after an
investigation of that company became public. UBS avoided U.S.
prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided  tax evasion , paying
$780 million and handing over data on 250 accounts. It later
disclosed information on about 4,450 more accounts.  Undeclared Accounts  Wegelin opened new undeclared accounts for at least 70 U.S.
taxpayers who were former UBS clients, according to the
indictment. Most of those clients were given an internal code of
“BNQ,” indicating the accounts were undeclared.  The effort to recruit UBS clients was backed by Wegelin’s
senior management, according to the indictment.  Wegelin believed UBS was targeted by prosecutors for
actions the bank had taken in the U.S., Strassberg told Rakoff.
Because Wegelin had no offices in the U.S., executives believed
it was safe from prosecution, he said.  “By pleading guilty, Wegelin acknowledges that this
conduct was wrong despite its belief that, as a practical
matter, it would not be prosecuted in the U.S. for this conduct
because it had no branches or offices in the U.S. and because of
its understanding that it acted in accordance with, and not in
violation of, Swiss law and that such conduct was common in the
Swiss banking industry,” Wegelin said in a Feb. 25 sentencing
memorandum to Rakoff.  Voluntary Disclosure  About 245 U.S. taxpayers with undeclared Wegelin accounts
participated in a voluntary disclosure program, paying back
$13.3 million in unpaid taxes and interest, according to
prosecutors. Taxpayers who didn’t enter the disclosure program
face possible criminal prosecution.  Earlier in the case, Wegelin declined to answer the charges
or appear in court, prompting Rakoff to declare the bank a
“fugitive.”  Wegelin said in its sentencing memorandum that U.S.
accounts never made up more than about 5 percent of the bank’s
clients.  Wegelin was founded in 1741 by a textile merchant in  St.
Gallen , a small city near the German-Austrian border, the bank
said in its sentencing memorandum. After 250 years of control by
Wegelin’s founding family, the bank sold a majority stake to
outside partners. Wegelin had a single branch with just 30
employees in the 1990s when Bruderer and Konrad Hummler joined
as managing partners. Over just a decade, the two men grew
Wegelin into a bank with 12 branches and more than 700
employees, it said.  ‘The End’  The indictment of the Wegelin client advisers in January
2012 marked “the beginning of the end” for the bank, it said.  “Prominent individual and institutional clients, egged on
by competitors predicting Wegelin’s imminent indictment and
collapse, fled to the perceived safety of other financial
institutions,” Wegelin said in the memorandum. Key employees
were recruited by competing banks and Wegelin faced the
possibility of breaching contracts with counterparties if it
were charged, the bank said.  Wegelin, which had $25 billion in assets in December 2010,
announced Jan. 27 that it had agreed to sell its non-U.S.
business to  Switzerland ’s Raiffeisen Group. In the announcement,
Wegelin said any liability for the firm’s U.S. business would
remain with the current partners. Wegelin didn’t disclose the
sale price. Wegelin is in the process of winding up its U.S.
accounts, it said.  The case is U.S. v. Wegelin & Co., 12-cr-00002, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  