-- Welcome the Robot Revolution, but Beware
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-04T23:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/welcome-the-robot-revolution-but-beware.html
Robots are evoking some deep
economic anxiety these days. They’re routinely mastering human
tasks -- driving cars, trading securities,  diagnosing diseases  -
- that not long ago appeared permanently beyond their
capabilities. And as automated technology advances at an
exponential rate, more and more jobs, in more and more fields,
will be done by intelligent machines in the very near future.  This transition will involve some scary trade-offs. Growth
and productivity will probably accelerate, and low-cost, high-
quality goods will probably proliferate. But many workers will
find their skills obsolete and their ability to compete
diminished. Unemployment could be exacerbated. Wage stagnation
for the middle class could persist or worsen. And inequality
seems likely to widen.  For all that, we remain optimistic. Throughout history,
technology -- from the steam engine to electricity to the
computer -- has upended old ways of doing business and created
useful and edifying new fields of human endeavor. This long
cycle of creative destruction suggests, however, that the robot
revolution will be a time of significant turmoil.     And that the
more we prepare for it now, the better off we’ll be.  Be Flexible  As the digital economy churns through old industries,
workers will need to become increasingly creative and open to
change, and governments will need to grow more nimble in
encouraging innovation and cushioning the blow for those left
behind. As Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee argue in their
book “ Race Against the Machines ,” the guiding principle for
revamping public policy as this revolution unfolds is
flexibility.  That means, first, preserving labor-market flexibility by
fighting the urge to inhibit job losses in industries where
robots will inevitably displace humans. A smarter way for the
government to encourage hiring is to start shifting from taxes
on employment, like the payroll tax, and toward taxes on
consumption and pollution, like  carbon . Investing in education,
as always, will be critical. Expanded  worker-training  and
placement programs would help ease the burden of changing jobs
and better align workers’ skills with what employers need. And
reforms that help make health-insurance policies more portable
would be a boon to workers looking to try new fields.  Second, the government needs to do a better job of
encouraging innovation. It may seem paradoxical that one way to
mitigate the stresses of surging innovation is yet more
innovation. But the key to the next economy will be people who
can think of new fields, new applications and new businesses
that robots can complement. Entrepreneurs will create whole new
categories of jobs -- many of which we haven’t imagined yet --
by combining human ingenuity with the efficiency and precision
of robot labor. Entrepreneurialism will thus become an
increasingly essential skill.  Congress can help by resisting the urge to regulate new
industries overzealously, keeping taxes on small businesses low
and making it easier to start new companies. It should also
reform the immigration system by expanding H-1B visas for
temporary workers, ensuring that those who graduate from U.S.
universities with advanced degrees in science, technology and
math automatically qualify for green cards, and by creating a
“startup visa” to encourage foreign entrepreneurs who have
attracted investment or revenue in the U.S. to stay and create
jobs.  Perhaps the best investment the government can make to
encourage innovation for the robot economy is in research and
development. That requires increased funding for government
research centers, such as the National Science Foundation. More
important, it means spurring private investment by making the
R&D tax credit, which businesses use to help fund research
projects, permanent. The credit has been perpetually at risk of
expiring since its inception in 1981. Making it permanent would
give companies an incentive to plan long-term research and would
yield social and economic benefits that almost certainly exceed
its cost to taxpayers.  Fixing Patents  Third, the outdated American patent system needs to be
further overhauled to crack down on patent trolls while ensuring
it remains accessible to independent inventors. The U.S. Patent
and Trade Office should require more clarity from applicants for
software patents, reject more infringement claims based on bogus
patents, shorten patent terms and seek more input from outside
experts. Such changes should encourage innovation rather than
litigation.  Finally, robots will probably worsen inequality by shifting
income from workers toward owners of capital. This process,
known in economics as “capital-biased technological change,” is
already under way: After holding roughly steady for decades, the
share of income that accrues to labor  declined markedly  in the
past 10 years, partly due to increased automation. One solution,
as we’ve argued before, is to start taxing investment income at
the same rate as wages, while eliminating or significantly
reducing the corporate-income tax.  Another option is strengthening the social safety net,
preferably in ways that increase the returns to low-paid work.
The earned-income tax credit is one such program, and ought to
be expanded. But orthodox redistribution alone will ultimately
be insufficient, and if carried too far could be
counterproductive.  Here’s a more radical idea. Fresh thinking is needed on how
to give low-income workers a stake of their own in the nation’s
stock of capital while shielding them from undue financial risk.
Done right, an equity-based component in Social Security
benefits would be a step in the right direction. Along the same
lines, some  have   suggested  that the children of poor families
should be granted a modest portfolio of stocks at birth, with
lockup provisions. The point is that we need to fundamentally
rethink how the government addresses inequality in the new
economy.  History suggests that as creative destruction works its
ruthless magic, the efficiencies robots yield will eventually
lead to new jobs, new discoveries, new ways of enjoying life.
They may free us to do ever more  satisfying work . But as
Brynjolfsson and McAfee  warn , “There is no economic law that
says that everyone, or even most people, automatically benefit
from technological progress.”  That’s one more reason to start preparing now. The robot
revolution may be liberating, but it won’t be bloodless.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 