-- Why Both Sides Are Wrong in the Debate Over Telecommuting
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/why-both-sides-are-wrong-in-the-debate-over-telecommuting-view.html
This editorial was produced in an
office, so it may be 13 percent less productive and efficient at
its job than if it were written at home. Then again, if it were
produced at home, away from the boss’s gaze, it might still be
goofing off, collecting glib phrases and sentence fragments
without cohering into anything persuasive.  In the latest debate over telecommuting,  sparked by   Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO) ’s  announcement  that all employees working from home must
start showing up at the office, the two camps have staked out
their positions.  Advocates  of working from home cite studies
showing that telecommuting benefits employers and employees
alike.  Opponents extol  the benefits that can come only from a
spontaneous, collaborative work environment.  Two subtleties undermine each of these views. First, little
about telecommuting’s value can be deduced from the current body
of research on the subject. Second, Yahoo’s experience with
home-bound workers says a lot about Yahoo’s experience with
home-bound workers. About the only generalized lesson we can
draw is that managing employees well is vital, whether they work
in a cramped cubicle or the spare bedroom.  Yahoo insiders say it had become a common view that the
company was bogged down with slackers taking advantage of work-
from-home arrangements. So Chief Executive Officer Marissa Mayer, hired in July to turn the troubled company around,
apparently decided to test that theory by  checking  how many
remote employees were logging into the company’s network,
allowing them secure access to Yahoo’s systems. The answer: too
few.  Measuring Productivity  How to reconcile Yahoo’s experience with studies showing
people are more productive when they work from home?  Most of these reports aren’t studies in any scientific
sense. Many are surveys in which employees who work from home
self-report on factors such as their productivity and job
satisfaction. As such they are vulnerable to the  Hawthorne
effect , in which subjects change their behavior in response to
an experiment. Respondents may overestimate their work output,
hoping an employer will permanently adopt telecommuting. In any
case, employees are generally poor judges of their productivity.  In addition, even if remote employees produce more in the
hours they work at home, there may be related productivity
losses back at the office. What about those brainstorming
sessions by the water cooler? More prosaically, and
realistically, there are the hours spent by colleagues at the
office on material to send home and on troubleshooting
technology glitches.  Then there are the case studies purporting to show that
telecommuting saves money by increasing productivity and
retention and by cutting overhead, because companies need less
office space. Cisco Systems Inc., for example, claims that
telecommuting saved it $277 million a year. Of course, its
business is selling communications equipment that enables
employees to work remotely. It’s a little like Coca-Cola
promoting the virtues of soda sales in schools.  What could help clarify this issue, beyond a healthy dose
of common sense, is a randomized trial in which one group within
a company works remotely and the other goes to the office. So
far, just one such  study  has been conducted. It is fascinating
and has been widely referenced in the current debate, but it has
almost nothing to do with the challenges facing Yahoo.  Over nine months, call-center employees for the Chinese
travel company CTrip who worked at home proved 13 percent more
productive than a control group, based on the objective measure
of the number of phone calls they made. The group’s attrition
rate, 17 percent, was half that of the control group. CTrip
estimated annual savings of $2,000 per telecommuting employee.  Strong Incentives  What no one mentions, however, is that half of a CTrip
employee’s monthly earnings is based on his or her call and
order volume. Thus workers had a strong incentive to be
especially industrious, and working from home helped: It was
quieter than the office, so employees got through calls faster
and thus made more of them. They worked more minutes within a
mandated shift because, spared a commute, they were less tardy.
And they had fewer sick days because they worked even if a
little unwell.  For companies such as Yahoo, where output for salaried
employees is hard to measure and synergy among at least some
workers is vital, the CTrip experience can’t be replicated.
Still, for them, telecommuting is not a bad idea per se. It can
help attract and retain talent. And it’s well suited for quiet,
independent tasks that even collaborative workers do
occasionally. The challenge is to establish the right mix
between office and remote work and to  ensure  work from home is
productive. That means having managers establish expectations
and communicate regularly with their charges.  This was the lapse at Yahoo. It was a failure of
management, not telecommuting. That’s why, both inside and
outside the company, it’s expected that once the shirkers have
been weeded out, working from home will return to Yahoo.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 