-- WTI Oil Futures Trade Near $90 a Barrel in New York
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-04T13:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/wti-oil-trades-near-10-week-low-libya-halts-zawara-crude-output.html
West Texas Intermediate traded near
$90 a barrel, a level it has held above so far this year, after
money managers cut bets on rising prices.  Futures were little changed in  New York  after sliding to a
10-week low on March 1. Net-long positions in WTI dropped 16
percent, according to weekly data from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. Services industries in  China  expanded at the
slowest pace in five months in February, a survey of  purchasing
managers  showed yesterday.  “Oil is going to remain under pressure for a while yet,”
said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd.
in  London , who correctly predicted last month that prices were
set to drop. “When prices were strong last month there was an
influx of fresh speculative buying, and the opposite is
happening now.”  WTI for April delivery fell as much as 59 cents to $90.09 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $90.80 at 1:13 p.m. London time. Prices
declined 2.6 percent last week for a second weekly drop and are
down 1.1 percent this year. WTI last traded at $90 on Dec. 31
and dipped to $90.04 in intraday trading March 1.  Brent for April settlement gained 27 cents to $110.67 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $19.87 to WTI
futures, from $19.72 on March 1. The volume of all futures
traded was 16 percent below the 100-day average for WTI and 36
percent higher for Brent.  Bullish Bets  Money managers’ net-long positions in WTI for the week
ended Feb. 26 fell by 32,790 futures and options combined, the
most since Dec. 11, to 175,211, the CFTC data showed March 1.  The same trend occurred for ICE Brent, with  hedge funds  and
other money managers cutting bullish bets by the most in more
than 18 months, to a net 159,816 lots, the London-based exchange
reported today. The reduction of 30,855, or 16.2 percent, is the
biggest in terms of the number of contracts since early August
2011, and in percentage terms the steepest decline since
October.  In other energy markets, the same category of investors
increased positions on natural gas by 21 percent to the largest
for the time of year since 2010, CFTC data showed.  Chinese Economy  China’s non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index fell
to 54.5 in February from 56.2 in January, the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said yesterday. The country accounted for 11
percent of the world’s oil consumption in 2011, according to  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. used 21
percent.  “The gloss of the recovery has been tarnished,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney. “We can see
continued weakness in the demand picture for crude.”  The Brent Pipeline System in the  North Sea  remained shut
for a third day today, affecting flows of 90,000 barrels a day,
after a hydrocarbon release at an oil platform on March 2,
according to the operator  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , also
known as Taqa. The pipeline normally carries about 10 percent of
the U.K.’s oil output.  Libyan Fighting  Crude output near the Libyan town of Zuwara stopped on
March 2 after militias clashed, Oil Minister Abdulbari al-Arusi
told Al Jazeera television.  Oil-production facilities weren’t damaged in fighting
between the two factions, Walid Mohammed, director of public
relations for the Ministry of Defense’s Petroleum Facility
Guard, said by phone yesterday. Government troops secured the
area and stopped the fighting, he said, adding he didn’t know
when output would resume.  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s biggest oil company, halted gas shipments
through the Greenstream pipeline linking  Libya  and Italy, a
company spokesman said in an e-mail yesterday. Eni and Libya’s
National Oil Co. are equal partners in Greenstream BV and the
Mellitah Oil & Gas BV processing plant. The plant resumed
operation, Libyan state radio reported today, without citing
anyone.  WTI oil may rebound as a technical indicator shows further
losses may be unsustainable. WTI’s 14-day relative strength
index is at 30.1, the lowest since June 28, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A reading below 30 signals prices have
fallen too quickly and may change direction. Futures have
technical support along the 200-day moving average, about $90.37
a barrel today. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-
support levels.  Prices will remain “at or below the current range over the
next few years,”  Christof Ruehl , the chief economist at BP,
told reporters today in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  