-- Wynn Says Okada Fight Over Share Purchase May Cut Profit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-03-04T22:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/wynn-says-okada-fight-over-share-purchase-may-cut-profit.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , the casino
operator run by billionaire Steve Wynn, said profit may be
reduced if former director Kazuo Okada wins a lawsuit
challenging the company’s purchase of his shares.  Okada, the Japanese billionaire who helped found Wynn
Resorts, resigned before a shareholder vote he was certain to
lose, the company said last month. Okada, chairman of pachinko
machine maker  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , said he will
continue his fight with Wynn, the company’s chief executive
officer, to recover his  stock  in the Las Vegas-based company. He
is also demanding unspecified damages.  “An adverse judgment or settlement resulting from the
related litigation could reduce our profits or limit our ability
to operate our business,” the company said in its annual report
 filed  March 1 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The suit’s risk was disclosed in a discussion of potential legal
liabilities.  Wynn Resorts seized Okada’s 20 percent stake at a 30
percent discount a year ago, handing him a $1.9 billion
promissory note. The fight broke into public view earlier when
Okada questioned a $135 million donation the company made to a
Macau university foundation. Wynn Resorts accused Okada, who
denied the allegations, of extending gifts and cash to Asian
casino regulators in violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.  SEC Inquiry  Beyond an “informal” SEC inquiry disclosed earlier, Wynn
Resorts isn’t under investigation for the Macau donation,
according to the filing. At the same time, the company said
“regulators could pursue separate investigations into the
company’s compliance with applicable laws” as a result of the
SEC inquiry or Okada’s allegations of impropriety in lawsuits.  While the company believes it did nothing wrong, “any such
investigations could result in actions by regulators against the
company,” according to the filing. “Any determination that we
have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on
our business and financial condition,” said Wynn Resorts.  A successful challenge of the $1.9 billion redemption note
used to buy Okada’s shares could also “significantly impact our
results of operations,” Wynn Resorts said. Okada is contesting
the valuation, which the company determined is the “fair value
of the shares held by unsuitable persons,” it said in the
filing.  Macau Project  Wynn Resorts’ $4 billion Macau project might add to the
company’s $5.8 billion in debt, it said.  “As our project budget is an estimate only as of the date
of this report, we may require additional financing to complete
construction of our Cotai project,” it said.  The Wynn Macau company expanded its secured bank line in
July to $2.3 billion, including $1.5 billion in revolving loans
and $750 million in term loans, with access to an additional
$200 million, the company said.  The Macau gift spurred four federal lawsuits and two state
suits in the U.S., now combined into just two actions, in
addition to Okada’s litigation in the U.S. and Japan, according
to the filing. A Louisiana police retirement fund said last week
it would try to renew a shareholder lawsuit in federal court
alleging the $135 million donation to the University of Macau
breached fiduciary duties and wasted company assets.  Shareholder Vote  A preliminary vote count before the special shareholder
meeting showed almost all of the votes being cast backed Okada’s
removal, Wynn Resorts said. Okada’s resignation followed a
failed bid to persuade a federal judge to halt the meeting,
where his ouster from the  board  was the only item to be
addressed.  On Feb. 22, 85.7 percent of the shares entitled to be voted
at the special meeting favored the former director’s removal,
Wynn Resorts said.  The 70-year-old Okada is chairman of Tokyo-based Universal
Entertainment. He helped Steve Wynn finance the casino operator
that went public in October 2002 and was its largest individual
shareholder until last February.  Wynn, 71, and his ex-wife Elaine, control almost 20  percent 
of the company after Okada’s stake was redeemed, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Elaine Wynn has asked a judge to let
her sell her shares.  Okada has said Wynn wanted him out because he opposed the
university gift.  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts Ltd., 13-00136, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  