-- Yankees GM Brian Cashman Breaks Ankle in Parachute Jump
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-05T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/yankees-gm-brian-cashman-breaks-ankle-in-parachute-jump.html
New York Yankees General Manager
 Brian Cashman  underwent surgery after breaking his right leg
yesterday during a charity skydive in  Florida .  Cashman, 45, broke his fibula and dislocated his right
ankle on his second tandem jump with the  U.S. Army Golden
Knights  at the Homestead Air Reserve Base outside Miami. He was
participating in an event that seeks to raise awareness for
injured service members through the  Wounded Warrior Project , the
Major League Baseball team said in an e-mailed release.  “I’m in great spirits and it was an awesome experience,”
Cashman said in the release. “While I certainly didn’t intend
to raise awareness in exactly this fashion, I’m extremely happy
that the Wounded Warrior Project is getting the well-deserved
additional attention.”  Cashman enjoyed his first jump so much that he decided to
do another and caught his leg on the ground while landing,
according to the  New York Daily News . The bone was sticking out
of the skin on Cashman’s ankle as he was tended to by medical
staff, the newspaper reported, citing an unidentified witness.  Cashman had been invited to participate in a jump when the
Golden Knights parachuted into Yankee Stadium before a game last
season and again as the Yankees finalized plans for a March 30
exhibition game that will be played at the U.S. Military Academy
in  West Point , New York,  the team’s website  said. He made
yesterday’s tandem jumps with military personnel from a height
of about 12,500 feet (3,810 meters), falling at a speed of 129
miles per hour (208 kilometers per hour), according to the
Yankees’ website.  The Wounded Warrior Project “provides programs and
services to severely injured service members during the time
between active duty and transition to civilian life,” according
to the organization’s website.  Cashman is no stranger to heights. For the past three
years, he has rappelled down the 350-foot (107-meter), 22-story
 Landmark Building  in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , as part of the
town’s “Heights and Lights” festival.  “I was asked when I was going off the buildings, ’How
difficult is something like this?’” Cashman told reporters last
week. “I would say it’s harder, probably, to be GM of the
Yankees than jump out of an airplane.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  