-- YPF Advances in Argentina on Repsol Joint-Venture Report
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-03-04T20:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/ypf-advances-in-argentina-on-repsol-joint-venture-report.html
YPF SA (YPFD) , the oil company  Argentina 
seized last year, was the most active stock by value in  Buenos
Aires  after Ambito Financiero said the government reached a deal
to end disputes with former controlling shareholder,  Repsol SA. (REP)   YPF rose 1 percent to 112.1 pesos at the close of trading.
Volume was more than double the three-month average with 20.2
million pesos ($4 million) changing hands. The benchmark Merval
index advanced 1.3 percent.  Argentina and Caixabank, Repsol’s biggest shareholder, have
agreed to create a joint venture to produce shale gas in the
Neuquen and Mendoza provinces, Ambito Financiero reported today,
without saying where it got the information. Repsol also will
drop all claims related to the April 2012 nationalization of
YPF, according to the Buenos Aires-based newspaper.  “It’s the first time in almost a year that we see light at
the end of the tunnel,” Carlos Aszpis, an equity strategist at
Schweber & Cia. Sociedad de Bolsa SA, said in a phone interview.
“There could be an agreement that is beneficial to all
parties.”  Neither Repsol nor its board of directors are studying a
deal with Argentina, spokesman Kristian Rix said today by phone.
YPF spokesman Alejandro Di Lazzaro declined to comment on the
report.  Caixabank (CABK)  spokeswoman Maria Luisa Martinez also declined
to comment.  Repsol filed an arbitration claim against Argentina to the
Washington-based International Center for Settlement of
Investment Disputes in December. It also filed a lawsuit in
Madrid to keep YPF from offering the Vaca Muerta shale formation
in Argentina to other potential developers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  