-- ‘Dead Hand’ Slows Activist Meister $2.9 Billion REIT Buyout Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/-dead-hand-slows-activist-meister-2-9-billion-reit-buyout-bid.html
All company founders will fight to
keep their jobs, maybe none more so than Barry Portnoy and his
son Adam.  The Portnoys are chairman and president of  CommonWealth
REIT (CWH) , a Newton, Massachusetts, trust founded in 1986 that owned
$7.2 billion of office and industrial properties as of March 31.
Their legal and corporate governance tactics have so far
thwarted a three-month-old attempt by Keith Meister’s Corvex
Management LP and Jeff Blau’s Related Fund Management LLC to
either buy the trust for $2.9 billion or evict its board. The
activist investors argue the stock is depressed by excessive
fees paid to an outside management company owned by the Portnoys
and poor corporate governance.  CommonWealth has so many takeover barriers that
Institutional Shareholder Services, a shareholder rights group
in Rockville, Maryland, gave it the firm’s lowest score in an
April report -- a 10 -- for protecting investors from risk.  “That’s about as bad as you can get,” said Patrick McGurn, special counsel to ISS. Except for dual classes of
voting shares, CommonWealth boasts every takeover defense a
company can employ, from a poison pill to the obscure “Dead
Hand” to mandatory arbitration of shareholder conflicts, McGurn
said.  CommonWealth, which has properties in cities including
Chicago, Denver and Philadelphia, declined to comment on the ISS
corporate governance score, said spokeswoman Carlynn Finn. Most
investor complaints about corporate governance are about the
company’s outside management firm, not its takeover defenses,
Adam Portnoy, 42, said in a phone interview in late April. He
said the fees are not unreasonable.  Stock Drop  The outcome of the CommonWealth battle could be determined
by an arbitration panel that will decide whether to allow a
shareholder vote to remove board members. The fight shows that
even while securities laws, courts and activists are eroding
takeover defenses, some boards still protect management at the
risk of alienating investors, said Charles Elson, director for
the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the
University of  Delaware .  “A lot of companies have defenses but the fewer you have
the more you curry favor with investors,” Elson said.  Shareholder Rally  Shareholders have rallied to the activist investors, who
said they were prepared to buy the company for $27 a share in
late February and later reduced the offer to $24.50 a share. The
stock, then at $15.85, jumped nearly 50 percent. Meister and
Blau argued that the company’s real estate assets place its
share value around $40.  Meister, 40, is a protege of  Carl Icahn  who in November
helped get  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  to buy Ralcorp Holdings Inc. for
more than $6.6 billion including debt. Blau, 45, is chief
executive officer of Related Cos., a real estate developer that
also runs an investment firm.  Stiff takeover defenses awaited the investors.
CommonWealth’s poison pill limits investors to holding no more
than 10 percent of shares, which caused the activists to cap
their stake at 9.8 percent. They now own 9.2 percent. The Dead
Hand provides that only board members who approved the poison
pill can revoke it.  CommonWealth also has a staggered five-member board, so
that different directors, also known as trustees, are up for re-election every year. That requires hostile bidders to seek a
two-thirds vote to oust all the directors at once in what’s
known as a consent solicitation. Adam and Barry Portnoy are two
of the board’s five trustees.  New Barriers  When Meister’s group announced its bid on Feb. 26, it said
it would push for a consent solicitation vote unless
CommonWealth agreed to its terms.  A few days later, on March 1, CommonWealth erected new
barriers. The board adopted a rule requiring that shareholders
own 3 percent of the stock for three years before they could
initiate a vote to replace directors. That was up from a
threshold of $2,000 in stock and just one-year ownership. And it
said that its bylaws require that any disputes be settled by
arbitration, not in court.  CommonWealth’s position was upheld on May 8 by a judge in
 Maryland , where it is incorporated, after Meister sued. The
judge ruled the company had the authority to adopt mandatory
arbitration, and sent the matter to a three-member panel.  The ruling is “treating a public company like a small
private partnership,” said Elson. “To deny shareholders the
right to the courtroom is a problem.”  Management-Friendly  CommonWealth’s incorporation in Maryland helped its cause
as the state has a reputation as friendlier to management than
shareholders, said John Coffee, a professor at Columbia
University Law School. Delaware, where about 60 percent of
Fortune 500 companies are incorporated, wouldn’t be likely to
uphold mandatory arbitration or Dead Hand provisions, he said in
a phone interview.  The activist groups intend to continue their bid to replace
the board and are “confident” arbitrators will allow a
shareholder vote, said Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for Related.
They are collecting votes while awaiting the panel’s decision.  Meanwhile, after the Meister bid the Portnoys also tried to
clarify Maryland law to make it tougher to remove board members,
according to a company statement April 15. They lobbied
legislators to require that shareholders prove cause to oust a
director. While lawmakers didn’t act on the measure, the company
said it is interpreting Maryland law to require that directors
can only be removed for cause.  Morea Vote  CommonWealth’s efforts to protects its directors surfaced
again this week when the firm ignored a May 14 shareholder vote
not to re-elect director Joseph Morea, who was backed by less
than 50 percent of the shares. A day after the annual meeting
CommonWealth asked Morea to fill the vacancy created by his own
resignation, which he accepted.  Reinstating directors after they lose an election is fairly
common, Elson said. It’s also “insulting to investors,” he
said. “If you don’t respect shareholder wishes, what’s the
point of having a vote?”  In a statement, CommonWealth said that Morea’s failed re-election bid reflected shareholder unhappiness over the board’s
opposition to the takeover bid, not Morea’s performance.  While the Portnoys battle to keep their jobs, CommonWealth
shareholders have taken a hit. From its  peak  of $32.80 in April
2010 the stock had fallen by half before the takeover was
announced. Management cut the dividend to 25 cents a share in
2012, where it remains, compared with 84 cents a share in
November 2008.  Taxable Earnings  REITs, whose primary income streams are from real estate,
are required by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to distribute
at least 90 percent of their taxable earnings to shareholders as
dividends. In exchange they pay little or no income tax.  Meister has focused his attack on the Portnoy-owned REIT
Management and Research LLC, which manages CommonWealth’s
properties. As CommonWealth buys more buildings, RMR’s fees,
based on the amount of assets, rise even if the properties
perform poorly, the activists said in statements. CommonWealth
fees to RMR increased to $69.8 million in 2012 from $62.2
million in 2010 even while the stock was falling, according to
company filings.  Most REITs manage their properties internally, said Stifel
& Co. analyst John Guinee.  Adam Portnoy said using RMR to manage property lowers costs
because four other REITs also employ the firm to manage
property, achieving benefits of scale.  “If we had internal management, costs would be higher,”
he said in the April interview.  While Portnoy said he’s “not proud” of the declining
stock price, he said the company is operating “in the toughest
sector there is,” suburban commercial real estate.  ‘Troublesome History’  The trust has suggested that Meister and Blau would not be
good choices to run the firm. In a slide presentation made for
investors, CommonWealth said they both have a “troublesome
history” of managing real estate investments. Blau was CEO of
American Mortgage Acceptance Co., a mortgage REIT that filed for
bankruptcy in 2010.  Related and Corvex have said that 20-year real estate
veteran Jim Lozier, co-founder and former CEO of Archon Group
LP, a subsidiary of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., would run
CommonWealth if the Portnoys are ousted.  Perry Corp., which  owns  5.5 percent of the stock, and Luxor
Capital, which has 4.7 percent of the shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, both said they support Corvex and
Related.  So does retiree Dean Norman, who bought almost 3,000 shares
of CommonWealth REIT back in 2005. In an angry letter to
CommonWealth’s board, Norman, 67, said his original investment
of $33,812 has plummeted by 52 percent.  “They don’t care about the shareholders,” Norman said in
a telephone interview. “I’d like to see them run the company
for us and not for RMR. I don’t need to take any more hits on
this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at  