-- ‘Dr Boom, Dr Gloom’ Have No Place in Chile, Finance Minster Says
-- B y   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s
-- 2013-05-17T17:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/-dr-boom-dr-gloom-have-no-place-in-chile-finance-minster-says.html
Chilean Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said economic growth is slowing, while dismissing
concern that  consumer spending  increases will come to an abrupt
end.  The economy shouldn’t be seen through the eyes of “Doctor
Boom or Doctor Gloom,” Larrain told reporters today in
Santiago. There is no housing bubble, unsustainable retail sales
boom or collapse in industrial production, he added.  “The economy is in a phase of deceleration,” Larrain
said. “But it’s an economy growing surprisingly well. There are
few countries like this in the world.”  Growth is based on investment that will shield the economy
from weak global demand and prevent any slump in output, he
said. At the same time, consumers will continue to spend, not
only because real wages are rising four percentage points more
than prices, but also because people are confident they will
retain their jobs.  The economy expanded 3.1 percent in March from the year
earlier, the weakest pace in 20 months and below the 4.7 percent
forecast by analysts. Manufacturing dropped 3 percent over the
same period, the second steepest decline since the aftermath of
an earthquake that devastated the south of the country in
February 2010. While industrial growth weakens, retail sales are
booming, leaping 10.2 percent in March from the year earlier.  Manufacturing will pick up in April, even after a port
strike damped output, Larrain said.  The central bank kept the  key interest rate  at 5 percent
yesterday for a 16th consecutive month as policy makers weigh
the impact of the dual-speed economy.  Investment is beginning to slow, economists at the bank
said in a report released May 15. Housing sales and building
materials show a less dynamic real estate industry, while the
growth in imports of capital goods has weakened, they said.  Still, the evidence of a slowdown in consumer spending is
less conclusive, the economists said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Sanders in Santiago at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  