-- 89-Year-Old’s Toilet Paper Hunt Shows Venezuela Shortages Deepen
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-05-18T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/89-year-old-hunts-for-toilet-paper-as-shortages-crimp-venezuela.html
Encarnacion Rivas, an 89-year-old
Venezuelan retiree, had to traipse around a half-dozen stores in
Caracas on her search for toilet paper as dollar shortages in
 South America ’s biggest oil producer reduce supplies of imported
goods.  “This is the first time I’ve ever experienced this,” she
said while standing outside a supermarket, listing other
products she has struggled to find such as cooking oil,
toothpaste and instant cereal. “I blame the government, which
has taken everything from private companies and is now
struggling to bring things in.”  President Nicolas Maduro this week met with the country’s
largest privately-held food producer in a bid to tackle
shortages as price controls stifle local output. He also
promised to reactivate dollar auctions after a pre-election
spending spree drained the country of greenbacks.  Commerce Minister Alejandro Fleming said monthly demand for
toilet paper is about 125 million rolls and that the government
will supply 50 million rolls to “saturate the market.”  “There’s no deficiency in production but rather an
excessive demand which has generated nervous purchases in the
population as a result of a media campaign,” Fleming said May
14, according to state news agency Agencia Venezolana de
Noticias.  Yet it’s not just toilet paper. The central bank’s scarcity
index, which measures the amount of goods that are out of stock
on the market, rose to 21.3 percent last month, the highest
since it started tracking the measure in April 2009. That’s
having an impact on inflation, which rose at the fastest pace in
three years last month.  Consumer prices  climbed 4.3 percent from
the month earlier.  Cordial Meeting  The government raised price caps this week on beef,
chicken, milk and cheese by 20 percent to encourage domestic
output after producers said they can’t turn a profit following a
32 percent devaluation of the bolivar in February.  Rogelio Gaona, a 68-year-old retired medical equipment
salesman, agreed with the government that hoarding by nervous
consumers is causing the shortages. While chicken, meat and corn
flour are in short supply, he said talk about shortages is
overblown and products can be found if shoppers go to state-run
supermarkets.  “What happens is people are buying too much,” he said.
“If a product is scarce you have to find the alternative.”  Devalued Currency  The government devalued the currency to 6.3 bolivars per
dollar from 4.3 bolivars following a spending spree that helped
former President  Hugo Chavez  win a third six-year term before he
died of cancer in March. The fiscal deficit tripled to 11
percent of gross domestic product as a result, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  Chavez’s successor Maduro this week blamed the private
sector for exacerbating shortages of products including chicken,
beef and sugar. He spoke with Lorenzo Mendoza, owner of Empresas
Polar SA, in a meeting the businessman called  “cordial” after
the self-described socialist said the food producer had cut
output of everything from rice to corn flour.  Solange Diaz said she spent two days trying to find
glycerin soap for her sister’s dermatological condition.  Diaz, 72, who was visiting Caracas from Margarita island,
said she’s also struggled to find rice and cooking oil. People
in her hometown, which is a popular vacation destination in
 Venezuela , flock to supermarkets when delivery trucks arrive to
see which products are available.  “If you think it’s bad here you should go to Margarita --
it’s chaos,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  