-- Abe Vows to Boost Japan’s Investment in Growth Strategy Outline
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-05-17T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/abe-s-growth-strategy-to-support-investment-in-japan-technology.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
vowed to increase private investment and infrastructure exports
as part of his strategy to overcome deflation and build on an
economic expansion fueled by rising  consumer spending .  “After long years of deflation, I can’t yet say this is
more than a sign of a turnaround,” Abe said in a speech
yesterday in Tokyo. “I will do everything in my power to turn
this movement into strong growth.”  Abe said he aims to get annual private investment back to
70 trillion yen ($682 billion), the level before the 2008
financial crisis, through deregulation, taxes, spending, and
equipment leasing deals. He also outlined a target of tripling
infrastructure exports to about 30 trillion yen by 2020. Abe has
said he will reveal his full growth plan ahead of the Group of
Eight summit in Northern Ireland on June 17-18.  The measures are part of the “third arrow” of the prime
minister’s strategy to revive the world’s third-largest economy
through structural changes to improve competitiveness. His push
for increased  Bank of Japan  monetary easing combined with fiscal
stimulus has persuaded Japanese to open their wallets and sent
stocks soaring as the yen weakens.  “We have gained international understanding for
Abenomics,” Abe said.  Japan ’s economy expanded the most in a year last quarter as
consumer spending rose and exports gained on the weakening
currency. The government announced 10.3 trillion yen in extra
spending in January and the central bank said it would double
its purchases of  government bonds  to defeat deflation.  Agricultural Pledges  Abe, who pledged last month to boost the economy by backing
medical research and expanding childcare to allow more women to
work, has also signaled willingness to lower tariffs by joining
talks on a regional trade agreement. Facing opposition from
farmers to the Trans Pacific Partnership, he promised to double
the income of agricultural communities in 10 years.  The government will set up a public “land bank” to
aggregate Japan’s growing swaths of unused agricultural land,
making it more profitable to farm, and provide subsidies for
rice paddies that help prevent flooding, Abe said. He added that
he believes it is possible to double agricultural exports to one
trillion yen.  Among other changes, Abe plans to overhaul regulations on
cars powered by fuel cells, and allow experimental self-driving
automobiles to be tested on public roads, he said.  The plan to increase infrastructure exports will be backed
by increasing loans from the  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation , according to a document provided by the prime
minister’s office.  Abe is pushing Japan’s nuclear energy expertise even as he
mulls the restarting of atomic plants shut by the 2011 Fukushima
disaster.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and  Areva SA (AREVA)  of
France signed a $22 billion agreement this month to build a
nuclear power plant in Turkey in a ceremony in Ankara Abe
oversaw with counterpart  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has  risen  54
percent and the yen has fallen 18 percent against the dollar
since Abe’s LDP won a landslide victory on Dec. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  