-- Aberdeen Sounds Alarm as Asia Bond Growth Soars: Credit Markets
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-05-17T16:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/aberdeen-sounds-alarm-as-asia-bond-growth-soars-credit-markets.html
The amount of dollar-denominated
bonds issued by companies in  Asia  is growing almost 10 times
faster than the global corporate  debt market , raising concern
that investors are lowering their standards as they seek to take
advantage of the region’s relatively high yields.  The face value of securities in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Asian Dollar Corporate Index has almost tripled to $260.6
billion since June 2009, while the firm’s Global Corporate &
High Yield Index has risen about 30 percent to $8.93 trillion.
Total borrowing by 15,032 publicly traded non-financial
companies in Asia excluding  Japan  has jumped to $3.6 trillion
from $1.53 trillion in 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  As central banks from the U.S. and U.K., and the euro
region to Japan keep benchmark  interest rates  near zero, an
increasing number of investors are targeting Asia for high
yields and an economy forecast to grow more than three times
faster than America this year. High demand is allowing borrowers
in the region to pay an average 3.83 percent to sell notes in
dollars, compared with 3.18 percent for corporate issuers
worldwide. The 65 basis-point gap has shrunk from 221 in October
2011.  Yield ‘Desperation’  “There’s this desperation to chase yield, to chase the
market, to chase the tail of quantitative easing to try to
generate returns,” said  Anthony Michael , the Singapore-based
head of fixed-income for the Asia-Pacific region at Aberdeen
Asset Management Ltd. “That works for a while but sooner or
later, people end up lending to companies that should never have
come to the public market.”  The rally may reverse within the next six to 12 months,
said Michael, whose firm managed $322.4 billion as of March 31,
according to its  website . Asia Pacific fixed-income assets total
$19.1 billion, Michael said.  Standard & Poor’s  said in its latest report that 68, or
12.5 percent, of the 544 global issuers it has on “negative
creditwatch” are from the Asia-Pacific region. That compares
with 33 in  Latin America  and 29 in Eastern Europe, the  Middle
East  and Africa.  Borrowing costs for lower-rated companies in Asia are
declining as those for higher-graded counterparts stagnate.
Bonds rated BB, the top tier of speculative-grade, yield an
average 5.24 percent, down 21 basis points from Dec. 31. The
average for investment-grade securities has increased 1 basis
point over the same period.  Default Swaps  Companies in Asia outside Japan have sold $17.3 billion of
junk-rated dollar bonds this year, more than double the $6.85
billion issued a year earlier, Bloomberg data show. Similarly
rated sales worldwide in the U.S. currency total $171.1 billion,
up from $135.3 billion in the same period of 2012, a record year
for offerings of the debt.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined. The Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 1.5 basis points to a mid-price of 70.1 basis points
as of 12:09 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.29 basis point to 14.54 basis
points as of 12:10 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Rio de Janeiro-based Petroleo Brasileiro SA are
the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities
by dealers today, accounting for 5.2 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 12:10 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Petrobras, as Brazil’s
state-run oil producer is known, sold $11 billion of bonds
abroad on May 13, the most ever for an emerging-market issuer.  Policies Eased  Global central bankers are easing monetary policy by
lowering borrowing costs and buying bonds. South Korea’s rate
cut on May 9 was the 511th reduction worldwide since June 2007,
according to Bank of America Corp. figures, calculated before
Vietnam and Sri Lanka said a day later they were also lowering
policy rates.  The moves are prompting investors to search further afield
for returns. Dollar funding costs for companies in Asia slid to
a record low 3.77 percent last week after yields on  junk bonds 
globally fell below 6 percent for the first time, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Asia is favored by credit-market investors because gross
domestic product in the region will rise 6.6 percent this year,
compared with projected gains of 2 percent for the U.S., 1.6
percent for Canada, 0.8 percent for the U.K. and a 0.5 percent
decline for the  euro zone , separate Bloomberg surveys show.  Much of the proceeds generated from Asia’s bond sales are
being used to refinance debt, helping companies to extend
maturities. Some 30 percent of the $84 billion of dollar bonds
sold this year are slated for such a purpose, versus 13 percent
the same period of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Slowdown Risk  “A lot of these bonds aren’t being issued for business
development reasons, they’re being issued to roll over debt,”
said  Paul Smith , the  CFA Institute ’s Asia-Pacific managing
director. “That should put some sort of warning light on.”  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore energy explorer and
rated AA- by S&P, plans to refinance loans used to acquire
Canada’s Nexen Inc. with $4 billion of notes it sold this month
in the largest offering from the region in almost a decade.  Chinese corporate borrowing will probably exceed that of
U.S. companies within the next two years, S&P said in a May 14
report. Companies in the world’s second-biggest economy face
“significant” financial risk and the probability of an
economic correction may be building, according to the firm.  “High levels of investment, primarily in manufacturing,
real estate and infrastructure, have supported the country’s
strong economic growth rate, particularly over the past five
years, and credit is fueling this investment,” S&P said.  The risk of a slowdown in China is the highest among 32
economies surveyed by S&P because the nation’s investments are
less productive, according to the report.  Buffett’s Call  China’s  Sinochem Group , whose debt is graded BBB- by  Fitch
Ratings , paid a coupon of 5 percent to sell $600 million of
dollar bonds with no fixed maturity last month. That’s 130 basis
points less than what it paid on 30-year securities sold by a
unit less than two-and-a-half years ago, Bloomberg data show.  PT Pertamina Persero, Indonesia’s state-owned oil company
and rated BB+ by S&P, sold $1.63 billion of 30-year bonds at a
coupon of 5.625 percent this month. That’s 37.5 basis points
less than it paid for same tenor securities in April 2012.  “The low yielding environment has presented corporates and
sovereigns with an unprecedented opportunity to lock in long-term funding at attractive rates,” said Suanjin Tan, a
Singapore-based Asian fixed-income portfolio manager at
BlackRock Inc., which had $3.8 trillion of assets as of Dec. 31.
“Given the expectations for a global search for yield to
persist, I see Asian high-yield as a sweet spot.”  Such low yields prompted  Warren Buffett , Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.’s billionaire chairman, to say this month he’s not buying
corporate debt and pities those savers who depend on bond
interest for income.  Bill Gross , who manages the world’s biggest
bond fund at Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., said this month the 30-year  bull market  in
fixed-income assets is over.  With more leverage in the financial system, “sooner or
later we’re going to have a pretty nasty sell off,” Aberdeen’s
Michael said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  