-- Tableau Software and Marketo Surge in U.S. Stock Market Debuts
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-05-17T20:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/tableau-surges-after-raising-more-than-sought-in-initial-offer.html
Tableau Software Inc. (DATA)  and Marketo
Inc. surged in their stock-market debuts after raising a
combined $333 million in initial share sales.  Tableau, the provider of digital-charting tools, jumped 64
percent to $50.75 at the close in  New York , after pricing an
increased number of shares yesterday at $31 each, above the
marketed range. Marketo, which sells software for marketing
automation, climbed 78 percent to $23.10 from its $13 initial
public offering price.  The companies join a crop of recent business-technology
providers to thrive on the public markets. Workday Inc. and
ServiceNow Inc. have more than doubled since their debuts last
year, while  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  has  gained  34 percent.
Oracle Corp. bought Eloqua Inc.,  Marketo (MKTO) ’s biggest competitor,
earlier this year for about $871 million, more than twice the
valuation it garnered in its August IPO.  “A new class of nimble, innovative companies have emerged
in enterprise software to capitalize on new trends in big data
and cloud computing,” said Quentin Gallivan, chief executive
officer of data-analytics company Pentaho Corp., in an e-mail.  Tableau and existing shareholders yesterday sold 8.2
million shares for $31 each after offering 7.2 million for $28
to $30. The Seattle-based company, listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol DATA, raised $254.2 million, the
largest U.S. tech IPO this year.  Marketo, based in San Mateo, California, raised $78.8
million, pricing 6.06 million shares at $13 apiece, the top of
the marketed range. The stock is listed on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley led the Tableau
offering, while Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse Group AG led the
Marketo IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  