-- Maersk Line Posts Profit as Capacity Control Lifts Pricing
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-17T09:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/maersk-line-says-profit-returns-as-container-rates-recover.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  said its
container-shipping line, the world’s largest, posted a first-quarter profit as freight rates picked up.  Maersk Line’s net income totaled $204 million, compared
with a loss of $599 million a year earlier, the Copenhagen-based
group said today in a statement. That beat the average estimate
of $160 million in a Bloomberg survey of six analysts.  The shipping operator has slimmed down its fleet and slowed
vessel speeds to curb capacity as falling consumer demand hurts
cargo volumes and carriage prices. Group earnings fell 35
percent as profit from an oil division tumbled, Maersk reported.  “Maersk Line is much more competitive and has gained
strength to deal with the challenging shipping markets,” Chief
Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said in the statement
which cautioning that container demand will remain “subdued”
in 2013, making managing supply “even more important.”  A.P. Moeller-Maersk  shares  rose as much as 2.6 percent
before trading 0.8 percent higher at 41,560 kroner as 10:10 a.m.
in Copenhagen trading. The stock has lost 2.5 percent this year,
valuing the company at 178 billion kroner ($31 billion).  Rate Gain  Maersk Line cut unit costs 7.1 percent in the quarter as
volumes fell 4 percent, while its freight rates rose 4.7
percent. The unit continues to forecast that full-year net
income will exceed 2012’s figure.  First-quarter profit was aided by lower fuel usage and the
hiring-in of vessels with lower depreciation, Roger Elliot, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. said in a note to clients. The outlook
for profitability at the division remains unclear since shipping
-rate comparatives are tougher in the second quarter, he added.  Maersk revised its forecast for growth in global container
demand to a range of 2 percent to 4 percent from 4-5 percent.  Container rates will stay under pressure as fleets expand
7.5 percent, exceeding growth of 4.5 percent, according to
Drewry Maritime Equity Research, which says the industry must
idle more ships to support pricing.  “Freight-rate volatility will be a defining feature of the
decade,” Martin Dixon, a London-based researcher at Drewry,
said in a presentation yesterday.  The $710 million quarterly profit for A.P. Moeller-Maersk
as a whole -- down from $1.08 billion -- was hurt by a 73
percent drop in earnings to $346 million at Maersk Oil.  The performance of the company’s most profitable division
was hurt by lower crude prices, decreased production and an
absence of tax and divestment gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  