-- Thai Bond President Favors Cut as Controls Hurt: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-05-17T04:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/thai-bond-president-favors-cut-as-controls-hurt-southeast-asia.html
An interest-rate cut in  Thailand  may
be the best option to slow inflows that drove the baht to a 16-year high as  capital controls  would deter investors and push up
funding costs, according to the Thai  Bond Market  Association.  The central bank may lower the one-day bond  repurchase rate 
by as much as 50 basis points at its May 29 review, Niwat Kanjanaphoomin, the TBMA president, said in a May 15 interview
in Bangkok. Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul has kept borrowing
costs at 2.75 percent since October, even amid government
pressure to reduce them as monetary easing in developed
countries boosts the appeal of  Asia ’s higher-yielding assets.  Thailand is looking to attract investment as it plans to
spend 2 trillion baht ($67 billion) to build high-speed rail
links to major cities from Bangkok over the next seven years.
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong urged the central bank to
cut rates and said May 7 that policy makers have prepared other
measures to curb inflows that threaten exports. Niwat said the
baht’s current level doesn’t warrant any controls right now.  “We recommend the government do nothing that will impact
long-term investors,” Niwat said. “If they spoil the
confidence of investors, the cost of financing will be higher.”  ‘Serious Problem’  Foreign companies  purchased  $589 million more Thai
government debt than they sold this month through yesterday
after net inflows of $12 billion in the first four months of
2013, according to TBMA, a self-regulatory body that oversees
the bond market in  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy.  Rather than imposing currency measures, the central bank
should lower interest rates and intervene in the foreign-exchange market “from time to time,” Niwat said.  The baht has retreated 4.3 percent since reaching 28.56 per
dollar on April 19 and April 22, the strongest level since the
1997 Asian financial crisis. It traded at 29.80 as of 11:36 a.m.
in Bangkok and is still Asia’s best-performing currency in 2013
after gaining 2.5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Measures to cap the baht’s appreciation probably won’t come
in until “we get a really serious problem” at around 28 per
dollar, or when the gains start to hurt the competitiveness of
 Thai exports , Niwat said.  Finance Minister Kittiratt said in a May 10 interview that
the central bank should cut the policy rate by more than a
quarter of a percentage point. Derivatives contracts are pricing
in such a move.  Swap Rates  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap dropped 27 basis
points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 2.38 percent this quarter
and reached 2.27 percent on May 3, the least since February 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand’s Tisco Securities Co. predicts the central bank
will keep its benchmark rate unchanged this month given the
baht’s recent retreat and because the level of borrowing costs
is still stimulating economic growth.  In  Indonesia  and the Philippines,  interest rates  are higher
at 5.75 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively, compared with
almost zero in  Japan  and the U.S. Thai  inflation  has stayed
below the policy rate in the last two months, official data show.  Bangkok-based Tisco is bullish on the Thai outlook,
forecasting a government report on May 20 will show gross
domestic product increased 5.7 percent in the first quarter,
compared with the median estimate of 6 percent in a Bloomberg
survey of 13 economists.  Policy Independence  Thailand’s GDP increased 18.9 percent in the final quarter
of 2012 and 6.4 percent last year. That was more than full-year
growth of 6.2 percent in Indonesia and near the 6.6 percent in
the  Philippines .  “I don’t think we need any rate cut to stimulate the
economy,” Kampon Adireksombat, Tisco’s senior economist, said
in a telephone interview on May 15. “There’s been talk over the
rate cut and some investors already took positions on that. But
if we see a rate cut, basically that means they take into
account the pressure from the government and there may be some
doubts about independence on monetary policy.”  The cabinet discussed four possible measures last week to
stem capital inflows proposed by the Bank of Thailand, the
Bangkok Post reported May 8, citing an unidentified lawmaker who
attended the meeting. Those include mandatory hedging, barring
foreigners from buying central bank bonds and setting a minimum
three- or six-month holding period for government debt, the
English-language newspaper said.  Sacrifice Opportunity  Thailand’s local-currency sovereign notes returned 1
percent last month, the best performance since October,
according to an index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. Ten-year
bonds are rallying for a fourth month.  The yield on the 3.625 percent securities due June 2023
dropped nine basis points in May to 3.32 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the lowest since the debt
was sold in 2010. In  Japan (GJGB10) , yields on similar-maturity notes are
0.82 percent, while U.S. Treasuries pay 1.87 percent and German
bunds 1.33 percent.  Niwat of the Thai Bond Market Association said that even if
the central bank lowers interest rates, returns are still better
than elsewhere, which will keep funds flowing in.  Demand for baht-denominated debt is sufficient to cover
supply, Niwat said. Issuance of sovereign bonds maturing in 12
months or more is likely to be 700 billion baht this year,
compared with about 686 billion baht in 2012, Niwat added.  The introduction of controls would mean “you take short-term benefit and sacrifice the longer-term opportunity,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  