-- AIG Judge Asks If U.S. Scared Board From Starr Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-05-17T22:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/aig-judge-asks-if-u-s-scared-board-from-starr-lawsuit.html
A federal judge expressed “concern”
that the U.S. scared off  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  from
joining a lawsuit by Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, its former
chairman, challenging the insurer’s 2008 federal bailout.  “I had this lingering concern,” Judge Thomas Wheeler said
today at a hearing in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in
 Washington  on whether grant a request by AIG and the government
to dismiss Greenberg’s lawsuit.  “I don’t want to call them threats necessarily. Would I be
intimidated by all of this?” Wheeler asked lawyers for the
U.S., AIG and Greenberg’s Starr International Co.  AIG directors who took their seats during the bailout,
appointed by the U.S., are among the “the board members that
considered the demand” to join the suit against the government,
Wheeler said.  Starr, Greenberg’s closely held investment firm and an AIG
shareholder, sued the government for $25 billion in 2011,
calling the assumption of 80 percent of the company’s stock by
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in September 2008 a
violation of the shareholders constitutional rights to due
process and equal protection of the law.  Increased Stake  The government eventually increased its stake to 92 percent
as the aid package swelled to $182.3 billion. The New York-based
insurer repaid the assistance last year.  Starr also claims AIG’s board, which Greenberg said was
unduly influenced by the government, failed to conduct a full
and independent review of whether to join the lawsuit. Starr
asked Wheeler to find the board wrongly decided to stay out of
the case.  Wheeler declined to dismiss Starr’s complaint in July and
reaffirmed his ruling in September. The hearing today was on an
amended complaint aimed mainly at the board’s actions on the
lawsuit.  Joseph Allerhand, of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, an
attorney for AIG, told Wheeler that doubts about the board’s
independence are misplaced.  AIG demonstrated independence when it sued the government
in connection with mortgage-backed securities it had to sell to
the  New York  Fed as part of the bailout, Allerhand said.  Further, Allerhand said, “none of the directors on this
board work for the government or rely on the government for
their livelihood.”  Lawmakers’ Criticism  News that AIG might join the case drew criticism from
lawmakers including Democratic Senators  Elizabeth Warren  of
 Massachusetts  and  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey , and
Representative  Elijah Cummings , a Maryland Democrat, who said
suing the U.S. would be an insult to taxpayers.  The AIG board was within its rights to weigh how the
company was affected by the “media frenzy” surrounding the
deliberations over joining the suit, Allerhand said.  “Not to consider that would be a dereliction of duty,” he
said.  David Boies , of Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, an attorney
for Starr, said that it’s “human nature” that AIG directors
take “an interest in justifying what they did” in agreeing to
the bailout.  “It certainly raises a reasonable doubt about whether the
board was acting independently,” in rejecting Starr’s bid to
get AIG into the suit, Boies said.  “Everybody knows the U.S. government was doing everything
it could to intimidate AIG from bringing this lawsuit,” Boies
said.  Maiden Lane  Getting AIG into the case would allow litigation over
Maiden Lane III, one of the financing vehicles created by the
New York Fed to help save the company, and broadens the number
of shareholders who can share in a recovery, Boies said.  AIG sought to dismiss only the derivative claims asserted
by Starr in New York-based insurer’s name.  The  Justice Department  asked for the dismissal of Starr’s
entire complaint, including the direct claim of an illegal
taking of property.  Brian Mizoguchi, a Justice Department lawyer, told Wheeler
that the claims raised by Starr, which allege harm to all
shareholders, can only be pursued by AIG.  “That’s really a harm that’s happened at the corporate
level,” Mizoguchi said. “When the U.S. doesn’t deal with you,
you don’t have a direct claim,” Mizoguchi said.  Parallel Case  A parallel case brought by Starr International against the
New York Fed, was dismissed in November by a judge in New York.  Wheeler told lawyers in the Washington case to check
calendars for possible trial dates in the second half of 2014.
The scope of the arguments might be affected by his ruling on
the motions to dismiss, he said.  The Washington case is Starr International Co. v. U.S.,
1:11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  The New York case is Starr International Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, 11-cv-8422, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  The AIG case against the New York Fed is American
International Group v.  Maiden Lane , 650115/2013, New York State
Supreme Court, County of New York (Manhattan).  -- With assistance from Zachary Tracer in New York. Editors:
Fred Strasser, Glenn Holdcraft  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  