-- Air India Seeks Dollar Loan to Refinance Rupee Debt
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-17T03:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/air-india-seeks-dollar-loan-to-refinance-rupee-debt.html
Air  India  Ltd., the carrier which
pays more interest on its debt than any publicly traded Asian
airline, plans to borrow $300 million from overseas to repay
costlier rupee obligations, according to a company official.  The carrier is in discussions with two overseas lenders,
including one in the U.K., said the official, who asked not be
identified as the person is not authorized to speak to the
media. The dollar-denominated loan will carry an interest rate
of 300 basis points over the London interbank offered rate, the
official said. The three-month dollar Libor rate was unchanged
at 0.274 percent yesterday. That compares with about 10.5
percent the carrier pays for rupee loans, the official said.  The former monopoly, which paid 34.8 billion rupees ($634
million) as interest in the year ended March 31, is cutting
costs and resuming Boeing Co. 787 flights to regain market
share. Competition is intensifying on overseas routes after
Etihad Airways PJSC agreed to buy a stake in  Jet Airways (India)
Ltd. (JETIN)  Air India, bailed out by the government four times in as
many years, needs to lure more customers to continue getting
state funds, said Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh.  “This will ease cost pressure on Air India and help them
focus on expansion,” said R.K. Gupta, a New Delhi-based
managing director at Taurus Asset Management Ltd. “They have
access to limited money as working capital and the government
can’t help any further. This will free up resources for meeting
day to day expenses.”  Air India, based in Mumbai, raised 74 billion rupees
selling 19-year notes last year to repay debt, helping it save
about 2 billion rupees in interest costs, the official said.  Loss Narrowed  Air India’s annual interest payments are higher than the
$511 million  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  paid in the year ended March
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most
among Asia’s publicly traded airlines.  The closely held Indian carrier narrowed losses to 52
billion rupees in the year ended March from a record 75.6
billion rupees a year earlier. It targets to further reduce
losses this year to 39.9 billion rupees, Chairman Rohit Nandan
said on May 14. He declined to comment on the plan to borrow
from overseas.  The company last year proposed raising as much as $600
million from overseas after the government allowed airlines to
seek international loans for working capital needs and to
refinance rupee debt. That plan didn’t go through as the March
31 window for concluding a deal closed, Nandan said May 14,
without giving details.  Cost of Debt  Sovereign guarantee for Air India’s loans helps the carrier
raise debt cheaper than it’s rivals. Air India’s average
interest cost is 10 percent to 10.5 percent, the official said.
Jet Air’s weighted average borrowing cost more than doubled in
four years to 11.5 percent in the year to  March 31, 2012, while
for budget airline  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  it was 11.6 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indian carriers pay as much as 18 percent interest on
short-term debt, and as much as 14 percent on long-term
borrowings, according to a 2012 document published by the
Ministry of Civil Aviation. Airlines have sought government help
to access long-term funds at a fixed cost, it said.  “A national airline will always command a certain amount
of credibility and respect,” said Mark D. Martin, chief
executive officer of Dubai-based Martin Consulting LLC that
advises carriers on cost optimization and fleet strategy. “But
Air India has to be sharp when it comes to negotiating that
money, it needs to hedge its currency risks to gain the most
bang for its buck.”  ‘Demonstrate Improvements’  The carrier has received about $1.7 billion in funding
support from the government since April 1, 2009. The government
last year pledged 300 billion rupees worth of bailout for the
carrier through 2020 including for repayment of aircraft loans.  “The bailout is not unconditional,” Minister Singh said
in an interview in New Delhi earlier this year. “We’ve set
several parameters for them to demonstrate improvements
including things like passenger load factor and on-time
performance.”  Air India plans to boost revenue earned from overseas
operations by adding new destinations and deploying fuel-efficient planes, Chairman Nandan said on May 15. The airline is
expanding as Abu Dhabi-based Etihad buys a 20.6 billion rupee
stake in Jet Air and  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest budget
carrier, prepares to start its Indian operations.  Dreamliner Services  The state-run carrier, which resumed  787 Dreamliner 
services on May 15 after a four month grounding over a battery
problem, plans to take delivery of eight more of the planes by
December as its seeks to cap costs.  The Dreamliner, which burns less fuel as it’s lightweight
because its made chiefly from composite materials, were grounded
after an aircraft operated by  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  made an
emergency landing on Jan. 16 after detecting smoke from the
battery. Nine days earlier, a battery had caught fire on a Japan
Airlines Co. 787 in  Boston . No one was injured in either
incident.  Air India will use the Boeing planes to add Birmingham,
 Melbourne , Milan, Moscow,  Rome  and Sydney as destinations this
year, Chairman Nandan said.  Air India’s “turnaround plan is largely based on the 787
operations,” New Delhi-based Nandan said. “I’m glad the 787
will now be fully restored.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  