-- Hagel to Consider Outside Prosecution of Sexual Assaults
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-18T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/air-force-chief-open-to-outside-prosecution-of-sex-cases.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
said he’s willing to consider taking away the power of military
commanders to decide on prosecuting sexual assaults within their
ranks, a move some lawmakers have proposed.  “We’re looking at everything,” Hagel said yesterday at a
Pentagon news conference. “We’re not taking anything off the
table.”  The defense secretary’s willingness to contemplate changing
the Uniform Code of Military Justice to turn over sexual-assault
cases to independent prosecutors signaled a softening of his
position from last week, amid escalating demands for action to
curb what Hagel yesterday called a “huge problem.”  “The ultimate authority has to remain within the command
structure,” Hagel had said at a May 7 news conference,
describing that as a view shared within the military.  Pressure is growing in Congress to change the way the
military investigates and prosecutes sexual assaults after a
Pentagon survey suggested a surge in crimes and three military
officials who work in sexual-abuse prevention programs were
removed from their posts after allegations of crimes.  Hagel issued a memo yesterday ordering all services to come
up with proposals by May 24 to revamp the credentialing and
training of sexual-assault response coordinators and military
recruiters. He also met yesterday for the first time with a
congressionally mandated advisory panel that will recommend
strategies to combat sexual assaults.  Varying Polls  Three confidential polls of active-duty troops taken in
2006, 2010 and 2012 produced varying results that show the
challenge of measuring the extent of sexual assault in the
ranks, along with stopping it. A Defense Department report last
week suggested military men and women experienced 26,000
incidents of unwanted sexual contact last year, a 35 percent
increase over two years. The previous survey in 2010 had shown a
44 percent plunge since 2006.  A bill introduced May 16 by a bipartisan group of senators
would shift from commanders to independent prosecutors the
authority to investigate troops for any major crimes punishable
by at least a year in prison. Lawmakers said many victims of
sexual assaults are too frightened to report the abuse to their
own commanders, who may discourage them from pursuing their
complaints.  Hagel declined to take a position yesterday on any
legislative proposal, and military leaders continued to express
reservations about measures that risk weakening the chain of
command.  ‘Life and Death’  “In our system, we give a commander life-and-death
decision-making authority,” said Army General Martin Dempsey,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who joined Hagel at the
news conference. “I can’t imagine going forward to solve this
issue without commanders involved.”  Under the existing system, commanders decide whether to
bring charges, choose the military jury for a court-martial and
can reduce or overturn a sentence.  General Mark Welsh, the U.S. Air Force chief of staff, said
yesterday he’s willing to consider a change in prosecution
authority, if it’s limited to sexual assaults and doesn’t cover
other major crimes.  “I personally am open to that,” Welsh told reporters at a
separate news conference.  Commanders a Benefit  While Welsh said he supports taking away the authority to
overturn verdicts imposed in military courts, he said “there’s
some real benefit” to letting commanders have the power to
reduce penalties.  Welsh said he would oppose taking other crimes away from
the chain of command because of the need to instill order and
discipline. Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a  New York  Democrat and
chief sponsor of the legislation, said she included all major
crimes in her bill to ensure that some sexual assaults aren’t
wrongly categorized as other offenses by commanders seeking to
retain jurisdiction.  Hagel, vowing to fix the problem of sexual assaults in the
military, repeated President  Barack Obama ’s statement after
meeting with Pentagon leaders earlier this week that there’s no
“silver bullet” solution.  Dempsey said the problem may stem in part from a
“forgiving” attitude toward wrongdoing in the military after
more than a decade of war in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  “You might argue that we’ve become a little too forgiving
because, you know, if a perpetrator shows up at a court-martial
with a rack of ribbons and has four deployments and a Purple
Heart, you know, there is certainly the risk that we might -- we
might be a little too forgiving of that particular crime,”
Dempsey said.  Hagel said alcohol is also “a very big factor” in many
sexual-assault cases.  ‘Hook-Up Mentality’  Welsh apologized yesterday for a comment he made last week
at a Senate hearing suggesting the problem stems in part from a
“hook-up mentality” within the youth culture.  “Roughly 20 percent of the young women who come into the
 Department of Defense  in the Air Force report that they were
sexually assaulted in some way before they came into the
military,” Welsh said at the May 7 hearing. “So they come in
from a society where this occurs.  Some of it is the hookup
mentality of junior high even and high school students now.”  Welsh said yesterday he was attempting to answer a question
about the need to change the culture and that his remarks were
misinterpreted.  “In view of the fact there are victims who took what I
said as blaming them, boy, I am sorry for that,” he said. “My
record on this issue is crystal clear. There is absolutely no
place for this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  