-- Airbus Targets A400M Military Airlifter Sales Push at Paris Show
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-17T09:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/airbus-targets-a400m-military-airlifter-sales-push-at-paris-show.html
Airbus SAS plans to use next month’s
 Paris air show  to bolster export prospects for its A400 military
cargo plane as it rushes to meet a mid-year deadline to deliver
the first model to the French air force.  “Le Bourget is going to be a break-out point for
exports,” Domingo Urena-Raso, the  Airbus Military  chief
executive officer, said in an interview, referring to the
airport north of Paris where the  aerospace industry  will gather
starting June 17. With the A400M now entering service, new
customers will have greater confidence in the product, he said.  Export campaigns are critical for Airbus to make money on
the plane that is unprofitable with the 174 existing orders
after technical issues delayed the program by years and
increased costs. Malaysia so far is the only export buyer for
the turbo-propeller plane being built for  Germany , France,
Spain, the U.K., Turkey, Belgium and Luxembourg.  “Winning exports this year is not reasonable, but why not
next year,” Urena-Raso said by telephone. “I will maintain the
pressure to get that.”  Two A400Ms are scheduled to be at the Paris show, with one
participating in the daily flight display for the first time
after an engine glitch grounded the plane during the event two
years ago. Demonstration flights in potential export markets
could take place before year end, Urena-Raso said.  Procurement authorities in France are finalizing acceptance
of the first A400M before July after Airbus last year once again
delayed the handover. A delivery ceremony at the Paris show
would be an artificial deadline, Urena-Raso said.  First Handovers  Airbus plans to hand over four A400Ms this year, including
to the Turkish  air force , ten next year and 21 in 2015.  Exports campaigns are also in process for the company’s
A330 airliner-based multi-role tanker transport. Airbus is
bidding on a contract from Singapore as it seeks a replacement
for  Boeing Co. (BA)  KC-135 refueling planes, Urena-Raso said.  Discussions also continue to finalize a contract in  India 
where Airbus was named preferred bidder in January.  Airbus Military plans to deliver six A330 tankers this
year, three to the U.K. under the Future Strategic Tanker
Aircraft project, one more to the United Arab Emirates, and two
to  Saudi Arabia . The U.K. has begun operating its FSTA planes to
carry troops and Urena-Raso said approval to start refueling
operations could come this month.  France  also plans to buy refueling planes and signaled in a
new defense strategy released April 29 it may limit the purchase
to 12 aircraft from 14 as part of a broader reduction in
equipment spending. Urena-Raso said it is to early to draw
conclusions over France’s intentions, and that the real the test
will be the formal military budget plan due late this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  