-- Taiwan Directs Anger at Philippines as Ma Frustration Simmers
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-05-17T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/taiwan-directs-anger-at-philippines-as-ma-frustration-simmers.html
Sitting in Taipei’s main commercial
center as office workers filed out for lunch, Y.S. Liu mourned
the collapse of her import business. Her president, she said,
had failed to deliver.  The 60-year-old blamed Ma Ying-jeou, whose approval rating
is 14 percent, for an economy that grew at one of the slowest
rates in Asia last year, sparking January protests that helped
trigger the resignation of Premier Sean Chen. When a Philippine
patrol boat crew killed a Taiwanese fisherman last week, Liu and
others found an outlet for their fear of being bypassed in
Asia’s recovery.  “We’ve been frustrated for so long,” Liu said, adding Ma
should be even tougher on the  Philippines . “We’re so full of
anger, so disappointed and dissatisfied with our government.”  Ma is seizing the moment to press President Benigno Aquino
for a formal apology as Taiwan grocers pull Philippine goods
from stores and travel agencies cancel trips, an approach that
risks denting efforts to boost trade ties in Asia. His  reaction
may say more about Taiwan’s feeling of weakness in a region of
emerging powers that don’t officially recognize its government.  “The whole world is bullying us, so we have to bully
someone weaker than us,” said George Tsai, a political
scientist at Chinese Culture University in Taipei. “Taiwanese
have accumulated so much frustration and anger. Collectively,
we’re trying to find an outlet. At such a moment, the Ma
administration can only be tough.”  Ma Ultimatum  The diplomatic spat started on May 9, when a Philippine
patrol boat fired at least 32 bullets at a Taiwanese boat in
waters claimed by both sides, killing a 65-year-old fisherman.
Ma threatened economic retaliation if Aquino didn’t meet four
demands: apologize, compensate the family, agree to talks on
disputed fishing zones and start an investigation.  The Philippines, which doesn’t formally recognize  Taiwan 
under its one- China  policy, agreed to all the demands except a
government apology. Aquino offered to apologize on behalf of the
Filipino people.  Ma rejected it outright. Within 24 hours, his government
began military exercises off its southern coast, told people to
stop traveling to the Philippines and froze the hiring of
Filipino workers. State-run Taiwan Sugar, with 12 outlets
stocking snacks and other products made in the Philippines, took
items off its shelves.  Voice Raised  “People want justice, and our voice to be heard by the
international community,” Wei Huang, manager at a Taiwan Sugar
store in Taipei, said after removing more than 100 products.
“We should use whatever leverage we have.”  Taiwan also moved to halt already-limited diplomatic
engagement, including ministerial meetings under the  World
Health Assembly , a body of the World Health Organization.
Sixteen Taiwan-based exhibitors withdrew from the International
Food Expo in  Manila .  Taiwan’s media has fueled the public outcry, with front-page headlines declaring “Philippine Government, Rotten to the
Core.” Groups congregated outside the house of the dead
fisherman.  “This is something very unusual,” said Samuel C.Y. Ku, a
professor at the Institute of China and Asia-Pacific Studies in
Taiwan. “We haven’t seen this kind of social outrage from a
specific event.”  Negligible Impact  Investors have shrugged off the tensions. Taiwan’s Taiex
index, which fell 0.3 percent yesterday, is up 1 percent since
the shooting. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  has gained 1.2
percent in that time and hit a record high on May 15.  “We’re assuming this calms down and the impact will be
negligible” on each country’s economy, said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , Singapore-based head of Southeast Asia economics at
Credit Suisse Group AG.  The U.S., which is a treaty ally to the Philippines and
helps maintain Taiwan’s defense, urged both sides to avoid an
escalation.  China condemned the killing and demanded the Philippines
begin an investigation. Taiwan has been ruled separately since
Chiang Kai-shek’s Kuomintang party fled China in 1949 after a
civil war, and the Communist Party deems the island a renegade
province.  “With an island so interdependent with both economic
powerhouses -- and being a democracy that has to respond to
public opinion -- something like this must be handled quite
literally like a controlled ’storm in a teacup,’” said Gary Li,
a senior analyst at IHS Maritime. Ma “will settle down once the
political theater is complete.”  First Elected  Ma improved ties with China after he was first elected in
2008, ending a six-decade ban on direct transport links. Since
his re-election in January 2012, his popularity has plummeted as
the economy slowed compared to others in the region, which are
moving ahead on trade agreements that exclude Taiwan.  Taiwan’s gross domestic product grew 1.3 percent last year,
according to the  Asian Development Bank , slower than South
Korea, China and most Southeast Asian nations. The opposition
Democratic Progressive Party led the January protest in Taipei
over Ma’s economic management that drew tens of thousands of
people.  When it comes to the dispute with the Philippines, however,
Ma’s opponents are with him. DPP chairman Su Tseng-chang said
Taiwan needed to present a united front despite Ma’s other
shortcomings.  “This is a matter of dignity,” said J.J. Tsai, a 40-year-old housewife, as she shopped in one of Taiwan Sugar’s stores
yesterday. “We are willing to pay the economic price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  