-- Alberta to Boost Export Lobbying With New Foreign Offices
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-17T20:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/alberta-to-boost-export-lobbying-with-new-foreign-offices.html
Alberta , Canada’s biggest oil-producing province, is opening trade offices in India and Brazil
in an effort to boost exports to those regions as the primary
U.S. market meets more of its own energy needs.  Officials will lobby on behalf of energy, agriculture and
forestry producers, the provincial government said today in an
e-mailed statement. Alberta will also spend more at its Beijing
office and establish new offices in southern China,  California ,
 Chicago  and  Singapore . The government has 10 international
offices in cities, according to its  website .  “We’re committed to building Alberta by opening up new
markets to ensure we get the fairest price possible for our
resources and products,” Premier Alison Redford said in the
statement.  Last year Alberta exported goods valued at C$95 billion
($92.3 billion) to 187 countries, according to Alberta’s
website. The U.S. consumed 87 percent of the province’s
shipments. Oil, natural gas and other energy products made up 73
percent of products exported. Trade accounts for more than one-third of the province’s economy.  Being land-locked is one of the main barriers for Alberta
to access Asian markets, according to a government document on
the  trade effort . The province is receiving a lower price for
its energy products in the U.S. than in the rest of the world as
North American production grows, a situation that may worsen,
the document said.  Alberta officials are supporting efforts to build pipelines
south, east, west and north to get crude to tidewater.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  