-- Alpine Holding’s Bonds Tumble as Assets Proving Tough to Sell
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-05-17T12:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/alpine-holding-s-bonds-tumble-as-assets-proving-tough-to-sell.html
Alpine Holding GmbH’s bonds tumbled
as the construction company said it’s proving hard to sell
assets, undermining restructuring plans.  Alpine’s bonds due July 2015, June 2016 and May 2017 were
quoted at 45 to 60 cents on the euro on German securities
exchanges, as much as 43 percent lower than yesterday, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The debt has a total face value
of 290 million euros ($373 million).  The Salzburg, Austria-based builder thwarted insolvency in
March by winning creditor bank agreements to reduce claims by
150 million euros, leaving bondholders unscathed. A
restructuring plan includes raising at least 100 million euros
by selling three subsidiaries, the company said.  Prices offered for its units are not meeting Alpine’s
expectations, Johannes Gfrerer, a spokesman for the company said
in a telephone interview today. “There is a conflict between
the time of a sale and the price you hope to get,” he said.  The amount the company hoped to raise proved unrealistic,
Die Presse reported earlier today, without saying where it got
the information.  Alpine, owned by  Spain ’s  Fomento de Construcciones &
Contratas SA , posted a loss of 449.7 million euros last year as
construction dropped to 3.21 billion euros from 3.62 billion
euros a year earlier. The company, which built German soccer
team Bayern Munich’s AllianzArena, is exiting unprofitable
markets and cutting staff to break even by 2015.  “Nothing happened that makes us question our agreement
with the company’s owners,”  Michael Mauritz , a spokesman for
Erste Group, said today via telephone. A spokesman for UniCredit
Bank Austria, which leads creditor banks along with Erste,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  