-- Ambrosiadou Wins Ikos Software Case Over Estranged Husband
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-05-17T15:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/ambrosiadou-wins-ikos-software-case-against-estranged-husband.html
Elena Ambrosiadou, co-founder of Ikos
Asset Management Ltd., won a U.K. court case brought by her
estranged husband, Martin Coward, over who owns the computer
software that runs the hedge fund’s trading platform.  While Coward wrote the original software, he did so as a
member of Ikos, making it an asset of the Cyprus-based hedge-fund firm’s partnership, Judge Sarah Asplin wrote in her ruling
handed down today. Coward sued his wife’s businesses saying he
was the architect of Ikos’s success and owns the copyright for
the $1.36 billion fund’s trading algorithms.  The couple’s relationship “turned toxic,” Coward’s lawyer
Michael Bloch said at the trial. They have filed more than 40
lawsuits against each other in at least four countries amid
accusations of stealing and spying.  “Unfortunately, their approach to giving evidence was
tainted by the obvious and deep animosity and the extremely
close correlation between their business and their personal
affairs,” Asplin said in her ruling.  Today’s decision “vindicates Ikos’s defense of its lawful
rights to its IP and strengthens the case for an overhaul of the
European laws regarding protection of intellectual property,”
Ambrosiadou, chief executive officer of Ikos, said in an e-mailed statement.  Ambrosiadou testified that she was responsible for building
the business while Coward, who left Ikos in 2009, was part of
the trading team. She was dropped as a defendant in the case
before the March trial. Her companies counter-sued Coward for
using Ikos’s software.  Coward is considering whether to appeal today’s ruling, his
lawyers said.  “Coward is gratified that the judge found that he had
written the software that he claimed to have written,” Liam
Hemmings, a lawyer representing Coward, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is: Martin John Coward v Phaestos Limited & Ors.,
U.K.  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , case no.
HC10C02788  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  