-- America’s Cup Panel Seeks Training Pause After Sailor Death
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-05-17T14:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/america-s-cup-panel-asks-training-be-paused-after-sailor-s-death.html
The committee reviewing the death of
Olympic yachtsman Andrew Simpson during America’s Cup training
recommended that teams suspend sailing until the middle of next
week.  The America’s Cup Review Committee said in  a news release 
on the regatta’s website that it planned to meet with the four
competing teams today. The proposed suspension would apply to
training in 45-foot and 72-foot catamarans, the panel said.  The review into Simpson’s death on  San Francisco  Bay is
being led by Iain Murray, the regatta director, and includes
Sally Lindsay Honey, the two-time Rolex Yachtswoman of the Year
who led last year’s review into the wreck that killed five
sailors from the boat Low Speed Chase during the Full Crew
Farallones Race out of San Francisco.  The accident involving the Swedish team Artemis Racing was
the second involving the new 72-foot (22-meter) boats being used
in the Cup. Powered by 131-foot carbon wing sails and capable of
skimming above the water on hydrofoils at speeds exceeding 40
knots (46 mph, 74 kph), they are among the fastest sailboats
ever built.  Larry Ellison ’s Oracle Team, the defending champion,
destroyed a wing during an October training accident.  Ellison, chief executive of  Redwood City , California-based
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , won the right to host this year’s America’s Cup by
defeating a catamaran sailed by Swiss billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli’s Alinghi syndicate in a two-boat, best-of-three
series off Valencia,  Spain , using a 90-foot trimaran with a 223-foot rigid wing sail. Ellison’s organizers then remade the Cup
for television audiences, using the high-speed, twin-hulled
boats to replace traditional monohulls.  Sailor Trapped  Simpson, 36, died May 9 after he was trapped beneath a
section of the capsized yacht, out of sight from other vessels
and divers searching for him, according to Murray. Simpson won a
gold medal for Britain in the Star class at the 2008 Olympic as
crew for Iain Percy, now Artemis’s sailing team director. The
pair won a silver medal in 2012.  Artemis is doing its own review of the accident, according
to a statement from Torbjorn Tornqvist, the team’s chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 