-- Anti-Women Exchanges Dominate Virginia Governor Campaign
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-05-17T14:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/anti-women-exchanges-dominate-virginia-governor-campaign.html
It’s a contest driven by caricatures.  The Virginia governor’s race, one of this year’s marquee
U.S. political contests, features Democrats painting Republican
Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli as an anti-abortion rights
extremist bent on banning the procedure even in cases of rape
and incest. Cuccinelli allies portray his opponent, Terry McAuliffe, as an insensitive husband who left his crying wife
and newborn in a car to attend a political fundraiser.  The target audience for both: women, whose outsized turnout
and support in last year’s presidential election helped win the
state for President  Barack Obama , and whose loyalties and voting
enthusiasm may be the most important factor in determining who
prevails in the gubernatorial contest.  “Every group of voters is important, but you could argue
that women, particularly suburban women, particularly
independent suburban women, are chief among equals,” said
Democratic strategist Mo Elleithee, a veteran of Virginia
campaigns who isn’t affiliated with McAuliffe’s. “They’re make-or-break, because they’re a growing percentage of the
electorate, and they are swing voters.”  The contest is heating up as the  Republican Party of
Virginia ’s convention opens today in Richmond, where Cuccinelli
is scheduled to speak tomorrow and officially capture his
party’s nomination. McAuliffe’s candidacy was certified in April
after no one filed to challenge him.  Testing Turnout  A June special election for a Massachusetts U.S. Senate
seat and the Virginia governor’s race in November will be the
premiere tests of the staying power of the diverse electorate
that last year re-elected Obama. If Democrats can hold those
voters, their prospects of getting them back out to the polls
will improve for the 2014 midterms, when control of the U.S.
Senate will hang in the balance.  The 2012 presidential election, in which Obama carried
Virginia over Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  by 51 percent to 47
percent, tells the story of the importance of the female vote.
Exit  polls  indicate that women supported Obama over Romney by a
9-percentage point margin, 54 percent to 45 percent.  Women also turned out in greater numbers than their share
of the population, with exit polls showing that ballots were
cast by 53 percent of them while, according to the census, they
comprise 52 percent of the state’s voting-age population. Male
turnout was 47 percent, while they are 48 percent of the state’s
voting-age population.  Wider Gap  Republicans say their study of the 2012 vote shows the gap
was wider. Turnout by women was 54.5 percent compared to 45.5
percent among men, according to one Republican strategist who
spoke on condition of anonymity to describe his party’s analysis
of Virginia’s voter file. That 9-percentage point discrepancy is
more than double the population difference between the sexes in
Virginia shown in the census.  McAuliffe, the former Democratic National Committee
chairman, and his allies are working to galvanize women voters
this year, reminding them of Cuccinelli’s opposition to abortion
rights and other social views. Cuccinelli and Republicans are
seeking to blunt the influence of women voters, chiefly by
sowing doubts among them about McAuliffe’s likability while
steering clear of abortion and other social issues and focusing
on ideas for stoking  economic recovery .  Public Polls  The competition is taking place as some recent public polls
show the race could go either way. A Quinnipiac University
survey released yesterday  showed  McAuliffe leading Cuccinelli
among registered voters by 5 percentage points, 43 percent to 38
percent, with 17 percent undecided.  An  NBC News/Marist Poll  conducted April 28-May 2 showed
Cuccinelli essentially tied with McAuliffe, supported by 45
percent of Virginia’s likely voters compared to 42 percent for
the Democrat -- a lead within the survey’s margin of error.  Both surveys found substantial gender gaps, with McAuliffe
leading Cuccinelli among women by some 15 percentage points,
while the Republican led among men by roughly the same margin.  The struggle to influence women voters intensified this
week when the Democratic Party of  Virginia  began running robo-calls that said Cuccinelli was claiming to be focused on the
economy when his “real priority” is to ban abortion, including
in cases of rape and incest.  Planned Parenthood Action Fund, a Washington-based group
that backs candidates supporting abortion rights, started airing
digital advertisements showing a Cuccinelli cut-out figure
butting into the middle of weddings and popping up between women
and their doctors at medical offices. The ad says: “To keep Ken
out of your doctor’s office, keep him out of the governor’s
mansion.”  Repeat Strategy  The efforts seek to reprise last year’s Democratic
strategy, in which the party worked nationally to tie Romney to
what it called a “war on women,” based upon his support for
de-funding Planned Parenthood and opposition to abortion rights,
and in Virginia sought to tie him and the years unsuccessful
Senate candidate, George Allen, to state legislators who had
pressed for mandatory transvaginal ultrasounds for expectant
mothers seeking abortions.  “When voters learn about politicians’ extreme views on
women’s health, they reject those politicians,” said Dawn
Laguens, Planned Parenthood’s executive vice president.  She said a Cuccinelli governorship would be “disastrous”
for Virginia women and that “as we saw in 2012, these issues
will determine how they will vote.”  Combating Stereotypes  Kay Coles James, a former President George W. Bush
appointee who is backing Cuccinelli, said the strategy will
boomerang on Democrats with women, who want to hear the economic
and education message the Republican will promote in his
campaign.  “They’re beginning to get a little bit annoyed with a
stereotype of them as women, that they’re only concerned with
one issue of abortion rights or reproductive rights or health,
as if all Democrats have to do is raise that flag and then they
win,” James said in an interview. “Women drive large portions
of this economy. They care about jobs. They care about
education, and Ken Cuccinelli is doing a far better job of
gender equity by talking to them about those issues.”  Still, reproductive rights issues have been a prominent
part of Cuccinelli’s agenda. He has advocated for a
“personhood” bill to give rights to a fertilized egg, fought
for stricter regulations on abortion clinics and supports de-funding Planned Parenthood. He has made little mention of those
positions in the governor’s race. His focus has been on rolling
out aspects of his economic plan, including a tax-cut proposal
and an energy development initiative unveiled yesterday.  Economy Focus  His campaign says Democrats are trying to distract
attention from McAuliffe’s inadequacies as a candidate and
failures as a businessman by focusing on social issues.  Cuccinelli “is running on issues important to all women
throughout the Commonwealth: growing our economy, creating jobs,
and protecting our must vulnerable citizens,” said Anna Nix, a
campaign spokeswoman. “As Attorney General, Ken has made
cracking down on sexual predators and human trafficking a
priority, and in the last two years has convicted more child
predators than any previous two-year period in the office’s
history.”  At the same time, the Republican and his supporters are
trying to soften his image while tarnishing McAuliffe’s among
women voters.  Child Predators  Cuccinelli’s campaign released a television ad in which his
wife speaks into the camera about him, including his prosecution
of child predators and human traffickers. It ends with an image
of the candidate with his seven children, five of them girls.  His allies, including the Republican-aligned opposition-research group America Rising, has been calling attention to
McAuliffe’s 2007 book “What A Party.” In one section he
recounts leaving his wife, Dorothy, at the hospital as she was
in labor to attend a  Washington Post (WPO)  party; in another he
recalls stopping on the way home from the hospital after the
birth of another child to attend a fundraiser, leaving his wife
weeping in the car with their newborn son.  “I felt bad for Dorothy, but it was a million bucks for
the Democratic Party,” McAuliffe writes, adding that by the
time they got home, his wife was again “all smiles.”  “Nobody ever said life with me was going to be easy,” he
wrote.  Democratic Concerns  The contest’s increasing negativity has Democrats concerned
that some women voters will be so turned off by the tone that
they won’t vote, which would likely dash McAuliffe’s chances.  Obama won Virginia in 2008 by boosting turnout to a record
high and winning by large margins among women and African
American voters. The following year, the picture was
dramatically different in the state’s governor’s race, as
turnout plummeted to little more than half of what it had been
in 2008. Republican Bob McDonnell won with 62 percent of the
vote over Democrat Creigh Deeds.  McDonnell by law can’t run for re-election, and Democrats
don’t want a repeat of what happened in the 2009 contest.  McAuliffe, in courting women’s voters, has scheduled
multiple events to appeal to them. A fundraiser for him next
month features First Lady Michelle Obama. Earlier this week he
visited women-owned retail establishments in Winchester,
Virginia, and yesterday he unveiled a “Women for Terry”
coalition.  Even as he criticizes Cuccinelli, McAuliffe is seeking to
make a broader economic case that will resonate with the voters
he must turn out to win.  “You’ve got to make it a bigger argument -- it cannot just
be, ‘He is bad on choice, and so vote against him,’ ” Elleithee
said. “It has to be part of a broader narrative about how his
agenda is harmful to women, and then the other side of that is:
‘Here is why you can trust me.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  