-- Apple Mobile Devices Cleared for Use on U.S. Military Networks
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-17T13:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/apple-mobile-devices-cleared-for-use-on-u-s-military-networks.html
The Pentagon cleared  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
devices for use on its networks, setting the stage for the maker
of iPhones and iPads to compete with Samsung Electronics Co. and
BlackBerry for military sales.  The Defense Department said in a statement today that it
has approved the use of Cupertino, California-based Apple’s
products running a version of the iOS 6 mobile platform.  The decision eventually may spur a three-way fight for a
market long dominated by Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry. The
Pentagon on May 2 approved Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s
devices, as well as BlackBerry 10 smartphones and BlackBerry
PlayBook tablets.  The Pentagon has depended on BlackBerrys, which have
consistently received federal certification for protecting
sensitive data.  The Defense Department has more than 600,000 mobile
devices, including 470,000 BlackBerrys, 41,000 Apple products
and 8,700 devices running Google Inc.’s Android operating
system, according to the agency. Many of the Apple and Android
products in use aren’t connected to military networks except for
testing.  Samsung, the largest seller of smartphones for commercial
use, worked with the U.S. National Security Agency to create a
secure version of Google’s Android operating system with
multiple layers of software and hardware protection, Tim Wagner,
a Samsung vice president, has said.  The Galaxy S4 released in April will be the first
smartphone using the new system, known as Knox, according to
Samsung.  The military has said it wants employees to have the
flexibility to use commercial products on its networks. It plans
to create a military mobile applications store and hire a
contractor to build a system that may handle as many as 8
million devices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  