-- Apple CEO Cook to Propose Tax Reform for Offshore Cash
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/apple-ceo-cook-to-propose-tax-reform-for-offshore-cash.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which holds $102 billion
in cash and investments outside the U.S., will suggest changes
to corporate-tax laws to encourage companies to bring more cash
into the country.  In interviews with the Washington Post Co. and  Politico 
published yesterday, Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
previewed testimony he will give on May 21 before the Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which has been
examining companies that use various maneuvers to reduce their
tax bills. The current 35 percent corporate-tax rate is too high
for companies to pay when bringing money back from overseas,
Cook was quoted as saying by the Washington Post.  Apple is facing U.S. government scrutiny after Cook
unveiled a plan last month to return $100 billion in cash to
shareholders via dividends and buybacks through 2015. Rather
than using cash overseas that will be taxed, Apple is borrowing
money for the payout, saving as much as $9.2 billion in taxes,
according to Moody’s Investment Services.  Cook defended Apple’s practices and said the company
doesn’t funnel domestic profits overseas, according to the
interview with Politico. The committee is also looking into tax
practices at other companies, including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment beyond Cook’s interviews.  Cook said Apple wants to create more jobs in the U.S., the
Washington Post reported. Apple will spend $100 million on
facilities to build Mac computers in the U.S., Cook said in an
interview with Bloomberg Businessweek in December. The move may
result in the creation of about 200 jobs. Apple uses components
made in Arizona and assembles them in  Texas , according to the
Washington Post interview.  At the end of its last fiscal year, Apple had $40.4 billion
in cumulative earnings outside the U.S. on which it hadn’t paid
U.S. taxes. If that was brought back, Apple would owe $13.8
billion, according to a filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  