-- Leading Indicators Index in U.S. Rises More Than Forecast
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-17T14:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/april-leading-indicators-index-in-u-s-rises-more-than-forecast.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
climbed in April, a rebound from March that suggests the world’s
largest economy will accelerate later this year.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the  outlook  for the next
three to six months climbed 0.6 percent in April after falling a
revised 0.2 percent in March that was steeper than previously
reported, the New York-based group said today. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.2
percent increase.  Advancing stock prices and a recovering housing market may
be propping up household spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy. Still, slowing in  manufacturing ,
automatic  federal budget  cuts and higher payrolls taxes threaten
economic growth.  “We’re still definitely on the recovery path, but we
anticipated all along that this is going to be a very gradual
recovery,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , who correctly
predicted the reading.  He said multiple factors could drive economic improvement
going forward. “It’s typically a lot of little things getting
better at the same time. You get a little more job growth, a
little more  consumer spending , bank credit eases up a little
more,” according to Brown.  Economist Estimates  Estimates of 45 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from no change to an increase of 0.7 percent for the leading
index.  Stocks rose after the Conference Board report was
released. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.6 percent
to 1,659.65 at 10:05 a.m. in  New York .  Seven of the 10 indicators in the leading index
contributed to the increase, including a jump in building
permits, a drop in the number of jobless claims and the widening
interest-rate spread between the federal funds rate and 10-year
Treasury notes.  “The biggest risk right now is the adverse impact of cuts
in federal spending,”  Ken Goldstein , an economist at the
Conference Board, said in a statement today. “The biggest
positive factor is the potential for improvement in the
recovering housing and labor markets.”  Economic Activity  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.1 percent in April
after rising a revised 0.2 percent in the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production, which are the same measures the National Bureau of
 Economic Research  uses to determine the beginning and end of
U.S. recessions.  The gauge of  lagging  indicators also rose 0.1 percent after
advancing a revised 0.2 percent in March.  Applications for  unemployment insurance  payments jumped by
32,000 to 360,000 in the week ended May 11, the most since the
end of March, Labor Department figures showed yesterday. An
improvement in the labor market has not continued so far this
month.  Manufacturing is also struggling. The  Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia  said that its  general economic index  fell in May
to minus 5.2 from 1.3 the prior month. Readings greater than
zero signal expansion in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . The median forecast called for
2.  New York  A report earlier this week showed that manufacturing in the
New York region unexpectedly declined to minus 1.4 this month
from 3.1 in April.  Builders pulled back last month after housing  starts 
reached an almost five-year high in March, yet a surge in
permits signals residential construction will soon rebound.
Building permits jumped 14.3 percent to a 1.02 million
annualized rate in April, the highest level since June 2008.  Higher  home prices  have boosted household wealth and may
help bolster spending. Residential real-estate prices rose in
February by the most since May 2006, with the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of house values in 20 cities up 9.3 percent from a year
ago.  Economy Projected  Still, the economy is projected to grow at a 1.6 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, down from a 2.5 percent
annual rate in the first three months of the year, based on the
median forecast in a Bloomberg economist survey from May 3 to
May 8.  Part of the reason for the projected second-quarter
slowdown is an increase in the levy used to finance  Social
Security , which returned to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent. A
worker earning $50,000 a year is taking home about $83 less a
month as a result.  Those higher taxes are affecting corporations including
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, which has
cut prices on groceries and other necessities. Still, first-quarter sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at least 12 months
fell 1.4 percent, the first drop after six straight gains.
Analysts estimated a 0.1 percent decline.  “Top line revenue was challenged by a number of issues,”
William S. Simon, chief executive officer of Wal-Mart U.S., said
in an earnings conference call yesterday. He cited “the 2
percent increase in payroll taxes, reduced inflation and some of
the most unfavorable spring weather we’ve seen in recent years
across much of the country impacted our business.”  -- Editors: Kevin Costelloe,  Carlos Torres   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  