-- Jorge Videla, Former Argentine Dictator, Dies in Jail at 87
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-17T15:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/argentina-s-former-military-dictator-videla-dies-in-jail-at-87.html
Jorge Rafael Videla, Argentina’s
former dictator who led the country’s military junta from 1976
to 1981, has died. He was 87.  Videla died today in a  Buenos Aires  prison from natural
causes, the government reported on the presidential website.  Videla was serving  life imprisonment  for human rights
violations, including kidnap, torture and murder, during what
the dictatorship called “the Dirty War” against opponents.  As an army general, Videla led the March 1976 coup that
toppled the government of Maria Estela Martinez de Peron. Under
the regime, an estimated 30,000 people disappeared, presumed
dead, and thousands of others were tortured, according to human
rights groups. Some were thrown out of airplanes over the Rio de
la Plata estuary.  “Unfortunately, he died without confessing,” Estela Carlotto, president of the Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo
human rights group, told CN23 television channel today. “He
never allowed us to recover the corpses of our sons that they
killed, nor our grandsons that are alive.”  Videla, backed by navy commander Emilio Massera and air-force chief Orlando Agosti, ordered a campaign against opponents
that involved systematic kidnap, torture and murder, according
to a government commission that investigated the regime 28 years
ago. Children born in captivity were often stolen from their
mothers and given to regime members and allies for adoption, the
commission said in its report.  Trials Ordered  Argentina  returned to democracy in 1983 with the government
of Raul Alfonsin of the Radical Civic Union party. Five days
after taking office, Alfonsin ordered the trial of military
officers and guerrilla leaders for crimes committed during the
dictatorship.  In 1985, Videla, Massera and Agosti were sentenced to life
in prison. Along with others sentenced during the trials, the
three were pardoned by former President Carlos Menem in 1989 and
1990. In 2007, under the government of then-President Nestor Kirchner, the late husband and predecessor of President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner, a federal court annulled the pardons.  During a trial in 2010, at which he was found guilty of
being responsible for the death of 29 prisoners, Videla said he
didn’t regret his actions.  “I haven’t come to defend myself or argue in my defense,”
Videla told the court. “I’ll accept under protest the unfair
sentence that I may be given.”  ‘Genocide Plan’  Ricardo Gil Lavedra, one of the judges who passed the
sentences in 1985, said that Videla was backed by high-level
officials who approved the “genocide plan.”  “Videla will be remembered as a dictator who planted death
in Argentina,” Gil Lavedra, now an opposition lawmaker, told
Todo Noticias television channel today. “He led the most bloody
dictatorship that we have ever had.”  Military rule continued until 1983, when Alfonsin was
elected and took power from the junta’s last leader, Reynaldo
Bignone.  In April 1982, Bignone’s predecessor Leopoldo Galtieri
ordered the invasion of the U.K.-controlled Falkland Islands. A
British  task force  recovered control of the South Atlantic
archipelago, over which Argentina still claims sovereignty,
after a two-month conflict in which 255 British and 649
Argentine servicemen died.  “The Argentine state, in its 30 years of democracy, will
never celebrate the death of anybody,” the country’s Human
Rights Secretary Martin Fresneda said in a statement posted on
the presidential  website . “It’s important that he died by
natural causes in a common jail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  