-- Arkansas Law Limiting Abortions at 12th Week Is Blocked
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   B a r n e t t   R e e d   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/arkansas-law-limiting-abortions-at-12th-week-is-blocked.html
A federal judge temporarily blocked
an  Arkansas  law limiting a woman’s right to an abortion at the
12th week of pregnancy if a fetal heartbeat can be detected.  U.S. District Judge Susan Webber Wright barred enforcement
of the state’s Human Heartbeat Protection Act after a hearing
yesterday in Arkansas’ capital city, Little Rock.  “Viability is the key here,” she told lawyers for both
sides, acknowledging that the state has an interest in
protecting the life of a fetus that could survive outside its
mother’s womb.  “I find it’s more likely than not that this act violates
that premise,” Wright said. “It defines viability as something
viability is not.”  The measure known as Act 301 was made law in March over
Democratic Governor Mike Beebe’s veto. It allows exceptions for
pregnancies resulting from rape or incest, medical emergencies
and to save the life of the mother. It was scheduled to take
effect on Aug. 16.  Wright’s injunction remains in force until she rules on the
constitutionality of the legislation. Yesterday’s hearing before
a full courtroom lasted about two hours.  The plaintiffs, Louis Jerry Edwards and Tom Tvedten, are
abortion care providers affiliated with Little Rock Family
Planning Services.  Act 301 would deny about 20 percent of Arkansas women
seeking constitutionally protected, pre-viability abortion care
their right to access that care, they said in an April 16 court
filing asking Wright to bar enforcement of the law while its
legality was being challenged.  Doctor Punishment  Violations of the act are punishable by the revocation of a
doctor’s medical license, according to a complaint filed that
same day by Little Rock attorney Bettina Brownstein and lawyers
with the  American Civil Liberties Union  and the Center for
Reproductive Rights.  Aaron Sadler, a spokesman for Arkansas Attorney General
Dustin McDaniel, declined to comment on the ruling after the
hearing.  “We’re happy and relieved, but not really surprised,”
Brownstein told reporters outside the courthouse after Wright
ruled. “We anticipated a favorable ruling and continue to
anticipate favorable rulings. The law’s really clear in this
area.”  ‘Straightforward Case’  The challengers haven’t yet decided if they’ll file papers
asking the court to rule on whether the act passes
constitutional muster or go directly to trial. Wright didn’t
reach that issue yesterday.  “Act 301 violates 40 years of Supreme Court precedent
beginning with Roe v. Wade, which guaranteed the right of women
to terminate a pregnancy prior to viability,” Brownstein told
Wright in court yesterday.  “We believe this is a straightforward case and per se
unconstitutional,” Brownstein said.  In its 1973 Roe v. Wade decision and its 1992 ruling in
 Planned Parenthood  v. Casey, the Supreme Court held women have a
constitutional right to an abortion before a fetus is viable
outside its mother’s womb.  “There is no evidence that there is a single woman or
actual women that will seek an abortion and not be able to get
it under Act 301,” an attorney for the state, Colin R.
Jorgensen, told the judge yesterday.  Opposed Bid  McDaniel opposed the bid to block enforcement in papers
filed with Wright on May 7, arguing the measure is
constitutional.  “Act 301 does not prohibit any woman from terminating her
pregnancy in the first trimester, when the vast majority of
abortions are performed,” McDaniel said then. He also asked the
judge to dismiss the case.  Wright on May 15 denied McDaniel’s request that she throw
out the case, finding the doctors adequately pleaded a
constitutional challenge and had legal standing to pursue it.  The measure defines viability as that point when a
heartbeat is detectable, not when a fetus can survive outside
the womb, Wright said in denying the bid for dismissal.  U.S.  Supreme Court  precedent defines viability as when
there’s a realistic chance of being able to keep a fetus alive
outside its mother’s womb, she said.  ‘Good Ground’  The judge said yesterday she will consider separating from
the litigation two parts of Act 301 she said didn’t appear to be
unconstitutional. One requires a physician to look for the
heartbeat in the fetus carried by a woman seeking an abortion
and tell her the results, the other compels the doctor to tell a
woman the statistical likelihood of her carrying the fetus to
term if she doesn’t abort it.  State Senator Jason Rapert, a Republican and a sponsor of
the legislation, attended yesterday’s hearing. He told reporters
afterward that while Wright’s ruling was a disappointment, he
believed the state was on “good ground.”  The legislator said he supports pregnancy prevention and
education. Still, he added, “there’s a point in time when
enough is enough. We have to do something.”  The case in Arkansas is Edwards v. Beck, 13-cv-00224, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Arkansas ( Little Rock ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  