-- Arkansas Doctors Ask Court to Block State’s New Abortion Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/arkansas-doctors-ask-court-to-block-state-s-new-abortion-rules.html
Two doctors are set to ask a U.S.
judge to block the Human Heartbeat Protection Act, an  Arkansas 
law banning most abortions at the 12th week of pregnancy if a
fetal heartbeat can be detected.  The measure, which contains exceptions for pregnancies
resulting from rape or incest, medical emergencies and to save
the life of the mother, was enacted over the veto of Governor
Mike Beebe, and would take effect after Aug. 16.  Lawyers for the physicians today will ask U.S. District
Judge Susan Webber Wright in Little Rock, Arkansas, to block the
measure while they challenge its legality under the federal
Constitution and U.S. Supreme Court precedent.  “Enforcement of the act would deny roughly 20 percent of
Arkansas women seeking constitutionally-protected, pre-viability
abortion care their right to access that care,” they said in an
April 16 filing.  The plaintiffs, Louis Jerry Edwards and Tom Tvedten, are
each abortion care providers affiliated with Little Rock Family
Planning Services, a clinic in the state’s capital city.  Violations of the act are punishable by the revocation of a
doctor’s medical license, according to their complaint filed
April 16 by attorneys with the  American Civil Liberties Union 
and the Center for Reproductive Rights.  Arkansas Attorney General Dustin McDaniel opposed the bid
to block enforcement in papers filed with Webber Wright on May
7, arguing the measure, known as Act 301, is constitutional. He
also asked the judge to dismiss the case.  Constitutional Challenge  She denied that request on May 15, finding the doctors had
adequately pleaded their constitutional challenge and had legal
standing to pursue it, setting the stage for today’s hearing.  “Act 301 does not prohibit any woman from terminating her
pregnancy in the first trimester, when the vast majority of
abortions are performed,” McDaniel said.  The measure defines viability as that point when a
heartbeat is detectable, not when a fetus can survive outside
the womb, Webber Wright said in denying the state’s dismissal
request.  U.S. Supreme Court precedent defines viability as that
point when there’s a realistic chance of being able to keep a
fetus alive outside its mother’s womb, she said.  The doctors alleged facts sufficient to support their claim
that those parts of Act 301 banning abortions at 12 weeks’
gestation violate a woman’s right to end a pre-viability
pregnancy, Webber Wright said.  The case in Arkansas is Edwards v. Beck, 13-cv-00224, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Arkansas ( Little Rock ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  