-- Harvey Improves to 5-0 as New York Mets Beat Cubs at Wrigley
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-18T04:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/harvey-improves-to-5-0-on-season-as-mets-beat-cubs-at-wrigley.html
Matt Harvey allowed two runs and
struck out six over 7 1/3 innings as the New York Mets beat the
 Chicago  Cubs 3-2 for their second consecutive victory.  Harvey gave up both runs in the bottom of the first and
allowed two hits and no walks over the next 6 1/3 innings
yesterday at Wrigley Field in Chicago. David Wright and Daniel Murphy hit solo home runs for New York.  Chicago almost tied the game after Harvey’s departure in
the eighth inning, when David DeJesus singled off Mike Rice with
a runner on second. Mets right fielder Marlon Byrd fielded the
ball and fired home, beating Darwin Barney by more than five
feet.  Harvey, 24, moved to 5-0 with a 1.55 earned run average
this season. He has pitched into the sixth inning in all nine
starts this season and is yet to allow more than three runs.  At Yankee Stadium, Hiroki Kuroda (6-2) pitched a two-hitter
and struck out five in eight innings in the Yankees’ 5-0 win
over the Toronto Blue Jays.  The Yankees (26-16) lead the American League East, one game
ahead of the Boston Red Sox.  The Yankees got all their runs off Mark Buehrle (1-3), who
allowed five runs on six hits and struck out four in six
innings.  Yankee pitcher Andy Pettitte (4-3) was placed on the 15-day
disabled list with a strained trapezius muscle.  Pettitte, 40, allowed two runs on four hits in 4 2/3
innings at Yankee Stadium before exiting the game with a tight
back muscle near his left shoulder on May 16, the team said. The
Yankees lost 3-2 to the Seattle Mariners.  Besides Pettitte, catcher  Francisco Cervelli , shortstop
Derek Jeter, first baseman Mark Teixeira, third baseman Alex Rodriguez and infielders Kevin Youkilis and  Eduardo Nunez  are on
New York’s disabled list.  -- Editor: Rob Gloster  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  