-- Asian Currencies Drop as Yen Weakness Spurs Intervention Concern
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-05-17T04:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/asian-currencies-drop-as-yen-weakness-spurs-intervention-concern.html
Asian currencies declined for a
second week on speculation regional central banks will allow
their exchange-rates to depreciate to keep exports competitive
with  Japan , as the yen fell to a four-year low.  South Korea’s won and the  Taiwan dollar  are more sensitive
to yen weakness because companies such as Samsung Electronics Co.
and Sony Corp. compete for global market share. Those exchange
rates, along with Malaysia’s ringgit, led this week’s drop.
Asian currencies also fell amid rising demand for the dollar,
after U.S. retail sales beat economists’ forecasts.  “Policy makers in countries competing with Japan remain
sensitive about the yen’s move and there are some intervention
concerns in these markets,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief executive
officer and foreign-exchange strategist at FPG Securities Co. in
 Tokyo . “There’s also general dollar strength on the back of
optimism over the U.S. economic recovery.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia   Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the
10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, declined 0.3
percent from a week ago to 117.64 as of 11:51 a.m. in  Hong Kong .
The won dropped 0.9 percent to 1,116.60, the ringgit weakened
0.9 percent to 3.0203 and the Taiwan dollar slipped 0.6 percent
to NT$29.978. South Korea’s markets are shut today for a holiday.  Follow Trend  The won touched a three-week low of 1,118.96 per dollar
yesterday after the Financial Services Commission said in an e-mailed statement that it will monitor market risks, including
the weak yen, and take preemptive measures if needed.  Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said companies should
strengthen their competitiveness because the yen is likely to
stay low for “quite some time,” according to a Yonhap News
report this week.  Japan’s currency reached 102.76 per dollar on May 15, the
lowest level since October 2008. It traded at 102.34 in Tokyo
today and has lost 15.9 percent this year, the most in Asia.  “The yen will probably weaken” further this year, said
Tarsicio Tong, a currency trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in
Taipei. “Currencies like the Taiwan dollar and the won will
follow the trend.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major trading partners, rose 0.9 percent this
week and reached its highest level since July on May 15. Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said
yesterday the central bank may cut its $85 billion monthly bond-buying program as early as this summer in the U.S., amid signs
the economy is gaining strength.  Elections Pass  Malaysia’s ringgit snapped an eight-week winning streak
after economic growth slowed to the least since 2009. Prime
Minister Najib Razak was re-elected in a May 5 poll, spurring a
rally in the nation’s assets.  First-quarter  gross domestic product  rose 4.1 percent from
a year earlier, less than a 6.5 percent increase in the
preceding period and the 5.5 percent forecast in a Bloomberg
survey, official data showed May 15.  “The ringgit, like most Asian currencies, is softer
because of the dollar strength,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a
Singapore-based economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “The
fact that Malaysia’s first-quarter GDP came in weaker than
expected, despite election spending, means that it will take a
lot more work to hold up investment in the nation.”  Elsewhere in Asia this week, Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.4
percent to 9,770 per dollar, the  Philippine peso  lost 0.1
percent to 41.18 and Vietnam’s dong declined 0.2 percent to
20,985. The  Thai baht  was unchanged at 29.78, while  India ’s
rupee was steady at 54.885.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 Aprakash1@bloommberg.net  