-- U.S. Stocks, Dollar Rise as Data Fuel Economic Confidence
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-05-17T21:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/asian-shares-drop-on-stimulus-concern-dollar-index-aussie-rise.html
U.S. stocks rebounded from
yesterday’s drop and the Dollar Index rose to the highest level
since July 2010 as better-than-estimated economic data fueled
speculation the Federal Reserve will consider scaling back
stimulus. Gold extended its longest slump in four years.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent to a
record 1,667.47 at 4 p.m. in New York and the Stoxx Europe 600
Index closed 0.2 percent higher. The gauge of the U.S. currency
against six major trade partners gained 0.8 percent to 84.28.
The rand sank to its weakest level since 2011 and the Aussie
slid to the lowest in almost a year. Gold for immediate delivery
fell for a seventh day, while 10-year Treasury yields rose seven
basis points to 1.95 percent.  The S&P 500  extended gains  today after reports showed
consumer sentiment improved and the Conference Board’s index of
leading indicators rebounded in April. The U.S. central bank may
reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond-buying as early as this
summer amid signs the economy is gaining strength, Fed Bank of
San Francisco President John Williams said.  “Today’s data was good, an almost mirror image of
yesterday’s in terms of quality,”  Lawrence Creatura , a
Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors
Inc., which oversees about $380 billion, said by phone. “It’s
been an unsteady recovery, but the trend is positive. The glass
half-full view is that the Fed will begin to decelerate
quantitative easing only when they see the economy improving
enough.”  Options Expire  Options contracts on stocks, exchange-traded funds and
indexes expire today, leading investors to adjust their holdings
of some securities. Trading of S&P 500 stocks was in line with
the 30-day average at this time of day.  The Fed’s stimulus efforts have helped fuel a rally in
stocks that sent the S&P 500 up 17 percent so far this year and
146 percent from its bear-market low in 2009. The rally pushed
193 stocks in the S&P 500, or 39 percent of the gauge, to their
highest levels in at least 52 weeks on May 15, the most in
 Bloomberg data  going back to 1993.  Boeing Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Microsoft Corp. and
United Technologies Corp. added more than 2 percent to lead the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) ’s gain today. Northrop Grumman
Corp. climbed 4 percent after increasing its share-buyback
program by $4 billion. J.C. Penney Co. slid 4.2 percent after
its first-quarter net loss widened.  Economy Watch  The index of U.S. leading indicators climbed in April, a
rebound from March that suggests the world’s largest economy may
be poised for further expansion. The Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months climbed 0.6 percent
in April after falling in March. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.2 percent
increase.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment rose to 83.7 in May from 76.4 the
prior month, a report today showed. The median forecast in a
survey was for a gain to 77.9. Forecasts ranged from 74 to 82.5.  Bank of America Corp. equity strategist Savita Subramanian
lowered her 2013 forecast for S&P 500 earnings-per-share by $1
to $109, citing weakness in “globally-exposed sectors such as
tech and industrials” that is overshadowing brighter prospects
for U.S.-focused groups such as financials. The strategist
introduced a 2014 forecast of $115 a share, which implies almost
6 percent growth and is lower than a projection of $123 derived
from analysts covering individual companies.  ‘Limited Scope’  “While we expect global economic growth to accelerate in
2014, growth will continue to be hampered by global fiscal
austerity with limited scope for significant incremental
monetary easing,” she wrote in a report to clients. “And given
how lean corporate cost structures have already been cut, we
believe it will be difficult for corporations to generate
further earnings growth through further margin expansion. As
such, we expect the S&P 500 to maintain the current growth
trajectory” of 5 percent to 6 percent annually.  The dollar gained against all 16 of its major peers. The
euro slipped 0.4 percent to $1.2831 and the yen weakened 1
percent to 103.29 per dollar, the weakest level since October
2008.  “Part of the reason for the current favorable dollar
sentiment is the expectations of a change in monetary stance
later this year,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of global-markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London,
wrote in a report. The Fed’s Williams “is viewed as dovish” so
his comments “carried more weight,” he wrote.  Aussie Falls  The Australian dollar declined as much as 1 percent to
97.11 U.S. cents, the weakest level since June. It has slid 2.9
percent over the past five days. New Zealand’s currency dropped
1.1 percent to 80.67 U.S. cents, the lowest level since
November.  The rand fell for a seventh day to extend its longest
losing streak against the dollar in a year on concern that
renewed labor unrest and falling commodity prices will weigh on
South Africa’s economy. The currency depreciated as much as 1.3
percent to 9.4413 per dollar, falling for a seventh straight
day.  The Stoxx 60 advanced 1.2 percent in five days, a fourth
straight week of gains, and reached its highest level in almost
five years. FLSmidth & Co. A/S, Europe’s biggest maker of cement
production lines, slid 9.7 percent today, the most since 2011,
as earnings missed estimates. Coca-Cola HBC AG lost 5.3 percent
as Credit Suisse Group AG managed the sale of a 1.7 percent
stake in the drinks bottler.  Carmakers Climb  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  surged 10 percent and Renault SA
advanced more than 3.5 percent in Paris as European car sales
rose for the first time in 19 months in April amid signs that
governments may take measures to stem a contraction in the euro-area economy.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 0.2 percent, heading
for its first weekly decline in a month as gauges in  Brazil ,
 Taiwan , the  Philippines  and Czech Republic declined at least 0.3
percent. Russia’s Micex index climbed 2 percent as oil
rebounded. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 1.4 percent on
speculation the government won’t impose more real-estate curbs
as the economy slows. Markets were closed in Hong Kong and South
Korea.  Spanish and Italian bonds rose for a third day after
European governments issued almost 37 billion euros of bonds and
notes this week. Italy’s 10-year yield dropped eight basis
points to 3.90 percent, while Spain’s decreased 10 basis points
to 4.21 percent.  Gold dropped 1.6 percent to $1,364.70 an ounce and silver
slid 1.4 percent while coffee plunged 2.1 percent for the
biggest declines in the S&P GSCI Index, while natural gas jumped
3.1 percent corn rallied 1.7 percent to lead the commodities
gauge higher. West  Texas  Intermediate oil advanced 0.9 percent
to $96.02 a barrel.  The surge in natural gas futures posted the came as the
U.S. conditionally approved a Texas liquefied natural gas
project. Gas jumped as much as 4.2 percent. The Freeport LNG
export project received only the second approval from the Energy
Department to export gas to countries that don’t have free-trade
agreements with the U.S. The facility would be able to export
1.4 billion cubic feet a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  