-- Asmussen Says Long Phase of Low Interest Rates Carries Risks
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-05-17T11:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/asmussen-says-long-phase-of-low-interest-rates-carries-risks.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said policy makers should be aware of the
risks related to keeping interest rates low for an extended
period of time.  The ECB has to “keep an eye on the fact that a long,
lasting phase of low interest rates carries risks because it
tempts investors to look for rising proceeds elsewhere,”
Asmussen said in a speech in Berlin today. “This can lead to a
misallocation of capital. One also has to realize that monetary
policy is no economic policy all-purpose weapon.”  The central bank cut its  benchmark interest rate  to a
record low of 0.5 percent this month and President  Mario Draghi 
signaled he is ready to reduce borrowing costs further if the
economic outlook deteriorates. Policy makers are also looking at
options to rekindle the market for asset-backed securities and
stimulate lending to small companies.  “We’ve done a lot in this crisis, within our mandate, and
we’ve contributed significantly to preventing catastrophic
scenarios,” Asmussen said. “Our policy in this situation will
remain expansive as long as necessary” and “we will do what we
think is right because only a currency about whose future there
is no doubt can be a stable currency,” he said.  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, is “robust” at the
moment and growth will accelerate this quarter, Asmussen said.
While the French economy, the region’s second largest, “has
problems especially in the area of competitiveness,” Asmussen
said he is “optimistic” that “one has recognized in  France 
that there is a need to act.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  