-- Associated Press Probe Seen as ‘Dragnet’ by GOP Lawmaker
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-05-18T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/associated-press-probe-seen-as-dragnet-by-gop-lawmaker.html
The  Justice Department ’s subpoena of
Associated Press phone records appears to be “a large dragnet”
that lacked a clear focus, Michigan Republican Representative
Mike Rogers said.  “It doesn’t appear to me to be appropriate,” Rogers said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Rogers’ criticism of the Justice Department is significant
because the lawmaker is chairman of the House Intelligence
committee and a former FBI agent who had asked for an
investigation into leaks of national security information.  The department informed the AP on May 10 that it had
subpoenaed records from certain telephone numbers associated
with the news organization as part of an investigation.  The AP is a nonprofit news cooperative owned by U.S.
newspapers and broadcasters. AP officials said the review of its
journalists’ phone records may be related to a federal probe
into a May 7, 2012, news report about an intelligence operation
in Yemen that foiled a plot to blow up an airliner around the
first anniversary of the killing of  Osama bin Laden  in a raid
into  Pakistan  by U.S. troops.  “It seems like it’s a year into the investigation, and
they cast a very large dragnet, which tells me that they
probably don’t know the answers quite yet,” Rogers said.
“Normally, in an investigation like this, if you’re going to do
something that’s that sensitive, you would have a very clear
thing that you’re trying to determine.”  Cybersecurity Spying  On a separate matter, Rogers said the U.S. government
should consider actions to punish countries such as  China  for
carrying out cyber espionage, such as denying U.S. visas to
those behind attacks.  Rogers said in an interview he plans to introduce a bill
with Senator  Ron Johnson , a Wisconsin Republican, as soon as May
28 to counter cyber spying.  “It’s going to be pretty aggressive,” Rogers said,
declining to discuss details. “It’s clearly designed for those
people who are engaged in both military and intelligence cyber
activities against the  United States , both in spying and
economic espionage.”  Rogers has said it appears the Chinese and Iranian
governments are behind cyber attacks against U.S. agencies and
companies. The House in April passed legislation, H.R. 624,
sponsored by Rogers that would encourage governments and
businesses to share information about cyber threats. The Senate
failed to pass cybersecurity legislation last year and hasn’t
taken up a new bill this year.  IRS Investigation  The  Internal Revenue Service ’s scrutiny of groups that had
“ Tea Party ” or “patriot” in their names is “shocking” and
more people at the agency should be fired because of it, Rogers
said.  Steven Miller  has been forced out as acting IRS
commissioner, the Justice Department is conducting a criminal
probe into what occurred, and congressional committees have
started investigations. The matter was the focus of a hearing
yesterday by the House Ways and Means Committee.  Rogers stopped short of calling for a special prosecutor,
saying he wants to see what the congressional inquiries find.  “I do believe that they may have, you know, crossed the
line and broke the law,” Rogers said of actions taken by IRS
personnel. “We need to make sure that this isn’t a cultural
problem across the IRS. This is as serious as it gets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  