-- Atletico Madrid Beats Neighbor Real Madrid to Claim Spanish Cup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-17T23:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/atletico-madrid-beats-neighbor-real-madrid-to-claim-spanish-cup.html
Joao Miranda’s header won Spanish
soccer club Atletico  Madrid  its first Copa del Rey since 1996, a
2-1 victory against crosstown rival Real Madrid.  Brazilian Miranda scored the winner eight minutes into
extra time at Real’s Santiago Bernabeu stadium after the two
teams were deadlocked 1-1 after 90 minutes. Cristiano Ronaldo,
who was red carded toward the end of the game, opened the
scoring for Real with a 14th-minute header before Diego Costa
leveled for Atletico 11 minutes before halftime.  The victory gave Atletico, which won Europe’s second-tier
Europa League in 2010 and 2012, its first domestic triumph since
1996 when it won the league and cup double. It has finished
below Real every year in La Liga since then, and dropped out of
the first division from 2000 to 2002. Coach Diego Simeone played
in the 1996 final.  Real Madrid was seeking a second domestic cup win in three
years and 19th overall in what may have been one of the last
games at the club for manager Jose Mourinho, who was expelled
from the dugout late in the second half for berating officials.  “This was the worst season of my career,” Mourinho said,
after a defeat that means Real will finish the season without a
trophy. “I don’t think Atletico deserve to be champions, but
they won the title.”  Mourinho said last month he will discuss his future at the
end of the season with team president Florentino Perez. The
Portuguese coach has been linked with a return to  England ’s
Premier League, and former club Chelsea.  Red Cards  Atletico managed to hold out to force 30 minutes of extra
time even as Real dominated the second half, including efforts
from first Karim Benzema and Ronaldo that came back off the
post.  Miranda struck in the 98th minute when he beat goalkeeper
Diego Lopes to the ball and headed in following a cross from
Jorge Merodio, who’s known as Koke.  Ronaldo was sent off for dangerous play six minutes before
the end of the game that Atletico agreed to play at Real’s
stadium, which has a bigger capacity than its own Vicente
Calderon arena. Atletico’s Gabi Arenas was sent off in the last
minute of extra time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  