-- Bahamas to Lithuania Bond Yields Draw Structured Notes Investors
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-05-17T09:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/bahamas-to-lithuania-bond-yields-draw-structured-notes-investors.html
Investors seeking higher yields are
buying structured notes tied for the first time to the debt of
emerging-market nations from the Bahamas to Lithuania and
 Honduras .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sold $6 million of credit-linked notes
on the Bahamas this week, the first securities to reference the
Caribbean islands, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Natixis (KN)  issued debut notes linked to Lithuanian bonds on May 14,
while a Jersey-based special purpose vehicle offered the first
securities referencing Honduras last month.  Dollar-denominated  government bonds  from  emerging markets 
offer three times more yield than those from developed nations,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The notes pay
an average  4.1 percent , down from a six-year high of 11 percent
reached October 2008, the  data  show. That compares with a near-record low yield of 1.37 percent on developed market bonds.  “The underlying reason why these notes are popular is
investors are hunting for yield,” said Elbek Muslimov, head of
credit trading for central and eastern Europe,  Middle East  and
Africa at Citigroup Global Markets in  London .  Investors in credit-linked notes can get even higher
returns because they’re also exposed to the default risk of the
bank issuing the securities.  JPMorgan’s $6 million of floating-rate notes tied to the
Bahamas initially pay 4.1 percent and mature in December 2022.
Marcelo Mota, a spokesman for JPMorgan in Sao Paulo, declined to
comment on the securities.  Honduran Bonds  The $51.3 million notes tied to Honduras pay 7.5 percent,
replicating the coupon on the central American country’s $500
million of notes due 2024, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Natixis sold 3 million euros ($3.9 million) of 4 percent
notes tied to Lithuania that mature in December 2021, the data
show.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  raised 20 million euros ($25.7 million) last
week from selling the first notes linked to Croatia’s debt since
August 2011. The first tranche of three-year securities pay 3.15
percent, or 60 basis points more than  yields  on similar maturity
Croatian government bonds, while the second offering of five-year notes was priced to yield 96 basis points more than the
sovereign, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Silvia Lamberti, a spokeswoman for UniCredit, declined to
comment on the bank’s sales.  A Mauritius-incorporated special-purpose vehicle sold the
first note tied to the debt of Malawi since March 2010 this
week. The African nation sold three-month treasury bills with an
average yield of  30.4 percent  on May 13, according to its
central bank.  Brazil Exposure  Brazil’s sovereign bonds are the most popular reference for
structured notes this year, with banks led by JPMorgan selling
more than $5 billion of securities tied to the country’s debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private banks and wealthy individuals who may not be able
to buy derivatives such as credit-default swaps are the main
buyers of the notes. The securities tend to have higher yields
and tailored maturities that may not be available in the  bond
market .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  