-- BBVA Banco Continental Chairman Mario Brescia Dies at 83
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-05-17T19:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/bbva-banco-continental-chairman-mario-brescia-dies-at-83.html
Mario Brescia Cafferata, who with his
older brother Pedro built the family business into one of  Peru ’s
largest conglomerates and the country’s second-largest lender,
has died, El Comercio reported. He was 83.  The Brescias’ business included investments in mining,
insurance, construction and a 50 percent stake in  BBVA Banco
Continental . The Lima-based newspaper didn’t say where it got
the information and a family spokesman declined to comment.  The youngest of four children, Mario helped transform a
family farming business started by his father, Fortunato, an
Italian immigrant. After losing their holdings during the land
redistribution program of the 1960s, the brothers diversified
into the nascent fishmeal industry, creating what became the
world’s biggest fishmeal and fish oil producer, Tecnologia de
Alimentos.  “He was a person with great vision and invested with
amazingly good judgment,” Humberto Speziani, a director at
Tasa, said by phone from  Lima . “He was a very simple man, who
could operate easily at all levels of society.”  The Brescias later branched out into mining, hotels and in
the 1990s turned their hand to banking, operating Banco
Continental in partnership with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA. Mario became the lender’s chairman last month to replace his
brother Pedro, who retired after leading the bank for 18 years.  The group flourished as the Andean country sold off state-run businesses in the 1990s and embraced business-friendly
policies. In the past decade, the group looked further afield,
making acquisitions in Brazil and  Chile .  Businesses wholly or partially controlled by the Brescia
family included Minsur SA, the world’s fourth-largest tin
producer, Rimac Seguros y Reaseguros, Peru’s largest insurer,
explosives manufacturer Exsa SA and Chilean cement producer
 Melon SA. (MELON)   The group’s hotel unit partnered Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. in 2011 to build The Westin, Peru’s tallest
building, on the site of the Brescias’ hacienda in the heart of
Lima’s financial district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 