-- Beermaker EABL Overbought After Best Kenyan Rally: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-05-17T14:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/beermaker-eabl-overbought-after-best-kenyan-rally-nairobi-mover.html
 East African Breweries Ltd., Kenya’s
 best-performing  stock over the past month, is poised to end a 29
percent rally that valued the nation’s biggest company at double
that of the benchmark index, according to Contrarian Investing
Kenya Ltd. and technical indicators.  The  Diageo Plc (DGE)  unit  rose  1.6 percent to 391 shillings,
extending a record 14-day winning streak and pushing the stock
to its highest level since May 1997. The company’s  relative
strength index  closed at 91, above the 70 level which signals a
stock is overbought for the 10th day. East African Breweries is
trading at 29 times earnings compared with 15 for the Nairobi
Securities Exchange All-Share Index.  “There is nothing to justify the current valuation,”
Davis Mika, an analyst at Nairobi-based Contrarian Investing
Kenya Ltd., said by phone. “The rally could end anytime
investors begin taking profits.”  East African Breweries has units in Uganda and Tanzania and
exports to nations including  Rwanda , Burundi,  Democratic
Republic  of Congo and South Sudan. Nairobi’s benchmark stock
gauge has gained 37 percent this year, the world’s third-best
performing equity market. Kenya is an attractive entry point
into  Africa , Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group Chairman  Mark Mobius  said in an e-mailed statement on May 15.  “The rally is being driven by foreign investors who are
targeting consumer stocks and the company is attractive because
it covers a lot more markets than Kenya, all of which are
growing,” Eric Musau, a research analyst at Nairobi-based
Standard Investment Bank Ltd., said by phone. “EABL has been
putting additional capacity in East Africa and the next point of
expansion could be to target the central African market.”  Foreign investors accounted for half of all trades on the
bourse last year, compared with 10 percent five year ago,
according to data from the stock exchange. EABL has one buy, two
sell and three hold ratings among analysts that have updated
their recommendations on the stock since February, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Unless we see a major seller the stock will mostly
stabilize” at current levels, Musau said.  EABL Corporate Affairs Director Brenda Mbathi was not in
her office and couldn’t immediately comment when called by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  