-- Belly-Putter Decision to Be Revealed by Golf Rule Makers May 21
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-05-17T15:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/belly-putter-decision-to-be-revealed-by-golf-rule-makers-may-21.html
Golf’s rule makers will disclose
their decision on a proposed ban of anchored putting strokes on
May 21, an issue that has drawn both support and opposition
across the sport.  The  Royal & Ancient Golf Club  and the  U.S. Golf Association 
said on Nov. 28 that they wanted to outlaw a stroke in which the
player’s putter rests against the body to create a pendulum-like
swing. A 90-day period in which parties could submit comments to
the two golf governing bodies on the issue ended Feb. 28. The
USGA said today the decision would announced May 21.  Many of golf’s top players, including 14-time major
tournament winner  Tiger Woods , are among those opposed to the
use of anchored putters, saying that all 14 clubs should be
swung freely. Other players, including South Africa’s  Tim Clark ,
oppose a ban. Clark has cited a back injury for the need to rest
his putter’s handle against his chest while playing.  PGA Tour  Commissioner Tim Finchem said his group’s Player
Advisory Council researched the issue and informed the USGA and
R&A that a ban wouldn’t be in the best interest of golf or the
Tour. The European PGA Tour said on March 4 that it supported a
potential ban, pitting golf’s top two professionals tours
against each other.  Players using an anchored putting stroke have won four of
golf’s last six major tournaments, including  Adam Scott ’s
victory at the  Masters Tournament  in April. Keegan Bradley, who
became the first player to use a belly putter to win one of
golf’s four Grand Slam events when he captured the 2011  PGA
Championship , shot a 10-under 60 yesterday in the first round of
the U.S. PGA Tour’s Byron Nelson event.  While the clubs -- including long-handled and so-called
belly putters -- wouldn’t be banned, their intended method of
use would be under the rule proposed to take effect in 2016.  The USGA sets the rules for the U.S. and  Mexico , while the
R&A covers the rest of the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  