-- Bertelli Seeks Improved America’s Cup Safety After Sailor Death
-- B y   B e n   E l g i n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-05-18T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/bertelli-seeks-improved-america-s-cup-safety-after-sailor-death.html
The owner of the Italian sailing team
Luna Rossa said safety needs to be improved at the America’s Cup
races following the training death of Olympic yachtsman Andrew
Simpson.  Patrizio Bertelli, chief executive officer of  Prada SpA (1913) ,
said in a news conference yesterday in Alameda,  California , that
lower wind speed limits should be considered, as well as having
medical personnel on the water.  “We want to increase the safety of the sailors,” Bertelli
said through a translator. “The wind limits need to be within
reason.”  Bertelli’s team proposed that the wind speed limit at the
start of the America’s Cup finals be reduced from 33 knots (38
miles per hour, 61 kilometers per hour) to 25 knots.  The panel reviewing Simpson’s death recommended two days
ago that teams suspend sailing until the middle of next week.
The America’s Cup Review Committee said in a news release on the
regatta’s website that the suspension applied to training in 45-foot and 72-foot catamarans.  The review into Simpson’s death is being led by Iain
Murray, the regatta director, and includes Sally Lindsay Honey,
the two-time Rolex Yachtswoman of the Year who led last year’s
review into the wreck that killed five sailors from the boat Low
Speed Chase during the Full Crew Farallones Race out of San
Francisco.  The accident involving the Swedish team Artemis Racing was
the second involving the new 72-foot (22-meter) boats. Powered
by 131-foot carbon wing sails and capable of skimming above the
water on hydrofoils at speeds exceeding 40 knots, they are among
the fastest sailboats ever built.  Larry Ellison ’s Oracle Team
USA, the defending champion, destroyed a wing during an October
training accident.  Ellison’s Victory  Ellison, chief executive of  Redwood City , California-based
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , won the right to host this year’s America’s Cup by
defeating a catamaran sailed by Swiss billionaire Ernesto
Bertarelli’s Alinghi syndicate in a two-boat, best-of-three
series off  Valencia ,  Spain , using a 90-foot trimaran with a 223-foot rigid wing sail. Ellison’s organizers then remade the Cup
for television audiences, using the high-speed, twin-hulled
boats to replace traditional monohulls.  Simpson, 36, died May 9 after he was trapped beneath a
section of the capsized yacht, out of site from other vessels
and divers searching for him, Murray said.  Memorial Service  Artemis held a private memorial service for Simpson two
days ago, according to the  event’s website . Representatives for
each of the four participating syndicates laid a wreath in  San
Francisco  Bay.  Bertelli is worth $7.3 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index , the bulk of which is derived from his 28
percent stake in Prada, and cash earned from shares sales in the
company’s 2011 IPO and dividends.  Bertelli is married to the granddaughter of Prada founder
Mario Prada, and, since the late 1970s, the couple has overseen
the company’s global expansion, including the introduction of
new products, brands and retail outlets. Prada was listed on the
Hong Kong stock exchange in 2011, which generated more than $1
billion in proceeds for the couple.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Elgin in San Francisco at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 