-- Billionaire Packer Wins Final Approval to Lift Echo Casino Stake
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-17T08:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/billionaire-packer-wins-final-approval-to-lift-echo-casino-stake.html
Crown Ltd. (CWN) , the gambling company
controlled by billionaire James Packer, won approval from
Queensland state to lift its stake in  Echo Entertainment Group
Ltd. (EGP) , intensifying competition to control Sydney’s only casino.  Queensland’s attorney general will let Crown, which holds
10 percent of Echo, raise its stake to as much as 25 percent,
the Melbourne-based company said in a regulatory statement.
Packer won backing from New South Wales state last week to
increase its holding to 23 percent.  Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (GENHK) , the cruise ship company controlled
by Lim Kok Thay, has also applied to lift its stake in Echo to
25 percent, and the Brisbane-based target is challenging
Packer’s plans to build a new casino and hotel on the shores of
Sydney Harbour. Packer, Echo, and Lim, who controls  Singapore ’s
Sentosa casino and resort, are all competing to profit from
high-rolling Asian gamblers as  disposable incomes rise  in  China .  Packer yesterday unveiled the winning design for his
planned casino, saying it would be “instantly recognizable
around the world.”  The hotel, by Wilkinson Eyre Architects who also worked on
Singapore’s Gardens by the Bay project and the 440-meter
Guangzhou International Finance Center, will cost about A$1
billion ($974 million) and sit on the harbor shore at the
Barangaroo development site west of Sydney’s main business
district.  Echo, whose Star casino sits on an adjacent stretch of
shore, has promised to invest in upgrading the site in return
for New South Wales state government extending a licence to
operate Sydney’s only casino until 2019. That proposal would
block Packer’s plans if granted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  