-- BOE Will Keep Reviewing Performance of Economic Forecast Model
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-17T16:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/boe-will-keep-reviewing-performance-of-economic-forecast-model.html
The  Bank of England  said that it will
continually review its forecasting framework and has made it
flexible enough to change its central model if needed, according
to a  research paper  published by the central bank today.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee in 2011
introduced a new forecasting framework used to form its economic
projections, with the Central Organising Model for Projection
Analysis and Scenario Simulation, or  Compass , at its heart.
Officials “in particular” will monitor whether the forecasting
process might be improved by an alternative type of central
model, according to today’s paper.  “A continual review is in place to assess the performance
of the new forecasting platform,” wrote the paper’s authors,
including the BOE’s Stephen Burgess and Richard Harrison. “The
infrastructure has been designed to be sufficiently flexible to
allow such changes to the nature of the central organising model
if required.”  An independent review conducted by former Federal Reserve
official  David Stockton  in November concluded the central bank’s
forecasting capabilities had deteriorated in the previous five
years, resulting in “large” errors.  In response, the BOE said it would provide more detail on
the judgments underlying its forecasts. As part of that, its
quarterly Inflation Report this week was the first in which the
central bank immediately published the data underlying the so-called fan-chart projections. The bank said today that its
forecasting platform supports the changes it intends to make.  “One advantage of the flexible information technology
infrastructure described in this paper is that it can be used to
support a variety of models,” the authors wrote. “Any decision
to use a different central organizing model would be
straightforward to effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  