-- Pertamina Leads Asian Dollar Bond Sales to Highest Week in Five
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-05-17T04:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/bond-risk-rises-in-japan-australia-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Sales of U.S. dollar-denominated
bonds in  Asia  outside Japan rose to the highest in more than a
month this week as borrowing costs hovered close to record lows.  PT Pertamina Persero led offerings since May 13, helping
drive total issuance to $7.6 billion, the most since the five-day period ended April 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
average yield on Asia corporate dollar bonds touched 3.77
percent last week and was at 3.81 percent yesterday, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. That compares with a 1.88
percent yield on benchmark  10-year Treasuries. (USGG10YR)   U.S. currency debt sold by companies in Asia has handed
investors a 2 percent return so far this year, versus a 1.2
percent rise for corporate bonds in the U.S., as growth in the
region outstrips developed economies and investors bet the
 Federal Reserve  will keep monthly asset purchases at $85
billion. Reserve Board Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said
yesterday the U.S. central bank “will continue to conduct
monetary policy so as to promote a stronger economic recovery in
the context of  price stability .”  “Conditions for elevated issuance remain ideal,” said
Shankar Narayanaswamy, the Singapore-based global head of credit
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc. “Yields for issuers are
near all-time lows and there are strong inflows supported by
abundant liquidity in the system.”  Winning Streak  Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state-owned oil company, sold $1.625
billion of 10-year bonds and the same amount of 30-year
securities this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra
yield investors demand to hold the company’s May 2023 debt over
similar-maturity Treasuries has dropped to 235 basis points from
an issue spread of 243, the data show.  Asia’s dollar bonds gained 1 percent since March 31,
heading for a seventh-straight quarter of gains, the longest
winning streak since 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch figures
show.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds against non-payment
was little changed in Asia today, according to credit-default
swap traders.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  was at 102 basis points as of 8:27 a.m.
in  Singapore , Westpac Banking Corp. prices show. The benchmark
is on course for its first weekly increase in four, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 1.5 basis points to
78.5 as of 9:17 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
gauge, which touched an almost five-year low on May 13, is set
for its first weekly increase since the period ended April 19,
according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced 1 basis point to
102.5 as of 10:05 a.m. in Sydney, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The measure, which has ranged from
96.1 basis points to 127.5 this year, is headed for its first
increase in three days, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  