-- Borealis Considering Import of U.S. Ethane in Ineos-Style Move
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-05-17T10:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/borealis-considering-import-of-u-s-ethane-in-ineos-style-move.html
Borealis AG, the petrochemical and
plastics company owned by  Abu Dhabi  and  OMV AG (OMV)  of Austria, may
consider bringing in cheap ethane from the U.S. if it’s a cost-effective way of supplying petrochemical plants.  All options are being considered as the petrochemical
crackers have the flexibility to take a lighter feedstock such
as ethane, Chief Executive Officer Mark Garrett, a former
executive at Ciba Specialty Chemicals AG and DuPont Co., said in
an interview. Most crackers in Europe and Asia process naptha.  “We’re exploring all opportunities for ethane, it would be
silly not to given our position,” said Garrett, adding that
there is nothing to announce on the subject yet, and there are
other options. “It doesn’t matter where the ethane comes
from.”  Ineos Group, based in Rolle,  Switzerland , is pioneering a
move to import U.S. ethane, seeing an opportunity from the shale
boom there to access cheaper feedstocks even with the cost of
the port infrastructure and tankers needed to transport
supplies.  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  CEO James Gallogly said
on April 26 that he doesn’t expect Ineos’s move to develop into
a broad trend.  For the past decade, Borealis has had a strategy of
scrapping plants at the end of their life and replacing them
with new ones so it has modern, flexible plants with the latest
technology. The company is a joint owner of Borouge, a
manufacturer of polyolefin plastics such as polyethylene, used
in packaging. Abu Dhabi National Oil Company, or Adnoc, is the
other partner.  Cost Cuts  With inflated feedstock prices in Europe, those companies
with non-integrated sites and older technology are under the
most pressure from input expenses, Garrett said.  LyondellBasell said May 8 that by operating in  North
America  and through a joint venture in Saudi Arabia it had a
cost advantage over 60 percent of the world’s production,
because of lower feedstock prices. Shale gas has transformed
U.S. ethylene producers to a cost position almost on par with
the  Middle East .  Rotterdam, Netherlands-based LyondellBasell said it’s
advancing a cost-cutting plan in Europe amid challenging
markets, with talks with labor unions under way.  Borealis is making its own efforts to improve efficiency,
Garrett and Chief Financial Officer Daniel Shook, who previously
worked at Linde’s BOC Group, said in the interview yesterday.
Net income at Borealis fell 56 percent in the first quarter to
61 million euros ($78.6 million). Sales increased 5.2 percent to
1.98 billion euros.  Borealis’s recent acquisitions include fertilizer
operations purchased from  Total SA (FP)  and a plastomers venture
bought from  Royal DSM NV (DSM)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  The company plans
to undertake a “significant” investment in ammonia as the
agriculture-driven demand cycle is different to that of
plastics.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, has said it plans to cut about 1,050
positions and close some assets in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  