-- Marathon Bombing Defense Can’t Take Own Photos of Suspect
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-05-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/boston-bombing-lawyer-loses-bid-to-photograph-tsarnaev.html
Boston Marathon bombing suspect
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev’s defense lawyers won’t be allowed to take
periodic photographs of their client in prison to use as
evidence of “his evolving mental and physical state.”  U.S. Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler in Boston ruled
yesterday that their taking pictures would violate rules of the
Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayer,  Massachusetts , where
Tsarnaev, 19, is recovering from wounds he suffered trying to
elude capture last month. Prison officials will instead take the
pictures in the lawyers’ presence, Bowler said.  “It is true that photographs may provide probative
evidence to support sentence mitigation arguments,” Bowler said
in the ruling. Allowing prison staff to take the pictures will
“adequately address” the need of defense lawyers to document
Tsarnaev’s condition, she said.  Tsarnaev and his older brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who died
after a police shootout, are suspected of setting off two bombs
near the marathon finish line on April 15, killing three people
and wounding more than 260. The surviving brother was captured
and charged with conspiring to use and actually using weapons of
mass destruction resulting in death. He faces the death penalty
if the U.S. decides to seek it.  ‘Work Product’  Tsarnaev’s lawyer, Federal Public Defender Miriam Conrad,
had sought an alternative court order stating that if prison
officials took the photographs instead of the defense team, the
images should only be shared with the defense and not with the
government. Bowler also rejected that request, saying the images
didn’t qualify as protected “work product.”  Conrad declined to comment on the ruling when reached by
phone yesterday in  Boston .  “FMC Devens rules expressly prohibit visitors from
bringing or using photographic equipment,” Bowler said in a
five-page ruling. “There is little, if any, reason to suspect
that officials at FMC Devens are exaggerating the risk posed by
cameras at the facility.”  In a sealed request filed May 7, Tsarnaev’s lawyers argued
that his Constitutional right to effective legal counsel,
including the ability to carry out an “adequate
investigation,” should trump the prison’s policy against
cameras, according to yesterday’s judgment. Bowler disagreed.  “Defense counsel’s duty to the defendant however does not
justify overriding the legitimate security concern posed by
cameras at FMC Devens,” Bowler said.  ‘Physical State’  Tsarnaev’s lawyers argued images of his “injuries over
time” would give evidence of “his evolving mental and physical
state,” which could in turn be used in arguments about the
“voluntariness” of his earlier statements, according to
yesterday’s ruling. Bowler didn’t specify which statements the
legal team was referring to in their request.  After his arrest, Tsarnaev was questioned by federal agents
in the hospital over a period of about three days before being
apprised of his right to remain silent.  Tamar Birckhead, a former Boston defense attorney who
represented  Richard Reid , the man accused of attempting to blow
up an airplane with explosives in his shoes, said pictures of
Tsarnaev as an injured 19-year-old could be important defense
evidence in a federal death penalty case.  “If he’s in a terrible state and doing self-harm or not
eating or having a psychotic break, then it might not matter who
takes the photo,” she said in an interview yesterday. “They’ll
be able to use them as evidence to support an argument he
shouldn’t be executed, or any statements he’s made in the past
are not true and voluntary.”  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  