-- Brent Crude Oil Climbs for Third Day as European Car Sales Rise
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-05-17T12:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/brent-crude-oil-climbs-for-third-day-as-european-car-sales-rise.html
Brent crude advanced for a third day
as European car sales gained amid signs that U.S. economic
growth will accelerate, boosting speculation that oil demand
will increase.  The North Sea benchmark rose as much as 1 percent to the
highest since May 6 on a closing basis. Car sales rebounded in
Germany and Spain last month, according to the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA, in Brussels. The
U.S. central bank may reduce its bond buying program following
indications the economy is gaining strength, Federal Reserve
Bank of San Francisco President John Williams said yesterday.  “Brent continued its strong rebound for a third
consecutive day on optimistic comments from the Fed regarding a
possible end of the Quantitative Easing program by the end of
the year,” Myrto Sokou, an analyst at Sucden Financial Ltd.,
said in an e-mail. “The robust European car sales data also
helped market sentiment and improved risk appetite.”  Brent for July settlement rose as much as $1 to $104.80 a
barrel and was at $104.74 as of 1:01 p.m. local time on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
crude was at a premium of $8.80 to West Texas Intermediate for
the same month, compared with $8.64 yesterday. The spread closed
at $9.38 on May 15, the widest since April 26.  WTI for June delivery was at $95.68 a barrel, up 52 cents,
in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The
volume of all contracts traded was 12.4 percent above the 100-day average. Prices rose 86 cents to $95.16 yesterday, the
highest close since May 13.  Car Registrations  European car registrations in April increased 1.8 percent
to 1.08 million from 1.06 million a year earlier, according to
ACEA. Four-month sales fell 7 percent to 4.18 million.  Germans and Spaniards bought more cars as the two countries
were among those in the euro area where  consumer confidence  rose
in April, counter to economists’ predictions of a decline.
Still, the European auto market is at a two-decade low, and
industry executives are forecasting a drop of about 5 percent
for 2013 amid a recession in the 17-nation euro zone.  The U.S. central bank may reduce its $85 billion in monthly
bond-buying as early as this summer amid quicker growth and job-market gains, Williams said.  “It’s clear that the labor market has improved since
September” when the Fed began its third round of asset
purchases, he said in a speech in  Portland ,  Oregon . “We could
reduce somewhat the pace of our  securities purchases , perhaps as
early as this summer” and end the program late this year “if
all goes as hoped.”  Consumer Sentiment  U.S. data today will probably show consumer sentiment rose
in May and the Conference Board’s index of leading indicators
rebounded in April, Bloomberg surveys of economists showed.  Eighteen of 35 analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast WTI will drop through May 24. Seven respondents, or 20
percent, predicted a gain. Ten said there would be little
change. Last week, 46 percent of analysts projected a decline.  WTI’s 200-day moving average is around $92.21 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The indicator is
near the lowest price traded so far this week, signaling it’s a
technical-support level where buy orders may be clustered.  “The bottom end of the range is defined by that 200-day
moving average, which is currently at around $92.20,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The
market will struggle to get through that $98 to $100 range
without a significant event that causes some sort of supply
shortage to emerge in the Middle East.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  