-- Bruins Beat Rangers in Overtime in NHL Series Opener, Kings Win
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-17T05:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/bruins-beat-rangers-in-overtime-in-nhl-series-opener-correct-.html
Brad Marchand scored in overtime to
give the  Boston  Bruins a 3-2 victory against the New York
Rangers in the first game of their National Hockey League
playoff series.  In the Western Conference last night, Dustin Brown and
Trevor Lewis scored 22 seconds apart in the third period to give
the Los Angeles Kings a 4-3 victory and a two-games-to-none lead
in their series against the San Jose Sharks.  In tonight’s game, the top-seeded Pittsburgh Penguins will
try to take a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven Eastern Conference
semifinal series against the Ottawa Senators.  Zdeno Chara gave the Bruins the lead in the second period
at TD Garden in Boston. Ryan McDonagh tied it two seconds before
the end of the second period and Derek Stepan made it 2-1 for
New York after 14 seconds of the third. Torey Krug tied it for
Boston 2:41 later. Marchard got the winner with 4:20 remaining
in overtime.  “We were down early in the third period, but found a
way,” Marchand told NBC in a televised interview. “They play
very hard, very physical, and we play the same way. We’re
definitely in a clash here and it’ll be a long, hard series.”  It was the first playoff game between the teams to go to
overtime since New York lost 4-3 to Boston on March 27, 1958.
The Bruins and Rangers last met in the playoffs in 1973, when
New York won the series 4-1 in games.  Game 2 in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference series is
scheduled for May 19 in Boston. The winner of the second-round
series will face the Penguins or the Senators for a place in the
Stanley Cup finals.  Kings Comeback  At the Staples Center, Jeff Carter gave the Kings a 1-0
lead in the first period and Drew Doughty added a goal in the
second period before the game was tied 2-2 on goals by Patrick Marleau and Brad Stuart.  The Sharks had a 3-2 lead on Marc-Edouard Vlasic’s goal in
the final period before Brown and Lewis got back-to-back power-play scores.  The Sharks, who host Game 3 tomorrow, are without forward
Raffi Torres for the rest of the series for an illegal hit to
the head of the Kings’ Jarret Stoll.  Stoll was knocked out of the opening game by Torres’s hit
late in the second period in Los Angeles three days ago. Torres
and Stoll were teammates on the 2006 Edmonton Oilers that lost
in the Stanley Cup Final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 