-- Budget Agency Says Obama’s Deficit-Cut Plan Relies on Taxes
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-05-17T22:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/budget-agency-concludes-obama-would-cut-1-trillion-in-2014.html
President  Barack Obama ’s 2014 budget
proposes cutting projected deficits by $1.15 trillion over the
next decade with the savings overwhelmingly coming from tax
increases, according to a new report.  The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said today the
administration’s plan would increase revenues by a net $974
billion through 2023, with about half of that coming from a
proposal to limit the ability of the wealthy to take advantage
of tax breaks.  His plan would cut spending by a net $172 billion,
according the report, though, that figure includes reduced
interest payments on the debt that would result from cutting the
deficit through tax increases. It also includes savings in war-and disaster-related spending critics contend the government was
never going to spend anyway.  The result would be a $675 billion deficit next year that
would continue to shrink to as little as $399 billion in 2017,
according to the report. The gap between taxes and spending
would begin growing again in subsequent years, CBO said.  The analysis may help fuel the political battles over the
deficit because it shows the degree to which the
administration’s plan relies on tax increases to reduce
government red ink.  It also contradicts the White House’s
assessment of its fiscal plans.  In April, its budget office
said the plan would cut deficits by $1.8 trillion and
“represents more than $2 in spending cuts for every $1 of new
revenue.”  The administration’s budget includes spending cuts such as
less generous cost-of-living increases for Social Security
beneficiaries and $364 billion in cuts to Medicare. The CBO
report shows those are offset by various spending increases such
as plans to provide an additional $106 billion for education and
job training and an additional $141 billion for transportation
programs.  Among the tax increases in the administration’s budget are
a proposed “fair share tax” on millionaires, higher levies on
those with large estates, a “financial crisis responsibility
fee” on some financial institutions and a 94-cent increase in
the price of a pack of cigarettes.  The CBO estimates came in the agency’s annual review of the
president’s budget, an analysis designed to give Congress an
independent assessment of what the administration’s proposals
would mean for federal coffers. Lawmakers usually refer to the
CBO report as they consider their own fiscal blueprints.  Today’s survey though comes after the House and Senate have
already approved their respective budgets for the fiscal year
that begins Oct. 1 because the administration’s budget request
was delayed by two months.  House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan said the report
“shows that the president’s budget doesn’t come close to
solving the problem” and that “the government is taking more
from hardworking taxpayers only to spend more in  Washington .”  In an e-mail, White House Budget Office Spokesman Steven
Poser said the analysis shows “we are making significant
progress in bringing down the deficit.” He said, “the
administration is committed to continuing to work with Congress
to create jobs, cut the deficit further, and replace the
sequester in a balanced manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  