-- Bulgaria’s New Parliament to Convene May 21, President Announces
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-17T13:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/bulgaria-s-new-parliament-to-convene-may-21-president-announces.html
Bulgaria ’s new parliament will
convene May 21, paving the way for former Premier Boyko Borissov
to form a minority Cabinet after his Gerb party won early
elections last weekend.  President Rosen Plevneliev plans to address the legislature
the same day and ask lawmakers to approve a draft outlining
Bulgaria’s priorities for the next four years before starting
talks on a Cabinet, Plevneliev told reporters in Sofia, the
capital, today.  “I want to hear the commitments parties will undertake
before handing the mandate to form a Cabinet to the first
party,” Plevneliev said. “I will first hold consultations
before forming any government.”  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest nation, is
struggling to emerge from political turmoil that started with
anti-austerity protests that forced out Borissov’s government in
February. Unlike its regional peers, Bulgaria survived the
global financial crisis without an international bailout.  “Bulgaria needs a working parliament and stable
institutions,” Plevneliev said. “We don’t need to become a
country destabilized by party squabbles and opposition.”  Gerb, which won the ballot short of the 121 votes needed
for an outright majority, plans to challenge the election and
seek another vote because its rivals alleged vote fraud the day
before going to the polls. Borissov said he will form a minority
cabinet while the appeal proceeds  “The moment I’m handed a mandate to form a government, I
will propose a minority Cabinet, though I know that it won’t be
backed by parliament,” Borissov said. “I owe it to our
voters.”  Socialist Party  The Bulgarian Socialist Party, which trails Gerb with 84
seats in the 240-seat assembly, will be asked to form a Cabinet
should Gerb and its 97 lawmakers fail.  The Socialists and the ethnic Turk Movement for Rights and
Freedoms, with its 36 seats, said they are prepared to form a
coalition, while the radical nationalist Attack party said that
no government can be formed with the composition of the new
parliament. The Movement ruled out a coalition with Gerb.  The yield on Bulgaria’s euro-denominated bonds maturing in
2017 fell to 1.6422 percent from 1.737 percent as of 3:55 p.m.
in Sofia. The cost of insuring the country’s debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps fell 3 basis
points to 104.32  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  