-- Canadian Stocks Climb as Oil Rallies on Improving Economic Data
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-05-17T20:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/canadian-stocks-climb-as-oil-rallies-on-improving-economic-data.html
Canadian  stocks  rose a second day,
erasing a weekly loss, as energy producers rallied following
economic data that signaled growth in the U.S. is accelerating.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and Athabasca Oil Corp. climbed at least
2.6 percent as oil rose for a third day. Just Energy Group Inc.
added 6.9 percent after RBC Dominion Securities Inc. said a
dividend cut is not imminent. Gold stocks accounted for all 10
worst performers in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.
 Copper Mountain Mining Corp. (CUM)  sank 9.5 percent after Dundee
Securities Corp. cut the stock’s rating.  The S&P/TSX rose 105.45 points, or 0.8 percent, to
12,613.05 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, for a weekly gain of 0.2
percent. The benchmark equity gauge is up 1.4 percent this year,
the worst performance among the 24 biggest developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  “Rising tides are lifting all markets, good and bad,”
 Barry Schwartz ,  fund manager  with Baskin Financial Services Inc.
in Toronto, said in a phone interview. He helps manage about
C$500 million ($487 million). “We still have some deep issues
with the index because of the exposure to gold, which continues
to be pummeled and hated by every investor. But the rising tide
in the U.S. is a force that the Canadian market can’t fight
against.”  The index of U.S. leading indicators climbed in April, a
rebound from March that suggests the world’s largest economy may
be poised for further expansion. The Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months climbed 0.6 percent
in April after falling a revised 0.2 percent in March that was
steeper than previously reported, the New York-based group said.
The U.S. is  Canada ’s biggest trading partner.  Industry Groups  Nine out of 10  industry groups  in the S&P/TSX advanced
today, with raw-materials producers falling. Health-care and
energy companies gained the most, climbing at least 1.7 percent.  Suncor Energy, Canada’s largest energy company by market
value, advanced 2.6 percent to C$32.92. Athabasca rose 5.7
percent to C$6.53.  Just Energy jumped 6.9 percent to C$7.55, extending a 13
percent rally from yesterday, when the electricity and natural
gas utility reported quarterly profit that beat analysts’
estimates. The company can sustain a high dividend payout ratio
as cost cuts helped overcome limited customer growth, Nelson Ng,
an analyst with RBC, wrote in a note to clients today.  Raw-materials producers dropped 1.6 percent as a group in
the  S&P/TSX. (SPTSX)  The industry has slumped 26 percent this year amid
concerns  China  is settling into a slower growth path, mining
companies face escalating costs and gold’s status as a safe
haven is diminishing as the U.S. economy gains momentum.  Semafo Inc., which explores gold in West Africa, tumbled 12
percent to C$1.55 and Detour Gold Corp. retreated 9.9 percent to
C$8.71.  Copper Mountain plunged 9.5 percent to C$1.52. The company
said in a statement yesterday that operations at a mill in
British Columbia will be suspended until tomorrow because of a
motor transformer failure. Joseph Gallucci, an analyst with
Dundee, cut the stock’s rating to sell from buy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  