-- Canada Dollar Falls to 2-Month Low as CPI Raises Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-17T21:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/canadian-dollar-falls-to-3-week-low-on-bets-inflation-stopped.html
The Canadian dollar declined to a
two-month low versus its U.S. counterpart after the rate of
inflation slowed in April to the least in more than three years,
bolstering the case for relaxing monetary policy.  The dollar fell against most of its 16 most-traded peers
after  Statistics Canada  said consumer prices rose 0.4 percent
from a year ago, down from a 1 percent gain the prior month. The
slowest pace of inflation since October 2009 is sparking
speculation incoming  Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz may
remove  Mark Carney ’s bias toward raising rates.  “If the inflation rate is not really an issue, who knows
what the next move of the Bank of  Canada  will be?” said Clement Gignac, chief economist at Industrial Alliance Insurance and
Financial Services Inc., by phone from  Quebec City . “There will
be a change in the leadership at the Bank of Canada, so we will
see what will be the next move of the Bank of Canada. Is it
upward or is it down? The question is open.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, weakened 0.8 percent to
C$1.0281 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. Earlier, it
touched C$1.313, the least since March 8, and is down 1.9
percent on the week. One loonie buys 97.27 U.S. cents.  Bonds Fall  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell, with
yields rising four basis point, or 0.04 percentage point, to
1.92 percent. The 1.5 percent note maturing in June 2023 dropped
32 cents to C$96.20.  Canada will auction C$1.4 billion of 3.5 percent notes
maturing in December 2045 on May 22.  Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.8 percent to
$95.93 after reaching $96.45, the highest since May 9. The
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks added 1 percent.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators decreased bets the
Canadian dollar will fall against its U.S. peer, data from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the loonie
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- fell to
44,417 contracts as of May 14, compared with 51,916 the week
before.  The CPI report is the last reading on inflation before
Poloz takes office and gives him less scope to raise the key
 interest rate . Economists forecast the central bank will keep
the benchmark rate at 1 percent into next year. The Bank of
Canada targets an inflation rate between 1 and 3 percent.  Loonie Caution  “The change-over with the leadership at the Bank of Canada
suggests one would want to be slightly more cautious in
approaching the Canadian dollar,”  David Watt , chief economist
at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone from
Toronto. “You’ve got a new central-bank governor, we don’t know
much about him, we don’t know how he’s going to approach
policy.”  The cost to insure against declines in the loonie versus
its U.S. counterpart reached its highest point in eight months.
The three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate reached 1.7 percent,
up from the low this year of 0.77 percent on Jan. 18 and the
highest since Sept 3.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart touched 7.9 percent, the
highest level since July 25. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Better-than-forecast U.S. employment reports have raised
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may cut short its monthly bond-buying program that has devalued the U.S. dollar.  ‘Opposite Direction’  “It means loonie weakness because it means dollar
strength,” Shahab Jalinoos, a senior currency strategist for
UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview.
“You do have underlying dollar strength across the board as
well, based on the view the U.S. is going in the opposite
direction with ongoing discussions about when the Fed will start
tapering its balance sheet, as highlighted by the Fed’s
William’s yesterday.”  The Canadian dollar has declined 0.3 percent this week
among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollars of fellow commodities
exporters Australian and New Zealand lead decliners, down 1.6
percent and 1.5 percent. The U.S. dollar is up 1.7 to lead
gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  