-- Canada Inflation Falls to Slowest Since 2009 on Gasoline
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-05-17T14:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/canada-inflation-falls-to-slowest-since-2009-on-gasoline.html
 Canada’s annual  inflation  rate fell
in April to its slowest in more than three years, taking it
below the central bank’s target band and adding to evidence of
growing slack in the world’s 11th largest economy.  The consumer price index rose 0.4 percent in April from a
year ago compared with a 1 percent annual gain the prior month,
Statistics Canada said today from Ottawa. That’s the slowest
since October 2009, when the country experienced a period of
deflation at the end of the last recession.  The report is the last reading on inflation before Stephen Poloz takes over from Mark Carney as Bank of Canada Governor,
and gives him less scope to raise his key policy interest rate.
Economists forecast the central bank will keep the  benchmark
rate  at 1 percent into next year.  The data reinforce expectations the “Bank of Canada will
be on hold for an extended period,” said  Camilla Sutton , head
of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto, in a
telephone interview.  Carney, alone among Group of Seven central bankers in
signaling the potential for higher borrowing costs, has been
softening his stance in recent interest rate announcements and
cutting growth forecasts. After the central bank’s last meeting,
on April 17, it predicted the economy wouldn’t reach full
capacity until mid-2015, compared with its January projection
for the second half of 2014.  Resisting Measures  Carney has resisted joining G-7 peers in taking
extraordinary measures to stimulate demand, even with inflation
around the bottom of the Bank of Canada’s target range, partly
out of concern that easing monetary policy would exacerbate
record household-debt levels.  If not for globally low interest rates and an “expansive”
view of the central bank’s mandate, “these types of CPI numbers
would arguably merit at least a hard look at measures to
stimulate the economy via the interest rate channel,” Derek Holt, vice president of economist at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in
Toronto, said in a note to investors.  The central bank, which projects inflation will remain
below its 2 percent target until the second quarter of 2015,
sets interest rates to keep inflation in the middle of a 1
percent to 3 percent band.  The Canadian dollar extended losses following the report,
dropping 0.9 percent to C$1.0283 per U.S. dollar at 10:42 a.m.
in Toronto. One dollar buys 97.26 U.S. cents.  Core Inflation  Canada’s  core  inflation rate, which excludes eight volatile
products, decelerated to an annual pace of 1.1 percent after
gains of 1.4 percent in the prior two months.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast that the total
rate would slow to 0.6 percent and core would be 1.2 percent.  Transportation-related costs led the slowdown. Gasoline
prices were down 6 percent in April from a year earlier, the
biggest decline since October 2009, while prices of passenger
vehicles dropped 0.7 percent from a year ago.  The index was also affected by the elimination of a
harmonized sales tax in British Columbia. Prices in that
province fell 0.8 percent from a year earlier, after rising 0.5
percent in March.  On a monthly basis, total  inflation  fell 0.2 percent in
April, while the core rate rose 0.1 percent.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted that total
monthly prices would be unchanged and the core rate would
advance 0.2 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation fell 0.4 percent during the
month of April and the adjusted core rate was unchanged.  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said that  wholesale
sales  rose 0.3 percent in March to C$49.1 billion ($47.9
billion), led by gains in motor vehicles. Economists forecast a
0.4 percent gain in a Bloomberg  survey  with 17 responses. In
volume terms, excluding the impact of price changes, wholesalers
increased sales by 0.1 percent during the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  