-- China’s Aluminum Producers Seen Having to Make Cuts Amid Surplus
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/china-s-aluminum-producers-seen-having-to-make-cuts-amid-surplus.html
China , the world’s largest producer
of aluminum, will have a “manageable” surplus of the metal for
the next five years if companies cut back 4 million to 5 million
metric tons of production, according to researcher CRU.  China has cut output 1 million metric tons this year and
will probably reduce it 2 million tons by 2015, with about 24
million tons produced this year, according to Marco Georgiou, an
analyst at CRU in London. Aluminum fell 3.8 percent this year in
China and 10 percent in London.  “It will be manageable surpluses only if curtailments of
around 4-5 million tons are implemented over the next five
years,” Georgiou said by e-mail yesterday. “This is based on
demand growth stabilizing in the high single digit level and
that smelters continue to ramp up in the northwest.”  Global aluminum production will climb 5.5 percent this year
to 50.8 million tons, exceeding demand by 1.2 million tons,
according to Barclays Plc. China accounted for 43 percent of
production and 43 percent of consumption last year, according to
the bank.  Aluminum for August delivery rose 0.2 percent yesterday to
14,545  yuan  ($2,368) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.
Prices should stay at about 15,000 yuan a ton over the next one
to two years, spurring cutbacks, Georgiou said.  Chinese aluminum capacity and production have more than
doubled since 2005, according to Morgan Stanley. The aluminum
market had an estimated glut of 900,000 tons last year, the
sixth consecutive year of surplus and will be oversupplied until
at least 2018, according to the bank.  Losing Money  About one-third of Chinese producers are losing money at
current Shanghai prices, according to London-based CRU.
Production equaling 4.6 million tons in the world excluding
China is currently operating at a loss, according to Georgiou.
Prices have failed to spur aluminum producers to permanently
curtail supply, Morgan Stanley said in a report last month.  Production cuts announced by aluminum producers are “still
not enough,” Oleg Mukhamedshin, deputy chief executive officer
of Moscow-based United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, said at a CRU conference in  London  on May 15.  “Why is this production still operational?” Georgiou said
at the conference. “Some of them have a strong importance to
their domestic economies and it’s the reluctance of governments
to allow these smelters to close.”  About 28 percent of European Union aluminum capacity is
breaking even at current prices in London, according to
Citigroup Inc. After including premiums to prices on the London
Metal Exchange, about 25 percent of European smelting capacity
is not breaking even, Citigroup analyst David Wilson said at the
conference.  Aluminum Premiums  The premiums buyers are expected to pay for aluminum in
Europe are $260 to $290 a ton in Rotterdam, including duty,
according to  Harbor Intelligence . The charge in the U.S. is
11.45 cents to 12 cents a pound, Jorge Vazquez, managing
director at Austin, Texas-based Harbor, said by phone on May 16.  “The reliance on high physical premiums makes the industry
incredibly vulnerable,” Wilson said. Labor and energy costs
have put European aluminum companies at a disadvantage with
Spanish smelters the least productive in Europe, he said.  Premiums will stay high until so-called financing deals
break down or delivery backlogs at warehouses approved by the
LME are reduced “significantly,” Eoin Dinsmore, a consultant
at CRU, said at the conference on May 14. CRU expects financing
deals will probably start to end in 2015.  Aluminum for delivery in three months fell 10 percent to
$1,856 a ton this year on the LME. Stockpiles in LME-approved
warehouses climbed to a record 5.24 million tons in December and
are now 5.239 million tons.  “Having a balanced market after six consecutive years of
surpluses and having this balanced market in a context of
unprecedented inventory levels doesn’t really change the
situation,” Harbor’s Vazquez said by phone yesterday. “We will
need a structural change that translates into a meaningful
reduction in inventory levels and a meaningful deficit for the
psyche of the market to change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  