-- China Encourages Foreign Auto Investment in Policy Reversal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-17T05:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/china-encourages-foreign-auto-investment-in-policy-reversal.html
China  said it will encourage foreign
investment in vehicle manufacturing in its western region,
reversing a policy to remove automaking from a list of
industries qualifying for government incentives.  Starting June 10, foreign auto investment will be given
preferential treatment, the  National Development and Reform
Commission  and Ministry of Commerce said in a joint statement
today, without giving more details. The policy was among
measures taken to encourage labor-intensive projects in the
central and western regions, which attracted $19.2 billion in
overseas investment last year, according to the statement.  The announcement follows official figures this week that
showed foreign direct investment growth slowed in April,
highlighting concern at the outlook for the world’s second-biggest economy. Giving foreign automakers preferential
treatment in building plants may allow companies like  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  to accelerate expansion in China,
increasing competition for local companies.  “The change in policy direction is meant to boost foreign
investment and economic growth rather than for the need of the
auto industry,” Zhang Xin, an analyst with Guotai Junan
Securities Co. in Beijing, said by telephone. “It could well
cause an increase in excess capacity and make it more difficult
for local automakers to compete with foreign companies.”  Western Region  Under the new policy, automakers will be encouraged to set
up auto factories in Inner Mongolia, Guangxi, Guizhou, Shanxi,
Gansu, Ningxia, Qinghai, Xinjiang, Yunnan and Sichuan as well as
the municipality of Chongqing, according to the statement.  Foreign companies received preferential treatment for seven
years on their Chinese plants until Jan. 30, 2011, when the NDRC
removed the industry from its list of favored industries for
investment to clamp down on overcapacity.  Volkswagen and GM are among foreign automakers expanding
their production in China to cater to demand in the world’s
largest vehicle market, estimated by the nation’s auto
association projects to exceed 20 million units this year.  Volkswagen said yesterday it began construction of a new
factory in Changsha in southern China, part of its 9.8 billion-euro ($13 billion) investment in China. GM said this month it
won regulatory approval to build a Cadillac factory in  Shanghai .  Overseas automakers have set up more than 40 vehicle-manufacturing joint ventures in China in the past 30 years,
helping auto production surge more than 100-fold to about 19.3
million units last year, according to NDRC.  “Most joint ventures set up by foreign automakers have
been struggling with insufficient capacity while a lot of local
automakers face overcapacity problems caused by weaker
competitiveness,” Lin Huaibin, a Shanghai-based analyst at IHS
Automotive, said by telephone. “More and more foreign
automakers are expanding to the central and western part of the
country to help tap rising potential demand there.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  