-- China Stocks Rally on Economic Reform Prospects; Developers Gain
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-05-17T07:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/china-s-stock-futures-rise-signaling-gains-for-benchmark-index.html
Chinese stocks  rallied, capping the
longest streak of weekly gains in four months, on speculation
the government will accelerate economic reforms.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. and Gemdale Corp. led a gauge of
 property companies  to the biggest advance among industry groups
on the prospect the government won’t impose more real-estate
curbs as the economy slows. Sanan Optoelectronics Co. paced an
advance for technology companies, surging 7.4 percent. The
nation’s economic planning agency said investment projects for
airports and gas fields won’t need pre-approval any more. Xi
Jinping’s government has set up working groups to draft fiscal
changes and financial restructuring, Caixin Online reported.  “There’s speculation President Xi is coming up with
detailed reform plans,”  Li Jun , a strategist at Central  China 
Securities Co. in  Shanghai , said by phone today. “There’s a lot
of expectations for a restructuring of the economy that would
benefit the market in the future.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.4 percent to 2,282.87
at the close, extending this week’s gain to 1.6 percent. The CSI
300 added 1.5 percent to 2,592.05. The Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index lost 1 percent yesterday.  Hong Kong ’s markets are shut
today for a holiday.  The Shanghai measure has fallen 6.2 percent from this
year’s Feb. 6 peak amid concern the decelerating economy will
curb profits. Manufacturing slowed last month, while growth in
industrial production and fixed-asset investment trailed
economists’ forecasts.  Property Outlook  Shanghai’s  property stocks  gauge advanced 2.5 percent
today, adding to a 3.7 percent rally for the week, the best
performance among five industry groups. China Vanke Co., the
largest listed developer, gained 3.9 percent to 12.16  yuan . Poly
Real increased 2.6 percent to 12.38 yuan.  “With the economy slowing, investors expect the government
to ease property curbs or at least it’s very unlikely for the
government to issue more tightened policies,” Zhu Jixiang, a
Shanghai-based analyst at CSC International Holdings Ltd., said
in a phone interview today. “After all, the local government
relies heavily on the real estate sector for growth.”  China will announce April new home price data tomorrow.
 Home prices  rose in all but two cities in March as local
governments announced milder-than-expected property measures.  China Oilfield Services Ltd. (2883)  led gains for energy
companies, rising 3 percent to 16.39 yuan. PetroChina Co., the
nation’s biggest oil producer, added 0.9 percent to 8.59 yuan.  Economic Overhaul  Some Chinese investment projects, including for gas gields,
airports and paper pulp will no longer need pre-approval from
the nation’s economic planning agency, the government said. In
all, 117 “approval items” can go ahead without authorization
or be approved by local governments, according to a  list
published by the State Council  on May 15.  The red-tape reduction is part of Premier  Li Keqiang ’s
efforts to pare the government’s role in the economy. In
comments published this week, Li signaled that policy makers are
reluctant to use stimulus to counter a slowdown, saying China
must rely on market mechanisms to aid growth.  The government has set up 7 work groups to draft plans for
further reforms, Caixin Online reported, citing unidentified
people close to the government decision makers. The reforms will
also cover land rights, pricing for production materials, social
 income inequality  and residency permits, the report said.  A gauge of  utility stocks  in the CSI 300 rose 2 percent
today. Huaneng Power advanced for a fourth day, climbing 2.9
percent to 7.17 yuan. Huadian Power International Corp. surged
3.6 percent to 4.31 yuan.  “Utility stocks are gaining, with power companies
benefiting from lower costs as coal prices weaken,” Deng Wenyuan, an analyst at Soochow Securities Co., said by phone.  Technology Rally  Technology stocks gained the second-most among CSI 300
groups this week, rising 8.8 percent. Sanan, China’s biggest
listed maker of light-emitting diode epitaxial wafers, surged
7.4 percent to 19.39 yuan today, the highest level in two years.
 Goertek Inc. (002241) , an Apple Inc. supplier, jumped 3.8 percent today
for a 12 percent advance this week.  Technology shares “are the ones gaining because investors
re-directed their attention into small-cap stocks with growth
potential,” Zhou Lin, an analyst at Huatai Securities Co., said
by phone from Nanjing yesterday.  China is drafting a plan to expand over-the-counter trading
of shares that wil allow companies from more high-technology
areas to sell stock, the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing an unidentified person.  FAW CAR Co. paced declines for automakers amid concerns
about foreign competition. The shares dropped 1.3 percent to
13.96 yuan. BYD Co. lost 2.2 percent to 36.40 yuan.  China said it will encourage foreign investment in vehicle
manufacturing in its western region, reversing a policy to
remove automaking from a list of industries qualifying for
government incentives. Starting June 10, foreign auto investment
will be given preferential treatment, the National Development
and Reform Commission said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  