-- China Repo Rate in Biggest Weekly Gain Since March; Yuan Steady
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-17T09:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/china-repo-rate-in-biggest-weekly-gain-since-march-yuan-rallies.html
China ’s money-market rate had its
biggest weekly gain since March on speculation cash supply will
wane as the central bank drains capital. The  yuan  was steady.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, climbed 73 basis points this week, or 0.73
percentage point, to 3.70 percent as of 4:32 p.m. in Shanghai, a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center shows. It rose 49 basis points today.  The  People’s Bank of China  drained 35 billion yuan ($5.7
billion) of capital from the financial system in five days, the
first withdrawal in four weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said sales of one-year bills may resume by
the end of June as the central bank intensifies efforts to limit
growth in money supply.  “We expect to see the PBOC be more aggressive in open-market operations,” said Patrick Wu, head of China trading at
JPMorgan in  Shanghai . “I expect that after increasing the size
of 91-day bills to a certain level, say 100 billion yuan, the
PBOC will resume issuing one-year bills.”  The People’s Bank on May 9 auctioned three-month  bills  for
the first time since December 2011, having relied on 28- or 91-day repurchase contracts to tie up funds in money-market
operations since February.  ‘Liquidity Tight’  “The central bank’s capital withdrawals has made liquidity
a bit tight,” said Wang Huane, a senior trader at Qilu Bank Co.
in Jinan, capital of the eastern Shandong province.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose one basis
point this week and today to 3.28 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan was little changed this week at 6.1419 per dollar
in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. It climbed 0.12 percent today and traded at a 0.94
percent premium to the daily  fixing , close to the maximum
allowed 1 percent.  The PBOC set the reference rate 0.16 percent stronger at
6.1997 per dollar, compared with 6.2016 a week ago. The currency
has gained 1.6 percent against the dollar in the past three
months, the second-best performer among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The moves in the reference rate show the central bank is
favoring a stronger currency,” said  Liu Dongliang , a senior
analyst in Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s
sixth-biggest lender. The yuan may touch 6.05 per dollar this
year, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  