-- China State Grid Buys Stake in SP AusNet for A$824 Million
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-05-17T07:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/china-state-grid-buys-19-9-stake-in-sp-ausnet-for-a-824-million.html
China  State Grid Corp., the nation’s
largest power distributor, agreed to pay Singapore Power Ltd.
A$824 million ($810 million) for 19.9 percent of  Australia ’s SP
AusNet as part of its $50 billion global acquisition plan.  The Chinese state-owned company will also acquire 60
percent of Singapore Power’s other Australian energy and
infrastructure assets held by SPI (Australia) Assets Pty, the
Singaporean company said today in a statement. That closely held
unit, known as Jemena, manages more than A$5 billion of assets
and had A$1.7 billion in sales in 2012, according to its website.  China State Grid this week began marketing $2 billion of
dollar-denominated securities, its first international bond sale,
as it pushes for more overseas acquisitions to boost profits
limited by caps on electricity charges at home. The Australian
acquisitions will give the Chinese company stakes in about A$15
billion of power and gas assets and more than 2.8 million
customers in the world’s 12th largest economy.  “China is the world’s largest power market, but profit
margins in operating networks are low - only at about 2
percent,” said Lai Shensheng, a Shanghai-based power analyst
with  Capital Securities Corp. (6005)  “Developed markets such as
Australia and Singapore have quality networks and stable demand.
They are good targets for State Grid’s acquisitions.”  SP AusNet rose 1.6 percent to A$1.295 in Sydney trading,
giving the Melbourne-based company a market value of A$4.36
billion. It’s gained 17 percent this year.  Brazil, Portugal  State Grid President Liu Zhenya is seeking as much as $50
billion in international assets by 2020, in line with Premier  Li Keqiang ’s policy of acquiring overseas resources. The company
has businesses in  Brazil , the  Philippines  and Portugal.  Buying the stakes from Singapore Power adds to China State
Grid’s investment in Australia after it agreed in November to
buy 41.1 percent of ElectraNet Pty, the operator of the main
transmission network in  South Australia . It’s also considering a
bid for  Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP (BIP) ’s stake in a New
Zealand utility, people familiar with the matter said last month.  “From China State Grid’s perspective, these are fairly
attractive assets,” Sajal Kishore, the Sydney-based director of
energy and utilities at Fitch Ratings Ltd., said today by phone.
“They are stable businesses and benefit from a stable
regulatory framework.”  Government Approvals  The transactions are subject to government and regulatory
approvals in China and Australia. The terms for the acquisition
of the stake in SPI Australia weren’t disclosed.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Credit Suisse Group AG advised Singapore
Power, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd.
advised State Grid.  Singapore Power will retain 31.1 percent of SP AusNet,
which owns and operates electricity transmission and power and
gas distribution assets in Victoria state. SP AusNet will remain
publicly traded, it said.  SP AusNet owns and operates more than A$10 billion of
electricity and gas distribution assets and has 1.3 million
customers. SPI Australia has an electricity distribution network
serving more than 300,000 customers in  Melbourne  and a gas
distribution network serving more than 1 million customers in
Sydney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  