-- Computer Sciences Corp. Reaches $97.5 Million Settlement
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-05-17T00:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/computer-sciences-corp-reaches-97-5-million-settlement.html
Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  agreed to pay
$97.5 million to settle a class-action lawsuit over alleged
false statements about accounting and the company’s performance
on a multibillion-dollar contract.  A proposed settlement was filed yesterday in federal court
in Alexandria,  Virginia , and is subject to approval by a judge.
A hearing on the accord is set for May 24. The case had been
scheduled for trial on May 21.  Marcel Goldstein, a spokesman for Computer Sciences, and
 Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan , whose board is the lead plaintiff in the case, didn’t
immediately respond to phone messages requesting comment on the
accord.  The settlement covers investors who acquired Computer
Sciences common stock from Aug. 5, 2008, to Dec. 27, 2011,
according to a filing in the case.  Investors alleged that Computer Sciences officials “made
false or misleading statements or omitted to disclose material
facts” about the effectiveness of internal controls over
financial reporting and about the company’s performance on a
$5.4 billion electronic patient records contract with the U.K.’s
 National Health Service , according to a memo filed in support of
the settlement.  The “false statement and omissions caused the price of CSC
common stock to be artificially inflated” and subsequently
declined “when truthful corrective information was disclosed,”
lawyers for the plaintiffs said in the memo.  Computer Sciences, based in  Falls Church , Virginia, took a
$1.5 billion writedown on the health service contract for 2011.
The company has been under investigation by the Securities and
Exchange Commission for accounting issues in that contract,
according to its annual report.  The case is In Re Computer Sciences Corporation Securities
Litigation, 11-cv-00610, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  