-- Consumer Sentiment Index in U.S. Rose to 83.7 in May
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-05-17T20:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/consumer-sentiment-index-in-u-s-rose-to-83-7-in-may-from-76-4.html
Americans’ confidence in the economy
climbed in May to the highest level in almost six years as
rising real estate values and record stock prices boosted
household wealth.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment increased to 83.7, the highest since
July 2007, from 76.4 in April, a report today showed.
Separately, the Conference Board’s gauge of the economic outlook
for the next three to six months climbed 0.6 percent in April,
more than forecast.  The gain in confidence shows Americans are overcoming the
effects of higher taxes and a package of federal spending cuts,
known as sequestration, that threatens to take a toll on jobs.
Stocks rallied as the reports underscored forecasts for a pickup
in the economic expansion later this year.  “As fiscal drag fades in the second half of the year, the
case can be made that overall growth is going to accelerate,”
said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief U.S. economist at High Frequency
Economics in Valhalla,  New York , and the top forecaster of
consumer sentiment in the past two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gain in confidence “is testimony to
underlying growth in spending power.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1 percent to a
record 1,666.12 at the close of trading in New York. The Dollar
Index climbed as much as 0.9 percent to 84.371, the highest
level since July 2010, before trading at 84.261 at 4:07 p.m. New
York time, up 0.8 percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note climbed to 1.95 percent from 1.88 percent late yesterday.  State Payrolls  Another report from the Labor Department today showed
payrolls climbed in 30 states in April, while the  unemployment
rate  dropped in 40, showing the labor market strengthened across
the country.  Texas led the gains in payrolls, adding 33,100 jobs last
month, followed by New York and  Florida .  California , New York
and  South Carolina  were among states with the biggest decreases
in joblessness.  In  Europe , car sales rose in the year ended in April for
the first time since September 2011, adding to signs that the
27-nation bloc’s recession may be short-lived.  Today’s U.S. data alleviated concern the world’s largest
economy will keep slowing after reports this week showed
industrial production declined more than forecast in April and
first-time claims for  unemployment benefits  increased last week.  Consumer Outlook  The Michigan survey follows a Bloomberg measure of consumer
outlook, which improved in May to its best reading in five
months. The Bloomberg consumer economic expectations  gauge ,
released monthly, rose to minus 1 from minus 4 in April.  The Michigan gauge was forecast to climb to 77.9, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The index averaged
64.2 during the recession that ended in June 2009 and 89 in the
five years prior.  Rising consumer optimism is good news for retailers
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) ,
which have reported that customers remain cautious.  At OfficeMax, a retailer of business supplies based in
Naperville,  Illinois , Chief Executive Officer Ravi Saligram said
customers are being pinched by tax increases.  “We believe uncertainty related to cuts in public sector
spending associated with the sequestration, the payroll tax hike
and changes in health-care laws have meaningfully impacted
customer behavior,” Saligram said on a May 7 earnings call.  Current Conditions  The Michigan survey’s current conditions index, which takes
stock of Americans’ view of their personal finances, rose to
97.5 in May, the highest reading since October 2007, from 89.9
last month. The index of expectations six months from now rose
to 74.8 from 67.8 in April.  The increase in the leading index followed a revised 0.2
percent drop in March and beat the median forecast of
economists, which called for a 0.2 percent gain.  Seven of its 10 components contributed to the increase,
including a jump in building permits and the widening interest-rate spread between a federal funds rate and 10-year Treasury
notes.  “The biggest risk right now is the adverse impact of cuts
in federal spending,”  Ken Goldstein , an economist at the
Conference Board, said in a statement. “The biggest positive
factor is the potential for improvement in the recovering
housing and labor markets.”  Home Prices  Higher home prices have boosted household wealth.
Residential real-estate prices rose in February by the most
since May 2006, with the S&P/Case-Shiller index of house values
in 20 cities up 9.3 percent from a year ago.  The economy is projected to grow at a 1.6 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, down from a 2.5 percent annual rate
in the first three months of the year, based on the median
forecast in a Bloomberg economist survey from May 3 to May 8.
The expansion is then projected to accelerate to a 2.6 percent
pace in the fourth quarter.  Part of the reason for the projected second-quarter
slowdown is an increase in the levy used to finance  Social
Security , which returned to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent. A
worker earning $50,000 a year is taking home about $83 less a
month as a result.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  