-- Costa Rica President Fires Aides Over Mystery Jet Flight
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-17T18:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/costa-rica-president-fires-aides-over-mystery-jet-flight-1-.html
Costa Rican President Laura Chinchilla dismissed two more aides, including the head of the
country’s counter-narcotics efforts, after questions arose about
her use of a private jet to fly to  Peru  this month.  In a televised address to the nation last night, Chinchilla
said deputy Minister to the President and anti-narcotics chief
Mauricio Boraschi resigned and will be replaced by deputy
Security Minister Celso Gamboa. A personal aide, Irene Pacheco,
was also dismissed.  Communications Minister Francisco Chacon became the 15th
minister to resign in three years when he quit May 15 after
arranging the trip. Chacon said that while he booked the flight
through someone named Gabriel O’Falan who purported to work for
a unit of a Colombian energy company, both the name and the
company association are now thought to be false.  The use of the plane “was handled in a careless manner,
without the procedures and controls necessary to guarantee
integrity and security,” Chinchilla said from her desk at the
presidential office in  San Jose . “The omissions were especially
grave in regards to national security and the protection of the
president.”  Chinchilla, who took office in May 2010, is struggling to
sustain her agenda in her final year in office. The leader of
the main opposition party called the latest incident “the
cherry on top” of a disappointing administration and asked the
ethics committee of the public prosecutor’s office to start an
investigation.  ‘Weak Country’  “This exposes us in front of the world as a weak country
in terms of security,” said Carmen Munoz, head of the
opposition Citizen Action Party, in a phone interview from San
Jose yesterday. “It also demonstrates a weakness in the
responses of the government as they attempted to cover up their
mistakes when facing crisis. This government is failing to learn
from its mistakes.”  Under Chinchilla,  Costa Rica ’s economy expanded 4.3 percent
in March from a year earlier, faster than than 3.5 percent and
3.9 percent growth recorded in January and February,
respectively.  The negative attention generated by the removal of aides
should not affect Costa Rica’s economic growth or further
investments, Heather Berkman, political risk analyst at New
York-based Eurasia Group Ltd., said in a telephone interview.  ‘Good Reputation’  “This raises more questions about Chinchilla herself than
Costa Rica overall,” Berkman said. “Costa Rica has generally
had a good reputation in terms of security, stability and
democracy, and I don’t think this situation will erode any of
that.”  Nevertheless, Chinchilla started the year with 12 percent
public support, the lowest of any leader in the Americas,
according to surveys by San Jose-based newspaper  La Nacion  and
Mexican polling company Consulta Mitofsky. The La Nacion poll,
taken Jan. 24 - Feb. 4, had a margin of error of 2.8 percentage
points.  “This is sort of a dismal ending to a dismal presidency,”
Berkman said. “I can’t envision her administration
accomplishing much of anything during her final year in office.
She is essentially a lame duck.”  Finance Minister Fernando Herrero resigned last year after
an investigation by newspaper La Nacion said he underpaid taxes
for 12 years, a charge he rejected. Transportation Minister
Francisco Jimenez was removed from office in May 2012 for
alleged corruption regarding funding for the construction of a
road along the border with  Nicaragua . He denied the accusations.  Meeting, Wedding  Earlier in the week, Chacon defended the trip to Peru and
acceptance of the private flight as a “collaboration between
the state and a businessman.” Chinchilla, 54, said on May 15
that the trip to Peru, to meet President Ollanta Humala and
attend a wedding, had followed the same parameters as other
presidential visits abroad. Costa Rica’s government does not
have a private presidential plane.  “He presented me with a business card of false
representation with the clear and express purpose of tricking
me,” Chacon said of his May 8 meeting with O’Falan. “I realize
that I did not request sufficient enough verification into the
background of the representatives of the company.”  Attempts to contact O’Falan via an e-mail account that
appeared on a business card with his name weren’t successful.  “I reiterate that we have not violated any ethical or
legal parameters” in the use of private planes, Chinchilla
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  