-- CRT’s Rogers Retires After Four Decades in U.S. Bond Market
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2013-05-17T17:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/crt-s-rogers-retires-after-four-decades-in-u-s-bond-market.html
Allan W. Rogers, who headed U.S.
Treasury trading at  Bankers Trust  Corp. from 1977 to 1989, a
period when the 10-year note’s  yield  went from 8 percent to
almost 16 percent and back, retired from CRT Capital Group LLC.  Rogers, 66, who later managed bonds and currencies at  Loews
Corp. (L) , also served as head of the Primary  Government Securities 
Dealers Association and on the Treasury Borrowing Advisory
Committee, he said in interview last month from CRT’s
headquarters in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The retirement was
effective in April.  Rogers’s career included managing Bankers Trust’s fixed-income operations to a profit during 1987 U.S.  stock market 
crash and spearheading repo reforms after the collapse of
Drysdale Government Securities in 1982. New York-based Bankers
Trust was acquired by Deutsche Bank AG in 1999.  Rogers began his career at Bankers Trust in 1970 after
graduating from  Dartmouth College , where he majored in
economics. He worked for seven years in primary dealer sales
before becoming head of the bank’s primary dealership. Primary
dealers are Federal Reserve counterparties in open-market
operations, trade securities with the central bank and are
required to bid at Treasury debt auctions.  The onset of high  volatility  in U.S. interest rates by 1975
was a boon to Bankers Trust, Rogers said. “We started to take
massive short positions at a time when there were no futures or
special repo markets.”  Managing Risk  In September 1987, following a period of steep gains for
U.S. equities and rising Treasury yields, Rogers said he had
become concerned that a significant reversal would happen and
forbade the firm’s traders from taking short positions in
sovereign bonds for hedging purposes. The decree applied to
Eurobonds, municipals, mortgages and swaps, he said.  The decision “involved  managing risk  across departments in
a way that wasn’t common then and still isn’t common,” Rogers
said in the telephone interview. The result: “We avoided having
hedge losses wipe out our trading gains.”  Rogers was president of the Primary Government Securities
Dealers Association in 1982, when Drysdale failed after
defaulting on payments due to repo counterparties. He pushed the
Fed to adopt repo accounting changes that would prevent future
occurrences. “I did not win a lot of friends in the dealer
community as a result,” he said.  In a repurchase agreement, one party provides cash to
another in exchange for a security, and vice versa. Repos are
typically used to finance holdings, meaning movements in the
rates affect the cost of holding the securities in inventory.  Proprietary Trading  He served on the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, the
bond dealers and investors who meet quarterly with Treasury
Department officials, from 1988 to 1991, and on the Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York ’s Treasury Market Practices Group from
2009 to 2011.  After leaving Bankers Trust in 1991, Rogers worked at
Goldman Sachs & Co. for three years as a proprietary trader. He
joined Loews in 1998 and stayed for 13 years, managing its
corporate treasury, insurance portfolio and pension funds, and
hedging currencies for Diamond Offshore Drilling.  Rogers, who was born in Philadelphia and grew up in
Milford, Connecticut, joined CRT about a year ago and traded the
firm’s capital. Fed policy, including the asset purchases known
as quantitative easing, or QE, helped drive the decision to
retire.  “QE makes it difficult to make money doing prop trading in
Treasuries,” Rogers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  