-- Cypriot Bailout Program Faces ‘Unusually High’ Risks, IMF Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-05-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/cypriot-bailout-program-faces-unusually-high-risks-imf-says.html
Cyprus may need additional financing
if its economy contracts more than expected or there are
slippages in implementing the terms of its bailout program with
the euro area and  International Monetary Fund , IMF staff said.  The impact of Cyprus’s banking crisis on gross domestic
product and on the country’s fiscal consolidation is “highly
uncertain,” the Washington-based institution said in a staff
report today. This means risks to the outlook are “substantial
and tilted to the downside” as problems would adversely affect
the trajectory of Cyprus’s public debt.  Cyprus agreed on March 25 to a 10 billion-euro ($12.8
billion) loan from the euro area and the IMF in return for
measures including a tax on bank deposits of more than 100,000
euros. Those concessions were demanded by creditors in a bid to
shrink the country’s banking sector, and have led to Cyprus
needing to impose  capital controls  as it resolved its second
biggest lender Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl.  “The situation of Cyprus is quite unique and
unprecedented, having had to resolve a very large bank
upfront,” Delia Velculescu, the IMF’s mission chief for Cyprus,
said on a conference call with reporters in Washington. “The
impact of the banking crisis as well as fiscal consolidation on
growth and the deflator remain uncertain at this time. The
deeper recession could have feedback loops on the fiscal account
and on debt.”  While the country’s program contains financing buffers, if
risks materialize “additional financing measures may be needed
to preserve debt sustainability,” IMF staff said in the report.  The IMF’s report projects that GDP will contract 8.7
percent this year and 3.9 percent next year, before beginning a
“gradual recovery” in 2015. Unemployment will peak at 16.9
percent in 2014 from 15.5 percent this year.  Debt as a percentage of GDP will peak at 126 percent in
2015 before falling to about 105 percent by 2020, the IMF said.
The country will need additional measures worth 4.7 percent of
GDP for 2015 to 2018 to make in order to hit fiscal targets
required to meet that debt trajectory, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  