-- Dexia Suit Against JPMorgan Revived, Sent to N.Y. Court
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-17T21:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/dexia-suit-against-jpmorgan-revived-sent-to-n-y-court.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s lawsuit against  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  over about $1.6 billion in mortgage-backed
securities was revived by a federal judge who found that he had
lacked the jurisdiction to dismiss it.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  issued an order
today vacating his April decision and sending the case to New
York state court.  “Those who don’t believe in ghosts have never been in
court, where legal claims are regularly seen rising from the
grave,” Rakoff wrote in his order. “This is a case in point.”  Rakoff last month dismissed most of the suit, in which
Dexia accused JPMorgan, Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual
Inc. of “egregious fraud” in the sale of mortgage bonds.
Dexia, based in Brussels, sued the lenders in 2012, claiming
that loans backing securities purchased between 2005 and 2007
were riskier than promised.  JPMorgan purchased assets of Washington Mutual and Bear
Stearns after they collapsed in 2008.  After Rakoff’s April ruling, a federal appeals court in
Manhattan found that the Edge Act, a law that regulates
international banking, didn’t give a federal court jurisdiction
over a similar lawsuit filed by American International Group
Inc. against  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   In light of that decision, Rakoff concluded that he didn’t
have jurisdiction over Dexia’s case and that it belonged in
state court.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on Rakoff’s ruling.  The case is Dexia SA v. Bear Stearns & Co., 12-cv-04761.
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  