-- DirecTV Is Said to Be Considering Acquiring Part or All of Hulu
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/directv-said-to-be-interested-in-acquiring-part-or-all-of-hulu.html
DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite
TV provider, is interested in acquiring at least a stake in
online-video site Hulu LLC, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation.  Discussions are at an early stage and it’s uncertain if the
company would want to buy all of Hulu or just a portion, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because negotiations
are private. Walt Disney Co.,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  each
own about one-third of Hulu.  The move signals that DirecTV is willing to take another
look at a company that it considered acquiring in 2011. The
satellite provider decided not to do a deal at the time because
the online website’s content rights were limited, DirecTV Chief
Executive Officer Mike White said in an interview last month.
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable operator,
is also considering taking an equity stake, according to people
with knowledge of the matter.  “On the heels of Time Warner Cable’s potential interest,
it appears the distributors are taking an ‘if you can’t beat me,
join me’ strategy toward online companies,”  Paul Sweeney , an
analyst at Bloomberg Industries, said in an e-mail. “It’s an
interesting change of heart.”  DirecTV rose 0.8 percent to $65.21 yesterday in  New York .
The shares have gained 30 percent this year.  Competitive Advantage  Hulu would give DirecTV an additional Internet-based video
platform to supplement its market-leading satellite-TV business.
DirecTV offers some of its video content live and on-demand
through its so-called TV Everywhere platform.  The streaming service is seeking to double its number of
advertisers this year as it targets local businesses, Jean-Paul Colaco, Hulu’s senior vice president of advertising, said
earlier this month.  Hulu’s board reached out to potential strategic buyers,
people with knowledge of the situation said in March. Its
controlling owners, Burbank, California-based Disney and New
York-based News Corp., disagree on Hulu’s future direction and
have discussed one partner buying out the other’s stake, the
people said at the time.  Former News Corp. Chief Operating Officer  Peter Chernin ,
who helped found Hulu, offered at least $500 million, people
with knowledge of the situation said last month. Yahoo! Inc. CEO
 Marissa Mayer  met with senior executives of the Los Angeles-based online-television service, people said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  