-- ECB’s Mersch Says Asset Review Needed Before Supervision Starts
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-17T11:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/ecb-s-mersch-says-asset-review-needed-before-supervision-starts.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Yves Mersch said an asset-quality review and a  stress
test  for European banks should be carried out by mid-2014,
before the central bank takes up supervision duties.  The Single Supervisory Mechanism at the ECB “could
undertake the asset-quality review in the third quarter of this
year until the first quarter of next year,” Mersch said in a
 speech  in  London  today, adding that a stress test would be
conducted in coordination with the European Banking Authority.
“Such a comprehensive assessment is needed before the SSM
becomes operational,” he said.  European leaders decided in June last year to hand powers
to oversee European banks to the Frankfurt-based ECB, as part of
a so-called banking union to break the link between governments’
creditworthiness and commercial lenders. The ECB is scheduled to
begin supervision by the middle of 2014.  ECB supervision “should create a level playing field for
the European banking industry and remove any national biases or
supervisory forbearance, and prevent the hiding of bad assets -–
or even leniency -– towards so-called ’national champions,’”
Mersch said.  ‘Siamese Twins’  While supervision will be located at the ECB, the second
pillar of banking union -- a single resolution mechanism to help
wind down failing lenders -- should be a separate institution,
possibly part of the European Stability Mechanism bailout fund,
Mersch said.  “What is also clear is that the resolution body needs to
operate at the same level as the supervisor, i.e. the European
level,” Mersch said, underlining a conflict with German finance
minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who has proposed a network of
national resolution funds instead of a joint body.  Mersch said it is crucial that supervision and resolution
tasks are ready at the same time, referring to them as “Siamese
twins.”  “A single supervisor without a resolution counterpart,
however, would push the central bank into ever more risk-taking
to ensure financial stability, thus even threatening the
independence of monetary policy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  