-- Telus Mobilicity Deal Foils Competition Effort
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-05-17T20:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/telus-will-acquire-mobilicity-for-373-million.html
Telus Corp. (T) ’s purchase of mobile-phone provider Mobilicity and the potential sale of another new
entrant, Wind Mobile, is casting doubt on  Canada ’s ability to
increase competition in the wireless market.  Telus said yesterday it agreed to buy Mobilicity, spending
C$380 million ($373 million) to eliminate the company’s debt. In
exchange, it would get 250,000 subscribers, plus spectrum for
which Mobilicity paid C$243 million in 2008 -- an asset Telus
can use to accommodate data-hungry smartphone users.  The purchase comes five years after the government
auctioned off C$4.25 billion worth of wireless airwaves, setting
aside a portion for new startups in a bid to break the dominance
of  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and Vancouver-based
Telus. The government may announce rules in the next month for
an auction of 700 megahertz spectrum, sought after for its
ability to transmit data in built-up areas.  “If clear additional policy incentives are not there for
new entrants it will be a failed experiment,” Neeraj Monga, an
analyst with Veritas Investment Research in Toronto, said in a
phone interview yesterday. The government may write rules that
make it easier for new competitors to finance the airwaves they
buy and reduce the cost of wireless infrastructure, he said.  The industry ministry is facing “its last chance to enable
sustainable competition in the wireless marketplace,” Monga
said.  Telus stock was little changed at C$37.39 at the 4 p.m.
close in Toronto. It climbed 15 percent this year. Twelve of 20
analysts who track Telus  rate  it a buy, while the other eight
say hold the stock.  Incumbent Lock  Even if government rules prohibit the resale of
Mobilicity’s airwaves until next year, Telus is willing to wait
to secure valuable assets in its fight with bigger rivals Rogers
and BCE,  Maher Yaghi , an analyst at Desjardins Securities, said
by phone yesterday.  “If you can keep a good chunk of those subscribers, then
you have a good deal in the works,” said Yaghi, who is based in
 Montreal  and rates Telus a buy. “This is a positive for
Telus.”  New wireless operators Mobilicity, Wind Mobile and Public
Mobile have struggled to make inroads against the 90 percent
market share Rogers, Telus and BCE command. Wind Mobile, the
largest of the three new entrants, paid C$442 million for
airwaves in 2008. It’s now being considered for a possible sale
by its backers, a person with direct knowledge of that process
said, asking not to be named because the information is private.  Scrutinize Deal  Rogers agreed on Jan. 15 to buy unused spectrum from  Shaw
Communications Inc. (SJR/B)  for about C$300 million. BCE CEO George Cope
said last week he wouldn’t let a recent spate of acquisitions of
media companies stop him from pursuing other deals.  “If something changes in the wireless industry, we’ll be a
participant,” Cope told reporters on May 9. “We’re certainly
not going to step aside and ever hand over anything to our
competitors.”  The Rogers-Shaw deal has yet to be approved by Industry
Minister Christian Paradis. Yesterday, he said he will
scrutinize the Telus-Mobilicity deal, which has to be approved
by both the Competition Bureau and Paradis because of the
spectrum implications.  “The Shaw agreement is subject to regulatory approval and
we’ll work through the government process,” Patricia Trott, a
Rogers spokeswoman, said. Rogers’s policy is not to comment on
mergers and acquisitions, she said.  “Ultimately it will be consumers and the  capital markets 
that decide how many wireless players there will be in Canada,”
Jacqueline Michelis, a spokeswoman for BCE, said in an e-mail.  Mobilicity Customers  “Our government has taken significant action to promote
competition in the wireless sector,” Paradis said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. He has said the government would like to
ensure there are at least four wireless providers in each region
of the country.  Telus, which is vying with BCE to be Canada’s second-largest carrier behind Rogers, said yesterday that it expects an
“expeditious legal and regulatory review in view of the current
circumstances Mobilicity is facing.”  “I am confident Telus will look after our employees and
our customers, mitigating any disruption to their service, while
offering the best outcome for all stakeholders,” Stewart Lyons,
Mobilicity’s president, said in a separate statement.  Mobilicity approached Telus, said a person with direct
knowledge of the carrier’s plans. While consolidation may appear
to be at odds with government strategy, offering to protect
Mobilicity’s customers may appeal to the government’s desire to
be consumer-friendly, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the plans are private.  Quebec Working  “A lot of people understand the implications of running
out of money,” said Desjardins Securities’ Yaghi. “They had to
expect something -- a merger or a sale.”  While some might see the government’s strategy to boost
competition as having failed,  Quebec  offers an example where
it’s worked better, Yaghi said. In the French-speaking province
of 8 million, only  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) ’s Videotron bought spectrum to
challenge Montreal-based BCE.  “Now you’re seeing prices coming down at the low- and the
high-end,” he said. In Ontario, the most populous province,
“if just Wind Mobile had showed up and captured Public Mobile’s
and Mobilicity’s subscribers, maybe we wouldn’t be in the same
place as we are now,” he said.  Greg MacDonald, an analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in
Toronto, says Telus’s purchase of Mobilicity will probably be
rejected by regulators.  “We do not believe this deal will get Industry Canada
approval on concerns over spectrum concentration and as such we
would highly discount its chances of success,” he said in a
note yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  