-- Emerging Stocks Extend Weekly Drop as Gold Slump Sinks Producers
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-17T21:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/emerging-market-stocks-head-for-first-weekly-decline-in-a-month.html
Emerging-market stocks capped their
first weekly decline in a month as the longest slide in gold
since 2009 dragged down producers. Russian shares surged.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  and  Gold Fields (GFI)  Ltd. tumbled at
least 5.6 percent in Johannesburg.  Synnex Technology
International Corp. (2347)  retreated 5.2 percent in Taipei as HSBC
Holdings Plc cut its rating on the shares. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF) 
jumped as EON Russia, a unit of  Germany ’s largest utility,
announced plans to pay out all of last year’s profit as
dividends. Turkey’s bond yields dropped to a record after
Moody’s Investors Service raised the nation to investment grade.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.1 percent to
1,045.76, extending its weekly drop to 0.5 percent. Gold fell
for a seventh day as exchange-traded product holdings shrank,
the dollar strengthened and a U.S. Federal Reserve policy maker
said stimulus may be reduced within months.  “The vast majority of underperformance of  emerging markets 
can be directly linked to the strength in the dollar,” Kevin Caron, a Florham Park, New Jersey-based market strategist at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $147 billion, said
by phone. “Commodities that those economies are dependent upon
tend to fall in price because most are priced in dollars.”  Six out of  10 groups  in the emerging-market index fell
today, led by health-care shares. The broad gauge has lost 0.9
percent this year, compared with a 13 percent increase in the
MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund added 0.4 percent to $43.42. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 2.9 percent to 18.32.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa advanced 0.7 percent as steelmaker Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA jumped, while OSX Brasil SA, the
shipbuilder controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , rallied the
most in five weeks. The Mexican IPC Index gained 0.1 percent,
snapping two days of losses.  The Micex Index added 2.1 percent as crude oil, Russia’s
chief export earner, rose for a third day. EON Russia climbed
7.3 percent.  Benchmark gauges in Hungary, Turkey and Poland were little
changed, while Czech shares declined.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index was little changed as
Harmony Gold sank to a 12-year low, while Gold Fields declined
to the lowest level since November 2008.  Chinese Stocks  Chinese stocks rallied, capping the longest streak of
weekly gains in four months, on speculation the government will
accelerate economic reforms. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose
1.4 percent, extending this week’s gain to 1.6 percent. Hong
Kong’s markets are shut today for a holiday.  Synnex tumbled after HSBC cut the stock’s rating to neutral
from overweight. PT  Unilever Indonesia (UNVR)  surged 11 percent to a
record, the biggest gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 267 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  