-- Merck KGaA Doesn’t Rule Out Pursuing Lung-Cancer Vaccine
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-05-17T12:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/merck-kgaa-doesn-t-rule-out-pursuing-lung-cancer-vaccine.html
Merck KGaA (MRK)  hasn’t ruled out pursuing
its therapeutic cancer vaccine L-BLP25 after a trial showed the
treatment prolonged the lives of a group of advanced lung cancer
patients by 50 percent compared with placebo.  A group of 806 patients who received the vaccine following
a combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy survived an
average of 10 months longer than those who received the placebo,
the Darmstadt, Germany-based maker of cancer drug Erbitux said
in a  statement  yesterday.  Merck said Dec. 19 that the experimental vaccine previously
known as Stimuvax failed to show a significant improvement in
overall survival among patients in the study. Most analysts
haven’t included sales estimates for the treatment, which Merck
initially expected to be a $1 billion-a-year product. Merck is
still testing the vaccine in 425 patients in a trial in  Asia 
called Inspire.  “L-BLP25 is still an active part of our pipeline and we’re
in discussions with regulatory authorities and the scientific
community about what we should do next,” Phyllis Carter, a
spokeswoman for Merck, said today in a telephone interview.  Non-small cell lung cancer is the most common form of the
disease and most people diagnosed with it are at an advanced
stage, the company said. L-BLP25 is a therapeutic vaccine which
is designed to stimulate a patient’s immune system to identify
and target cancer cells with the MUC1 gene, which has an effect
on tumor growth and survival.  Merck licensed the drug in 2001 from  Oncothyreon Inc. (ONTY) ,
which said yesterday it was “encouraged” by the results. Merck
would have paid its Seattle-based partner $90 million, plus
royalties on sales in the mid-teens in the U.S. and the high
single digits in the rest of the world had the trial been
successful.  Simos Simeonidis, an analyst with Cowen and Co. who has an
outperform rating on Oncothyreon, said in a note to investors
yesterday that he would be “surprised” if Merck didn’t pursue
the program further based on the size of the group of patients
who benefited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  