-- Ericsson Settles Software Licensing Dispute With Airvana
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-17T19:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/ericsson-settles-software-licensing-dispute-with-airvana.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, agreed to settle an intellectual-property dispute with software maker Airvana Networks Solutions
Inc., according to a court filing.  Airvana sued Stockholm-based Ericsson in New York State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan  in February 2012 for more than
$330 million, accusing it of developing software based on
Airvana’s trade secrets and using it to operate wireless  network
equipment  to avoid paying license fees.  Justice Barbara Kapnick in March granted Chelmsford,
Massachusetts-based Airvana a preliminary injunction blocking
Ericsson from “using, operating, testing or deploying” certain
hardware unless it’s using software licensed from Airvana.  The parties reached an agreement in principle to resolve
the dispute as a result of a mediation session on May 9,
although the resolution is “complicated” and the details of
the settlement are still being negotiated, Ericsson said in a
court filing today.  Ericsson asked Kapnick in the filing to adjourn a May 24
hearing as the agreement “would obviate the need for the
hearing and the extensive work required by Ericsson in advance
of the hearing.”  Kathy Egan, a spokeswoman for Ericsson, said in an e-mail
that the company had “no additional comment at this time beyond
the filing that we have submitted to the court.”  Airvana didn’t immediately respond to a phone message left
at its headquarters seeking a comment on the filing.  The case is Airvana Network Solutions Inc. v. Ericsson
Inc., 650360-2012,  New York  State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  