-- EU Ban Leaves Buyers Holding 144 Million Homeless Carbon Credits
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-05-17T12:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/eu-ban-leaves-buyers-holding-144-million-homeless-carbon-credits.html
Companies holding United Nations
carbon offsets equivalent to 7 percent of the European Union’s
annual emissions cap risk losing their investment unless they
find a buyer for the credits the bloc banned earlier this year.  Power stations and factories in the EU’s emissions-trading
system still hold 144 million of the UN offsets after
surrendering 552 million in the five years through 2012, EU data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The bloc banned the use of credits
awarded to projects that destroy nitrous oxide and
hydrofluorocarbon-23, two powerful  greenhouse gases .  The UN’s Clean Development Mechanism awards Certified
Emission Reductions, or CERs, to projects in  developing
countries  that reduce climate pollution. The projects can sell
the offsets to buyers in cap-and-trade markets such as  Europe ’s,
who use the credits to cover emissions, or to governments
seeking to meet Kyoto Protocol emissions targets.  The banned credits, known as grey CERs, will “either end
up in the hands of the sovereigns, or they become worthless,”
 Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in  London  at Energy Aspects Ltd.,
said by e-mail May 16. “With market prices where they are, one
should be able to pick up an issued grey CER spot for 10 euro
cents or so.”  Demand Outlet  Australia  and  New Zealand  also banned the industrial gas
CERs, which means the only current demand outlet is developed
country governments that must surrender Kyoto permits or offsets
to match their discharges for 2008 through 2012. This
compliance, known as the Kyoto “true-up”, will take place by
March 2015, according to UN rules.  Front-year CER futures have plunged 98 percent from their
peak in July 2008 to 39 euro cents a metric ton on London’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  The UN’s CDM  issued  a total 696 million of industrial gas
offsets through last month, along with about 500 million credits
to wind farms, hydro dams, biomass plants and energy efficiency
initiatives. Each CER represents one ton of carbon dioxide.  Analysts including  Matthew Gray  at Jefferies Group Inc. in
London had expected more of the banned offsets to be surrendered
to the EU before they lost their eligibility. Gray forecast that
600 million CERs would be given up to the European Commission,
the market’s regulator. Factories submitted 501 million of the
credits in 2012, according to EU data released May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  