-- EU Push for Depositor Preference to Advance With Parliament Vote
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-17T14:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/eu-push-for-depositor-preference-to-advance-with-parliament-vote.html
The European Union is set to take a
further step toward granting uninsured depositors greater
protection than debt holders when regulators impose losses at a
failing bank.  The European Parliament’s Economic and Monetary Affairs
Committee will back the measure as part of a May 20 vote on a
bank crisis law, according to a draft of amendments obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The move follows signals this week from German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  that he could accept the
step as part of a compromise on the legislation.  Lawmakers will also state that governments should have a
clear right to inject capital into banks, or even nationalize
them, as a last resort to protect financial stability, the
documents show.  The creditor writedown rules are part of a broader EU
blueprint to take taxpayers off the front line for bailing out
banks. Leaders of the EU’s 27 nations agreed last year that the
proposals should be rapidly adopted and pave the way for further
euro-area steps to pool decision-making for crisis-hit banks.  The legislation must be agreed on by nations and by the EU
Parliament before it takes effect. Monday’s committee vote will
determine the assembly’s negotiating position.  Under the plans, regulators would be given statutory powers
to impose losses on unsecured creditors, while holders of
secured debt, such as covered bonds, would be protected.  Finance ministers this week indicated a growing willingness
to give preference to depositors when assigning losses, with
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem joining Schaeuble in
saying that he could back the step as part of an overall deal.  The move was also supported on May 14 by EU Internal Market
and Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier , the  European Central
Bank  and nations including France and  Portugal .  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  cautioned
that the move risks being abused by companies converting bond
holdings into deposits, and said it requires further reflection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  