-- EU Should Scrap Energy Subsidies to Fight Warming, Poland Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-05-17T11:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/eu-should-scrap-energy-subsidies-to-fight-warming-poland-says.html
The European Union should scrap
 fossil fuel  and renewable energy subsidies and set a target to
cut oil imports to remain the leader in the fight against global
warming, according to  Poland ’s environment minister.  Poland wants to keep energy prices at an affordable level,
Minister Marcin Korolec said today at a conference in Warsaw
attended by EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  titled “A
World You Like With a Climate You Like.”  “We have our ideas of how to improve EU policies and thus
climate,” Korolec said. “Those are simple actions that would
help us have the climate you like on a budget you like.”  His comments highlight the difficulty the EU is facing to
agree on its climate and energy policies for the next decade and
fix its carbon market, where prices slumped to a record last
month. Poland, the biggest economy among 12 countries that
joined the bloc since 2004, opposes the EU proposal to intervene
in the emissions trading system to stimulate investment in clean
technologies, arguing the plan will increase energy prices at a
time of economic crisis.  Stepping up climate ambitions can help the EU strengthen
its economy, create new jobs, and reduce dependence on fossil
fuels, according to Hedegaard. Poland, where companies use twice
as much energy as their competitors elsewhere in  Europe , can
also further improve its  energy efficiency , she said.  “We can have greener cities, we can have less air
pollution, we can have transport that has less CO2 and is more
efficient,” she said. “We think we can have both: the world
you like and the climate you like.”  Binding Targets  The EU, which has a binding target to cut greenhouse gases
by 20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels, seeks to reduce
emissions by at least 80 percent in 2050. The most cost-efficient way to reach the long-term goal would be to cut
pollution by 40 percent in 2030, according to the European
Commission.  The scrapping of energy subsidies and setting a target to
cut oil imports would be a more effective tool to encourage
green investment, reduce the bill for fossil fuels and improve
the security of  energy supply  in the EU, according to the Polish
government.  Poland, which has blocked a political statement by EU
ministers that could pave a way to stricter emission-reduction
targets in the region, will host a global climate summit in
November. The country actively supports the negotiations toward
a new deal to cut  greenhouse gases  worldwide as climate change
intensifies, Korolec said.  “What we used to call a weather anomaly is becoming a
norm,” he said. “Instead of four seasons we have two long
seasons: hot and cold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  