-- EU Weighs Bank-Structure Overhaul in Wake of Liikanen Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-17T15:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/eu-weighs-bank-structure-overhaul-in-wake-of-liikanen-plan-1-.html
The European Union is weighing how
far to go in forcing a break up of  large lenders  as it seeks to
prevent banks in the debt-laden bloc from being too big to fail.  EU regulators are examining “a number of options” for how
big a chunk of their trading activities banks should be forced
to shift into separately capitalized units, according to a copy
of the plans published on the European Commission website today.  “Structural reforms may increase the credibility and
effectiveness of the recovery and resolution process for large
and complex banking groups, thereby lowering the ultimate
taxpayer costs,” the commission said.  The EU is seeking ways to structure riskier activities
outside of more traditional banking in a bid to take taxpayers
off the hook for bailouts and to protect depositors at crisis-hit lenders.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are among
banks in the European Union to have publicly lobbied against
proposals by a high-level group, led by Bank of Finland governor
 Erkki Liikanen , to force lenders to separate their trading
activities.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has said
he is “firmly committed” to presenting legislation later this
year. A consultation period on the EU’s possible follow-up to
the Liikanen report runs until July 3, the commission said.  Legally Separate  Under the Liikanen plans, the bank’s trading entity would
be legally separate from other parts of the bank. High-risk
activities that would have to be transferred to it would
include, among others, unsecured loans to hedge funds and
private equity investments. The proposals would affect both
proprietary trading and market making.  The Association for Financial Markets in  Europe , a group
representing international lenders including Deutsche Bank and
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , have urged the EU to avoid implementing
structural separation.  “It is far from clear what ex ante separation of certain
activities would add on top of existing regulatory proposals
either in terms of protecting taxpayers or aiding financial
stability,” Michael Lever, a managing director at AFME, said in
an e-mail.  The EU is already planning, in a separate draft law, to
hand regulators the powers “to require a structural
reorganization” of a bank, if needed to ensure it can be wound
down if it fails, Lever said.  EU Options  Options under consideration by the EU range from
“relatively few trading activities,” such as speculative
proprietary trading, having to be split off, to a more radical
solution where “all wholesale and investment banking activities
would need to be separated,” the commission said.  The EU is examining several alternatives to the Liikanen
definition of which assets should be transferred, according to
the document. These include “a more narrow definition that
excludes available for sale assets as mostly composed of
securities held for liquidity purposes.”  Another point on which the EU is seeking views is whether
market-making activities, where a bank offers both buy and sell
prices on a security to stimulate trading, should be affected by
the new rules, the commission said.  U.S. and British regulators have already proposed
structural changes to banks in a bid to curtail risks. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  plans to force large
lenders to separate their consumer and investment banking
operations in an overhaul that the Treasury estimates may cost
as much as 7 billion pounds ($10.6 billion) a year.  The U.K. plans were drafted by a panel led by former Bank
of England Chief Economist  John Vickers .  The Brussels-based Commission, which proposes draft laws
for the 27-nation EU, said it is weighing how separation should
work in practice, including whether lenders should be forced to
fully divest trading activities that aren’t allowed within their
deposit-taking arm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  