-- European Stocks Post Fourth Weekly Gain on Results, U.K.
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-05-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/european-stocks-post-fourth-weekly-gain-on-results-u-k-.html
European stocks  rose for a fourth
week as earnings from Cie. Financiere Richemont SA to  ICAP (IAP)  Plc
beat analyst estimates and the  Bank of England  lifted its growth
forecast for  Europe ’s third-biggest economy.  Richemont gained 13 percent as it also proposed a dividend
that surpassed projections.  Renault (RNO)  SA led shares of automobile
companies higher as the region’s car sales increased for the
first time in 19 months. Suedzucker AG plunged 16 percent after
saying full-year operating profit will decline.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 1.2 percent to 308.72
this week, completing its longest streak of weekly gains since
March 15. The measure has rallied 10 percent so far in 2013, its
best start to a year since 1998, bolstered by central-bank
monetary stimulus and better-than-estimated U.S. economic data.  “Companies have cut costs and have been able to produce
better-than-expected earnings,” said Guillaume Duchesne, an
equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas SA in Luxembourg. “There
is a new appetite for cyclical sectors with the idea that the
economy may improve.”  BOE Governor  Mervyn King  on May 15 said that an economic
recovery in the U.K. was now “in sight”. In the central bank’s
quarterly inflation report, King’s last before his retirement in
July, officials predicted that growth would accelerate to 0.5
percent in the second quarter from 0.3 percent in the first
three months of the year.  Bullish Comments  Stocks erased intraday losses on May 14 after billionaire
 David Tepper , who runs hedge-fund firm Appaloosa Management LP,
said in an interview on CNBC that he was “definitely bullish”
about markets.  U.S. data on May 17 showed that American  consumer
confidence  rose in May to the highest level in almost six years
and leading economic indicators climbed in April by more than
estimated.  Still, German investor confidence rose in May less than
forecast, an earlier report showed. The ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and
analyst expectations, which aims to predict economic
developments six months in advance, increased to 36.4 from 36.3
in April. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had forecast a
gain to 40.  National benchmark indexes rallied in all of western
Europe’s 18 western markets, except Portugal and Iceland.
 France ’s CAC 40 added 1.2 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
increased 1.5 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX Index climbed 1.4
percent.  Richemont Earnings  Richemont (CFR)  gained 13 percent. The owner of the Cartier brand
on May 16 reported full-year net income of 2.01 billion euros
($2.58 billion), beating analyst estimates for 1.96 billion
euros. The company also proposed a dividend of 1 Swiss franc
($1.03), topping forecasts.  ICAP jumped 13 percent. The world’s largest broker of
transactions between banks on May 14 posted a full-year pretax
profit before exceptional items of 284 million pounds ($433
million). That was higher than the 280 million pounds the
company had forecast March 27.  Renault rallied 17 percent, leading a gauge of European
automotive companies to the best performance on the Stoxx 600.
PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-largest automaker, jumped
15 percent. Daimler AG, the third-biggest maker of luxury cars,
climbed 12 percent. Fiat SpA advanced 9.4 percent.  European car sales rose in April, for the first time in 19
months, as a gain in consumer sentiment in countries using the
euro led to recovery in Germany and  Spain .  National Bank of Greece SA  soared 83 percent, its biggest
weekly gain in two decades.  Fitch Ratings  on May 16 upgraded the
lender’s credit ratings.  Mediaset Rallies  Mediaset SpA advanced 13 percent. The broadcaster
controlled by former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  on
May 14 expressed confidence it can reach its cost-reduction goal
of 450 million euros in its 2012-2014 plan before the end of the
period.  Suedzucker tumbled 16 percent. Europe’s largest sugar
producer forecast on May 16 that full-year operating profit will
fall “significantly” to about 825 million euros.  Vivendi SA (VIV)  dropped 10 percent. Activision Blizzard Inc. was
said to have shelved a plan to buy back shares held by its
French parent amid a disagreement on price. The world’s largest
video-game publisher planned to buy at least part of Vivendi’s
stake as recently as last month, people with knowledge of the
talks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 