-- Europe Car Sales Post First Gain in 19 Months on Germany
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-05-17T15:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/europe-car-sales-post-first-gain-in-19-months-on-germany.html
European Union car sales  rose in
April for the first time since September 2011, adding to signs
that the 27-nation bloc’s recession may be short-lived.  Registrations of new passenger cars in the EU increased 1.7
percent from the year-earlier period to 1.04 million vehicles,
the Brussels-based  European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association , or ACEA, said today. Four-month sales fell 7.1
percent to 4.03 million vehicles.  Consumer confidence  in the EU increased in April to the
highest level since July, and a gauge of the financial situation
of households showed a similar improvement, according to the
European Commission. The region also had two more working days
on average than in the same month last year, “which would
account for the increase,” the ACEA said.  “Hopefully the worst is over,” said Hans-Peter Wodniok,
an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg, Germany. “For the
rest of this year, the market will probably be less negative
than it was before,” with “no more dramatic falls” in the
southern part of the region, he said.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)   rose  3.7 percent in Frankfurt to close at
168.40 euros, while  Daimler AG (DAI)  gained 3.9 percent to 49 euros.  Tire Plants  Today’s car-registration data followed the EU’s March  trade
report  yesterday, which showed exports up a seasonally adjusted
3.4 percent from a month earlier to 148.9 billion euros. The EU
trade surplus widened to 8.1 billion euros from 1.6 billion
euros in February.  Continental AG (CON) ,  Europe ’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
said this week that it will maintain investments in 2013 at last
year’s level as global production of cars and light trucks rises
2.5 percent. Spending will be focused on expanding tire plants
in the U.S., Russia, China and Brazil, Chief Executive Officer
Elmar Degenhart said.  The encouraging data from Europe contrasted with  India ,
where Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s latest skirmish with
corruption risks setting back efforts to spur growth, worsening
a legislative logjam under a government set to pass the fewest
bills ever in a full term.  The  U.S. economy  will continue to recover until at least
2015 without tumbling into a recession, achieving the sustained
growth that has eluded it since the last slump ended four years
ago, according to a Bloomberg poll.  Easter Holiday  European car sales last month were helped by the most of
the Easter holiday shifting to March this year from April in
2012. The decline may resume for the rest of this year, though
at a slower rate than in the earlier months, according to
estimates by IHS Automotive Research.  Auto sales in  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy, rose 3.8
percent in April, ending five months of drops. Registrations
surged 15 percent last month in the U.K., the only car market of
Europe’s top five to grow in 2012, and 11 percent in  Spain .
French auto sales fell 5.3 percent and demand in  Italy  dropped
11 percent.  “The recovery of sales in Germany is positive and may be
an indication that consumers are getting back into the market on
signs that austerity in Europe may be close to an end,” Gian Primo Quagliano, head of automotive research company CSP in
Bologna, Italy, said before the ACEA released figures. “When
the car market changes direction, the reason is never just
related to technical calendar effects.”  Volkswagen Share  Daimler posted an 11 percent increase, while Volkswagen saw
registrations rise 9.9 percent to 274,925 units, for a 27
percent market share. Sales at  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , the region’s
second-biggest auto manufacturer, dropped 10 percent in April.  Registrations in the EU plus Switzerland, Norway and
Iceland increased 1.8 percent in the period, the ACEA said. The
EU survey doesn’t include data for Malta.  Still, the number of new passenger cars registered in April
was the third-lowest for the month since the data series began
in 1990, ACEA said.  The EU is in a  recession  after the economy contracted 0.1
percent in the first quarter of this year and 0.5 percent in the
previous three months, according to the bloc’s statistics office
in Luxembourg.  EU Summit  EU leaders have been signaling that they plan steps to
revive growth following government austerity measures to counter
the sovereign-debt crisis. They gather in Brussels for talks on
May 22. The  European Central Bank  this month cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent and ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said borrowing costs may be reduced further if the
economic outlook deteriorates.  “Auto demand should benefit from credit easing” by the
ECB,  Andrew Garthwaite , an analyst at Credit Suisse, said in a
report today. “The current level of confidence is consistent
with auto sales some 14 percent above current levels,” said
Garthwaite, who raised his recommendation on auto-industry
stocks to overweight from benchmark, the equivalent of hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  