-- European Regulator Widens Scope of Banker Bonus Caps, PwC Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-05-17T13:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/european-regulator-widens-scope-of-banker-bonus-caps-pwc-says.html
The European Banking Authority
approved a plan that will “significantly increase” the number
of bankers whose bonuses are capped under European Union rules,
accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers said.  Anyone earning more than 500,000 euros ($641,250) will be
deemed a “risk-taker irrespective” of their role at the
firm,” PwC said in an e-mailed statement today. The proposal
will increase the number of employees subject to bonus caps by
as much as 10 times at some investment banks, the accounting
firm said. A spokeswoman for the EBA in  London  wasn’t available
to comment.  The EU brokered a deal in February to outlaw banker bonuses
that are more than twice fixed pay, a move lawmakers said would
prevent excessive payouts and curb irresponsible risk-taking.
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne opposed the
curbs, saying they would harm the competitiveness of the
nation’s finance industry.  “This expansion of the definition of risk takers will see
substantially more individuals working in the banking industry
being hit by tougher pay rules, including being subject to bonus
caps from next year,” PwC partner Jon Terry said in an emailed
statement today.  Amy Tiernan, a spokeswoman for PwC in London, said the
proposals will be published in a consultation within the next
week. Following a meeting yesterday, the EBA pushed back the
next round of banking stress tests until 2014.  Financial-services firms have been under pressure from
regulators and the government to cut compensation amid public
anger over the bailouts of Britain’s  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  