-- Lew Defends IRS Health Care Lawyer Attacked by Tea Party
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-05-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/lew-defends-irs-health-care-lawyer-attacked-by-tea-party.html
Republicans, angry over the Internal
Revenue Service scrutiny of anti-tax groups, have aimed their
frustration at a career employee with a bonus benefit: She’s
charged with overseeing an enforcement portion of the health-care law.  Sarah Hall Ingram, 55, was until December 2010 in charge of
the office supervising  nonprofit  organizations. She shifted to
her health-care role that month, before the IRS began giving the
Tea Party nonprofit applications extra attention.  That isn’t stopping Tea Party advocates from insisting
President  Barack Obama  fire her.  “Sarah Hall Ingram allowed and possibly encouraged the
outrageous and discriminatory tactics toward Tea Party Patriots
based on political ideology, clearly violating her supposedly
unbiased office,” said Jenny Beth Martin, co-founder and
national coordinator of Tea Party Patriots. “We certainly do
not trust Sarah Hall Ingram to be anywhere near our incredibly
sensitive health-care decisions.”  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew yesterday came to Ingram’s
defense, saying the 30-year veteran of the tax agency shouldn’t
be blamed for something she didn’t do or oversee.  “Chronology matters in cases like this,” he said in an
interview on “Political Capital with  Al Hunt , airing this
weekend on Bloomberg Television. ‘‘She has a high degree of
professionalism and she was not in a position of responsibility
over these actions.’’  ‘Foolish Mistakes’  IRS officials have acknowledged they were wrong to target
groups with the names ‘‘tea party’’ or ‘‘patriot’’ that were
requesting nonprofit status. While many Tea Party groups faced
intrusive questionnaires, so did some Democratic organizations.
No Tea Party group has said they were denied nonpartisan status
by the IRS, and many have been approved for it.  In Capitol Hill testimony yesterday, Steven Miller, the
retiring acting IRS commissioner, said agency employees weren’t
politically motivated. They made ‘‘foolish mistakes’’ in trying
to design a shortcut while managing a surge of applications and
provided ‘‘horrible consumer service,’’ he said.  The target of the Republican activists’ ire is a woman who
joined the IRS in 1982 after graduating from Yale University and
Georgetown University law school. Ingram, who has held a variety
of posts inside the agency, worked in the exempt organizations
section from 1999-2006 and then returned as commissioner of the
division in May 2009.  She hasn’t contributed to candidates of either political
party, according to the Center for Responsive Politics and the
National Library on Money and Politics, two groups that track
campaign donations from 1989 and beyond.  Tea-Party Attack  L. Brent Bozell, a Republican activist who is chairman of
the Alexandria, Virginia-based advocacy group ForAmerica, still
labeled her ‘‘an ideologically driven individual” and one of
the “key individuals in charge of handing out punishment to
groups that did not support the president’s far-left agenda.”  In another move to weaken the health-care law, Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, on May 16 introduced the “Keep the
IRS Off Your Health Care Act of 2013,” preventing the agency
from enforcing the law. The IRS will oversee the law’s mandate
requiring Americans to buy insurance or pay fines.  Melanie Sloan, executive director of Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in  Washington , contended that this
outrage is just a new excuse to oppose the health-care law.
House Republicans voted on May 16 for the 37th time to repeal
all or part of the legislation.  “She had nothing to do with the scandal,” said Sloan,
whose group has sued the IRS to ban nonprofits from spending
money on political activities. “This is all the more proof that
this is just an attempt to go after Obamacare. They never get
tired of that issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 