-- Ex-BlackRock Manager’s Arrest May Give FCA Its First Big Fish
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-05-17T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/ex-blackrock-manager-s-arrest-may-give-fca-its-first-big-fish.html
The arrest of a former BlackRock Inc.
 fund manager  may move the U.K. markets regulator from small-fry 
insider-trading cases to its first big fish after years of 
criticism for pursuing dentists and print-room workers.  The Financial Conduct Authority arrested Mark Lyttleton,
who once ran a BlackRock fund with as much as 2 billion pounds
($3 billion) of assets in London on April 30, according to two
people familiar with the case. That follows the arrests of
managers at  hedge funds  in two unrelated probes this year.  “I think it’s been a big success,” Jamie Symington, the
head of the wholesale group enforcement division at the FCA, who
oversees insider-trading prosecutions, said in an interview
before the Lyttletons’ arrests.  The declaration marks a shift in tone from two years ago,
when Tracey McDermott, the head of enforcement at the FSA, said
they “recognize the need to go after bigger fry” who are
“causing the most damage to the market.”  The regulator was “determined to take insider-dealing
enforcement right into the heart of the city,” said McDermott,
who is Symington’s boss at the FCA.  At the time, the watchdog was under pressure to secure a
conviction that was comparable to U.S. prosecutors’ case against
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. While the focus of
British politicians and the media has shifted from  insider
trading  to the manipulation of Libor and other interest-rate
benchmarks, the recent arrests show the FCA has remained
committed to cracking down on insider trading.  Labor-Intensive  “You’d sort of assume that with all the huge resources
attributed to Libor, it must be very difficult to be equally
focused on other areas of market integrity,” said Arun Srivastava, the head of Baker & McKenzie’s financial-services
group in London. “These criminal cases are hugely labor-intensive, too.”  The 41-year-old Lyttleton, who was based in BlackRock’s
London office, may be the regulator’s highest-profile arrest so
far. He was known for astute picks among U.K. small and mid-cap
companies and in 2005 was chosen to be the manager of a new
flagship product, which became BlackRock  U.K. Absolute Alpha (MLUKAAP) 
Fund.  2 Billion Pounds  It grew to about 2 billion pounds of assets by 2008. The
fund had 382 million pounds of assets as of April 30, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lyttleton left his job as a fund
manager at BlackRock in London before he was detained.  Neither the FCA nor Blackrock would provide contact
information for an attorney for the Lyttletons. A man who
answered the phone at Anamaya in west London, where his wife,
Delphine Lyttleton, is listed as a practitioner in homeopathy,
life coaching and meditation, said she was unavailable to
comment. He said she rented space from the business.  In separate probes in February, the regulator’s
predecessor, the Financial Services Authority, arrested a former
portfolio manager at GLG Partners Inc. and two founders of the
Lodestone Natural Resources hedge fund.  Some of the regulator’s insider-trading cases from several
years ago are just coming to fruition as well. That includes a
former managing director at Altium Capital Ltd. who was charged
in April as part of an insider-trading ring and will face trial
next year along with a former Deutsche Bank AG managing director
and four other men.  Tabernula Probe  The charges stem from the regulator’s probe known as
Operation Tabernula, Latin for little tavern. Eight people have
been charged in the probe. One of the eight, former Legal &
General Group Plc equities trader Paul Milsom, pleaded guilty
and was sentenced in March to two years in prison.  “It’s always been our intention to focus on market
professionals,” Symington said. “Our earliest criminal
prosecutions did not all involve market professionals, but it
was important, nonetheless, to establish our presence as a
criminal prosecutor. Having achieved some early success, we
wanted to move on from that, move into the heart of it, and
that’s what we’ve done.”  The regulator hadn’t prosecuted a single insider-trading
case until 2008, when it successfully took on the former general
counsel of a Motorola Inc. unit and later that year a former
partner at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Cazenove & Co. unit in  London .  Since then, it has steadily increased the profiles of its
targets. It went after a dentist in 2009, then workers in the
print rooms of UBS AG and JPMorgan.  Crossed Hurdle  “Until two, three years ago they were being accused of
taking a slightly relaxed approach to insider dealing,”
Srivastava said. “If you’re pursuing a policy of credible
deterrence, then picking on smaller fry isn’t going to send the
message.”  Since then, “they’ve crossed that hurdle,” Srivastava
said.  The regulator is getting an increasing number of suspicious
transaction reports, as many as about 100 a month from about 50
two years ago. It has stronger tools for analyzing data and its
employees are getting better with experience at detecting market
abuse, Symington said.  “We won’t be taking our foot off the pedal,” Symington
said. “We have no intent to increase or decrease the resources
we give it. With the experience we have now under our belt, even
with the same level of staffing, we should be more prolific at
least.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  