-- Ex-BP Engineer’s Criminal Trial Is Postponed to December
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-05-17T18:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/ex-bp-engineer-s-criminal-trial-is-postponed-to-december.html
The trial of a former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer
charged in the first criminal case arising from the 2010  Gulf of
Mexico  oil spill was postponed to December from June, a judge
said.  The U.S. charged Kurt Mix, the former BP engineer, with two
counts of obstruction of justice last year, alleging he deleted
from his mobile phone text-message strings related to the
company’s effort to estimate the size of the spill.  U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval ordered the delay
yesterday at a pretrial conference.  “Barring an extreme event there will be no further
continuances,” according to the minutes of the conference
posted on the case docket today. The trial had previously been
postponed from February.  The ruling comes after defense attorneys complained that
federal prosecutors failed to turn over evidence requested that
might exonerate Mix. Duval ordered the government at a hearing
May 14 to provide the defense with additional evidence. Mix’s
lawyers said they needed to postpone the trial to search through
this material, according to the docket.  The U.S. didn’t oppose the postponement.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig in April 2010 killed 11 workers and started millions of
barrels of crude leaking into the Gulf. It also set off hundreds
of lawsuits against BP, its partners and contractors on the
project.  Nonjury Trial  A nonjury trial on fault for the incident ended last month
before a separate judge in federal court in New Orleans. U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is overseeing litigation
stemming from the blowout, has said that he may not issue a
judgment on fault and gross negligence before a scheduled second
phase of the trial set for Sept. 16. That phase will concern the
size of the spill and the efforts to contain it.  Mix worked on BP efforts to estimate the amount of oil
leaking from the Macondo well. The two counts of the indictment
concern text messages between him and a contractor and another
string with his supervisor. Mix’s prosecution was the first
criminal case to arise from the 2010 spill.  Since his arrest in April 2012, BP and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  have
pleaded guilty to criminal charges over the spill. In addition,
two BP well-site managers were charged with involuntary
manslaughter and the company’s former vice president of
exploration for the Gulf of Mexico was charged with obstruction
of Congress and false statements related to the size of the
spill. All three have pleaded not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-00171, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans at
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  