-- Ex-BMO Analyst Ming Zhao Settles Insider-Trading Violations
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-17T19:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/ex-bmo-analyst-ming-chao-zhao-settles-insider-trading-violations.html
Ming Chao Zhao, a former  Bank of
Montreal  analyst, admitted to engaging in  insider trading  over
an 18-month period and agreed to pay about C$1.19 million ($1.16
million) to settle the case, according to the Ontario Securities
Commission.  Zhao, also known as Michael Zhao, will pay a penalty of
C$750,000, costs of C$30,000 and disgorge C$416,719 in illegal
profit as part of a settlement, the OSC said today in a
statement. He also will be permanently barred from trading
securities with certain exceptions, the agency said.  As an investment-banking analyst at  BMO Nesbitt Burns , Zhao
was privy to non-public information on five companies involved
in merger-and-acquisition transactions, the OSC said. Between
June 2010 and December 2011, he bought shares of the firms using
an online discount brokerage account held by a family member,
reaping about C$416,000 in profit, according to the settlement.  The trades involved shares of Consolidated Thompson Iron
Mines Ltd., Forzani Group Ltd., Pacific Northern Gas Ltd.,
Canmarc REIT and Menu Foods Income Fund, according to the
settlement.  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)  agreed to buy Thompson
Iron Mines in 2011 and  AltaGas Ltd. (ALA)  acquired Pacific Northern
that same year.  Zhao, who gained access to the information through a shared
network computer drive, didn’t disclose his trades to the
Toronto-based bank, the OSC said.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  is  Canada ’s
fourth-largest lender.  “BMO cooperated fully with the OSC,” Paul Deegan, a
spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
trades at issue were done without BMO’s knowledge and were
executed through an account outside BMO.”  Paul H. Le Vay, a Toronto lawyer representing Zhao,
declined to comment on the settlement. A phone number or e-mail
address for Zhao couldn’t immediately be found, and calls to the
five people with that name in the Toronto phone listing either
went unanswered or were to the wrong party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  