-- Falcone-Backed Vietnam Casino Developer Is Sued by CEO
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-17T16:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/falcone-backed-vietnam-casino-developer-is-sued-by-ceo.html
Asian Coast Development ( Canada )
Ltd., a company backed by  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC that’s building the first Las Vegas-style casino in
Vietnam, was sued by its chief executive officer for breach of
contract.  Nathan, a former president of MGM Mirage Global Gaming
Development, was hired in April 2010 by Vancouver-based Asian
Coast, which has a 50-year license to build a $4.2 billion
casino and resort 130 kilometers (80 miles) from  Ho Chi Minh
City .  Nathan yesterday sued the company, Chairman Robert Wolfe,
Falcone and Anthony Sanfilippo, CEO of Pinnacle Entertainment
Inc., which has a 23 percent stake in Asian Coast, according to
the  New York  State Supreme Court complaint.  Nathan says Asian Coast induced him to stay on as CEO after
he tried to resign in October to obtain an “investment
certificate” from the Vietnamese government that included a
gaming license. The company then told him he had engaged in
conduct that was grounds for termination and last month placed
him on administrative leave, he said in the complaint.  “By placing Nathan on so-called ‘administrative leave’ as
of April 5, 2013, without any basis for doing so,” the
defendants showed that they “only induced him to stay long
enough to benefit from his ability to obtain the investment
certificate and to avoid a management change that might
prejudice the application to amend the investment certificate,”
Nathan said in the suit.  Falcone, Spokesman  Falcone didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the lawsuit, and Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for
Falcone with RLM Finsbury in New York, didn’t immediately reply
to a telephone message and an e-mail.  Asian Coast and Kerry Andersen, a Las Vegas-based Pinnacle
representative, didn’t immediately respond to voice-mail
messages seeking comment on the suit.  The case is Nathan v.  Asian Coast Development (Canada)
Ltd. (ACDZ) , 651774/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 