-- FCC Nominee to Divest AT&T, Verizon to Avoid Conflict
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-05-17T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/fcc-nominee-to-divest-at-t-verizon-to-avoid-conflict.html
Tom Wheeler, President  Barack Obama ’s
nominee to head the FCC, agreed to sell holdings of $500,001 to
$1 million in both  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to
resolve possible conflicts of interest before taking office.  Wheeler, a former head of wireless and cable trade groups,
disclosed his holdings and willingness to divest from 78
companies that also include  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and smartphone maker
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in documents released yesterday by the U.S. Office of
Government Ethics. He also reported stakes in top cable company
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  worth $2,002 to $30,000 that he would sell.  As head of the Federal Communications Commission, Wheeler
would regulate broadcast and cable companies, review industry
mergers and help set rules for auctioning airwaves coveted by
leading U.S. telephone company AT&T and No. 2 Verizon for the
wireless services powering their growth.  Wheeler, 67, reported income of at least $1,105,189 from
sources including salary, advisory fees, and serving as a
director of companies including  Earthlink Inc. (ELNK)  In a letter
accompanying his disclosure form, Wheeler said he would resign
from Atlanta-based Earthlink’s board and sell shares of the
Internet-service provider if he wins Senate confirmation.  Wheeler also said he would sell his holdings in wireless
provider  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and its partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) 
which are seeking merger permission before the agency. Media
companies he listed for divestiture include cable providers  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , along with
broadcasters  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , which owns the ABC
television network.  Senate Review  Wheeler, named May 1 by Obama, needs confirmation from the
Senate. The Commerce Committee that would initially consider his
nomination has set hearings this month for nominees  Penny Pritzker , for commerce secretary, and Anthony Foxx, for
transportation secretary.  The panel didn’t set a date for hearing Wheeler’s
nomination. It chairman, Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat, had supported Jessica Rosenworcel, his former
aide and now a Democratic FCC commissioner, to succeed Julius Genachowski, who is to depart tomorrow after serving as chairman
since 2009. Genachowski’s departure would leave the agency with
two Democrats and one Republican; Obama hasn’t named a
Republican nominee to replace a departing commissioner.  The holdings disclosed by Wheeler yesterday pale in
comparison with those revealed by Pritzker, whose family founded
 Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  Her report, released by the Office of
Government Ethics on May 15, showed her with assets valued in a
range of $400 million to $2.2 billion, not including holdings in
the hotel company.  ‘Vast Knowledge’  Wheeler is managing director at Core Capital Partners LP in
Washington, and he said in yesterday’s letter he would resign
that position at the venture capital firm as well as shutter his
consulting firm, Shiloh Group LLC.  His nomination prompted congratulatory statements from
AT&T, Verizon and from Comcast Chief Executive Officer  Brian Roberts , who cited Wheeler’s “vast knowledge of the
communications industry.”  The Open Technology Institute at the New America Foundation
policy group in Washington and 27 others in March signed a
letter to Obama saying “it’s time to end regulatory capture at
the FCC” after “decades of industry-backed chairmen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  