-- Bank of Montreal’s U.S. Unit Cited by Fed on Risk
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-17T14:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/fed-cites-bank-of-montreal-bmo-financial-on-risk.html
The  Federal Reserve  announced an
enforcement action against  Bank of Montreal ,  Canada ’s fourth-largest lender by assets, for “deficiencies” in compliance
with anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act rules and
regulations.  Examiners at the Chicago Fed discovered the deficiencies at
 Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s U.S. branch. The Fed said today that the bank
“lacked effective systems of governance and internal controls
to adequately oversee” compliance with anti-money laundering
rules.  The enforcement action calls on the Toronto-based lender to
review the effectiveness of its compliance program and “remedy
deficiencies.” Bank of Montreal  operates  a U.S. consumer
lending business in the U.S. Midwest through its Chicago-based
BMO Harris Bank unit.  “Our remediation activities are well under way,” Paul Deegan, a bank spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “BMO
is fully committed to the highest standards of regulatory
compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering
requirements and expectations in each of the jurisdictions in
which we operate.”  Fed enforcement actions range in severity from formal
warnings telling banks to improve their compliance to more harsh
penalties such as cease-and-desist orders and monetary fines.
Last year, London-based Standard Chartered Plc was ordered to
pay a $100 million penalty by the Fed for “unsafe and unsound
practices” related to compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and
London-based HSBC Holdings Plc received a $165 million fine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  