-- Final Soccer World Cup Sponsor to Spend $50 Million in 15 Months
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-17T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/final-soccer-world-cup-sponsor-to-spend-50-million-in-15-months.html
Grupo SBF’s Centauro unit, Latin
America’s largest sporting goods retailer, said it will spend
more than $50 million on marketing for next year’s soccer World
Cup after becoming the tournament’s final commercial partner.  The agreement with soccer’s governing body to become a
World Cup national supporter also gives Centauro marketing
rights at next month’s eight-nation Confederations Cup.  “We cannot say the exact figure we have agreed to pay FIFA
but our company will invest more than $50 million in the next 15
months,” Sebastião Bomfim Filho, Grupo SBF’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview last night.  The World Cup accounts for the majority of Zurich-based
FIFA’s annual revenue of $1.2 billion. Its partnership
agreements are broken down into three categories, with six
companies including Coca Cola Co. and  Adidas AG (ADS)  given top
billing as global partners. They’re followed by eight
international World Cup sponsors and six national supporters.  Centauro completes the line-up of commercial partners for
the 2014 tournament, FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  told
reporters yesterday at the headquarters of the 2014 World Cup
organizing committee in Rio de Janeiro.  “We have no more space for any commercial company to
join,” Valcke said. “FIFA World Cup 2014 is sold out.”  Bomfim Filho, who described the marketing agreement as the
biggest in his company’s 32-year history, said negotiations to
secure the last slot were tough.  “We had to discuss a lot of our campaigns for the World
Cup,” he said.  “We’re very happy because we are the first
retail company FIFA has signed anywhere in the world.”  Centauro plans to make use of its dealings with Adidas
ahead of the World Cup.  “We will have a big relationship with Adidas,” Bomfim
Filho said. “We are the biggest customer for Adidas in  Brazil 
so we are to make a lot of things together over the next
months.”  Global sponsorship packages for the 2014 World Cup sold out
in July 2011 when FIFA signed  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  