-- Banker in Jail Suggests Spain Is Calling Lenders to Account
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-17T17:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/first-banker-in-jail-suggests-spain-calling-lenders-to-account.html
The sight of Miguel Blesa, the former
chairman of  Caja Madrid , being driven to  jail  in a police van
suggests  Spain  may be calling bankers to account after the
nation needed European Union funds to bail out lenders.  Judge Elpidio-Jose Silva jailed Blesa yesterday while he
investigates the circumstances around a U.S. bank purchase in
2008. Television images last night showed Blesa, 65, being
driven into the 1,008-cell Soto del Real jail outside  Madrid . He
was released today after posting bail of 2.5 million euros ($3.2
million), a court spokesman said by telephone.  The decision by a judge to put behind bars a banker
instrumental in the management of a savings bank whose soured
assets helped lead Spain to seek a 41 billion-euro bailout may
help ease social tensions by showing that executives are being
held to account, said Javier Diaz-Gimenez, a professor at the
 IESE  business school in Madrid. Caja Madrid merged with Bancaja
and five other savings banks in 2010 to form the  Bankia (BKIA)  group,
which needed a 22 billion-euro rescue last year.  “This is a cathartic moment,” Diaz-Gimenez said today in
a phone interview. “It’s a reminder that these banking jobs
with their big salaries and perks also came with big
responsibilities and that in a democracy people should be held
to account for their actions.”  The judge is probing Blesa’s role in possible crimes
involving companies and false documentation, according to a
ruling issued yesterday. He also issued a separate order
confiscating Blesa’s passport.  Blesa’s lawyer, Carlos Aguilar, didn’t respond to a phone
message left by  Bloomberg News  today.  Role Probed  Silva found “very relevant indications of criminality” in
Caja Madrid’s purchase in 2008 of City National Bank of  Florida ,
he said in his ruling sent by e-mail today by the court in
Madrid. The purchase of the bank may have yielded losses of at
least 500 million euros, he said.  In his ruling, the judge wrote that Blesa, under
questioning from his lawyer, said Caja Madrid paid more for City
National than Spanish banks including Banco Sabadell SA had for
banks in Florida because the lender was bigger, better and more
profitable. Even so, the purchase was “aberrant,” said Silva.  Blesa is the first banker to spend time in prison since
investigations began to mount in Spain into the management of
former savings banks. Of 45 savings banks that existed in 2008,
managers from 21 have been accused in nine cases, Cinco Dias
newspaper reported today.  Blesa was chairman of Caja Madrid for 13 years to 2010 when
 Rodrigo Rato , a former head of the  International Monetary Fund 
and Spanish finance minister, took over. Rato led the merger
that created Bankia and quit his post last May, days before the
government announced it would take over the bank.  A Spanish National Court judge said last July he would
investigate Bankia and its 33 board members including Rato as he
probes allegations including deception, false accounting and
fraudulent administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  