-- Foodcorp Buyback Offer Faces Bondholder Rejection, Jyske Says
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-05-17T12:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/foodcorp-buyback-offer-faces-bondholder-rejection-jyske-says.html
New Foodcorp Holdings (Pty) Ltd.’s
offer to redeem its remaining debt to meet the terms of a
takeover of the South African food company is too low and won’t
be taken up by most bondholders, according to  Jyske Bank A/S. (JYSK)   Foodcorp, which owns brands such as Glenryck canned fish
and Nola mayonnaise, offered 101 percent of the face value for
its 390 million-euro ($502 million) securities due March 2018,
the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today. Yields
on the 8.75 percent debt dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 4.91 percent by 12:49 p.m. in  London ,
pricing the bonds at 110 percent of face value.  “Not many people are going to sell,” Michael Holte Christensen, who helps manage the equivalent of $805 million in
global high-yielding corporate debt at Jyske, said by phone from
Silkeborg,  Denmark  today. “We’re not going to sell.”  Rainbow Chicken Ltd. (RBW) , South Africa’s largest chicken
producer, paid 1 billion rand ($106 million) for 64.2 percent of
Foodcorp on April 29. The deal, supported by a 3.9 billion-rand
rights offer underwritten by majority shareholder  Remgro Ltd. (REM) ,
broadened Rainbow’s range to include products from peanut butter
to dog food. A change of control clause related to the bonds
forced Foodcorp to make the offer to bondholders.  “While we would hope to be able to buy back at the 101
level, we understand that practically we may not get a high
uptake,” Foodcorp Chief Executive Officer Justin Williamson
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “It’s a liquidity
opportunity for bondholders. It seems our country’s image abroad
is not ideal right now. So perhaps a perfect time for some to
cash in. Only time will tell.”  South Africa ’s rand has declined 2.8 percent against the
dollar this week, falling to a four-year low, as renewed labor
unrest at platinum mines threatened the nation’s credit rating
and economic growth. Its 9.6 percent drop this year is the worst
performance of 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Remgro, an investment-holding company of which billionaire
Johann Rupert and his family are shareholders, owns a 73.4
percent stake in Rainbow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  