-- Foreigners Buy Most India Stocks in 3 Months on Rate View
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-05-17T11:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/foreigners-buy-most-india-stocks-in-3-months-on-rate-view.html
Overseas investors  are stepping up
purchases of Indian shares, buying the most since February on
May 15, amid speculation slowing inflation will give the central
bank more scope to cut  interest rates  to stoke economic growth.  Foreigners bought $311 million more of local stocks than
they sold May 15, the most since Feb. 7, according to data from
 India ’s regulator. They purchased a net $227 million of shares
yesterday, data showed today, taking total inflows into stocks
this year to $13.4 billion. That’s a record for the period and
the second-largest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg,
behind  Japan .  India’s  wholesale-price index  rose 4.89 percent in April,
the least in 41 months, the government reported this week,
prompting  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao to say
the data will be factored into decisions at the next policy
meeting on June 17. The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX) , India’s benchmark stock
index, climbed 0.8 percent this week to complete a fifth weekly
advance, the longest stretch of gains since October.  “Flows are coming in on expectation of a lower interest
rate regime as inflation dips,” said Debasish Mallick, chief
executive officer at Mumbai-based IDBI Asset Management Ltd.,
which manages about $1.1 billion. “The easy money policy of
global central banks will support flows into India.”  The RBI this month cut the  repurchase rate  to 7.25 percent
from 7.5 percent, joining policy makers in  Australia ,  Europe  and
 South Korea  in trimming borrowing costs to support growth. The
monetary easing has fueled inflows into emerging markets,
including India, helping the Sensex rebound 11 percent from a
 seven-month low  reached April 9.  Record Deficit  India’s record current-account gap, along with elevated
consumer prices, has deterred the RBI from reducing rates at a
faster pace even as growth in Asia’s third-largest  economy 
slowed to a  decade-low  of 5 percent in the year ended March,
according to an estimate from the government.  Subbarao trimmed rates May 3 for the third time this year
and said there is little space for further easing as price-growth pressures may return.  The Sensex added 0.2 percent to close at 20,286.12 in
Mumbai, the highest level since Jan. 5, 2011. It has climbed 4.4
percent in 2013, the most among benchmark measures in the so-called BRIC group of the largest emerging nations.  The Indian gauge trades at 14 times  projected 12-month
profit , the highest reading since Oct. 6. The MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index trades at a multiple of 10.6, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Foreigners have been net sellers of Indian stocks in just
two of the past 13 years, based on data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 2000. Inflows climbed to $24.5 billion  last year ,
the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg. The flows
helped the Sensex rally 26 percent in 2012, the measure’s best
performance in three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  