-- Fuel Oil Rally to End With Europe Swamping Asia: Energy Markets
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2013-05-17T13:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/fuel-oil-rally-to-end-with-europe-swamping-asia-energy-markets.html
The premium traders in Asia are
paying for the earliest deliveries of  fuel oil  is poised to
slide from an eight-month high as Europe floods the region with
excess supplies and Chinese refinery demand wanes.  Deliveries to Singapore in June will cost an average $1.25
a metric ton more than July contracts in the second half of this
month, according to the median estimate of five traders surveyed
by Bloomberg this week. The difference was $4.50 on May 1, the
most since September 2012, and averaged $2.36 in the first half
of the month.  The fading premium shows how Europe’s recession and  China ’s
economic slowdown is hurting the market for a commodity used to
power the ships that carry 90 percent of the world’s traded
goods.  Europe ’s exports to Asia are poised to rise to the
highest in four months as it struggles to emerge from a
recession that’s sapping local demand. At the same time, Chinese
refineries that use the fuel to make more valuable gasoline and
diesel are cutting purchases as growth slows.  “It doesn’t get more attractive from here,” Miswin Mahesh, a London-based oil analyst at Barclays Plc, said by
phone on May 10. “Any time there is a spike in fuel oil, we
continue to say fade the rally.”  The swap for 180-centistoke fuel oil for earliest delivery
cost $609.75 a ton today, bringing its decline this year to 0.8
percent, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
London-based broker. The contract for the fuel in two months
cost $608.25, down 1.7 percent this year.  Traders’ Outlook  Four traders surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the premium
between the first- and second-month contracts will range from
parity to $1.50 in the second half of May. One predicted it
would widen to about $7, citing a shortage of the material
needed to blend with it to make shipping fuel, or bunker. It was
at $1.50 a ton at 2:29 p.m. in Singapore.  Deliveries from Western countries to  Asia  this month may
rise to 4.4 million tons, up from 3.5 million in April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most since
January. Shipments from Europe increased to 2.5 million tons, or
57 percent of the total, compared with 1.3 million, or 38
percent in April.  The  euro-area economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the three
months ended March, extending the region’s recession to a record
sixth quarter. That followed a 0.6 percent decline in the
previous three months, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said May 15.  Brent crude , the North Sea benchmark for
more than half of the world’s oil, fell about 6 percent this
year, to trade at about $105 today, on concern Europe’s fuel
demand will drop.  Oil consumption in European countries that are members of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development will
fall 2.4 percent to 13.4 million barrels a day this year,
according data from the  International Energy Agency  in Paris.  China’s Teapots  At the same time, fuel oil demand from refineries in
eastern China known as teapots that import the oil to make motor
fuel has been weakening as the country’s economic growth slows,
according to C1 Energy, a Shanghai-based commodity researcher.  “Chinese teapots are not buying at the moment because they
need to destock both fuel oil as feedstock and diesel as
products amid low run rates,” Sophia Ma, a Guangzhou-based oil
analyst at C1 Energy, said by phone. “We are not too optimistic
about the outlook.”  Growth in China, the world’s second-largest economy, slowed
to 7.7 percent in the first quarter, down from 7.9 percent in
the previous three months. That drove its stockpiles of diesel,
which fuels trucks and machineries, to the highest in almost a
year in February and March, according to data released by Xinhua
News Agency’s China Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals newsletter.  China’s teapot refineries cut operating rates to 24 percent
on April 18, the lowest in at least three years, according to
Oilchem.net, an industry website. The run rate rose to 29.1
percent as of May 2.  Shipping Fuel  Shipping fuel sales  in  Singapore , the world’s largest
vessel-refueling port, fell 1.6 percent to 13.9 million tons in
the first four months compared with a year earlier, data from
the city-state’s maritime authority show. April sales rose to
3.6 million tons from 3.4 million in March.  Demand from ship owners is falling this month because
purchases in April covered their needs, according to Oliver Imaizumi, a senior manager at Petro Summit Pte in Singapore.  “Demand right now is stable, but not that much compared to
last month,” Imaizumi said by telephone from Singapore, “Ship
owners took the bunker in April so they don’t really need to top
up volume in May.”  Singapore Stockpiles  Singapore prices for 380-centistoke  fuel oil, the grade
used for bunker, fell to $596 a ton on May 15, the lowest in
more than five months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price has slid 10 percent from the high of $663.50 in
February. It averaged $626.53 this year.  Residual-fuel inventories in Singapore rose for a third
week to the highest level in more than five months, according to
a unit of the Ministry of Trade and Industry.  Inventories including fuel oil and low-sulfur waxy residue
and excluding bitumen gained 2.63 million barrels, or 13
percent, to 22.3 million in the seven days to May 15,
International Enterprise Singapore said in an e-mailed
statement. That’s the highest since the week ended Dec. 5.  “The market has been strong mainly because of lack of
blending stocks,” said Jit Yang Lim, a Singapore-based analyst
with KBC Energy Economics. “With a lot of shipments coming in
with all the quality fuel oil, that should ease the cracks in
the coming month.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  