-- GDF Suez’s Belgian Reactors Cleared to Start After Nine Months
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-05-17T13:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/gdf-suez-s-belgian-reactors-cleared-to-start-after-nine-months.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA can start generating from
its Doel-3 and Tihange-2 nuclear power reactors in Belgium after
they were halted for about nine months on safety concerns.  The Agence Federale de Controle Nucleaire, the country’s
 nuclear regulator , gave permission for the units to start
production, Director-General Jan Bens said today in Brussels. It
will take two to three weeks to load the fuel rods back into the
reactors and get them back to full capacity, Geetha Keyaert, a
spokesman for GDF Suez’s  Electrabel  unit, said by telephone.  The two units, which represent 12 percent of Belgium’s
production capacity, were ordered to remain shut by the AFCN in
August and September after ultrasound tests indicated cracks on
the reactor vessels. GDF Suez lost 50 million euros ($64
million) a month in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization while the plants were halted, the
company said.  “Restarting these reactors will make  Belgium  less reliant
on imports this winter,” Martin Brough an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG said by phone from London. “I don’t expect it to have
much impact on prices.”  GDF Suez said April 9 that the 1,006-megawatt Doel-3 and
1,008-megawatt Tihange-2 were estimated to start on June 1,
according to the company’s  transparency website .  The utility, Europe’s biggest by market value, said on
April 23 that first-quarter profit fell following the shutdown
of the plants and a decline in electricity demand. The company’s
shares rose as much as 2.4 percent to 16.76 euros today.  Delayed Start  The AFCN delayed a decision on starting the plants in
January, saying it needed more data and to run extra tests. The
vessels were built by Rotterdamsche Droogdok Maatschappij NV of
the Netherlands. The cracks formed during construction, Willy De
Roovere, the former director of AFCN, said in August. Doel-3 was
commissioned in 1982 and Tihange-2 in 1983, according to
Electrabel’s website.  The tests show that the flaws “have no significant
impact” and haven’t changed in size since last year, AFCN said
today.  Belgian power for delivery in the three months through
December lost 1.9 percent to 48.05 euros a megawatt-hour, the
lowest since February 7, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in  London  at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  