-- German Stocks Advance After U.S. Sentiment Data Beat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-05-17T15:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/german-stocks-drop-as-williams-says-bond-buying-may-slow.html
German stocks  advanced for a ninth
day, with the benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index extending its record, after
better-than-expected reports on U.S. leading indicators and
consumer sentiment.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest automaker, climbed 3.7
percent as data showed European car sales increased for the
first time in 19 months in April.  Suedzucker AG (SZU)  dropped to an
eight-month low as J&E Davy Holdings Ltd. downgraded the shares.  The DAX added 0.3 percent to 8,398 at the close of trading
in  Frankfurt , for its longest winning streak since July 2009.
The benchmark rose 1.4 percent this week and has rallied 10
percent this year as central banks around the world maintained
monetary stimulus. The HDAX Index advanced 0.3 percent today.  “Equity investors are rightfully enjoying themselves as
auto sales kicked off a day of positive economic data in  Europe 
and followed through with confidence and leading indicators in
the U.S.,” Daniel Weston, a portfolio manager at Aimed Capital
Management LLC in Munich, wrote in an e-mail. “Momentum and
money are chasing each other and it feels set to continue into
the weekend.”  The volume of shares changing hands on DAX-listed companies
was 25 percent greater than the average of the past 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The index of U.S. leading indicators climbed more than
expected in April. The Conference Board’s gauge of the  outlook 
for the next three to six months rose 0.6 percent after falling
a revised 0.2 percent in March that was steeper than previously
reported, the New York-based group said today. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.2
percent increase.  U.S. Sentiment  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment rose to 83.7 in May from 76.4 the
prior month, a separate report today showed. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey was for a gain to 77.9. Forecasts ranged
from 74 to 82.5.  Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said
quickening economic growth and an improving job market may
prompt the central bank to begin to reduce its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases in the next few months.  Williams was one of the first Fed officials to advocate the
purchase of bonds without setting a time or total limit. He
doesn’t vote on policy this year.  The European Banking Authority delayed stress tests for
lenders that it had planned to undertake this year, allowing the
 European Central Bank  to hold its own review of the
institutions’ asset quality. The London-based EBA, which was set
up in 2011 to harmonize rules across the European Union,
postponed its tests until 2014.  Carmakers Advance  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest automaker, gained 3.7 percent
to 168.40 euros. Daimler AG, the third-biggest luxury-vehicle
maker, rose 3.9 percent to 49 euros, its highest price since
August 2011.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts
maker, added 3 percent to 100.30 euros. A measure of carmakers
posted the best performance of the 19 industry groups on the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  European car sales advanced in April on gains in the U.K.
and a rebound in  Germany . Registrations increased 1.8 percent to
1.08 million vehicles from 1.06 million cars a year earlier, the
Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association,
or ACEA, said.  Tire Demand  Lanxess AG (LXS) , which makes specialty chemicals, plastics, and
rubber used in car tires, jumped 6.6 percent to 57.21 euros.
Michelin & Cie, Europe’s largest tiremaker, today reiterated its
2013 profit forecast as growing demand for high-margin tires for
mining vehicles helps offset declining demand in Europe.  Suedzucker, which makes sugar, starch and bakery additives,
dropped 5.9 percent to 25.72 euros. Davy downgraded the shares
to neutral from outperform, citing the company’s lower-than-expected earnings guidance for the fiscal year.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  slipped 1.4 percent to 9.21 euros.
Europe’s second-largest telephone company traded without the
right to a dividend today.  UBS AG cut its recommendation on global telecom stocks to
underweight, which is similar to a sell rating. A gauge of phone
stocks fell the most on the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  