-- Gold Heads for Longest Slump in Four Years on Fed, Dollar
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-05-17T18:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/gold-swings-after-six-day-loss-amid-etp-drop-dollar-s-strength.html
Gold fell, capping the longest slump
in four years, as the dollar jumped to a 34-month high and a
Federal Reserve policy maker said that U.S. monetary stimulus
may be reduced within months.  The greenback rose to the highest since July 2010 against a
basket of major currencies after Fed Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said yesterday that the central bank may
begin to reduce monthly bond purchases as early as the third
quarter. Holdings of exchange-traded products backed by gold
have dropped every week since mid-February. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of equities rose to a record two days ago.  “The market is facing headwinds as global equities
continue their path higher, taking institutional investment away
from the gold market and central-bank stimulus is gradually
withdrawn from the U.S. economy,” Steve Scacalossi, a New York-based vice president at TD Securities Inc., said in a report.
“Gold is going to struggle in this strong-dollar environment.”  Gold futures for June delivery fell 1.6 percent to settle
at $1,364.70 an ounce at 1:51 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . The
price dropped for the seventh straight session, the longest
slump since March 2009. Earlier, the metal touched $1,357.60,
the lowest for a most-active contract since April 18.  Trading was 35 percent above the average in the past 100
days for this time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Faith Lost  Gold has tumbled 19 percent this year, falling into a  bear
market  last month as some investors lost faith in the metal as a
store of value and equities rallied on confidence that the  U.S.
economy  is improving. The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage debt a month.  “It’s clear that the labor market has improved since
September,” when the Fed began its latest round of asset
purchases, the San Francisco Fed’s Williams said yesterday in a
speech in  Portland ,  Oregon . The central bank may reduce the pace
of buying by this summer and end the program late this year, he
said.  Yesterday, holdings in ETPs tumbled 7.1 metric tons to
2,207.1 tons, the lowest since July 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. They have dropped 16 percent this year.  Seventeen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
fall next week, with eight bullish and three neutral, the
highest proportion of bears in two weeks.  Silver futures for July delivery retreated 1.4 percent to
$22.352 an ounce on the Comex, extending the week’s decline to
5.5 percent, the biggest in a month.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , palladium futures for
June delivery slid 0.1 percent to $740.25 an ounce. Prices
jumped 4.9 percent this week, the fourth straight increase. Last
year, the metal’s deficit was the biggest since 2000, Johnson
Matthey Plc said in a report on May 13  Platinum futures for July delivery slipped 1.2 percent to
$1,468 an ounce, dropping for the second straight week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  