-- Michelin Seeks to Roll Out New Labor Rules in France
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-05-17T13:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/michelin-sticks-to-stable-profit-goal-as-mining-offsets-europe.html
Michelin & Cie (ML) , Europe’s largest
tiremaker, intends to implement new labor rules at its French
factories to help it adjust capacity and avoid firings as the
region’s car market heads for a sixth straight year of decline.  The agreement, which has been adopted by three of
Michelin’s 17 plants, allows the company to ask employees to
work additional days to compensate for unworked days when
production is low, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Dominique Senard
said today at a press conference.  “I’m very happy with this agreement,” Senard said
following the company’s shareholders meeting in Clermont-Ferrand, where it’s based. “It would be wonderful to have it
signed by all remaining factories.”  Michelin is seeking more growth outside  Europe  and
marketing specialty tires used on large vehicles such as mining
equipment amid a six-year slump in its home region. The slowdown
is prompting the tiremaker to look at ways to restructure
operations in Europe, where about 59 percent of its 107,000
workers are located. Michelin employed about 24,000 people in
 France  at the end of 2012.  Lower demand has reduced utilization rates at Michelin’s
European plants to about 50 percent to 60 percent for truck
tires and about 70 percent for passenger cars and light trucks,
Senard said. One way to address overcapacity is to increase
labor flexibility, the executive said, ruling out closing plants
in France in the immediate future.  Competitive Plants  A shutdown is “not on the agenda yet,” Senard said. “All
the options are under scrutiny. I don’t know how many factories
there will be in Europe in 20 years. What I know is that those
that will be there will be competitive.”  Michelin today reaffirmed its forecast to keep 2013 profit
“stable” as growing demand for high-margin tires for mining
vehicles helps offset declining demand in Europe.  “Mining markets will have strong growth” this year, Chief
Financial Officer Marc Henry said at the shareholders meeting.
“The European market will decrease,” while  emerging markets 
such as  Brazil  will be “strong.”  The market for replacement car tires surged 21 percent in
Brazil in April, rose 11 percent in  China  and advanced 5 percent
in Europe, while declining 3 percent in  North America , the
company said on its  website . Through the first four months of
2013, industrywide sales of replacement car tires are up 11
percent in both Brazil and China and down 6 percent in Europe
and 2 percent in North America.  Shares Rise  Michelin shares  rose  as much as 4.2 percent to 70.92 euros
and were near that level at 3:02 p.m. in Paris trading. The
stock has slipped 1 percent this year, valuing the company at
12.9 billion euros ($16.6 billion).  The tiremaker also stuck to its forecast for an increase in
replacement sales of giant tires for mining vehicles. The
company also reiterated a target of increasing a return on
capital employed to more than 10 percent and generating positive
free  cash flow  this year.  Six of the eight members on the Michelin  board  of directors
saw their mandate expire today. Two members of the board were
elected for a new four-year term, while four new members entered
the board.  The French manufacturer’s first-quarter revenue fell 8.1
percent from a year earlier to 4.88 billion euros ($6.29
billion), as demand for tires for earthmovers, tractors and
planes declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  