-- Midwest Gas Falls From Record on Speculation of Shipments
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-05-17T20:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/midwest-gas-falls-from-record-on-speculation-of-shipments.html
U.S. Midwest gasoline weakened from
the  highest level  on record on speculation that shipments being
sent to the region will help to relieve a  shortage .  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Group 3, which
stretches from  Oklahoma  to  Minnesota  and North Dakota, slipped
16.5 cents to  47.5 cents  a gallon over New York Mercantile
Exchange futures at 2:39 p.m. Wholesale terminal prices averaged
$3.51 a gallon in Tulsa, compared with $2.91 in the Dallas
region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The differential between Gulf Coast rack prices and those
in the Midwest is spurring wholesalers to buy gasoline in Gulf
Coast region cities like Dallas and transport it by truck to
markets as far away as  Colorado , said Mark Anderle, a trader at
wholesaler Truman Arnold Cos. in  Dallas .  Supplies of gasoline in the U.S. Midwest, known as PADD 2,
fell to  47.8 million barrels  in the week ended May 10, the
lowest since Nov. 30, according to U.S. Energy Information
Administration data.  “Supply is tight in  Chicago  and the Group,” Anderle said.
“It’s normal to be this low on stock this time of year. But
because the spreads are so much bigger this year, you’re able to
come from a bigger distance.”  Trucks have driven longer distances to find supplies after
shipments on Explorer Pipeline Co.’s Explorer line were delayed
because of larger-than-expected demand. The Explorer pipeline,
which transports oil products to the Midwest from the Gulf
Coast, can take about 11 days to deliver a barrel to the Chicago
region, according to the  company’s website .  Chicago Rallies  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline, or CBOB, in Chicago
gained 2 cents to a premium of  37 cents  to Nymex futures, the
highest level since Aug. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Refineries including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Joliet,
Illinois, plant may be contributing to limited area inventories
as the site conducts planned maintenance.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  in Chicago, a rough measure of
refining margins based on West Texas Intermediate in Cushing,
Oklahoma, advanced $1.84 to $40 a barrel, the highest in more
than seven months. The same spread in Group 3 dropped $4.41 to
 $40.79 a barrel , the first decline in five days.  Gasoline in Chicago was at  a premium  of 57.28 cents to the
Gulf Coast. Conventional, 85-octane gasoline, or CBOB, on the
Gulf, dropped 1.75 cents to 20.25 cents a gallon below futures.
The conventional, 87-octane grade slipped 1.5 cents to a
discount of 11.75 cents a gallon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  