-- Illinois Man Indicted for Trying to Join Al-Qaeda Ally
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-17T22:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/illinois-man-indicted-for-trying-to-join-al-qaeda-ally.html
Abdella Ahmad Tounisi, a suburban
Chicago teenager arrested last month as he was about to board a
flight for  Turkey , was indicted for trying to join an al-Qaeda
ally in  Syria .  In the two-count indictment, Tounisi, who was 18 when he
was arrested on April 19 at O’Hare International Airport, is
also charged with lying to  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection
Agents at the airport about the purpose of his trip and his
itinerary. The indictment is dated May 16 and was posted on the
electronic docket today in federal court in Chicago.  A U.S. citizen, Tounisi was allegedly attempting to join
Jabhat al-Nusrah, a “jihadist militant group operating inside
Syria” and an alias of al-Qaeda in  Iraq , according to an
affidavit by Federal Bureau of Investigation Special Agent
Dwayne Golomb attached to a criminal complaint filed last month.  He faces as long as 15 years in prison if found guilty of
attempting to provide material support to the group, designated
a foreign terrorist organization by the U.S. government, and as
long as eight years if he’s convicted of lying to federal
agents. Tounisi has been in custody since his arrest.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Daniel G. Martin on May 2 ordered him
released into his father’s custody and confined to his Aurora,
Illinois, home with electronic monitoring. U.S. District Judge
Edmond E. Chang reversed that ruling the next day, concluding
the no conditions could reasonably ensure Tounisi wouldn’t flee.  Defense Attorney  Tounisi’s attorney, Molly Armour of  Chicago , declined to
comment on the indictment in a phone interview today.  Tounisi pressed on with efforts to join Jabhat al-Nusrah
even after a close friend was arrested by the FBI and Tounisi
was questioned by federal agents, Assistant U.S. Attorney
William Ridgway said at the May 3 hearing at which his bail was
revoked.  The friend, Adel Daoud, 19, was apprehended in September in
an FBI sting operation after trying to detonate a bomb outside a
bar in downtown Chicago.  The bomb was a phony supplied by an undercover federal
agent. Daoud has pleaded not guilty and is being held pending
trial.  The case is U.S. v. Tounisi, 13-cr-00328, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  