-- Lilly, ThyssenKrupp, Adidas, AMD: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-17T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/lilly-thyssenkrupp-adidas-amd-intellectual-property.html
Canada ’s Supreme Court dismissed  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s request to appeal a federal court decision that
invalidated its Canadian patent for schizophrenia drug Zyprexa.  The country’s highest court said in a statement yesterday
it decided not to look at the case after hearing from parties
involved in the matter earlier this week. A Federal Court in
2011 ruled the patent was invalid because it didn’t meet
“utility” requirements.  The Indianapolis-based firm has claimed recent decisions by
Canadian courts invalidating 17 drug patents over “utility”
requirements have made the country an outlier among major
developed countries, prompting the company in December to notify
Canada of its plans to file a trade complaint over its patent
for its Strattera drug.  “Addressing Canada’s outlier status with respect to the
interpretation of patent law is a priority for Lilly,” the
company said in a statement. “We will continue to consider all
our legal options to protect what we believe to be valid
intellectual property rights protecting our patents in Canada.”  The case is Eli Lilly of Canada Inc. v. Novopharm Ltd.
(F.C.) (Civil) (By Leave) (35067).  ThyssenKrupp Submarine Unit Wins Australia Bid Access in Accord  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  secured the chance to help develop a
submarine for Australia after the country signed an agreement
with  Sweden ’s government clearing the way for the involvement of
the company’s Kockums AB unit.  The accord gives Australia the right to use Swedish
intellectual property for submarine design and technology, the
Canberra-based Department of Defence said in a statement. The
deal was necessary to begin working with Kockums, it said.  Australian authorities have been exploring replacement of
six Collins Class submarines, which were based on a Kockums
design. The government said on May 3 that it’s proceeding with
the project, dubbed SEA 1000, to assemble 12 of the vessels
domestically and narrowed options to a new design or building an
evolved version of the Collins configuration, with an off-the-shelf purchase discarded.  “This agreement will pave the way for Swedish involvement
in  Australia ’s future submarine program,” Defense Minister
Stephen Smith said in yesterday’s statement. “The ability for
Australia to utilize Swedish submarine technology is a critical
element, not only of the work on the Future Submarine Program
but also in addressing the continuing challenges with the
maintenance and sustainment of the Collins Class fleet.”  HMAS Collins, the lead submarine, was commissioned in 1996.
The last of the current six vessels isn’t scheduled to be
retired until about 2031, after entering service in 2003.  ThyssenKrupp doesn’t break out figures for Kockums. A
spokeswoman at the Essen, Germany-based parent company wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  Kockums was part of ThyssenKrupp’s marine-systems business,
which generated 3 percent of group sales at the steelmaker in
the year through Sept. 30. The newly combined marine-systems and
plant-technology division, dubbed industrial solutions,
accounted for 15 percent of ThyssenKrupp’s revenue in the fiscal
first half ended March 31.  IBM, U.S. Didn’t Infringe Uship Patents, Appeals Court Says  Neither  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  nor the U.S.
Postal Service infringe two patents covering automated shipping
kiosks, a federal appeals court ruled.  Uship Intellectual Properties of West Suffield,
 Connecticut , filed the lawsuit in federal court in July 2008.
Because the government was a defendant, the case was filed in
the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, which handles private claims
against the government.  At issue were patents 5,831,220 and 6,104,014. In March
2012 the court entered an agreed-upon judgment of non-infringement. Uship then asked the appeals court to decide
whether the lower court property determined the reach of the
patent.  The Washington-based Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit said the lower court interpreted the reach of the patent
correctly. It rejected the patent owner’s argument that some of
the operations outlined in the patents were infringing, even if
they were performed by a human rather than a machine.  The appeals court agreed with Armonk, New York-based IBM
and the postal service that the “validating” step is limited
to an automated shipping machine.  The lower court case is Uship Intellectual Properties v.
U.S., 08-cv-0537, U.S. District Court, U.S. Court of Federal
Claims. The appeal is Uship Intellectual Properties v. U.S.,
12-5077, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  X5’s Perekrestok Barred From Selling Look-Alike Adidas Shoes  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s largest food retailer, is
barred from using a three-stripe mark on shoes it sells because
the practice infringed  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s trademarks, the Russian Legal
Information Agency  reported .  The federal Commercial Court of Moscow upheld a lower
court’s decision that the sale of the shoes through X5 Retail’s
Perekrestok unit violated the German sporting-goods maker’s
rights, according to RAPSI.  Some of the offending shoes were even carrying a brand
identical to Adidas’s, RAPSI reported.  The infringement began in 2011 and continued through
January 2012, even after Perekrestok was put on notice that it
was infringing, according to RAPSI.  Domestic Baby Formula Labeled as Import Under Trademark Loophole  Some Chinese manufacturers of baby formula are registering
their trademarks in foreign countries as part of a strategy to
dupe customers into thinking the products are imported, the
Global Times  reported.   If the trademark is registered overseas, the product can be
labeled as a foreign brand, even if it’s produced domestically,
the newspaper reported.  Chinese consumers have tried to shift to imported baby
formula since the 2008 scandal in which the chemical melamine
was used as a formula ingredient, according to Global Times.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Nintendo Tells Game Front It Won’t Block YouTube Content Posts  Nintendo Co., the Japanese maker of video games and
equipment, said that while it won’t take down fan-posted
Nintendo content on Google Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing channel,
it has registered its content in the company’s databases.  The Kyoto-based company wants its fans to enjoy sharing the
content, according to a statement released to the Game Front
website.  Nintendo’s registration of its content will enable it to
insert advertisements at the beginning, middle or end of the
posted clips, Game Front said.  U.K. Music-Licensing Group Pools Members on Licensed Websites  PPL , a U.K.-based music-licensing agency, sent a list of
websites to its members asking if any have licensed their
recorded music to any of the sites, the TorrentFreak website
 reported .  The sites include BitTorrent, file-hosting and MP3 search
engine websites, and TorrentFreak said the content owners aim to
go to court to have these sites blocked.  TorrentFreak, an anti-copyright news site, said PPL members
are asked to let the licensing group know by May 21 if any
licensing deals are in place, possibly to help the group avoid
any potential embarrassment in court.  If the blocking request is made in court, it will be the
third attempt to block allegedly infringing websites, according
to TorrentFreak.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-AMD Workers at Nvidia Barred From Revealing Trade Secrets  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  won a court order barring ex-employees who went to competing chipmaker Nvidia Corp. from
disclosing trade secrets or soliciting former colleagues to join
them.  U.S. District Judge Timothy Hillman said in his order that
AMD may win its lawsuit claiming misappropriation of
confidential information, according to a filing May 15 in
Worcester,  Massachusetts .  AMD, based in Sunnyvale,  California , accused ex-employees
of taking sensitive company documents when they went to work for
 Nvidia. (NVDA)  The former employees transferred more than 100,000
electronic files pertaining to AMD’s graphics-processor business
in the days before their departure, AMD said in its complaint
filed in January. The employees also allegedly recruited other
AMD workers to leave the company.  The preliminary injunction replaces a temporary restraining
order granted after the suit was filed.  “We are pleased that the court has issued a preliminary
injunction against the four defendants,” Michael Silverman, a
spokesman for AMD, said in an e-mail. “AMD will always protect
its confidential, proprietary and trade secret information.”  Peter Mee, a lawyer for the defendants, declined to comment
on the order.  AMD said that the transferred documents included
confidential information, including licensing agreements with
significant customers, proposed strategies concerning licensing,
and technical information about new products and processes the
company is developing.  Three of the former employees -- Robert Feldstein, Manoo
Desai and Nicolas Kociuk -- transferred secret files to storage
devices, according to the complaint. Feldstein, Desai and a
fourth defendant, Richard Hagen, violated agreements to not
solicit other employees for a period of time after leaving the
company, AMD claims.  They all worked at AMD’s site in Boxborough, Massachusetts,
according to the complaint.  Nvidia, based in Santa Clara, California, isn’t a defendant
in the lawsuit.  The case is Advanced Micro Devices v. Feldstein, 13-cv-40007, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  IP Moves  Miller Canfield Hires Chinese Expert for IP Practice Group  Miller Canfield Plc hired Jun Chen for its intellectual-property practice, the Detroit-based firm said in a  statement.   Chen  previously worked at the Illinois Appellate Court and
at  China ’s Hefel Intermediate People’s Court, Capitol of Anhui
Province, where she assisted the Intellectual Property Law
Panel. She is bilingual in Chinese and English.  She has an undergraduate degree in biomedical engineering
and a bachelor’s degree in law from China’s Tianjin University,
a law degree from Chicago-Kent College of Law and a master’s
degree in law from Indiana University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 