-- India’s Rupee Declines Most in a Week on U.S. Stimulus Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-05-17T04:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/india-s-rupee-declines-most-in-a-week-on-u-s-stimulus-concern.html
India’s rupee fell the most in a week
on concern the  Federal Reserve  will scale back stimulus measures
that have contributed to inflows to  emerging markets .  Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said
yesterday that the central bank may reduce its $85 billion in
monthly bond-buying as early as this summer amid signs the
economy is gaining strength. India’s highest interest rate among
Asia’s largest economies will attract foreign capital, limiting
the rupee’s losses, according to DBS Bank Ltd. Global funds
boosted  holdings  of Indian debt to a record $37.8 billion on May
15, exchange data show, as the 10-year sovereign note  offers  547
basis points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Positive rate differentials “helped the economy attract
sufficient capital inflows to fund the current-account
deficit,” analysts at DBS, including Singapore-based  David Carbon , wrote in a report today. “A wildcard here, is the
recent volatility seen in the broad dollar tone, which will be
contingent on the Fed’s plans to tinker with the quantitative-easing program.”  The rupee declined 0.4 percent to 54.9950 per dollar as of
9:46 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest drop since May 10, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.4 percent this
week. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell four basis points
today, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.32 percent.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against six
major counterparts, climbed 0.9 percent this week. The tone on
asset purchases will probably be set by Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s testimony to the Joint Economic Committee next week,
according to DBS.  India’s current-account deficit widened to a record of
around 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended
March 31, the government estimates.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.89 per
dollar, compared with 55.73 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.76 versus 55.54. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  