-- India’s Bonds Have Best Week Since June on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-05-17T11:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/india-bonds-set-for-best-week-since-june-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
Indian bonds completed the biggest
weekly gain in 11 months on speculation slowing inflation will
give the central bank room to add to three interest-rate cuts
this year.  The wholesale-price  index  rose 4.89 percent in April, the
least in 41 months, the government reported this week. The
 Reserve Bank  of  India  has lowered the repurchase rate by 75
basis points this year to 7.25 percent to revive economic
growth. The next policy review is due June 17.  “Bonds are rallying as investors are factoring in more
rate cuts after inflation eased dramatically,” said Debendra Kumar Dash, a fixed-income trader at  Development Credit Bank
Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai.  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell 18
basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, this week to 7.41
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system.  The rate rose two basis points today.  The benchmark bonds gave up earlier gains today after
 Standard & Poor’s  reiterated there was at least one in three
chance of lowering India’s ratings in the next 12 months.  Slowing inflation gives the RBI more room to operate,
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s economic advisory council, said in an interview to
Bloomberg TV India today.  The nation’s gross domestic  product  rose 5 percent in the
fiscal year ended March 31, the weakest pace since 2003, the
statistics agency estimates.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell 10 basis
points this week to 7.10 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate rose one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  