-- Insurers Defend $329 Billion Muni Exception Amid Debate
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r   a n d   A a r o n   L o r e n z o
-- 2013-05-17T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/insurers-defend-329-billion-muni-exception-amid-debate.html
Property and casualty insurers are
voicing concerns that longstanding tax exemptions for municipal
bonds could be disrupted as part of a broader U.S. tax-code
changes being considered by Congress.  Insurance companies rely on income from municipal bonds to
cover claims paid to policyholders. Property and casualty
insurers held $329 billion in outstanding state and local debt
as of December, making them the fourth-biggest institutional
holder after mutual funds, money-market funds and banks,
according to U.S. Federal Reserve data.  The century-old exemption for interest on municipal bonds
is under scrutiny as lawmakers and the Obama administration seek
revenue to help cut U.S. deficits. While few lawmakers and
lobbyists think that Congress will take away the  tax exemption 
altogether, insurers want to make sure that their revenue from
state and local bonds isn’t disrupted, Bloomberg BNA reported.  “Any change to the taxation of municipal bonds must take
into account the settled expectations of investors with respect
to existing bonds, and should apply only to bonds issued after
enactment,” wrote the  Property Casualty Insurers Association of
America , in public comments last month to the House Ways and
Means Committee.  Local governments sell tax-exempt municipal bonds to pay
for sewage treatment plants, sidewalks, and stadiums. The tax
preference is among many breaks under fresh scrutiny by the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee as it considers revisions
to U.S. tax code.  Obama Proposal  President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposal for fiscal 2014
recommended capping the exemption for interest on municipal
bonds at 28 percent for the wealthiest U.S. households. That’s a
less-extreme change than the full repeal recommended by the
Simpson-Bowles deficit-reduction commission in 2011.  Repealing the break altogether would raise $124 billion
over a decade, according to estimate last year from the Joint
Committee on Taxation.  Lawmakers and lobbyists interviewed by Bloomberg BNA last
week said they doubt Congress will eliminate the municipal-bond
exemption. Still, leaders of the tax-writing committees have
said all ideas for tax reform will be considered, including
scaling back the exemption in some way.  Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts Democrat and a
member of the Ways and Means Committee, said during a panel
discussion in  Washington  May 8 that he was surprised to learn
through the committee’s  tax-reform  working groups that property
and casualty insurers rely so heavily on municipal bonds.  Public Projects  The insurers’ concern illustrates a wrinkle in the debate
over the tax preference for municipal bonds, a sensitive point
of tax reform. So far, the debate has been dominated by state
and local officials warning that scaling back the tax preference
could undermine the financing of public works projects.  As important as insurers are to the municipal  bond market ,
their role has actually diminished since the tax reform law of
1986, Christopher Taylor, former executive director of the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, told the Ways and Means
Committee at a March 19 hearing on the effects of tax reform on
state and local government.  The 1986 law enhanced the role of individuals as bond
investors and reduced that of insurers, in part by eliminating
certain tax shelters, Taylor said in prepared testimony.  Top Earners  While Neal and other lawmakers are pushing for no change in
the tax status of municipal bonds, the recommendations from the
Obama administration and the Simpson-Bowles panel make some
change more possible, an aide to a House Ways and Means
Committee member told Bloomberg BNA.  The  Tax Policy Center , a non-partisan group based in
Washington, has estimated that eliminating the state-and-local
bond exemption for high-income earners would generate about $25
billion in revenue -- only if the preference were taken away
from outstanding bonds as well as new ones.  Any fiscal benefit would sharply diminish if the exemption
were taken away only from newly issued bonds, a compromise the
 insurance industry  has indicated it could accept as a last
resort, the Tax Policy Center said.  Revoking the exemption from existing bonds would amount to
making bondholders pay taxes on bonds they bought under the
opposite assumption, Howard Gleckman, a TPC analyst, wrote in an
entry on the group’s TaxVox blog in August 2012. If only new
bonds become taxable, he said, municipalities trying to borrow
would have to compete for buyers with their own old and tax-free
debt, he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Heller in Alexandria, Virginia at 
 mheller33@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Lorenzo in Alexandria, Virginia at 
 alorenzo13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  