-- IRS Wrote Lawyer’s Question That Prompted Scandal Release
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-17T22:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/irs-wrote-lawyer-s-question-that-prompted-scandal-release.html
The Internal Revenue Service wrote
and planted the question asked on May 10 that led to the IRS
scandal, the questioner said in a statement today.  Celia Roady, a partner at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP in
 Washington , said she received a call May 9 from Lois Lerner, the
mid-level IRS official in charge of tax-exempt organizations.
Both were planning to attend a tax conference the next day in
Washington.  Lerner “asked if I would pose a question to her after her
remarks,” Roady said in a statement released today by her firm.
“I agreed to do so, and she then gave me the question that I
asked at the meeting the next day.”  According to Talking Points Memo, which received a
recording of the event, the question came a few minutes after
Lerner finished her prepared remarks. It was: “Lois, a few
months ago there were some concerns about the IRS’s review of
501(c)(4) organizations, of applications from tea party
organizations. I was just wondering if you could provide an
update.”  In response, Lerner acknowledged that the agency used words
such as “Tea Party” and “patriot” to decide which
applications for tax-exempt status should get tougher scrutiny.
Lerner apologized for the agency’s actions.  Roady said she didn’t know how Lerner would answer.  Miller’s Testimony  Steven Miller, the acting IRS commissioner who is being
forced out, said today in testimony before the House Ways and
Means Committee that the agency and Roady had talked in advance.
He hadn’t said that the IRS had written the question.  In a statement issued late today, the IRS said the
conference was an “important meeting for a key part of the
Exempt Organization community.”  Agency officials, the IRS said in its statement, “felt the
review was far enough along and that the facts were known that
it was appropriate to address the issue at the tax conference
panel during the question and answer session. It was important
for this integral group in the Exempt Organization community to
hear first-hand that we made mistakes in handling the process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  