-- Italian Government Suspends Unpopular Property Tax Payment
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-05-17T16:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/italian-government-suspends-unpopular-property-tax-payment.html
The Italian Cabinet agreed today to
suspend the payment of a residential property tax due in June,
an unpopular levy adopted by former Prime Minister Mario Monti
to help reduce the country’s budget deficit.  The administration led by Premier Enrico Letta pledged to
review the tax by Aug. 31. It also approved additional funding
of 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) for workers in a temporary
layoff program known as CIG.  The suspension will apply to the levy, known as IMU, on
primary residences. The tax sparked a popular backlash that
former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi used as the centerpiece
of his campaign in the February national election that produced
a hung parliament. Berlusconi’s party supports Letta’s
government in Parliament.  The suspension of the payment may require 2 billion euros
to finance, Barclays Plc economist Fabio Fois wrote in a May 7
note. Lower tax proceeds because of the collection freeze will
be offset by spending cuts, Deputy Prime Minister Angelino Alfano said at a press conference in Rome today.  “The measures already approved by Parliament coupled with
the ones decided today will have the effect of supporting the
economy,” Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said at the
press conference.  Simon O’Connor, spokesman for European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn, said the commission
“welcomes the restated commitment to ensure that the agreed
fiscal targets are met” by  Italy .  Letta announced his plan to suspend the collection of the
property tax in his first speech to Parliament on April 29. He’s
inherited an economy that’s probably in its eighth quarter of
contraction and he’s under strong pressure to take action to
drag the country out of its downward spiral of recession and job
losses.  Letta has repeatedly said his government may also postpone
a planned sales tax increase in July, a measure that would cost
another 2 billion euros, according to Barclays.  Today his Cabinet also approved the elimination of double
salaries for lawmakers who also serve as government members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  