-- Mitsui, Mitsubishi and NYK to Invest in $10 Billion LNG Project
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-05-17T06:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/mitsui-mitsubishi-and-nyk-to-invest-in-10-billion-lng-project.html
Mitsui & Co. (8031) ,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and
 Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101)  will jointly take a one-third stake in a U.S.
liquefied natural gas export facility to be built for as much as
$10 billion as Japan seeks to tap cheaper shale gas following
the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest trading company, and a
venture formed by Mitsubishi and Nippon Yusen, the country’s
largest trader and shipping line, will each hold a 16.6 percent
stake in the Cameron LNG terminal in Hackberry,  Louisiana , the
companies said in separate statements that also disclosed they
reached a 20-year accord to buy fuel from the facility. San
Diego-based Sempra Energy will retain 50.2 percent of the
project and  France ’s GDF Suez SA will take the remainder.  The agreement is another sign of efforts by Japanese
traders and gas companies to secure energy supplies after the
2011 earthquake and tsunami prompted the shutting of all but two
of the nation’s atomic reactors.  “Global demand for natural gas and LNG is expected to
grow,” Tokyo-based Mitsui  said  today in a statement. “Mitsui
will contribute to stable LNG production as well as stable
 energy supply  to the global market, including Japan.”  Construction of the Louisiana facility is to begin next
year with the first phase slated to start operating in the
second half of 2017, Sempra said.  Details Provided  The announcement expands on a statement made by Sempra in
April 2012 when the U.S. company said Mitsubishi and Mitsui
agreed to help develop the Louisiana facility. Nippon Yusen has
been added as a partner.  Japan is battling with rising costs as it seeks to secure
alternative fuels. Japan said on March 15 that it wants to be
included in the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, which
now encompasses 11 nations in  Asia  and the Americas.  The spot price for gas in Louisiana finished trading
yesterday at $3.932 per million British thermal units.  Japan ,
the world’s largest gas importer, paid an average of $16.810 in
February, according to the latest available Finance Ministry
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan would need U.S. approval to import cheaper shale gas.
Sempra’s Cameron project last year won permission to ship as
much as 12 million tons a year to countries with which the U.S.
has a free-trade agreement, the company said. Approval to export
to countries that don’t have free-trade agreements is under
review, the statement said.  Sumitomo Corp. said in April last year that it and Tokyo
Gas Co. agreed to buy 2.3 million metric tons of liquefied
natural gas annually for 20 years from Dominion Resources Inc.’s
Cove Point project.　  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  