-- J.C. Penney Investors Re-Elect Board That Oversaw Johnson Era
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-05-17T15:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/j-c-penney-investors-re-elect-board-that-oversaw-johnson-era.html
Ron Johnson ’s job at J.C. Penney Co.
ended after his attempt to overhaul the retailer wiped out a
quarter of its sales and about half of its market value. The
board members who hired him are staying.  Investors voted to re-elect all 11 of J.C. Penney’s
directors, the Plano, Texas-based company said today at its
annual shareholder meeting. Myron Ullman, who replaced Johnson
on the board and as chief executive officer on April 8, also was
part of the slate that won shareholder approval.  The vote leaves in place directors including  William Ackman , whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP is the
company’s largest investor,  Steven Roth , chairman of  Vornado
Realty Trust (VNO) , as well as Chairman Thomas Engibous.  Pershing
Square  and Vornado both disclosed large stakes in J.C. Penney on
Oct. 8, 2010, with plans to turn the company around.  The board, which then included Ackman and Roth, made a
splash in 2011 when it hired Johnson away from heading Apple
Inc.’s successful retail unit. J.C. Penney racked up more than
$230 million in management-transition costs putting Johnson and
his team in place. Now, Johnson and almost all of those
executives are gone.  Johnson tried to revamp J.C. Penney by overhauling almost
everything, including its logo, pricing, merchandise and store
layouts, in an effort to lure younger and affluent shoppers. The
changes alienated too many of its older customers while not
attracting enough new ones to make up the difference.  Sales  plummeted  almost immediately. The revenue declines
coupled with spending on renovating about 700 of its 1,100
stores led to a net loss of $985 million last year.  Johnson Ousted  Less than six weeks after reporting a fourth quarter in
which sales sank 28 percent, the company was searching for
Johnson’s replacement. Engibous called Ullman on Sunday, April
7, to discuss coming back to J.C. Penney, where he had been CEO
from 2004 to November 2011. On April 8, the company announced
his return and Johnson’s departure after about 17 months on the
job.  The retailer yesterday said its first-quarter net loss
widened to $348 million, or $1.58 a share, in the quarter ended
May 4 from $163 million, or 75 cents, a year earlier. Excluding
restructuring and management transition costs, the loss was
$1.31 a share.  J.C. Penney fell 3.2 percent to $18.19 at 11:42 a.m. in  New
York . The  shares  sank 50 percent from when Johnson started on
Nov. 1, 2011 through April 8. The stock gained 18 percent from
the CEO change through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  