-- Junk Bond Sales Drop as Credit Risk Rises in Europe Amid Slump
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-17T12:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/junk-bond-sales-drop-as-credit-risk-rises-in-europe-amid-slump.html
Sales of high-yield corporate bonds
in  Europe  dropped this week to the lowest in more than a month
as the cost of insuring the debt rose and the euro-area
recession extended to a record sixth quarter.  German pharmaceutical wholesaler Phoenix Pharmahandel GmbH
& Co KG, Greek refrigerator equipment supplier Frigoglass SA,
and Italian cement maker  Italcementi SpA (IT)  sold a total 700
million euros ($900 million) of junk bonds, the least since the
week ending April 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with speculative-grade ratings rose five basis points
this week to 387.  Issuance slowed as a report showed the euro-area economy
shrunk more than economists forecast in the first quarter. The
average yield investors demand to hold euro-denominated  junk
bonds  has risen five basis points since reaching an all-time low
of 5.01 percent on May 10, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  “We have been really full up on supply in high yield as
issuers have made use of the low interest rate environment to
refinance at low coupons,” said Priya Viswanathan, a credit
analyst at Societe Generale SA in Bangalore.  Companies sold a record 42.2 billion euros of junk bonds in
Europe this year, Bloomberg data show. Phoenix Pharmahandel
raised 300 million euros from a sale of seven-year bonds paying
3.125 percent, the lowest coupon from a non-financial high-yield
company since Fresenius SE offered 2.875 percent for 7 1/2-year
notes, Bloomberg data show. The German medical services company
raised 500 million euros in January through its Fresenius
Finance BV unit.  Greek Bonds  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both rank Phoenix
Pharmahandel BB, two levels below investment grade, and rate  Bad
Homburg , Germany-based Fresenius one step higher at BB+.  Frigoglass (FRIGO)  was the third non-financial Greek company to
raise debt this year, lifting corporate bond sales from the
bailed-out nation to the most since 2008, according to Bloomberg
data. The Athens-based company sold 250 million euros of five-year securities that were priced to yield 8.25 percent. The
debut followed sales from Hellenic Petroleum SA, the nation’s
largest refiner, and Hellenic Telecommunications Organization
SA, the biggest phone company.  Italcementi added 150 million euros to notes due February
2018 that were priced to yield 340 basis points more than swaps,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Risk markets were a bit weaker this week,” said Martin Reeves, head of high yield at Legal & General Investment
Management, responsible for about $2.45 billion of assets. “But
we had a lot of high-yield issuance before this week and I
expect sales will pick up again from here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  