-- Kansas City Southern on Track for Takeover: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-05-17T14:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/kansas-city-southern-on-track-for-takeover-real-m-a.html
No North American railroad is a more
alluring, or expensive, takeover target than  Kansas City
Southern. (KSU)   The railroad is poised to boost sales by 48 percent through
2016, faster than every peer for whom estimates are available,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The increase is being
fueled by the $13 billion company’s operations in  Mexico  --where
the economy is expanding at almost twice the U.S. rate --and
booming American oil production that’s already sent crude
shipments by rail to a record.  Kansas City Southern’s growth prospects may lure suitors
even though it trades for the highest multiple to profit among
peers, according to Hodges Capital Management Inc., which sees
 Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  as a potential acquirer. Desjardins Group
said Canadian National Railway Co. and  Canadian Pacific Railway
Ltd. (CP)  are the most logical buyers, while FBR & Co. says  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s BNSF Railway could be better positioned to buy
the Kansas City, Missouri-based company.  “If you talk to anybody that’s familiar with this
industry, it’s no surprise that KSU would be an attractive asset
to almost any” major railroad,  Justin Long , a Little Rock,
Arkansas-based analyst at Stephens Inc., said in a telephone
interview, referring to Kansas City Southern by its stock
ticker. “They have a very attractive cross-border network that
goes into Mexico, and there’s still a very long runway of
growth.”  Biggest Rally  William Galligan, a spokesman for Kansas City Southern,
didn’t respond to a phone message or e-mail seeking comment on
whether the 126-year-old company would be open to a sale.  Kansas City Southern  climbed  39 percent this year through
yesterday, the  biggest gain  among railroads in the  Dow Jones
Transportation Average (TRAN) , after reporting record annual revenue of
$2.2 billion for 2012. The company was picked yesterday to
replace  Dean Foods Co . in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the
benchmark measure of U.S. equities.  Today, shares of Kansas City Southern rose 1.6 percent to
$118.01 at 10:30 a.m.  New York  time.  Kansas City Southern is the fifth-biggest U.S. railroad by
sales and got  almost half  of 2012 revenue from Mexico, a country
that exported a  record  $278 billion in goods to its northern
neighbor in 2012. That helps Kansas City Southern, which
operates an approximately 3,100-mile (5,000 kilometers) network
in Mexico through Kansas City Southern de Mexico SA.  Mexico’s gross domestic product will expand 3.5 percent
this year, compared with a 2 percent gain for the U.S.,
according to the median of economists’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Kansas City Southern is positioned to take advantage
of that expansion and could be attractive to a suitor seeking to
bolster its own sales, FBR’s John Mims said.  ‘Very Attractive’  “It’s the only pure play for Mexico,” the Arlington,
Virginia-based analyst said in a phone interview. “It’s got a
very attractive growth profile. For those reasons, I think it
could be a takeout candidate.”  A renaissance in U.S. energy production is also helping
railroads such as Kansas City Southern. U.S. rail shipments of
crude oil rose to a  record  233,811 carloads last year, according
to the  Association of American Railroads . Kansas City Southern
benefits by serving  Port Arthur , Texas, home to refineries run
by Motiva Enterprises LLC and Valero Energy Corp.  Sales at Kansas City Southern are forecast to jump 48
percent from  last year  to $3.3 billion in 2016, the biggest
increase among North American railroads valued at more than $1
billion, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Prospects  Those growth prospects may be enough to tempt suitors to
bid on the industry’s most expensive company,  Eric Marshall , the
director of research at Dallas-based Hodges, said in a phone
interview. Kansas City Southern trades at 34 times its  earnings 
from the past year, compared with a median multiple of 19 for
the peer group, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  An acquisition of Kansas City Southern “would be a great
opportunity,” said Marshall, whose firm oversees more than $1
billion, including Kansas City Southern shares. The railroad
industry has “very high natural barriers to entry, and if
anybody wants this capacity, the only way to do it is to go
acquire somebody.”  The two biggest western U.S. railroads, Union Pacific and
BNSF, the railroad unit of  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway,
could make sense as buyers because their networks match up well
with the smaller carrier’s system, and they would find its
Mexican operations attractive, Marshall said.  Berkshire Hathaway  Hodges also owns shares of Union Pacific and invested in
BNSF’s publicly traded predecessor, Burlington Northern  Santa Fe 
Corp., before Berkshire Hathaway bought it in 2010.  BNSF is the most likely buyer, FBR’s Mims said.  “They have firepower, but they also don’t have short-term-oriented investors to answer to, so they can take a longer-term
approach,” he said. “They can absorb the integration easier
behind the curtain of Berkshire Hathaway.”  Tom Lange, a spokesman for Omaha, Nebraska-based Union
Pacific, and BNSF’s John Ambler declined to comment on whether
their companies would be interested in Kansas City Southern.  Canada’s two largest railroads, Montreal-based  Canadian
National (CNR)  and Calgary-based  Canadian Pacific , could also be lured
into bidding for Kansas City Southern because of the opportunity
to expand geographically and increase shipments of oil,
according to Brandon Snow, a  money manager  with CI Investments
Inc.’s Cambridge Advisors unit.  ‘Good Pathway’  Both Canadian railroads have lines that extend into the
U.S. and connect with Kansas City Southern’s network.  “Strategically it makes sense for both,” said Toronto-based Snow, whose firm oversees more than C$4 billion ($3.9
billion), including shares of Canadian National. Kansas City
Southern offers “a really good pathway to additional growth.”  Canadian National has more  leeway  than Canadian Pacific to
take on debt to buy Kansas City Southern, according to Benoit Poirier, a Montreal-based analyst at Desjardins. Canadian
National has a credit rating of A-, while Canadian Pacific is
lower at BBB-, one level above junk, by S&P.  Still, Canadian Pacific shares have surged 38 percent this
year amid a turnaround plan led by Chief Executive Officer
 Hunter Harrison , beating Canadian National’s 15 percent advance.
That’s giving Canadian Pacific a stronger currency for use in a
takeover, Poirier said.  Harrison “has convinced investors that he was going to do
a turnaround, and he would be able to convince investors of the
rationale of doing a deal like this,” the analyst said.  Antitrust Hurdles  Ed Greenberg , a spokesman for Canadian Pacific, and
Canadian National’s Mark Hallman declined to comment on whether
their companies are interested in Kansas City Southern.  Union Pacific and BNSF may face antitrust hurdles in bids
for Kansas City Southern, Poirier said.  Still, among the major North American railroads, Kansas
City Southern is the smallest by market value and a takeover may
not trigger regulatory alarms, said Marshall of Hodges. A target
of this size also would be digestible for its larger peers, he
said.  Union Pacific is the largest North American railroad by
market value at $73 billion, followed by  Canadian National  at
$43 billion. Canadian Pacific fetches $24 billion.  Kansas City Southern “wouldn’t be that hard for those guys
to swallow,” Marshall said. If a buyer wants “to have exposure
to Mexico, KSU would be a great place. As attractive as the
railroad industry is in the U.S., it’s even more attractive in
Mexico.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  