-- Kings Sold to Sacramento Group Led by NBA’s First Indian Owner
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-18T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/kings-sold-to-sacramento-group-led-by-nba-s-first-indian-owner.html
The  Sacramento Kings  were sold to a
group led by software billionaire Vivek Ranadive, who will
become the first Indian-born owner in National Basketball
Association history.  A Sacramento-based group led by Ranadive signed an
agreement to purchase the team from the Maloof family, Mayor
 Kevin Johnson  said yesterday in a news conference.  The group paid $347 million for a 65 percent stake in the
team, according to the Sacramento Bee. The deal, which includes
a plan for a new downtown arena, values the Kings at $535
million, the most expensive in league history, and ends a five-month battle over the team’s future.  Johnson, a former NBA All-Star, took the podium at the news
conference as  Stevie Wonder ’s “Signed, Sealed, Delivered I’m
Yours,” played over the speakers. He opened by asking those in
attendance to repeat after him: “We did it.”  “This is something that will define Sacramento,” he said.
“It is transformative. This community that we know and love
will never be the same because of what has transpired.”  The 55-year-old Ranadive is a native of Mumbai, India, and
founder of  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX)  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  has
spoken often about the league’s interest in expanding into the
world’s second most-populous country, including NBA-sponsored
events and the possible creation of an NBA-branded league.  Ranadive didn’t attend the news conference, which was
carried live on the league’s website.  Seattle Plan  NBA team owners voted 22-8 three days ago to reject a
proposal to relocate the Kings to  Seattle , ending the Maloofs’
preferred sale to a group led by Valiant Capital founder Chris Hansen and Microsoft Corp. Chief Executive  Steve Ballmer .  That vote, two weeks after a 12-member panel of team owners
unanimously recommended that the NBA turn down Hansen’s offer,
ended the Seattle group’s $625 million bid, leading the Maloofs
to turn to Ranadive’s group. Seattle had an NBA team from 1967
to 2008, when the SuperSonics were sold and moved to Oklahoma
City.  Ranadive will sell his minority stake in the NBA’s  Golden
State Warriors , who in 2010 were sold for $450 million, the
previous league record. His group, assembled by Johnson,
includes 24 Hour Fitness founder Mark Mastrov and former
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  executive  Chris Kelly .  In 28 years in Sacramento, the Kings made the playoffs 10
times, only once advancing past the Western Conference
semifinals. Attendance has been in the bottom fifth of the
league for the last six seasons. This year, the team went 28-54
and drew an average home attendance of 13,749, a league low.  Sold Out  Johnson said that Kings fans would reverse that trend. The
team has sold out 19 of its 28 seasons in the city, he said.  “Sacramento will have no problem making the NBA look
smart,” he said.  The sale includes a plan to build a $448 million arena
downtown in California’s capital city. The Maloofs reached a
deal with  Sacramento  in February 2012 to build an arena, only to
have the accord fall through within two months.  Stern, who made his first trip to India in April, said last
year at the  Bloomberg Sports Business Summit  that the NBA
sponsors the  Mahindra NBA Challenge , a grassroots clinic that
started in 2011, and is scheduling a four-city tournament
presented by  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s Sprite brand, which will include
more than 100 teams in Delhi, Hyderabad, Chennai and Mumbai.  The NBA has games broadcast on India’s television networks,
including Taj TV’s Ten Sports. It has an office in Mumbai.  The Kings franchise began in 1948 in Rochester, New York,
as the Royals; moved to Cincinnati in 1958; became the Kansas
City-Omaha Kings from 1972 to 1975, and was the Kansas City
Kings from 1976 to 1985 before moving to Sacramento. The team’s
only NBA title was in 1951.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  