-- Knicks Keep NBA Season Alive With Win Over Pacers; Spurs Win
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-05-17T05:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/knicks-keep-nba-season-alive-with-win-over-pacers-spurs-win-1-.html
The  New York Knicks  stayed alive in
the playoffs with an 85-75 home win against the  Indiana Pacers ,
while the  San Antonio Spurs  reached the Western Conference
finals with a series-clinching victory at Golden State.  The Knicks, who still trail three games to two in their
second-round series against the Pacers, have adopted “We
Believe” as their unofficial mantra as they try to become the
ninth team in National Basketball Association history to rally
from 3-1 down to win a best-of-seven playoff series.  New York took the first step toward that goal last night as
 Carmelo Anthony  scored 28 points in front of a sold-out crowd of
19,033 at Madison Square Garden. J.R. Smith and Chris Copeland
each added 13 points for New York, which never trailed.  “We believe, that’s just been our No. 1 statement,”
Knicks guard  Raymond Felton  said in a news conference. “We
believe. We believe in ourselves and we believe in each other.”  There are no NBA games scheduled for tonight. Game 6 is set
for tomorrow in Indianapolis, where the Pacers are 5-0 during
this year’s playoffs and 4-0 against the Knicks this season. If
the Knicks win that game, a series-deciding Game 7 would be May
20 in New York.  The series winner will face the defending champion Miami
Heat in the Eastern Conference finals. The Heat eliminated the
 Chicago Bulls  in five games in the second round.  Tim Duncan , who became the seventh player in NBA history to
reach the 200-game mark in the postseason, had 19 points in the
94-82 victory for the Spurs, who will play the Memphis Grizzlies
for a spot in the NBA Finals. Stephen Curry had 22 points for
the Warriors.  Scoring Champ  The NBA’s regular-season scoring champion, Anthony has
scored at least 20 points in 26 consecutive games. He has led
the Knicks in scoring in all 11 games this postseason.  “Any time you have a scorer like Carmelo, it frees up a
lot of things for the other guys,” Pacers forward  Paul George ,
who has guarded Anthony for much of the series, told reporters.
“They just made big plays. They were looking to be aggressive
and looking to attack, but again, it’s because of how well
Carmelo can score the ball.”  George had 23 points to lead the Pacers, while  David West 
added 17 points and 10 rebounds. Center  Roy Hibbert  picked up
his fourth foul with seven minutes remaining in the third
quarter and did not play for much of the second half.  The Pacers were missing point guard George Hill, who is
day-to-day after suffering a concussion in the first half of
Game 4, when he scored 26 points. Indiana committed 19 turnovers
and was 19-for-33 from the free throw line.  “We’re just out of sync offensively,” Pacers coach Frank Vogel said in a news conference. “We have plenty to beat the
Knicks with or without  George Hill , and the guys in uniform have
to play better.”  Lineup Changes  Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  returned to the team’s normal
starting cast last night, with point guards Felton and Pablo
Prigioni on the court, after experimenting with a larger lineup
to open the team’s 93-82 loss in Game 4.  The Knicks held a 40-34 lead at halftime, their largest
first-half point total in three games, and opened a double-digit
lead midway through the third quarter.  “I honestly thought we should have been up 15 or 20, the
way we were playing,” Woodson said of the second half. “But
they’re a team that’s not quitting, and that’s why we’re sitting
here down a game.”  Knicks guard  Jason Kidd  continued his postseason woes,
playing less than six minutes, his fewest in a game these
playoffs. A 10-time All-Star, he is scoreless in his last nine
games, going 0-17 from the floor and 0-10 from 3-point range in
182 minutes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at Madison Square Garden in New York at
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster at Oracle Arena in Oakland, California, at
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  