-- Kocherlakota Says Fed Hasn’t Cut Real Interest Rate Enough
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T o n y   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-05-17T19:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/kocherlakota-says-fed-hasn-t-reduced-real-interest-rate-enough.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President Narayana Kocherlakota said the Fed’s record stimulus
hasn’t pushed down the real interest rate enough to meet its
mandate to achieve price stability and full employment.  “The outlook for prices and employment is that they will
remain too low over the next two to three years,” Kocherlakota
said today during a panel discussion in  Chicago . “Despite its
actions, the FOMC has still not lowered the real interest rate
sufficiently,” he said, referring to the Federal Open Market
Committee.  Aiming to spur economic growth, the FOMC pledged on May 1
to  keep buying  $85 billion each month in bonds and to hold the
benchmark interest rate  near zero . Kocherlakota, who doesn’t
vote on the committee this year, has called for stepping up
stimulus to boost the expansion.  One way to fuel growth is to offer more guidance on the
Fed’s policy intentions, the Minneapolis Fed chief said. While
the FOMC has signaled “it’s going to be pretty hard” to raise
rates as long as the jobless rate is above 6.5 percent,
officials have been less clear about what they will do once
unemployment falls to that threshold, he said.  U.S. stocks rose today after reports showed consumer
sentiment improved. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased
0.9 percent to 1,664.65 as of 3:20 p.m. in New York.  Kocherlakota said low interest rates may lead to volatility
in asset prices, which may “pose macroeconomic risks.” While
the Fed could tighten policy to mitigate those risks, it must
also consider the costs of doing so for employment and
inflation, he said.  “The gains from tightening related to improving financial
stability are both speculative and slight,” he said.
“Financial stability considerations provide little support for
reducing accommodation at this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  