-- Natural Gas Seen Dropping in Survey on Milder U.S. Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-05-17T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/natural-gas-seen-dropping-in-survey-on-milder-u-s-weather.html
Natural gas futures may slide next
week as moderate weather subdues demand for the power-plant
fuel, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Nine of 13 analysts, or 69 percent, predicted that futures
will decline on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange through May 24.
Three, or 23 percent, said gas will advance and one said prices
will stay the same. Last week, 57 percent of participants said
gas would decline.  Above-normal temperatures in the U.S. this week will turn
lower early next week with no significant heat surges
anticipated, according to Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Gas
prices  have tumbled 12 percent from a 21-month high on May 1
after two consecutive government reports showed above-average
 inventory gains .  “We have no extreme temperatures in the forecast so we are
not going to need a lot of power generation,” said Gordy Elliott, a risk-management specialist at INTL FC Stone LLC in
 St. Louis Park ,  Minnesota . “We should have some bigger
injections in the next three or four weeks and we should
continue to see pressure in this market.”  Natural gas futures rose 2.2 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$3.932 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , heading
for the first gain in four weeks. Prices are up 17 percent this
year.  Inventory Report  U.S. stockpiles  increased by 99 billion cubic feet to 1.964
trillion in the week ended May 10, higher than the five-year
average gain of 83 billion for the period, the Energy
Information Administration said.  Analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg predicted an increase of 95 billion.  A  supply deficit  versus the historic norm narrowed for a
second week, dropping to 4.1 percent from 5 percent, according
to the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm. A deficit
versus year-earlier levels narrowed to 26.1 percent from 28.3
percent.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  3      9      1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  