-- NEA Notches 3,000 Percent Return on Tableau Software Investment
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-17T20:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/nea-notches-3-000-percent-return-on-tableau-software-investment.html
For New Enterprise Associates Inc.,
its investment return on  Tableau Software Inc. (DATA)  was off the
charts.  NEA’s $29.2 million investment in the digital-chart
provider, which made its stock-market debut today, was valued at
more than $950 million at the close in New York, making the
venture-capital firm the top winner so far this year,
Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech Deals blog.  As any Silicon Valley pundit knows, the vast majority of
venture-capital bets fail. What makes the business work is the
very rare gain of more than 3,000 percent on an investment, like
the return NEA has thus far achieved on Tableau.  NEA first backed Seattle-based Tableau in 2004, a year
after the company was founded, gaining two board seats and
providing $5 million to “expand sales operations and invest in
product development,” according to a statement at the time.
NEA, with offices in  Menlo Park , California, and  Chevy Chase ,
Maryland, put in another $10 million in 2008 and $14.2 million
in 2010.  More than 10,000 companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to  Bank of
America Corp.  have used Tableau’s software to create easy-to-use
charts out of complex data.  NEA sold 2 million of its 19.6 million Tableau shares at
the initial public offering price of $31. The stock closed at
$50.75 today.  NEA’s gains are mostly on paper for now. Insiders are
beholden to a so-called lock-up period that keeps them from
selling any additional shares for six months from the time of
the IPO.  Business Intelligence  The venture-capital firm knows all too well what can happen
in the interim. NEA was the biggest venture investor in  Groupon
Inc. (GRPN) , which lost half its value in the six months after trading
began on Nov. 4, 2011, as the daily deals market proved to be
more hype than substance. NEA still owns all of its Groupon
shares, according to Bloomberg data, and the stock is now down
65 percent since the offering.  NEA is hoping Tableau performs more like  Workday Inc. (WDAY)  than
Groupon. Taking on  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  with web-based human resources
software, Workday has more than doubled in value since first
selling shares in October.  “The big parallel here is that for the first time in 20
years, there are opportunities to disrupt large segments of the
software business,” said Scott Sandell, a partner at NEA who
sits on the boards of Workday and Tableau. “In this case, it’s
business intelligence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  