-- News Corp. Phone-Hacking Claim Dropped by Elle Macpherson Aide
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-17T12:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/news-corp-phone-hacking-claim-dropped-by-elle-macpherson-aide.html
A former adviser to model  Elle Macpherson  dropped her phone-hacking claim against  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
U.K. unit because of a lack of evidence that her voice mail was
accessed by the company, her lawyers said at a London hearing.  Mary-Ellen Field has “come to the conclusion in light of
what evidence has shown to be available,” that she “has no
alternative but to discontinue the claim,” Augustus Ullstein,
her lawyer, said in court today.  Field had claimed voice mails she left Macpherson were
intercepted by journalists at News Corp.’s now defunct News of
the World. She acted as a business adviser to the model until
November 2005 when she was fired under suspicion of leaking
private information to the tabloid press.  “There has never been any evidence that News Group
Newspapers ever hacked the claimant’s phone or hacked any phone
on which she left a message,” Dinah Rose, News International
Ltd.’s lawyer, said reading statement in court.  News Corp. has settled more than 89 percent of the 167
phone-hacking claims from a second wave of litigation by victims
who said their voice mails were illegally intercepted, lawyers
said at an April hearing.  Rose said the company is considering suing Field’s
lawyers, Taylor Hampton Solicitors Ltd., over the
“substantial” wasted legal costs in the case.  “This appears to be bully-boy tactics in order to get
payback for the fact that we exposed all the substantial wrong-doing and wholesale destruction of evidence under  James Murdoch ’s regime,”  Mark Lewis , a lawyer at Taylor Hampton, said
to reporters after today’s hearing.  News Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of the World tabloid in July 2011 in
response to public anger over revelations it intercepted the
mobile-phone messages of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler a
decade ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  