-- Nigerian Jets Destroy Heavy Weapons in Raid on Islamists
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-05-17T16:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/nigerian-jets-destroy-heavy-weapons-in-raid-against-islamists.html
Nigerian troops mounted air and
ground attacks on camps used by the militant Islamist Boko Haram
group in the northeast, destroying anti-aircraft and anti-tank
weapons, a military spokesman said.  “An air campaign was carried out before soldiers went into
the area,” Chris Olukolade, a spokesman for Defense
Headquarters, said today by phone from Abuja, the capital. The
attacks in the northern and central parts of Borno state were
carried out yesterday and “troops have taken over the place
after destroying the camps,” he said.  The military campaign follows President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s
May 14 declaration of emergency rule in the three northeastern
states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa to tackle the insurgency by
the Boko Haram group that has killed thousands since 2009. Parts
of the country’s northeast were being taken over by Islamist
militants, Jonathan said.  Jonathan’s action followed violence in the northeastern
Baga, a fishing town on the shores of Lake Chad, that killed as
many as 228 people after security forces responded to an attack
by militants on April 16, according to local officials. The army
says 30 insurgents, six civilians and a soldier were killed, and
30 houses were burned down. New York-based  Human Rights Watch 
said satellite images of Baga show at least 2,000 homes were
destroyed.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the local Hausa language, started its violent campaign to
impose Shariah law on  Nigeria  after police in 2009 killed its
founder,  Mohammed Yusuf , while in custody for his role in
clashes with the security forces in the northeastern city of
Maiduguri, Borno state capital. More than 700 people, mostly his
followers, died in the violence.  Police Station  Since then the group has carried out gun and bomb attacks
across the north and Abuja that have killed more than 1,500
people, according to Human Rights Watch. Africa’s biggest oil
producer and most populous country of more than 160 million
people is roughly split between a mainly Muslim north and a
predominantly Christian south.  While soldiers attacked militant camps in the northeast,
gunmen suspected to be Boko Haram fighters attacked a police
station and a bank in the northwestern town of Daura, about 700
kilometers (430 miles) from Maiduguri, Ikedichi Iweha, a
military spokesman in the northern city of Kano said today by
phone. Seven people died in the fighting including two soldiers
and five militants, the army said.  The offensive against the militants “will continue until
we get all the camps, all their locations destroyed,” Olukolade
said. Troops will take the campaign to “everywhere we can
locate the terrorists, not just in the three states” under
emergency rule, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  