-- Nigeria LNG Declares Force Majeure After Shell Pipeline Leak
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-05-17T22:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/nigeria-lng-declares-force-majeure-after-shell-pipeline-leak.html
Nigeria LNG Ltd., Africa’s largest
liquefied natural gas export terminal, said it declared force
majeure on exports following a  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  halt on
deliveries after discovering a supply pipeline leak.  Force majeure, a legal step that protects a company from
liability when it can’t fulfill a contract for reasons beyond
its control, was declared on May 15. The declaration followed
Shell’s shutdown of its Gbaran Ubie and Soku gas facility after
the pipeline leak, Kudo Eresia-Eke, a Nigeria LNG spokesman
based in Abuja, said today in an e-mail.  “Nigeria LNG is working with Shell Petroleum Development
Co. and its other gas suppliers to seek mitigation measures,”
he said. Gas supply to Nigeria LNG has been cut by as much as 50
percent by the Shell shutdown, he said.  Nigeria LNG operates the Bonny Island plant, which has six
production units, or trains, able to produce 21.7 million metric
tons of the chilled gas a year, or about 8 percent of the
world’s total, according to data from the  International Group  of
LNG Importers. The company supplied 12 percent of the world’s
LNG for near-term delivery in 2011, according to the group.  The halt is “likely to have significant impact on
liquefied natural gas prices,” Dolapo Oni, a Lagos-based oil-and-gas analyst at Ecobank Research, said today in an e-mail.  A Feb. 5 force majeure on gas deliveries to Nigeria LNG
after a similar pipeline leak cut shipments and helped boost
spot LNG prices in northeast Asia to a record on Feb. 4,
according to data from World Gas Intelligence.  Nigeria LNG, which has long-term contracts with buyers in
 Spain ,  Italy ,  France  and  Turkey , exported 333 cargoes in 2012,
the most since sales began in 1999, according to a  report  on its
website. State-run Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. is the
biggest shareholder, with a 49 percent stake. Units of Shell,
Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  hold 26 percent, 15 percent and 10 percent,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  