-- Northwater Backs RedWave Harvesting Heat With Antennas
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-05-17T21:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/northwater-bets-on-redwave-to-harvest-waste-heat-with-antennas.html
(Corrects attribution in sixth paragraph.)  Northwater Capital Management Inc., a
Canadian private equity investor, is backing startup RedWave
Energy Inc.’s efforts to convert industrial waste heat into
electricity using nanomaterials.  Northwater invested $1 million this month and provided $2
million last year through a Series A financing round, according
to RedWave Chief Executive Officer James Nelson. The company
will seek funding through a Series B round this year after
starting work on a prototype that may be tested in power-plant
conditions.  More than half of the energy produced in the U.S. in 2011
was wasted, including heat from industrial operations and
generating electricity, according to  estimates  from the U.S.
Energy Department’s Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Glen
Ellyn, Illinois-based RedWave will take advantage of this energy
that otherwise goes unused, said D’Arcy Walsh, a Northwater
associate.  “The conversion of waste heat to electricity presents a
huge opportunity, and it’s a much underserved market,” Walsh
said by telephone today. Waste heat generated in the U.S. each
year “has a value somewhere north of a trillion dollars.”  The value of heat wasted at power plants alone may be as
much as $136 billion a year, Nelson said.  RedWave uses so-called nano-antennas developed by the
Energy Department that work much like radio or TV antennas to
collect infrared energy, Nelson said. The flexible sheets are
made from common metals such as nickel and capture “low
temperature” waste heat, temperatures below about 200 degrees
Celsius (392 degrees Fahrenheit).  Flue gases emitted from smokestacks are one source of low-grade waste heat at power plants that is “more than hot
enough” to produce power with RedWave’s system, Nelson said.  “We can go after much lower temperature, and that’s where
the abundance of waste heat is,” Nelson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  