-- NYSE Voids Penny Trades in Anadarko From Last Minute of Trading
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-05-17T22:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/nyse-breaks-trades-that-sent-anadarko-petroleum-shares-down-99-.html
The New York Stock Exchange broke
trades in  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  after the shares briefly
plunged 99 percent in the final minute of today’s session.  The transactions drove Anadarko, the second-largest U.S.
independent oil and natural gas producer with a $45 billion
market value, down to 1 cent. The  stock  then recovered and
closed at $90.03, up 2.5 percent for the day. NYSE Euronext
canceled trades executed at or below $87.56, according to an
emailed statement from the exchange.  “With technology and trading there’s always going to be
blips and issues,” Ben Schwartz, the Chicago-based chief market
strategist at broker Lightspeed Financial Inc., said by phone.
“I’m sure the exchange is going to do the right thing in
rectifying the situation. The exchanges have a pattern of doing
what’s fair and balanced in these situations.”  The trades weren’t subject to the new system of limiting
swings in individual stocks on American exchanges, a program
known as limit-up/limit-down, because they came after 3:30 p.m.
New York time, when the restrictions are lifted. The changes are
going into effect gradually for stocks and will be expanded to
the full trading day in August.  Under limit-up/limit-down, trades aren’t allowed to occur
at more-than-specified percentages above or below a stock’s
rolling five-minute average price.  One-Cent Trades  The 26 trades at 1 cent occurred on the NYSE where the
shares are listed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, declined to comment and
referred questions to the NYSE.  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for
the NYSE, declined to comment beyond the statement from the
exchange.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking to limit
technology breakdowns at venues handling stock, options and bond
trades and ensure they can withstand malfunctions that could
jeopardize markets. Regulators and exchanges are altering former
speed bumps adopted after the May 2010 flash crash to boost
confidence in a market that has become faster and more complex
over the last decade.  U.S. stock exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees almost 4,300 brokers, introduced curbs
for individual stocks after the flash crash to halt shares when
they rise or fall at least 10 percent in five minutes. The new
system is likely to cause fewer halts, the SEC said last year.  Stocks began adopting the limit-up/limit-down plan on April
8. All companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and Russell
1000 Index and more than 400 exchange-traded products are
included in the program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  