-- Obama Seeks to Revive Agenda After Week of Political Turmoil
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-05-17T18:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/obama-seeks-to-revive-agenda-after-week-of-political-setbacks.html
President  Barack Obama , attempting to
regain his political footing at the end of a week confronting
scandals and criticism, turned his attention to jobs and
education.  The president stopped at a Baltimore elementary school that
offers early childhood services before delivering a speech at a
dredging-equipment manufacturer whose president is pressing
Congress to approve the Keystone XL pipeline.  Obama said he’s signed a presidential memorandum to cut in
half the time it takes to get under way major infrastructure
projects such as roads and bridges, to speed  job creation .  “Our workers are at our best when we’re building stuff,”
Obama told a crowd of workers and government officials at
Ellicott Dredge Enterprises LLC, a supplier of dredging
equipment to governments, municipalities, contractors, sand and
gravel operators, port authorities and marina operators. “We’ve
got to up our game when it comes to infrastructure.”  Obama spoke as a committee in the U.S. House opened the
first day of hearings on the  Internal Revenue Service ’s scrutiny
of groups advocating shrinking the government that applied for
tax-exempt status. The acting IRS commissioner,  Steven Miller ,
who was forced to resign by Obama, was the main witness.  The president also is facing investigations in the
Republican-led House over the deadly attack last year on a
diplomatic outpost in Benghazi, Libya, and questions from
members of both parties about the  Justice Department ’s subpoena
of phone records of Associated Press reporters and editors.  ‘Fleeting Issue’  Obama made only indirect mention of those controversies in
Washington, about 40 miles to the southwest.  “I know it almost seems like folks down there are more
concerned with their jobs than yours,” he said. “Others may
get districted by chasing every fleeting issue that passes by.”  The president is trying to refocus attention on his second-term agenda, which includes strengthening  gun control , easing
 climate change , spending on infrastructure, overhauling
immigration laws, establishing a free and expanded
prekindergarten program for 4-year-olds, raising the minimum
wage to $9 an hour and reaching a debt and deficit deal with
Congress,  “Their challenge is to move beyond these problems and get
on to stuff that people really care about,” said  Steve Elmendorf , deputy campaign manager for then-Senator  John Kerry ’s
2004 presidential campaign.  Economic Indicators  The administration received some good economic news today
as the Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators
climbed a more-than-forecast 0.6 percent in April, a rebound
from March that suggests the world’s largest economy may be
poised for further expansion.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5 percent to
1,658.07, a record on a closing basis, at 11:50 a.m. in New
York.  The president’s visit to Ellicott Dredge Enterprises came a
day after the company president, Peter Bowe, testified before a
House subcommittee urging lawmakers to approve the Keystone XL
pipeline, without waiting for action by Obama. Environmental
groups, part of the president’s political base, oppose the
pipeline, which would carry oil from  Canada  to the  Gulf Coast .  The 128-year-old company, based in Baltimore, sells its
equipment for as much as $30 million each, Bowe testified. The
company and its 200 employees would benefit from Keystone
because it manufactures dredging and pumping equipment linked to
the production of oil from Alberta-based oil sand producers.  “For us, it’s all about jobs,” Bowe told a House Small
Business subcommittee, according to his testimony.  TransCanada’s $5.3 billion pipeline has been among the most
prominent environmental fights for the past two years. Obama’s
administration is expected to decide later this year on whether
to permit the pipeline to cross the border.  Unemployment in  Maryland , a Democratic Party stronghold,
was 6.5 percent in April, little changed from 6.8 percent in the
same month a year ago. Still, the state’s rate is lower than the
 nation’s as a whole , which was 7.5 percent in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Baltimore at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  