-- Ocado Transforms to Technology From Grocery With Morrison Deal
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-05-17T15:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/ocado-transforms-to-technology-from-grocery-with-morrison-deal.html
Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  Chief Executive
Officer Tim Steiner today began to demonstrate to investors that
his business is what he’s been telling them for the last three
years: a technology company that also delivers groceries.  Ocado surged as much as 47 percent to a record in  London 
after the online grocer unveiled a partnership with  William
Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  that will boost its coffers by 170
million pounds ($259 million). The deal relies on Ocado’s
warehousing processing and logistics expertise helping Morrison
to make a belated entry to the U.K. Internet grocery market.  Valuing Ocado has been a dilemma for analysts since the
company sold shares in a July 2010  initial public offering .
Having not made a profit since being founded in 2000, investors
had to base decisions on potential rather than any traditional
investment yardstick. As recently as 17 months ago, the stock
fell as low as 52 pence as the company said a reduction in
forecast earnings could lead to a breach of debt covenants.  Ocado has been “consistently underestimated” by the
investment community, said  Tom Ewing , a  fund manager  at Fidelity
Investment Services in London, which held a 4 percent stake at
the end of March. By focusing on long-term goals rather than the
next quarter’s revenue, the company “has developed world-leading technology” and “stands to be a key beneficiary of
consumers’ relentless pursuit of value, convenience and range.”  Today,  the shares  rose as high as 296.8 pence, the highest
since they were sold to the public at a price of 180 pence a
share. They closed up 36 percent at 274.1 pence, also helped by
the disclosure that sales growth exceeded 15.5 percent in the
second quarter, accelerating from 14 percent in the first.  ‘Consistently Underestimated’  The deal with Bradford, England-based Morrison will wipe
out the company’s  debt  and leave it with cash for expansion.  The agreement won’t prevent the Internet grocer striking
similar deals with non-food retailers in the U.K. or
international peers, CEO Steiner said in an interview.  “We can do other deals outside of grocery in the U.K., we
can do any deal we want outside the U.K.,” said Steiner, one of
three former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bond traders who created
the company. “We can operate a business with somebody else if
we wanted, most importantly we can do this internationally.”  According to Ocado, the agreement will contribute “a mid-teen million-pound improvement” to net income, comprised mainly
of benefits from service fees and cost-sharing arrangements.  Fidelity’s Ewing and Exane BNP Paribas analyst Andrew Gwynn
said it’s too early to say how the deal will influence earnings
estimates for Ocado.  Price Ratios  Based on current estimates, Ocado trades at a price-to-earnings ratio of 193 times for 2015, more than  Amazon.com
Inc.’s (AMZN)  valuation of 44 times for the same year.  “In terms of valuing it, you obviously have to look at the
earnings they could generate,” said Gwynn. “We already have
them on 30 times pre-deal earnings by November 2017, so already
very high. This deal certainly brings them closer to their
ambition to be seen and valued as a technology company rather
than just being viewed as an Internet grocer.”  Under the agreement, Morrison will gain half the capacity
of Ocado’s Dordon warehouse in central  England , which opened
this year. Ocado will receive 165 million pounds up front,
mostly from selling the site to Morrison and leasing it back.  The online grocer will also assist with developing the
Morrison website, picking goods at the warehouse and installing
its proprietary routing systems in Morrison delivery vans.  Ocado said the tie-up won’t have an effect on its agreement
with the competing Waitrose chain that allows it to use the
Waitrose brand on its website and vans until 2020.  Gaming Software  The online grocer uses video-gaming software to provide a
computer-generated display of the automated processes taking
place inside the Dordon warehouse and at its first distribution
center in Hatfield, southeast England. Unlike competitors  Tesco
Plc (TSCO)  and  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , Ocado picks and dispatches orders from
centralized warehouses rather than at local stores.  Not all analysts believe that the Morrison deal necessarily
means a potential new stream of revenue from other retailers.  “We don’t think that Ocado’s technology and warehouse
capabilities have global appeal to other food retailers, nor
could they be easily transferred to other retail categories,”
said  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London
with a sell recommendation on the shares.  Still, Fidelity’s Ewing, who has supported Ocado since the
IPO, says he is a “happy and committed” shareholder.  “I don’t think people have fully realized yet how online
has revolutionized retail,” Ewing said. “And the biggest part
of retail is food retail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  