-- London Heathrow Seeks Increased Early Arrivals to Gain Capacity
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-17T10:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/london-heathrow-seeks-increased-early-arrivals-to-gain-capacity.html
London’s  Heathrow Airport (FER)  wants to
concentrate incoming flights earlier in the morning as part of a
short-term fix for capacity shortages at Europe’s busiest hub.  The airport would add slots between 5 a.m. and 6 a.m. using
one runway while giving up two-runway arrivals in the next hour,
owner Heathrow Ltd. said in a submission to the state-appointed
Airports Commission on runway capacity in the London area.  Recommendations on steps to ease operations in the near
term, before the construction of any new airport or landing
strips, must be made today in advance of an interim report due
by the year’s end. Heathrow says the steps it’s proposing would
improve reliability and punctuality while retaining a cap of
480,000 flights per year and mitigate the impact of noise.  “We are listening to local residents’ concerns and we are
working hard to develop new long-term solutions that can deliver
additional flights whilst also reducing noise,” Chief Executive
Officer Colin Matthews said, while adding that the only real
solution to Heathrow’s capacity crunch is to add another runway.  Heathrow is also calling for a redesign of  London ’s
airspace to gain efficiencies, and the vectoring of outbound
aircraft away from a single departure path to allow for more
flights. To ease delays, arrivals involving Airbus SAS A380
superjumbos and jets headed for Terminal 4 would also be allowed
to use the southern runway even when designated for departures.  No Mixed-Mode  So-called mixed-mode operations, in which runways are used
for take-offs and landing simultaneously and which could add 15
percent more flights at Heathrow, are not being sought, since
the change would remove respite from noise for some residents.  “We are not proposing the use of mixed mode as a short-term
measure because of the impact on local communities of ending
periods of respite from noise,” Matthews said.  London Mayor Boris Johnson, who opposes the expansion of
Heathrow in favor of a new hub in the Thames estuary, said
decisions on near-term changes should come only once the future
of airport capacity in southeast  England  has been decided.  “Otherwise, short- and medium-term options will be pursued
that do not address the fundamental challenges and will only
serve as an excuse to postpone consideration of a long-term
solution until the next crisis arises,” his office said today.  Heathrow is also seeking authority to prioritize arrivals
according to the schedule rather than on a “first come, first
served” basis, which can reward carriers that turn up early.  It also wants to end to a policy of favoring a westerly
heading even when wind conditions are neutral, which routes jets
over London that could just as safely approach the airport on a
an east-bound path over semi-rural areas west of the city.  Both runways could also be used for aircraft arrivals when
there are delays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  