-- Monsanto Alfalfa Can’t Be Limited as Plant Pest: Court
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-17T21:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/monsanto-alfalfa-can-t-be-limited-as-plant-pest-court.html
Alfalfa genetically modified to
withstand  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s Roundup weed killer was correctly
deemed by U.S. agriculture officials not to be a plant pest that
needs to be regulated, a federal appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco today upheld a
lower-court ruling that unconditionally deregulated the product
and agreed the Agriculture Department’s Animal Plant and Health
Inspection Service lacks jurisdiction to regulate the plant.  The suit was at least the second attempt by environmental
groups to overturn the department’s decision to deregulate the
genetically engineered alfalfa. The groups argued the alfalfa
will cross-pollinate with and alter the genetic structure of
conventional alfalfa, in a process called transgenic
contamination, and compromise organic products.  The groups also argue the deregulation will lead to weeds
resistant to the weed-killer, causing farmers to apply greater
amounts and different mixtures of herbicides, harming plants and
animals living near alfalfa fields where the weed killer is
applied and genetically modified alfalfa is grown.  The law at issue, the Plant Protection Act, “does not
regulate the types of harms that the plaintiffs complain of,”
and the Agriculture Department correctly concluded that Roundup-Ready Alfalfa wasn’t a “plant pest,” the appeals court said in
its written opinion. “Once the agency concluded that Roundup-Ready Alfalfa was not a plant pest, it no longer had
jurisdiction to continue regulating the plant.”  Company Attorney  “The Court of Appeals ruling provides legal certainty for
U.S. alfalfa growers,” Kyle McClain, Monsanto’s chief
litigation counsel, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
decision is an important reaffirmation of the federal
government’s process for regulating biotechnology-improved
crops.”  The  Center for Food Safety , one of the groups that sued, is
disappointed in the ruling and will pursue other legal options
to “halt the sale and planting of this harmful crop,” the
organization said in an e-mailed statement.  “This is an irresponsible decision,” Andrew Kimbrell, the
group’s executive director, said in the statement. “The court
acknowledged the many stark environmental and economic impacts
of these crops, and yet bends over backwards in allowing USDA to
avoid addressing those concerns in its regulatory process.”  He called the ruling “contrary to the Supreme Court’s
decision on genetically engineered alfalfa and prior decisions
by numerous other courts.”  Harm Foreseen  The decision acknowledged that the deregulation will lead
to irreparable damages to rural economies from transgenic
contamination, closing of major export markets, significant
increase in the use of herbicides and the resulting spread of
herbicide-resistant weeds, as well as harms to the environment
and numerous endangered species, according to the statement.  The USDA last week delayed approval of new herbicide-tolerant crops developed by Monsanto and Dow Chemical Co. to
give them additional scrutiny, citing the public’s concern about
the environmental effects of increased use of 2,4-D and  dicamba ,
weedkillers that have been widely used since the 1960s.  The Center for Food Safety asked the court last year to ban
or at least encourage the government to limit the use of St.
Louis-based Monsanto’s Roundup-Ready Alfalfa on grounds that
unconditional deregulation violates federal laws protecting
endangered species and guarding the environment against noxious
weeds. Monsanto is the world’s largest seed company.  Government Arguments  Government attorneys argued that regulators rightly
determined that Roundup-Ready Alfalfa is no different from other
alfalfa and therefore doesn’t pose any danger to other plants.
Increased use of weed killer and the effect herbicides have on
endangered species is outside the agency’s purview, they said in
court filings.  Sales of genetically modified alfalfa were first
deregulated in 2005. A federal judge in San Francisco ruled two
years later that more environmental review of the plant was
needed.  The U.S. Supreme Court in 2010 overturned the planting ban
while stopping short of explicitly allowing farmers to begin
planting the seed. After new studies, the Agriculture Department
deregulated the plants without restriction in 2011, prompting
another lawsuit by environmental groups and organic farmers.  The case is Center for Food Safety v. Vilsack, 12-15052,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 