-- Moody’s Upgrade After Surprise Cuts Propels Bonds: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-05-17T07:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/moody-s-upgrade-after-surprise-cuts-propels-bonds-turkey-credit.html
Turkish bonds surged and the lira
touched an 11-month low after a bigger-than-forecast cut to
 interest rates  preceded a decision by Moody’s Investors Service
to raise the nation’s credit rating to investment grade.  Yields on local  benchmark notes  slipped to a record-low
4.65 percent today and are down almost 500 basis points over the
past 12 months, the steepest decline worldwide, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The lira weakened to the lowest
intraday level since July yesterday before paring the decline in
U.S. hours after the Moody’s upgrade.  The central bank in Ankara lowered the benchmark repo rate
by 0.5 percentage point to 4.5 percent yesterday, and the top
and bottom ends of its so-called interest-rate corridor by the
same amount. The cuts, twice as large as estimated in Bloomberg
surveys, came after the bank’s index for the currency’s value
against  Turkey ’s trading partners rose past the level that
Governor Erdem Basci says represents an overvalued lira.  The rate cuts are “a strong indication of the central
bank’s resolve to prevent real appreciation” in the currency,
Inan Demir, chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said
in e-mailed comments. “The important question against this
background is whether fixed-coupon bonds offer enough reward to
compensate for the prospect of lira depreciation. Judging by the
immediate reaction, the market seems to think so.”  Appreciation Pressure  Moody’s lifted Turkey’s rating yesterday by one step to
Baa3, the lowest investment grade, citing government efforts to
reduce the current-account deficit and the nation’s debt load.
The central bank needs to be prepared for appreciation pressure
on the lira after the Moody’s decision, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said in an e-mailed statement.  The lira dropped 0.3 percent to 1.8293 per dollar at 10:00
a.m. in Istanbul, sliding for seventh day in the longest streak
of losses in almost two years.  Moody’s, which hasn’t rated Turkey investment grade since
1994, follows  Fitch Ratings , which awarded Turkey its first
investment-grade ranking in 18 years in November. The nation’s
debt level has fallen by 10 percentage points since 2009 to 36
percent of gross domestic product, Moody’s said.  “Turkey credit has been misrated for a long time,” Blaise Antin, head of emerging-market research at TCW Group Inc. where
he helps oversee $11.5 billion in developing-nation debt, said
by phone from  Los Angeles . “The government has done a good job
to prove a stable policy backdrop.”  Tumbling Yields  Yields on  two-year lira notes  slid 24 basis points, or 0.24
percentage point, yesterday, extending their drop to 135 basis
points this year. Yields fell another 15 basis points today.
They’re still higher than the 3.86 percent afforded comparable
debt of  Mexico , or  Poland ’s 2.53 percent yield.  The central bank’s real effective  exchange rate  index for
the lira rose to 121.1 last month, the highest level in more
than two years. The bank says it’s monitoring that measure, and
that a reading above 120 indicates an overvalued currency.  The lira has weakened 2.6 percent against the dollar this
year, compared with a 5.1 percent decline in the Polish zloty,
2.8 percent drop for  Russia ’s ruble and the 10 percent slump in
the South African rand.  Central banks overseeing about 25 percent of the world’s
gross domestic product have cut interest rates this month,
spanning the globe from the euro area and  Australia  to Kenya and
 Israel .  More Cuts  In Turkey, Cabinet members led by Minister Caglayan have
urged the central bank to accelerate cuts after  growth  in the
$800 billion economy slowed to 1.4 percent in the last quarter
of 2012, the lowest level since a 2009 recession. The central
bank said yesterday that exports, which are hurt by lira
appreciation, are struggling amid weak global demand. Caglayan
said rates could come down to as low as 2.5 percent.  Inflation (TUCPIY)  of 6.1 percent last month, the slowest in two
years, gave the central bank more room for yesterday’s cut. The
bank also reduced its overnight lending rate to 6.5 percent and
the overnight borrowing rate to 3.5 percent.  “We should expect further declines in bond rates,” Hakan Aklar, an economist at AkInvest in Istanbul, said by e-mail.
“We expect the central bank to cut policy rates to as low as 4
percent and then stop cutting.”  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
bonds rather than Treasuries fell 16 basis point to 176 basis
points today, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI  Global
Diversified (EXG)  index. That compared with an average of 274 for
 emerging markets , the index showed.  ‘Currency War’  The lira will weaken to 1.8565 per dollar by October and
1.8660 by the end of 2013, according to currency futures traded
in Istanbul.  Finansbank sees room for greater depreciation of as much as
4 percent against the dollar this year, to keep the real
effective exchange rate index below 120, Demir said.  Ozan Gaziturk, an economist at Istanbul-based lender
 Sekerbank TAS (SKBNK) , predicted a 3.7 percent drop to 1.89 per dollar,
because “the central bank still has the exchange rate in its
target.” He said Basci is merely following a global trend.  “Considering that the world’s major economies are in a
serious currency war, it’s unlikely that Turkey can act against
that,” Gaziturk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  