-- Orb’s Owners Try for Triple Crown They Missed With Secretariat
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-18T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/orb-s-owners-try-for-triple-crown-they-missed-with-secretariat.html
Stuart Janney III’s family missed
owning Triple Crown champion Secretariat in a coin flip, and
lost a  Kentucky  Derby winner by selling a broodmare before she
gave birth.  Now the chairman of Bessemer Group Inc. finally has a
contender in Orb, the 3-year-old Derby winner with five straight
victories going into today’s Preakness Stakes at Pimlico Race
Course in Baltimore. The colt is the even-money early favorite
to win.  Janney, 64, his cousin and co-owner Ogden Mills “Dinny”
Phipps and trainer Shug McGaughey wait for their horses to prove
they are fit for the Triple Crown races. Janney has said he
believes many race horses are still too immature when the races
are held early in their third year.  “He didn’t like to force them into these races when they
weren’t ready,” McGaughey, 62, said during an interview at the
Preakness barn that houses the contenders at Pimlico. “What’s
been special is how he matured physically and mentally during
the winter. It’s astonishing. I’ve never seen anything like it
in all the years I’ve been doing this and all the horses I’ve
been around.”  Orb was the first Derby entry for Janney, who never got the
chance to realize Secretariat was ready for the biggest event in
thoroughbred horse racing.  The coin flip in 1969 was between Penny Chenery of Meadow
Stables and Janney’s uncle, Ogden Phipps of Wheatley Stable,
which at the time owned 1957 Derby third-place finisher and
Preakness winner Bold Ruler, according to the Journal of
Kentucky History and Genealogy. The two went to the office of
 New York  Racing Association Chairman Alfred Vanderbilt II, where
Phipps won the flip to select the Bold Ruler foal of his choice.  Wrong Pick  Phipps had the pick of Somethingroyal’s weanling filly,
Hasty Matelda’s colt or Somethingroyal’s unborn foal. He picked
the filly. Chenery got the other two, including the unborn foal
who would run under the name of Secretariat and win the Triple
Crown in 1973. The filly, The Bride, ran in four races without
earning any money.  Two years after Secretariat’s run, Janney’s parents put
their champion filly Ruffian up against Derby winner Foolish
Pleasure in a match race. Ruffian, undefeated in 10 starts
against other fillies, broke down after a half-mile and was
euthanized the following day when her broken ankle couldn’t be
repaired.  Janney and Phipps had another Derby miss when they sold
Supercharger, who was in foal with Super Saver, the 2010 winner,
to WinStar Farm for $160,000.  Phipps, 72, almost did it again when he recommended that
Liberty Lady be sold. After all, she hadn’t produced any great
runners. Janney convinced him to breed her with Malibu Moon, the
son of A.P. Indy. The result was Orb.  ‘Scary Thought’  Orb won the Derby by 2 1/2 lengths, the colt’s fifth
straight victory since Nov. 24. Orb won the Fountain of Youth by
one-half length on Feb. 13 and the  Florida  Derby by 2 3/4
lengths on March 30, both at Gulfstream Park in Hallandale
Beach, Florida.  “I’ve never seen a horse develop over the winter like he
did,” said McGaughey. “I’ve never had a horse that broke his
maiden on Nov. 24 and matured and developed the way his horse
did -- never. He did it all on his own. He convinced us he was
ready when he won the Florida Derby. He took us there.”  After the Derby, jockey Gary Stevens, who came out of a
seven-year retirement to return to racing, said Orb was to be
feared by the contenders. Stevens is riding D. Wayne Lukas’s
Oxbow, who ran sixth in Kentucky and was given 15-1 odds.  “What I’ve got to hope is that Orb doesn’t show up the
same horse that did for the Derby and that he may have some
traffic problems, because I’m going to be flat honest with you,
we’re all up against it,” Stevens, a two-time Preakness winner,
said during a National Thoroughbred Racing Association news
conference.  ‘Untapped Resources’  Orb came from near the back of the 19-horse Derby field and
ran past the competition six horses wide before crossing the
finish line 2 1/2 lengths ahead of Golden Soul.  “I liked what I saw in the winner, and I think that we’re
seeing a colt that really has untapped resources right now,”
Stevens said. “I think he’s still improving, and that’s kind of
a scary thought.”  Trainer Al Stall, whose entry Departing was given 6-1 odds,
said the “Derby form” forecasts that Orb will become the 34th
horse to win the Derby and the Preakness. Eleven of those horses
went on to win the Triple Crown, with Affirmed being the most
recent in 1978.  “If the horse doesn’t have a hiccup between the Derby and
the Preakness, the Derby winner usually comes back and runs a
pretty powerful race in two weeks time,” Stall said during an
NTRA news conference. “It’s been proven over time that that
will happen.”  More Prospects  McGaughey said the stable has plenty of prospects back in
Florida who could follow Orb’s success.  “This has been a dream of a lifetime for me as much as we
have enjoyed him and getting to Kentucky the way we did,”
McGaughey said. “I always dreamed of the Derby, but I always
wanted the horse to take me there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  