-- Oregon's Radical Health Overhaul Blazes New Trail
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-05-17T17:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/oregon-s-radical-health-overhaul-blazes-new-trail.html
Talk to people in  Oregon  about health
care for long and eventually you will be asked something like
this: “You’ve heard the air conditioner story, right?”  In this case, it’s John McConnell, a health economist at
Oregon Health and Science University, doing the asking. As it
turns out, I have heard the story; it’s one that Oregon Governor
John Kitzhaber loves to tell. He loves to tell it so much, in
fact, that it has become something of a running joke in Oregon
health-policy circles. At this point, even Kitzhaber is in on
it. Before he repeats it to me, he says, “I probably shouldn’t
bore you with my air conditioner story.”  Here’s the air conditioner story: There’s a 90-year-old
woman with well-managed congestive heart failure who lives in an
apartment without air conditioning. That’s actually the whole
story.  Kitzhaber, a former emergency room physician, sees this as
the perfect example of what’s wrong with our health-care system.
“A hot day could send the temperature in her apartment high
enough that it strains her cardiovascular system and kicks her
into full-blown congestive heart failure,” he said. “Under the
current system, Medicare will pay for the ambulance and $50,000
to stabilize her. It will not pay for a $200 window air
conditioner, which is all she needs to stay in her home and out
of the hospital. The difference to the health-care system is
$49,800. And we could save that $49,800 without reducing her
benefits or her quality of life.”  Two Experiments  The past few years have seen two remarkable health-care
experiments in the Beaver State. One is the Oregon Health
Insurance Experiment, the first randomized, controlled trial
comparing Medicaid -- or any kind of health insurance -- with
being uninsured. The other is Kitzhaber’s effort to rebuild the
state’s Medicaid program around community health rather than
individual fee-for-service treatments. The health-insurance
experiment has gotten all the attention. But it’s the Medicaid
reforms that really matter.  The Oregon Health Insurance Experiment didn’t begin as
such. It began as a budget cut. From 2002 to 2008, Oregon threw
93,000 people out of its Medicaid program. In 2008, the state
found it had enough money to add 10,000 of them back. The only
fair thing to do, state officials figured, was draw straws. So
90,000 of the poorest residents of the richest country the world
has ever known entered a lottery to win health insurance.  The 10,000 Oregonians who got Medicaid weren’t the
lottery’s only winners, though. Early on, a group of eminent
health economists realized the lottery offered a chance to
conduct a study no one in their discipline had ever managed but
everyone had always wanted: a randomized, controlled experiment
comparing those who received Medicaid with those who remained
uninsured. This would enable researchers to isolate the effects
that insurance -- at least as delivered by Oregon’s Medicaid
program -- had on the uninsured.  “It’s hard to overstate how excited we were,” said Amy Finkelstein of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology . “We
thought it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to bring the
gold standard of experimental design to this question.”  Two weeks ago, the group reported the data from the first
two years of the study. They found that Medicaid coverage
increased the amount of health care people used, offered almost
total protection against catastrophic health expenses and
reduced depression by 30 percent, but it didn’t show a
statistically significant effect on blood pressure, cholesterol
or blood sugar.  Statistical Questions  The study has come under fire from health researchers who
think the sample of sick people was too small to show
statistically significant improvements in those measures. “What
I don’t get is if you look at the table in their study and look
at baseline  blood pressure  it was like 119 over 76,” said Aaron
Carroll, associate director of Children’s Health Services
Research at Indiana University’s School of Medicine. “That was
normal. You wouldn’t expect it to go down by nine. It would be a
bad thing for normal blood pressure to drop that much. All we
should care about is blood pressure in the small subset that had
high blood pressure. But they don’t present that.”  It’s a critique that Katherine Baicker, a Harvard health
economist who was one of the principle authors of the study,
partially accepts. “Our power to detect changes in health was
limited by the relatively small numbers of patients with these
conditions,” she said. “Indeed, the only condition in which we
detected improvements was depression, which was by far the most
prevalent of the four conditions examined.” She also noted that
the diabetes results were consistent with the improvements one
would expect from the clinical literature but the number of
people with diabetes was too small to establish significance.  However, she said the sample size was large enough to rule
out large improvements in blood pressure and cholesterol, at
least over the first two years.  All this might make for an interesting academic panel on
Medicaid. But the results were quickly conscripted into the war
over President  Barack Obama ’s health-care reforms. “Today, the
nation’s top health economists released a study that throws a
huge ‘STOP’ sign in front of ObamaCare’s Medicaid expansion,”
wrote Michael Cannon, director of health policy studies at the
libertarian  Cato Institute . Perhaps the law’s supporters
oversold what is really just “a $1 trillion program to treat
mild depression,”  wrote  the Daily Beast’s Megan McArdle.  I would be more favorably inclined toward such commentary
if the authors followed their analysis to its logical conclusion
and turned in their own health-insurance cards. “My daughter
needs private coverage,” says Ezekiel Emanuel, an oncologist and
chairman of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy
at the  University of Pennsylvania  who worked on the Affordable
Care Act. “Do I say to her the health-care system in the U.S.
won’t necessarily do a great job managing your blood pressure so
don’t get health insurance? No way in hell! And if that wouldn’t
be my response for my daughter it shouldn’t be my response for
poor people.”  Medicaid’s Impact  The study’s bottom line is that Medicaid worked. It
performed the core functions of health insurance. It got people
access to health care and protected them from catastrophic
expenses. “We can reject the ‘Medicaid does nothing’
hypothesis,” Finkelstein said. “Medicaid had impact. It
increases their use of preventive care. It increases their
outpatient visits. It increases their health-care utilization.”  What the study called into question is the next step in the
health chain: How much healthier, really, does the care we’re
buying make us? And I use the term “us” advisedly. “Medicaid is
a financing tool,” Kitzhaber said. “Once people get on Medicaid
they are bought into the same hyperinflationary, inefficient,
backloaded medical system as everyone else.” That’s the system
Kitzhaber wants to change.  In 2012, Kitzhaber struck an audacious deal with the Obama
administration. If the federal government would give Oregon $1.9
billion to remake its Medicaid program, Oregon would put
Medicaid on a tight budget, guaranteeing $11 billion in savings
over the next decade. If the savings don’t materialize, the
funds dry up and Oregon is left with a huge budget hole.  “The fundamental problem with our health-care system is the
growing discrepancy between the cost of care, the resources
available to pay for it and the tenuous connection between that
expenditure and actual health,” Kitzhaber said. “What we’re
doing is instead of putting our budget into the ER and paying
for congestive heart failure after congestive heart failure,
we’re putting it into care coordination and community health
workers. We’re investing in health. It’s just a paradigm shift.”  At the core of this shift are Oregon’s 15 “coordinated care
organizations.” What makes them different from accountable care
organizations or managed care is that they’re responsible for
more than the health of their members, which now include 94
percent of the state’s Medicaid population. They’re also
responsible for the health of the communities they’re in. They
have to run regular community health assessments, and the
results influence their pay.  This is a potentially transformational notion, based on a
belief that the health-care system doesn’t decide or drive
health, even that individuals don’t particularly drive their own
health. If you live in a community where the streets are
dangerous and the health of your neighbors is poor, you’re
probably going to be unhealthy -- and there’s little or nothing
your local hospital can do about it.  Radical Flexibility  Privately, many who are enthusiastic about Oregon’s effort
to reimagine its health-care system admit that it’s not exactly
clear how CCO’s will begin transforming whole communities.  The biggest change relates to the air conditioning story.
Kitzhaber has given the CCOs radical flexibility in what they
can purchase with Medicaid dollars. They can buy an air
conditioner for a 90-year-old woman in a hot apartment. They can
also try to improve outcomes by investing in “upstream”
preventive care; one CCO is paying pregnant women to stop
smoking. They’re also integrating with other public services.  “Six months ago,” said Oregon Health and Science
University’s McConnell, “if you were a Medicaid patient who came
to ER 20 times you’d get treated on your 21st time and go home.
Now you come in and there’s a social worker with a list of names
and they work with you when you leave to connect you with
outpatient care and other resources.”  All that might be an improvement, but it’s a long way from
a revolution. “I’m obsessed with what they’re doing in Oregon,”
says Jeffrey Brenner, head of the Camden Coalition of Healthcare
Providers, one of the country’s most innovative community-health
efforts. (Do you remember that Atul Gawande  article  in the  New
Yorker  about the doctor pioneering “hot spotting” in health?
That was Brenner.) “But the problem you can run into with this
population health stuff is people don’t know how to connect it
to a change strategy that’s incremental. They get paralyzed by
the vision and they don’t know where to start. You need small
victories.”  Obamacare gives almost every American health insurance.
That’s a necessary but not sufficient condition for making them
healthier. Oregon’s experiment may or may not work, but it’s the
right next step. “Medicaid can be improved,” Carroll said. “But
we need to differentiate between the way we deliver care and the
way we design insurance. Giving people insurance just gives them
the access to the care itself. Denying them Medicaid deprives
them of simply accessing the system. But if we want to improve
quality, we have to change how we deliver care.”  In Oregon, at least they’re trying.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 