-- Morgans Surges After Disclosure of Spurned Takeover Offer
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-05-17T20:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/morgans-surges-after-disclosure-of-spurned-takeover-offer.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  said it
received a $7.50-a-share takeover offer from a “large
international hotel company” late last year that it rejected as
too low. The stock rose to the highest in a year and half.  Yucaipa Cos., which has a stake in Morgans through
preferred shares and stock warrants, said in a regulatory filing
earlier today the New York-based hotelier should disclose an
offer it received. Morgans, in a statement after the filing,
said the $7.50 bid was turned down because the “price was not
sufficiently attractive.” Lex Suvanto, a spokesman for Morgans
at Abernathy MacGregor Group, wouldn’t name the company that
made the offer.  The Morgans board “responded that it was not interested at
the proposed price, but that it might entertain a proposal at a
significantly higher price,” the company said in its statement.
“A similar proposal was received by the company from the same
party at the same price in February 2013 and the company’s
position on the proposal was unchanged.”  Morgans Hotel shares rose 13 percent to $6.97 at the close
in New York. It was the stock’s biggest gain and highest price
since October 2011.  A Delaware Chancery Court judge ruled on May 14 that
Morgans can’t sell two of its businesses to billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa and begin a $100 million recapitalization plan
because directors didn’t properly approve the actions.  Jason Taubman Kalisman, a company director and founding
member of its largest common-stock holder, OTK Associates LLC,
sued his fellow board members last month over their decision to
back the Yucaipa deal.  Proxy Fight  OTK opened a proxy fight this year, saying it’s seeking to
overhaul Morgans’s board and return the company to
profitability. The chain, which includes 13 boutique hotels, has
lost money in every quarter since 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kalisman and OTK officials contend Morgans executives
sought to ram through a deal with Burkle calling for the
billionaire to swap his $230 million investment in the chain’s
notes and preferred shares for Morgans’s  Delano South Beach
Hotel  in Miami and a restaurant company. Burkle also would
retire warrants and assume an $18 million promissory note as
part of the deal.  Burkle also agreed to backstop the $100 million rights
offering without charging a fee as part of the acquisition.
Burkle, who serves on the the Morgans board, could end up with
32 percent of the company’s shares should no other investors
participate in the offering.  Deal Barred  Three days ago, Judge Travis Laster barred the deal and the
recapitalization from proceeding because Morgans’s directors
didn’t properly approve them. Company officials said directors
will reconsider the transactions. The board also faces a proxy
vote at the company’s June 14 meeting.  During a hearing on Kalisman’s challenge to the deals, the
dissident director’s lawyers cited the board’s rejection of the
$7.50-a-share bid as evidence it improperly favored Burkle’s
acquisition offer for the hotel and food-and-beverage company.  In its filing today, Yucaipa said it would honor the
agreement to buy the businesses, and urged Morgans to invite OTK
officials to help backstop the rights offering. Yucaipa also
said it wouldn’t object should Morgans cut the recapitalization
to $75 million.  The Morgans chain features  boutique hotels  such as the
Mondrian SoHo in  New York , the Clift Hotel in  San Francisco  and
the Delano Marrakech in  Morocco .  The case is Kalisman v. Friedman, 8447, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  