-- Toronto Mayor Ford Dismisses Cocaine Video
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-17T19:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/toronto-mayor-ford-dismisses-cocaine-video.html
Toronto Police say they are reviewing
allegations that Mayor Rob Ford was caught on video using
cocaine.  “We are closely monitoring the situation,” Constable Tony
Vella, spokesman for the Toronto Police Service, said in a
statement over the phone when asked if they would investigate.  Ford, who has come under fire at city council in the past
over allegations of conflict of interest, said the video reports
are “ridiculous.” He said the story in the Toronto Star is
another example of the newspaper “going after me.”  Ford spoke to reporters at city hall after the Star
reported that two of its reporters watched a video allegedly
showing Ford inhaling from a crack cocaine pipe. Bloomberg News
has not seen the video and can’t verify its authenticity.  The video allegedly shows Ford, 43, sitting in a chair in a
room, wearing a white shirt with the top buttons open, and
inhaling from what appears to be a glass crack pipe, the Star
reported.  The mayor of  Canada ’s largest city, who campaigned for
mayor with the slogan “Stop the Gravy Train”, has faced
mounting criticism since he was first elected in October 2010.  Ford, elected with 47 percent of the vote on a vow to
expand the city’s subway system, came up against a council that
endorsed a surface rail plan. He faced opposition on council in
his drive to cut costs by contracting out services such as
garbage collection.  Court Ruling  Most recently, Ford faced ouster when a Superior Court
judge found he broke the city’s conflict of interest rules over
donations he collected for his high school football charity. A
divisional court overturned the decision in January, finding him
not guilty and he kept his job. Clayton Ruby, the lawyer who
represents Toronto citizen Paul Magder in the case against Ford,
said he’s submitted the case to the Supreme Court.  Sarah Thomson, who sought the mayoralty in 2010, said via
social media and on television interviews that Ford grabbed her
while taking a photo at an event and made inappropriate
comments. Ford said in a statement at the time that the
allegations were “absolutely, completely false.”  The mayor, who vowed to stop the “war on the car,” was
once photographed reading a newspaper while driving on a city
expressway and ditched the city’s annual gay pride parade,
breaking with mayoral tradition of supporting the largest pride
parade in North America, to go to his family cottage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  