-- Tottenham’s Bale May Double Wages on New Deal: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-17T08:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/tottenham-s-bale-may-double-wages-on-new-deal-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bale Deal  Tottenham is confident Gareth Bale will sign a contract
extension with the Premier League club next month that will
almost double his wages to 170,000 pounds ($260,000) a week, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Bale, who swept English soccer’s player of the year awards
last month, is expected to add another year to his current deal
that expires in 2016, the newspaper said. Bale’s commitment will
help Spurs attract other top players and the club is closing in
on Barcelona forward  David Villa , the Mirror added.  City Targets Navas  Manchester City is targeting Sevilla winger Jesus Navas as
director of football Txiki Begiristain and chief executive
officer Ferran Soriano work on improving the squad for next
season, the  Sun reported .  The 27-year-old Navas, a  World Cup  and European champion
with Spain, has a 29 million-pound release clause in his
contract, the newspaper added.  Alcantara Alert  City is on alert after Barcelona put 22-year-old midfielder
Thiago Alcantara up for sale, the  Daily Mail reported .  Manchester United  and  Bayern Munich  are also interested in
signing the Spain international, who would cost 20 million
pounds to acquire, the Mail added.  Wayne’s Wages  Arsenal has discussed a bid for Manchester United’s  Wayne Rooney  though may struggle to put together a financial package
to tempt the striker, the  same newspaper reported .  Lukas Podolski is Arsenal’s highest-earning player with
wages of about 100,000 pounds a week compared with Rooney’s
250,000 pounds-a-week salary, the newspaper added.  Wenger’s Pledge  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said he would remain at the
Gunners after being linked with a move to Paris Saint-Germain,
the  Sun reported .  “I have always respected my contract and I will continue
to do so,” the Sun cited Wenger as writing in a blog for
Eurosport. Wenger’s accord with the Gunners expires next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  