-- How Benjamin Graham Revolutionized Shareholder Activism
-- B y   J o e   C a r l e n
-- 2013-05-17T19:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/how-benjamin-graham-revolutionized-shareholder-activism.html
Today, Benjamin Graham is known
primarily as  Warren Buffett ’s investing mentor and the author of
multiple classics about  value investing . Toward the end of his
life, in the 1973 edition of “The Intelligent Investor,”
Graham wrote, “Ever since 1934 we have argued in our writings
for a more intelligent and energetic attitude by stockholders
toward their managements”.  Even before the 1934 publication of his first book (co-written with  David Dodd ), Graham had shared his wisdom regarding
the rights of shareholders through the financial press of that
era. Graham’s 1932 series of articles for Forbes -- which
featured headlines such as “Are Corporations Milking Their
Owners?” and “Should Rich Corporations Return Stockholders’
Cash?” -- is probably his most notable contribution.  Like much of Graham’s investment wisdom, his writings
regarding shareholder activism remain relevant in our time. They
are especially pertinent, given recent high-profile disputes
between activist shareholders and well-known public companies.
Among other recent examples are the efforts of  David Einhorn ’s
Greenlight Capital Inc. to force  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to distribute more
of its cash to shareholders, and  Carl Icahn ’s campaign to obtain
more-favorable buyout terms for  Dell Inc. (DELL)  shareholders.  Standard Oil  Apple and Dell are two of the most renowned U.S. brands of
the early 21st century. Eighty-seven years ago,  John D. Rockefeller ’s Standard Oil Co. had a similar status, and Graham
analyzed its associated companies as investment opportunities.
Rockefeller remains the wealthiest American in recorded history
(in inflation-adjusted terms), and he was also the highest-profile businessman of his time, widely known for both his
philanthropy and, according to some, a penchant for aggressive
business tactics.  Regarding the latter, under the Sherman Antitrust Act, the
U.S. government curtailed what it viewed as Rockefeller’s
monopolistic practices by splitting Standard Oil into 34
corporations in 1911. Among these independent entities was
Northern Pipe Line Co., one of eight companies responsible for
transporting crude oil to Standard’s refineries. In 1926,
pipeline companies were required to file forms with the
Interstate Commerce Commission. A young Ben Graham had reviewed
Northern Pipe Line’s somewhat-cursory financial report, which
provided barely a sketch of a balance sheet. Graham took a train
to  Washington  and examined the company’s full-length filings in
the commission’s record room. It would prove to be a fateful
trip.  Graham discovered that, unbeknownst to its shareholders,
Northern Pipe Line held $95 per share in railroad bonds and
other liquid assets. Meanwhile, its stock was trading at only
$65 per share. “Here was I, a stout Cortez-Balboa, discovering
a new Pacific with my eagle eye,” Graham recalled decades
later. “After all these years, I’m still amazed that no one in
the brokerage business thought of looking at the ICC data.”  Indeed, Graham had single-handedly discovered extraordinary
hidden riches tucked inside the shares of the former Standard
Oil affiliate. So, throughout the remainder of 1926, his
partnership purchased a large block of shares, amounting to a
stake of about 5 percent.  However, Graham would soon discover that mere persuasion
wouldn’t be enough to induce Northern Pipe Line’s management to
loosen its hold on this excess treasure. In fact, management
intended to thwart Graham’s request to distribute $90 of the
company’s $95 per-share surplus of liquid assets, even though,
as Graham argued, the company was generating annual revenue of
$300,000 while carrying $3.6 million in railroad bonds that were
unrelated to its normal course of business. So, distributing
most of these assets to their rightful and legal owners --
Northern Pipe Line’s shareholders -- made eminent sense.
Nonetheless, management wouldn’t budge, leaving Graham with no
recourse but shareholder activism.  Proxy Votes  At Northern Pipe Line’s 1927 annual shareholder meeting,
Graham took his argument directly to the shareholders.
Management was able to foil this maneuver, citing the
technicality that Graham had failed to bring someone to
“second” his motion. Graham was undeterred, and by Northern
Pipe Line’s 1928 conference, he had petitioned the support of so
many other shareholders that he had proxies for almost 40
percent of the company’s shares. Although management tried to
resist, it was compelled to accept Graham’s election to the
board and, shortly thereafter, distributed $70 per-share of
excess liquid assets to Northern Pipe Line shareholders.
Graham’s partnership was the second-largest of these
shareholders. The largest was none other than the Rockefeller
Foundation, controlled by  John D. Rockefeller .  Graham would soon learn that, not only did Rockefeller
approve of his campaign, but its success had inspired the aging
tycoon to adopt an activist stance himself. Citing the Northern
Pipe Line example, Rockefeller, whom Graham met on three
occasions, reached out to the other former Standard Oil
affiliates with excess liquid assets on the books. The
Rockefeller Foundation still held large positions in these
companies and Rockefeller himself was eager to make immediate
use of these shareholder distributions to expand his  nonprofit
organization . Reluctantly, these entities made the requested
shareholder distributions.  This ripple effect throughout several Rockefeller-associated entities is one reason why Graham’s triumph, known as
“The Northern Pipeline Affair,” helped cement his reputation
as both an exceptional analyst and a highly effective activist.
In 1932, he wrote, shareholders “have forgotten also that they
are owners of a business and not merely owners of a quotation on
the stock ticket.”  This was sage advice in 1932, and remains so today.  ( Joe Carlen  is the author of “The Einstein of Money: The
Life and Timeless Financial Wisdom of  Benjamin Graham ” and the
lead analyst at Know Thy Market LLC. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article:
Joe Carlen at  jcarlen@knowthymarket.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  