-- Packer Must Face Lenders’ Las Vegas Lawsuit, Court Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-17T06:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/packer-must-face-lenders-las-vegas-lawsuit-court-says.html
James Packer, chairman of  Australia ’s
biggest gambling company, and  Crown Ltd. (CWN)  must defend themselves
in a Las Vegas lawsuit alleging they hid cost overruns in a
gaming development, an appeals court ruled.  A three-judge panel of the  Nevada  Supreme Court on May 15
denied Packer’s request to remove him and his companies from the
litigation, which stemmed from the bankruptcy of Fontainebleau
Las Vegas LLC.  Lenders including Brigade Leveraged Capital Structures Fund
Ltd. and Caspian Capital Partners LP, provided more than $700
million in financing for the construction of the $2 billion
Fontainebleau resort on the north end of the Las Vegas Strip.
Packer and his companies invested in the project and helped
developers hide cost overruns of hundreds of millions of
dollars, according to a Jan. 18 filing from the plaintiffs.  “When funding failed to materialize and the defendants
could no longer conceal the cost overruns from the lenders, the
project collapsed, and the plaintiffs’ loans became
substantially worthless,” the lenders said in the filing.  Crown and Packer had no relationship with the lenders, they
said in a Nov. 7 filing in the appeals court, requesting the
case against them be thrown out. A lower court judge had earlier
rejected the request.  Packer, citing the plaintiffs’ claims in the lawsuit, said
Jeffrey Soffer conceived the project and personally exercised
substantial control over the development, financing and
construction.  Minority Investor  “None of the three Crown defendants is alleged to have had
any type of control over any aspect of the project,” according
to the Packer filing, which also referred to Crown’s U.S.
subsidiary Crown Services (US) LLC. Crown “is alleged to have
been a minority equity investor.”  The lower court found the lawsuit “properly alleged both
an underlying fraud and the Packer defendants’ participation in
it,” the plaintiffs said in their filing.  Authorized by the bankruptcy court in January, 2010,
Fontainebleau sold the project on Feb. 18, 2010, to a company
affiliated with  Carl Icahn  for about $150 million.  The case is In Re: Brigade Leveraged Capital Structures
Fund Ltd. v. Fontainebleau Resorts LLC. A-11-637835B. Supreme
Court of the State of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  