-- Payrolls Increased in 30 U.S. States in April, Led by Texas
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-05-17T15:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/payrolls-increased-in-30-u-s-states-in-april-led-by-texas.html
Payrolls climbed in 30 U.S. states in
April, while the unemployment rate dropped in 40, showing the
labor market strengthened across the country.  Texas led the gains in payrolls, adding 33,100 jobs last
month, followed by New York and  Florida , according to figures
released today in Washington by the Labor Department.
 California , New York and South Carolina were among states with
the biggest decreases in joblessness.  Widespread employment gains indicate that stronger demand
has induced companies to fire fewer workers and, at times, boost
staff levels. Those decisions will be challenged in May and the
following month as slower manufacturing activity, diminished
business with the government and a slowdown in consumer spending
offer less support to the U.S. expansion.  “The hiring backdrop has been much more steady than
economic growth,” Julia Coronado, chief economist for North
America at BNP Paribas in New York, said before the report. “I
expect it to improve and look better in the second half” of the
year.  Other reports today showed consumer sentiment jumped to an
almost six-year high and the index of leading indicators climbed
more than projected.  Improving Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment rose to 83.7 in May, the highest
since July 2007, from 76.4 the prior month.  The median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey was for a gain to 77.9. Forecasts ranged
from 74 to 82.5. The index averaged 64.2 during the recession
that ended in June 2009 and 89 in the five years prior.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the economic outlook for
the next three to six months climbed 0.6 percent in April after
falling a revised 0.2 percent in March, the New York-based group
said. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 0.2 percent increase. The rebound suggests the
world’s largest economy will accelerate later this year.  Stocks rose after the reports, putting the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index on track for its fourth straight week of gains.
The S&P 500 advanced 0.4 percent to 1,656.83 at 11:07 a.m. in
New York.  In April, payrolls expanded nationally by 165,000 workers
after growing by a larger-than-first-estimated 138,000 workers
in the prior month, the Labor Department said May 3. The jobless
rate  fell  to a four-year low of 7.5 percent.  Employment Gains  Employment rose by 25,300 in New York last month, the
second-biggest gain of any state in today’s report. Florida
followed with a 17,000 increase.  Wisconsin and  Minnesota  showed the biggest decreases in
payrolls last month, according to the report.  The jobless rate dropped by 0.4 percentage point in
California, New York and South Carolina in April.  Unemployment fell to 9.6 percent in  Nevada  from 9.7 percent
in March. Nonetheless it remained the state with the highest
rate in the country. Illinois was second, with a rate of 9.3
percent, followed by  Mississippi  at 9.1 percent.  North Dakota remained the state with the lowest jobless
rate in the nation at 3.3 percent.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from surveys of
smaller size, in turn making the national figures more reliable,
according to the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Fed’s View  Additional progress in the labor market will make those at
the Federal Reserve more confident the U.S. economy doesn’t need
as much support as they’re currently providing. Federal Reserve
Bank of San Francisco President John Williams said yesterday
that as early as this summer the central bank may begin slowing
the pace of its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  “It’s clear that the labor market has improved since
September” when the Fed began its third round of asset buying,
Williams said during a speech in  Portland ,  Oregon . The Federal
Open Market Committee said May 1 that it’s prepared to increase
or decrease the size of its monthly bond-buying as officials
gauge the health of the economy.  Still, economists anticipate the expansion will cool to a
1.6 percent pace this quarter after growing at a 2.5 percent
rate in the first three months of 2013, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey from May 3 to May 8. The estimate
reflects the lagged effect from a two percentage-point increase
in the payroll tax at the start of 2013 and $85 billion in
automatic budget cuts that began on March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  