-- Pentagon Seeks $9.6 Billion Shift to Priority Projects
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/pentagon-asks-congress-to-move-9-6-billion-to-priority-projects.html
The Pentagon is asking Congress to
approve a plan shifting about $9.6 billion in this year’s
defense budget to priority projects, mostly to pay for greater-than-expected  Afghanistan  war and transportation costs.  The largest single request is to move $1.3 billion into
Army operations and maintenance “to support funding shortfalls
for U.S. Forces-Afghanistan operations,” according to budget
documents sent to Congress yesterday.  No funds would be taken from major weapons, naval or
aircraft programs, according to the documents. The reprogramming
requests in most cases would take money from about 200 smaller-scale research and weapons-buying accounts.  The Pentagon is asking to re-allocate $1 billion to cover
increased fuel costs. Non-war-related program increases include
an additional $75 million for more cyber defense personnel,
$71.4 million to maintain F-35 fighter jet software test
schedules and $28 million for the DDG-51 destroyer program’s
Aegis Weapons System.  The largest cut from a weapons program would be a proposed
$562 million reduction in money for upgrades to Mine-Resistant
Ambush Protected, or MRAP, fortified vehicles. More typical are
a proposed $47.2 million reduction from  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s
MQ-4C Triton drone and a $115 million cut to  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s AH-64
Apache helicopter upgrade.  The request was sent to Congress along with the Pentagon’s
final fiscal 2014 war-fighting budget of $79.4 billion. The
House Armed Services Committee next week is to start its
consideration of the defense bill, the first leg of the annual
 budget -approval cycle for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1.  Covering Shortages  The reprogramming request isn’t intended to offset any of
the $37 billion in automatic cuts the Pentagon faces this year
from the process known as sequestration, according to a defense
official who spoke about the plan on condition of not being
named. Instead, it’s designed largely to shift dollars into the
current war-fighting budget to cover shortages that remain after
the full-year  defense spending  measure Congress passed in March.  The official said Pentagon and military planners hoped
Congress passes the reprogramming request largely intact by
early June. The reprogramming is comparable in size to past
requests, said the official. It must be approved by four House
and Senate defense-related committees.  Shifting Priorities  Almost $668 million would be shifted from lower-priority
accounts to cover unanticipated additional costs of transporting
goods into Afghanistan through northern distribution networks
instead of primarily through  Pakistan .  “While the Pakistan ground lines of communication are
currently open, there is excess frustrated cargo that has
accumulated and must flow out first before other equipment is
moved,” the request said. “Failure to provide these funds runs
the risk of an interruption in the flow of supplies, subsistence
and mail to deployed warfighters.”  An additional $234 million is needed to support “premium
transportation” of perishable foods in the theater as well as
about $591 million to plug funding gaps in the Army’s
multibillion dollar Logistics Civil Augmentation Program that
provides food, transportation, power generation and base
support.  The Pentagon is also asking to shift more than $925 million
into Air Force wartime operations and maintenance accounts to
make up for shortages in “base communications” throughout the
Persian Gulf region and other deficiencies.  An additional $190 million would be allocated to increased
contractor logistics support for the aerostat-based Persistent
Ground Surveillance Sensor System that protects U.S. bases in
Afghanistan.  Additional Officers  The Army, separate from war funding, requires $770 million
to pay for the retention of 8,400 additional officers, according
to the documents.  The request would get the money through reductions that
include $762 million from tactical and support vehicles; $306
million from Army aircraft procurement; and $270 million from
tracked combat vehicles.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s WIN-T ground mobile communications
network program would be reduced $128 million because of a
decision to reduce quantities this year.  The Pentagon also seeks to shift $37 million from the
General Dynamics Stryker combat vehicle modification program.  Navy research and development accounts would be pared by
$134 million, Navy and Marine Corps ammunition would be reduced
by $111 million, pay and allowances for the Navy and Marines
would be trimmed by $75 million and Navy aircraft spending by
$13.4 million.  Air Force research and development accounts would be
reduced by $328 million, aircraft accounts by $283 million,
personnel accounts by $135.2 million and missiles by $79 million  One of the smallest savings was $375,000 found from the
cancellation of an aircraft-refueling truck for Camp Lemonnier,
Djibouti, in the Horn of  Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  