-- Peugeot Settles With CGT Union on French Plant Shutdown
-- B y   T o m   L a v e l l
-- 2013-05-17T14:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/peugeot-settles-with-cgt-union-on-french-plant-shutdown.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-largest automaker, reached a deal with a striking union on
closing a car factory in  France , removing one of the last
obstacles to a plan to cut 11,200 domestic jobs.  Peugeot rose to the  highest price  in 10 months after the
CGT agreed to end a walkout by its 130 members at the plant on
the outskirts of Paris. The strike had cut the site’s production
by about 80 percent this year. The labor group will drop legal
action aimed at thwarting a reorganization plan that includes
the shutdown, Peugeot said today in a statement.  The carmaker, struggling to restore earnings as the
European auto market reaches a two-decade low, has aims to
eliminate 17 percent of its French workforce by the end of 2014
as part of a cost-cut program that has also included selling
some assets. The Aulnay plant is scheduled to close next year,
when the Citroen C3 subcompact model that it builds is replaced.  The agreement “shows that they’re making good progress in
the negotiations with the unions,” Sascha Gommel, an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said today by phone. “If the CGT
has finally agreed on the terms of the plan, it will facilitate
the implementation of the restructuring.”  Stock Rises  Peugeot  jumped  as much as 11 percent and was trading up 10
percent at 7.16 euros as of 4:16 p.m. in Paris, reaching the
highest level based on closing prices since July 11. The stock
has gained 31 percent this year, valuing the carmaker, based in
the French capital, at 2.54 billion euros ($3.26 billion).  Manufacturing at Aulnay, where 2,500 people work, has been
hampered since January because of the CGT’s walkout. The plant
was making as few as 40 to 50 vehicles a day last month,
compared with its 250-car capacity. Chief Financial Officer
Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said at the time that the plant was
at risk of shutting as early as 2013 because of the disruptions.  The CGT said last month that it planned to appeal the
ruling by Judge Anne Lacquemant that threw out a lawsuit by the
group and the SUD, another union, saying their challenges to
Peugeot’s policy failed to “formulate any precise criticism of
the planned measures.”  The SUD suspended its walkout at end of April, Julien
Gonthier, a spokesman for the union, said today.  Union Protests  The two labor groups sought to block Peugeot’s
reorganization on the grounds that severance packages
accompanying the job cuts were insufficient for employees and
that the the carmaker hadn’t respected the legal framework for
such measures. Five other unions representing about 75 percent
of employees have already signed off on the reorganization.  The CGT reached the settlement today “after the management
agreed to hire back four employees who had been fired and to
financial conditions that compensate for unpaid days,” Jean-Pierre Mercier, the union’s leader at Aulnay, said by phone.
“This is merely a suspension of the strike, as we still
consider the plant closing as unacceptable and unjustified.”  Peugeot reported a 576 million-euro operating loss last
year, and first-quarter revenue fell 6.5 percent to 13 billion
euros. The company is among auto manufacturers forecasting that
the European market will shrink by 5 percent in 2013 in the
sixth consecutive annual decline.  De Chatillon said last month that Peugeot was preparing for
talks with unions about improving competitiveness, declining to
specify whether it would widen its job-cut targets. The
 workforce  was reduced by more than 1,300 positions in the first
quarter, he said.  The French carmaker’s revival strategy also includes
selling businesses that aren’t related to building vehicles and
developing a strategic alliance with Detroit-based  General
Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin outlined plans
in February to shift the Peugeot brand upscale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Lavell in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  