-- LPG Ship Rates Post Biggest-Ever Weekly Gain on U.S. Cargoes
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-05-17T15:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/lpg-ship-rates-head-for-biggest-ever-weekly-gain-on-u-s-cargoes.html
The cost of shipping liquefied
petroleum gas had the biggest weekly gain on record as surging
U.S. exports of the cooking fuel and chemicals feedstock sap
vessel supply.  Rates for very large gas carriers jumped 28 percent to
$70.50 a metric ton since May 10, according to the  Baltic
Exchange , the London-based publisher of shipping prices on more
than 50 maritime routes. That’s the largest weekly rally in data
going back to 2005, figures show.  The U.S. is shipping more LPG than ever as a byproduct of
record natural gas output, Energy Department data show. Trading
is expanding because the fuel is cheaper in the U.S. than
Europe, according to Diego de Potter, deputy chartering director
at  Exmar NV (EXM) , the Antwerp, Belgium-based operator of two VLGCs.
Port expansions and rising voyages to Asia are adding cargoes
and employing carriers for longer, said John Lording, who
specializes in LPG at  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest
shipbroker.  “The VLGC market is quite finely balanced, so you only
need to have an extra handful of cargoes and the market reacts
very positively,” Lording said by phone today. “Owners are
very happy.”  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  expanded monthly capacity
at its Houston export facility by 3.5 million barrels to 7.5
million barrels in March. The U.S. produced a record 29.8
trillion cubic feet of natural gas last year and exported an
unprecedented 71.9 million barrels of LPG, according to Energy
Department data. The country’s exports rose 15 percent to 5.9
million barrels in the year to February, the most-recent data
show.  Nippon Yusen  The publicly traded ship owner with the biggest fleet of
the largest LPG carriers is  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) , based in  Tokyo ,
according to data from Clarkson’s research unit. Shares of the
company, which also operates vessels including  oil tankers , coal
and iron-ore transporters, and car carriers, will rise 8.3
percent to 287.08 yen ($2.81) in a year, according to the
average of 12 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  One gallon of propane costs 94.25 cents in Houston,
compared with $2.07 in northwest Europe and $2.95 in Japan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  