-- Philippine Peso Forwards Drop This Week on Fed Stimulus Concern
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-05-17T09:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/philippine-peso-forwards-drop-this-week-on-fed-stimulus-concern.html
Philippine peso forwards had a second
weekly decline on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will scale
back its monetary easing, reducing the flow of funds to  emerging
markets .  Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said May
16 that the $85 billion a month of bond purchases may be trimmed
as early as this summer after U.S. retail sales unexpectedly
advanced in April and jobless claims dropped to the lowest level
since January 2008. Money sent home by Filipinos living abroad
increased 3 percent in March, the least since 2009, official
data showed this week.  “U.S. economic data are outperforming,” said Leong Sook Mei, the Southeast Asian head of global markets research at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Singapore. “For major Asian
currencies including the peso, you will actually see them
weakening a bit in the short term.”  Three-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.4 percent this
week to 41.25 per dollar at 4:51 p.m. in  Manila , data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The contracts were little changed today. The
spot rate declined 0.2 percent in the past five days to 41.193,
according to prices from Tullett Prebon Plc.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, increased 0.9 percent
since May 10.  One-month implied volatility in the peso, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.35 percent
this week. It increased four basis points today.  The yield on the 8 percent government bonds due July 2031
was steady this week at 3.70 percent and declined one basis
point today, according to prices from Tradition Financial
Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  