-- Philippine Stocks Drop on Economic Growth Concern: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-05-17T08:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/philippine-stocks-drop-most-in-asia-on-valuations-manila-mover.html
Philippine (PCOMP)  stocks fell the most among
Asian  emerging markets , extending a decline from a record, after
valuations surged and on speculation first-quarter economic
growth will weaken.  Universal Robina Corp. (URC)  fell 2.2 percent, the most since
April 23, after Credit Suisse Group AG wrote in a report today
that it’s among stocks that may lead a decline of as much as 8.4
percent in the Philippine benchmark index.  SM Prime Holdings
Inc. (SMPH)  and  Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI)  dropped at least 2.3
percent.  Asia United Bank (AUB)  rose as much as 11 percent on its
trading debut.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell 0.4 percent to
7,279.87 at the close in  Manila , paring a sixth straight weekly
gain to 0.2 percent. The gauge climbed to an all-time high on
May 15, pushing  valuations  to 20.9 times projected 12-month
earnings, almost twice the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s
multiple. The government reports first-quarter gross domestic
product growth data on May 30.  “After a good run, the market is susceptible to a
correction,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
BDO Unibank Inc. in Manila. “Its valuation, historically and
relative to the region, is expensive. Concerns that first-quarter economic growth may be weaker are further fueling the
prospects of a correction.”  The Philippine index may decline to 6,700, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Alvin Tan wrote in a note dated today. Stocks
such as  SM Investments Corp. (SM) , Ayala Land Inc. and Universal
Robina that have become “overvalued” may lead the drop, he
wrote. Since 2009, Philippine stock market corrections have
“lasted at most two months and by about 11 percent,” according
to the note.  “While we remain positive over the market’s medium- to
long-term prospects, a correction is likely to happen shortly,”
Tan wrote.  Slowing Growth  First-quarter GDP growth may be 4.5 percent, according to
Tan, who cited weakening electricity sales, government revenue,
exports and remittances. That compares with the 5.8 percent mean
growth estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The $225 billion Philippine economy grew 6.6 percent last
year, more than economists estimated, as government spending,
consumption and investment rose. The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
left its benchmark interest rate at a record-low 3.5 percent in
January. The authority cut last month the rate it pays on so-called special deposit accounts, which hold about $46 billion,
to spur lending.  The benchmark  index  has surged 45 percent in the past 12
months as economic growth beat estimates, the central bank kept
interest rates at a record low and Fitch Ratings and Standard &
Poor’s granted the nation its first investment-grade credit
ratings.  Universal Robina, the country’s biggest bottler of iced
tea, fell to 127.9 pesos.  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , the nation’s largest
property developer, sank 1.7 percent, the sharpest loss since
May 2.  SM Prime, the nation’s largest shopping mall operator,
dropped 2.7 percent. SM Investments Corp., billionaire Henry
Sy’s holding company, slid 0.8 percent, ending a six-day rally.
Alliance Global, which owns the operator of Manila’s biggest
casino, declined 2.3 percent to the lowest close since May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  