-- Platts, AMD Trade Secrets, Goldman Sachs: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/platts-amd-trade-secrets-goldman-sachs-compliance.html
Traders are standing by Platts, the
company that provides benchmark prices for much of the world’s
energy products, amid a European probe into market manipulation.  A total of 34 out of 55 traders, brokers and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News May 15, or 62 percent, said the
pricing system run by Platts, the energy news and data unit of
McGraw Hill Financial Inc., is still the best way to determine
prices in the $3.4 trillion-a-year market for crude and refined
products.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  said
they’re also being investigated by the European Commission
following raids in three countries May 14 while  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V) 
said yesterday it was asked to provide information.  As much as 80 percent of all crude and oil-product deals
are linked to reference prices including those published by
Platts, according to estimates by  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-biggest producer. The European investigation marks the third
time global pricing benchmarks have drawn regulators’ scrutiny
in the past year following inquiries into bank manipulation of
the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and ISDAFix, the
benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps market.  European regulators didn’t name the subjects of their probe
and haven’t specified the markets they are investigating or the
methods in question. “Companies may have colluded in reporting
distorted prices to a Price Reporting Agency to manipulate the
published prices for a number of oil and biofuel products,”
according to a May 14  statement  by the EC.  Kathleen Tanzy, a Houston-based spokeswoman for Platts,
said on May 13 that the EC had undertaken a review at its office
in  London  in relation to its price assessment process. In a
 submission  to a 2012 report by the  International Organization of
Security Commissions  on oil pricing regulation, the company said
external controls over its activities would be an “unacceptable
intrusion” on its rights as a publisher.  Platts’s North Sea Dated Brent benchmark sets the price of
half the world’s crude, from  Canada  to  Australia .  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC’s White Rebuffs Call to Forswear Political Spending Rule  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White
rebuffed calls by House Republicans to forswear a rule that
would force public companies to disclose political spending,
saying she won’t “prejudge the issue.”  Responding to lawmakers who pressed her on the matter at a
Financial Services subcommittee oversight hearing yesterday,
White said the SEC’s staff is reviewing a 2011 petition for such
a rule signed by a group of prominent law professors.  She said no one is currently working on a proposal.  The agency’s rulemaking agenda indicates it is studying
whether to propose a rule. Republicans urged White to swear off
any action on the issue, calling it a partisan undertaking that
would hurt the SEC’s credibility as a regulator.  Debate over corporate political spending gained attention
after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a 2010 case known as
Citizens United that companies and unions could spend unlimited
money on election ads. More than 500,000 comments have been
filed in response to the petition, which is supported by the
Council of Institutional Investors and the American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other large business
groups oppose the call for a rule.  Rulemaking on the issue has been criticized as tied to
partisan political agendas and a distraction from SEC mandates
of protecting investors, maintaining efficient markets, and
facilitating capital formation.  Separately, White told the panel that any proposed changes
relating to money market mutual funds would “seek to preserve
the many benefits of money market funds for investors and the
short-term funding markets,” according to remarks prepared for
the hearing.  The rule simultaneously would seek to reduce money-market
funds’ “susceptibility to runs, improving their ability to
manage and mitigate potential contagion from high levels of
redemptions, and increasing the transparency of their risks,”
she said.  Last month, White said the SEC is the best regulatory
agency to handle the money market rule changes.  Compliance Action  BlackRock Develops Alternatives to Money Funds as Rules Loom  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Western Asset Management Co. are
offering a new twist on traditional money-market funds as
regulators are set to impose sweeping changes on the $2.58
trillion industry.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, and  Legg
Mason Inc. (LM) ’s Western Asset unit have started bond funds designed
to work much like money funds, with a difference. The new
“ultra-short” funds have share prices that fluctuate along
with the value of their holdings, rather than a fixed net asset
value, or NAV, a distinguishing feature of money funds. They
also have shorter maturities than similar ultra-short bond funds
that ran into trouble when credit markets froze in 2008.  The firms are preparing for what could be a seismic
reallocation of assets by institutional investors and corporate
treasurers if regulators overhaul money funds for a second time
in three years in a bid to make them safer after the 2008
collapse of the Reserve Primary Fund. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission plans to order a floating NAV on
institutional prime money-market funds, or those that invest in
corporate debt, overriding opposition from the industry.  Mary Athridge , a spokeswoman for Baltimore-based Legg
Mason, declined to comment on the Western Asset Ultra Short
Obligations Fund, which the firm filed to register on May 8.  The new ultra-short fund is “clearly” not a money-market
fund, though at first glance it may “look similar” to one,
said Richard Hoerner, head of New York-based BlackRock’s global
cash-management business.  BlackRock opened the  BlackRock Ultra-Short Obligations Fund (BBUSX) 
in November and it has about $25 million of assets.  Federal regulators have been searching for ways to prevent
a replay of September 2008. In 2010, the SEC tightened rules on
credit quality, shortened the maximum average maturity for funds
and introduced minimum liquidity levels. The agency considered
it an initial step toward making money funds more stable. The
industry fought back against proposals and sought to limit the
scope of changes. The SEC is now planning a narrower proposal.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-AMD Workers at Nvidia Barred From Revealing Trade Secrets  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  won a court order barring ex-employees who went to competing chipmaker  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  from
disclosing trade secrets or soliciting former colleagues to join
them.  U.S. District Judge Timothy Hillman said in his order that
AMD may win its lawsuit claiming misappropriation of
confidential information, according to a filing May 15 in
 Boston .  AMD, based in Sunnyvale,  California , accused ex-employees
of taking sensitive company documents when they went to work for
Nvidia. The former employees transferred more than 100,000
electronic files pertaining to AMD’s graphics-processor business
in the days before their departure, AMD said in its complaint
filed in January. The employees also allegedly recruited other
AMD workers to leave the company.  The order, called a preliminary injunction, replaces a
temporary restraining order granted after the suit was filed.  Nvidia, based in Santa Clara, California, isn’t a defendant
in the suit.  The case is Advanced Micro Devices v. Feldstein, 13-cv-40007, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  Goldman Sachs Tax Deal Didn’t Break U.K. Law, Judge Rules  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s deal with the U.K. government
that may have saved the investment bank as much as 20 million
pounds ($30.6 million) on its taxes didn’t break any laws, a
judge ruled.  Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs’s decision to reduce the
New York-based bank’s tax bill was properly conducted, a judge
in London ruled yesterday. Still, Judge Andrew Nicol criticized
tax officials who considered the potential embarrassment to
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne if a deal with
Goldman Sachs wasn’t completed.  The U.K. government has pledged to clamp down on tax-avoidance schemes following widespread media and public anger
caused by corporation tax structures in the country. Lawmakers
said in a report last month that increased transparency about
companies’ tax affairs would build pressure on multinational
businesses to “pay a fair share.”  UK Uncut Legal Action, an advocacy group that lobbies for
alternatives to government spending cuts, said HMRC reached the
agreement with Goldman Sachs on the day Osborne announced a
bankers’ code to counter tax avoidance. An HMRC executive said
in an e-mail cited by UK Uncut that he was concerned the bank
might drop out of the code if the deal was scuttled.  “Obviously while we are deeply disappointed that this deal
has not been declared unlawful, the judge’s ruling that top HMRC
officials played politics with major tax deals to protect
Osborne’s reputation is a major victory in exposing the truth
behind these secret deals,” Anna Walker, campaigns director of
UK Uncut Legal Action, said in an e-mailed statement.  Goldman Sachs wasn’t involved in the litigation. Fiona
Laffan, a London-based spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment.  The case is a judicial review, a legal mechanism that
examines the decision-making process of public bodies. While an
authority may be ordered to reconsider an action, it may be
allowed to draw the same conclusion provided all procedures are
correctly followed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  