-- PokerStars Loses Court Bid for Atlantic City Casino Sale
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-05-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/pokerstars-loses-court-bid-for-atlantic-city-casino-sale.html
PokerStars was denied its request to
keep alive a $15 million offer to purchase the Atlantic Club
Casino Hotel in Atlantic City,  New Jersey .  A judge ruled yesterday in Atlantic County Superior Court
against PokerStars, the world’s largest online poker site.
PokerStars had agreed in December to buy the former Atlantic
City Hilton as a foothold into the U.S. online gambling market.
A New Jersey online gambling bill enacted on Feb. 26 requires
operators to have a physical presence in the state.  Colony Capital LLC, which controls the property, declined
to extend the contract with PokerStars when it expired last
month, according to a court filing. PokerStars, the largest
online poker site in the world, is a division of Isle of Man-based Rational Group Ltd.  Eric Hollreiser, a spokesman for PokerStars, and Cathleen
Kiernan, a spokeswoman for the Atlantic Club, confirmed the
judge’s decision. Rational attorney Wayne Positan didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Colony had difficulty selling the casino because of $30
million in unfunded pension liabilities and declining gambling
in  Atlantic City , according to a PokerStars lawsuit. The buyer
agreed to fund operating shortfalls of as much as $750,000 a
week until the deal closed.  Deal Terminated  Through those payments, Rational had put out $11 million,
according to the complaint. Owners, led by Colony, terminated
the deal on April 26, and have asked for the remaining $4
million of the purchase price as a termination fee, according to
the complaint.  Rational said it believes Colony Capital terminated the
agreement so it could sell the property for a higher price after
New Jersey enacted its gambling legislation in February.  “We are reviewing today’s ruling,” Hollreiser said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “We remain committed to New
Jersey and to contributing to its economy.”  The U.S. casino industry opposes the PokerStars effort to
buy the Atlantic City property. The American Gaming
Association’s protest to state regulators focuses on PokerStars’
prosecution last year for bank fraud and  money laundering .  “We are pleased that the New Jersey court has dissolved
the restraints it entered on May 6,” Atlantic Club Chief
Operating Officer Michael Frawley said in an e-mailed statement.
“We are now free to build on the tremendous opportunity
provided by online gaming.”  PokerStars reached an agreement with the U.S. Justice
Department in July 2012, settling charges related to the
company’s offering of online poker in this country.  The case is Rational Group US Holdings Inc. v. Resorts
International Holdings, ATL-C-43-13, Superior Court of New
Jersey, Atlantic County (Mays Landing).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  