-- Pot Regulations in Washington May Differ From Colorado’s
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-05-17T03:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/pot-regulations-in-washington-may-differ-from-colorado-s.html
Marijuana retailers in  Colorado  will
be required to grow a majority of what they sell. In  Washington ,
retailers can’t also be growers and processors under proposed
regulations.  The two states are designing regulatory frameworks for
overseeing the new recreational-marijuana industry that voters
approved in November, the first of its kind in the U.S.  Both states face the threat of having their efforts upended
by the federal government, which considers marijuana a
controlled substance and cracked down on state-sanctioned
medical-marijuana operations in  California  in 2011. U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder said in March he is considering
what the federal response will be to the two measures.  In Washington, “it’s safe to say the rules are not overly
restrictive and, at the end of the day, it seems that we’re
moving ahead in a positive light,” Kevin Oliver,  executive
director  for the state branch of the National Organization for
the Reform of Marijuana Laws, a Washington-based advocacy group.  The Washington State Liquor Control Board, which proposed
its  standards  yesterday, is to begin issuing licenses to
producers, processors and retailers by Dec. 1. Colorado
legislators approved regulations this month for sales to begin
Jan. 1.  Washington would require license applicants to submit to a
background check, set laboratory testing of marijuana products
and track the transportation of the product.  ‘Tightly Regulated’  “The initial draft rules reflect the board’s stated goal
of developing a tightly regulated and controlled recreational
marijuana market,” the agency said in a statement yesterday.  In Colorado, existing medical-marijuana dispensary owners
will be given first shot at licenses for the first nine months.
No such preference was proposed in Washington, where medical-marijuana shops are considered illegal even though some cities
have allowed them to operate.  “The Colorado law had substantially more of an outlaw vibe
about it,” Mark Kleiman, a public policy professor at the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles , said by telephone.  “The rule that the state can’t require the retailer to
keep records of their purchasers seemed to encourage purchase
for out of state shipment,'’ said Kleiman, a consultant to
Washington on marijuana issues. ‘‘The Washington statute was
designed to keep the whole matter in-state and the board is
certainly very concerned about that.”  In Colorado, marijuana shops must be licensed and owned by
state residents. Washington retailers would have to comply with
a three-month residency requirement.  Growers, Sellers  In Colorado, stores are required to grow 70 percent of what
they sell until September 2014. In Washington, a licensed
retailer cannot grow or process marijuana, while producers and
processors can do both.  Adults 21 and older can legally possess up to 1 ounce (28
grams) of marijuana for recreational use in the two states.  Eighteen states and Washington, D.C., allow the medical use
of marijuana and 11 permit sales through dispensaries, according
to the Denver-based  National Conference of State Legislatures .
California became the first state to allow medical-marijuana use
in 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ; Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
9512 or  joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 