-- Pound Falls Versus Dollar Amid Speculation Fed to Slow Stimulus
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-17T16:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/pound-falls-versus-dollar-amid-speculation-fed-to-slow-stimulus.html
The pound fell against the dollar,
extending a second weekly decline, as speculation the Federal
Reserve is moving closer to ending stimulus boosted demand for
the U.S. currency.  Sterling dropped to a six-week low versus the greenback
after U.S. reports showed consumer sentiment rose in May and an
index of leading indicators climbed in April. Fed Bank of San
Francisco President John Williams said yesterday that U.S.
policy makers may begin to reduce asset purchases in the next
few months. Gilts were little changed this week as Bank of
England policy maker Martin Weale said expectations for the
central bank to keep interest rates low reflected his own view.  “It’s the dollar leg of the equation that continues to be
the primary mover of the pound,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of
currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
London. “Williams’s comments have provided dollar support, even
if he is a non-voter. With the U.S. looking further ahead in the
discussion of pulling back stimulatory policy, cable looks
vulnerable,” he said, referring to the pound-dollar rate.  The pound declined 0.6 percent to $1.5172 at 5 p.m. London
time after dropping to $1.5162, the weakest level since April 4.
The currency has fallen 1.2 percent this week. Sterling
depreciated 0.2 percent to 84.49 pence per euro.  The dollar rose against all 16 of its major counterparts
after Williams said the Fed may start to reduce the pace of its
$85 million of monthly asset purchases as early as this summer
and end the program entirely later this year.  Sentiment Improves  Sterling extended its decline as a report showed the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary  index  of
consumer sentiment rose to 83.7 in May, the highest since July
2007, from 76.4 the prior month. Separate data showed the
Conference Board’s gauge of the  outlook  for the next three to
six months climbed 0.6 percent in April.  Bank of England minutes have shown Governor Mervyn King
voted to boost the central bank’s bond-purchase program from 375
billion pounds at each meeting since February, though he has
been outvoted by other members of the Monetary Policy Committee.
The minutes of the May 8-9 gathering will be released May 22.  The pound has weakened 2.3 percent this year, the second-worst performer after the yen of 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar strengthened 5.4
percent and the euro rose 2.1 percent.  Inflation ‘Eased’  Gilts completed their first weekly gain in a month as Weale
said in a speech in Birmingham,  England , that upward inflation
pressures “have eased somewhat.”  “The market signal pointing to low  interest rates  for some
time to come is certainly at present consistent with the way I
see the outlook for the economy and the balance of risks
affecting inflation and output,” he said.  The U.K.  10-year gilt yield  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, today to 1.88 percent. The 1.75 percent bond
due in September 2022 fell 0.195, or 1.95 pounds per 1,000-pound
face amount, to 98.86. The rate dropped less than one basis
point this week.  The 10-year yield climbed above that of its French
counterpart today for the first time since April 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg based on closing prices. The
French 10-year yield fell two basis points to 1.86 percent.  U.K. gilts returned 0.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds gained 0.4 percent and Treasuries rose 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in  London  at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  