-- Rand Hits 4-Year Low as It Extends Longest Losing Streak in Year
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-05-17T07:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/rand-hits-4-year-low-as-it-extends-longest-losing-streak-in-year.html
The rand weakened to a four-year low
against the dollar, extending its longest losing streak in a
year on concern that renewed labor unrest and falling commodity
prices will weigh on South Africa’s economy.  The situation at the nation’s mines, which contribute more
than half of South Africa’s export earnings, is “quite
volatile,”  Cyril Ramaphosa , deputy president of the ruling
 African National Congress , said today. Violent protests cost
mines 15 billion rand ($1.6 billion) in lost revenue last year
and contributed to the rand’s 5.6 percent slide in the past six
months. The dollar strengthened against all 16 major peers this
week on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve may end monetary
easing that has weakened the currency.  “There is no doubt that the stories and rumors of strikes
and union violence are the key factor of intraday volatility,”
 John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Threats that the Fed
could bring an early end to its quantitative-easing program”
are driving the rand’s declining trend, he said.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated as much as 1.2 percent
to 9.4327 per dollar, the weakest level since April 2009. It
traded 1.1 percent down at 9.4202 as of 9:25 a.m. in
Johannesburg for a seventh straight day of declines, the longest
streak since the nine days ending May 18, 2012. The currency has
depreciated 3.2 percent this week. Yields on benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 rose two basis points or 0.02
percentage point, to 6.85 percent.  Union Plans  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union,
known as AMCU, is planning a march to government offices in
Pretoria to protest against intimidation at mines. It hasn’t set
a date for the march, Treasurer Jimmy Gama said. The  National
Union of Mineworkers  has vowed to oppose plans by  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  to shut shafts and cut 6,000 jobs as metal-prices
fall and costs rise.  Labor unions “fighting for turf” are adding to
instability at mines, Ramaphosa said in an interview on
Johannesburg-based Talk Radio 702. He called on unions and
mining companies to hold talks to resolve disputes.  The dollar rose toward a six-week high against the euro
before the Fed releases on May 22 minutes of its last meeting,
when policy makers said they may alter the pace of monthly bond
purchases. Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams 
said yesterday the central bank may begin to taper off buying as
early as this summer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  