-- Transocean Wins Dividend Fight as Icahn Gets Board Seat
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-05-17T20:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/transocean-wins-dividend-fight-as-icahn-gets-board-seat.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  shareholders voted in
favor of one of billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s three board
nominees, while rejecting his dividend plan in favor of a lower
payout supported by the company.  Icahn candidate Samuel Merksamer won a seat on the board of
the world’s largest offshore oil rig contractor as shareholders
removed Chairman Michael Talbert, Transocean Secretary Philippe
Huber said at the Vernier, Switzerland-based company’s annual
meeting today. Shareholders approved a $2.24-a-share annual
 dividend  instead of Icahn’s $4 proposal.  “Its definitely a win for Transocean because they get the
$2.24,” Luke Lemoine, an analyst at Capital One Southcoast Inc.
in  New Orleans  who rates the shares a buy and owns none, said in
a phone interview today. “Four dollars was pretty pushy.”  Icahn, Transocean’s largest shareholder, began pressing for
the dividend and potential board changes in January. In March,
after Transocean proposed reinstating the dividend, Icahn
announced his three board nominees for a company he said “has
conducted ill-advised mergers, employed unsuccessful development
strategies and squandered the substantial  cash flow .”  The company’s dividend proposal received 75 percent of
shareholder votes, excluding Icahn’s stake, Chief Executive
Officer Steven Newman said in a phone interview after the
meeting.  ‘Strong Endorsement’  “I consider that a very, very strong endorsement of the
company’s business plan,” he said. While the company plans to
increase its dividend in the future, it doesn’t have specific
growth projections, he said.  Icahn, who held a 5.6 percent stake as of April 19, said in
an e-mailed statement he was disappointed that Jose Maria
Alapont, another nominee, lost by about 1 million votes. John Lipinski, the CEO of CVR Energy Inc., was the third nominee.  Icahn’s interest in Transocean follows his takeover last
year of oil refiner CVR, which announced a $5.50 special
dividend in January. Icahn also pressured Chesapeake Energy
Corp. for board changes and the natural gas producer replaced
its chief executive officer last month.  Changing Boards  Icahn is one of several activist investors who have forced
changes at energy companies in the past year. The Transocean
vote comes one day after Hess Corp. reached a deal with Elliott
Management Corp., agreeing to add three of the activist
shareholder’s board nominees.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. Chairman Ray Irani, an executive
at the  oil company  for almost three decades, was forced to step
down this month after investors voted against him. SandRidge
Energy Inc. agreed in March to make changes to its board after
criticism from shareholder TPG-Axon Capital Management LP.  Transocean, which has 26 buy, 16 hold and two sell ratings
from analysts,  fell  1.3 percent to $54.03 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 21 percent this year.  Transocean’s CEO was re-elected to the 14-member board
along with fellow company-backed nominees Robert Sprague and
Thomas Cason. Frederico Curado was nominated by the company to
fill a vacant board seat.  “The status quo needs to change to prevent continued
squandering of shareholder capital,” Merksamer, a managing
director for Icahn Capital LP, said in a March phone interview.
“Diverting billions of dollars to pay down debt is the wrong
strategy. The company should find other ways to reduce debt
instead of using operating cash flow.”  Prior to the vote, Transocean said that Talbert would step
down as chairman by a November board meeting. The former CEO
pledged on May 13 to leave the board by the next annual
shareholder gathering in 2014 after 19 years as a director.  ‘Bear Responsibility’  “We believe that Michael Talbert, a long time incumbent,
should bear responsibility for the long-term performance and
outcome of strategic choices the company has made,”
Institutional Shareholder Services, a proxy adviser, said in an
April 25 report.  The company said there weren’t enough shareholders present
today to vote on an Icahn proposal to elect all board members
every year, so the item was rejected.  Transocean halted dividend payments last year after its
Deepwater Horizon exploded in the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico . The
company employed nine of the 11 workers who died in the April
2010 disaster that resulted in the biggest offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history. Transocean agreed to pay $1.4 billion to settle
claims from the incident.  Icahn only gaining a single seat on the board is “a
mistake,” J.  David Anderson , a New York-based analyst for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to investors today.  The company’s plan to use cash flow to pay down debt
“doesn’t do much for shareholders” seeking some protection
against a stock price decline, he wrote. “Radical change is
required.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  