-- Redwood Sells $424 Million of Mortgage Debt at Wider Spreads
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-17T18:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/redwood-sells-424-million-of-mortgage-bonds-at-wider-spreads.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  sold $424 million
of bonds tied to new U.S. home loans without government backing
at wider relative yields as issuance soars this year.  The offering completed today by Redwood, a specialist in
so-called jumbo mortgages, included $299 million of debt that
priced to yield 2.82 percent, or 1.90 percentage points more
than benchmark swap rates, according to a person familiar with
the deal who asked not to be named without authorization to
speak publicly about the transaction.  Similar securities from the Mill Valley, California-based
firm were sold by underwriters at spreads of 1.75 percentage
points last month and as low as 0.97 percentage point in
January. Relative yields have been widening as sales increase
and amid investor concern that government-backed housing debt
offered better value and that mortgages will prepay slower than
expected if interest rates rise, or faster if they fall.  Issuance of so-called non-agency securities has been tied
to more than $5.5 billion of new loans this year, up from about
$3.5 billion in all of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales peaked at about $1.2 trillion in each of 2005
and 2006, before the market helped spark the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  Fed Pace  Spreads on both agency and non-agency mortgage securities
have also widened this year as investors question how long the
Federal Reserve will keep up the pace of its debt buying to
support the economy. Three Fed regional bank presidents called
this week for phasing out the central bank’s monthly purchases
of $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities as the housing
recovery shows signs of gaining momentum.  While the Fed has been buying mortgage assets guaranteed by
government-supported  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac or U.S.-owned
Ginnie Mae, all types of riskier assets from stocks to junk
bonds and securities tied to home loans without U.S. backing
have benefited. Speculation the central bank may pull back would
potentially harm demand.  Jumbo mortgages are those larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in high-cost areas. Limits range from
$417,000 to $625,500 for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans with
the lowest costs for borrowers using 20 percent down payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  