-- Renren Sinks as Slowdown Cuts Forecasts: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-17T21:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/renren-sinks-as-slowdown-cuts-forecasts-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  slid the most in a
month this week in  New York  after companies from  Elong Inc. (LONG)  to
Renren Inc. forecast future sales below analysts’ estimates as
growth at the world’s second-largest economy slows.  Of the 15 companies that provided second-quarter revenue
forecasts this week, nine either matched or trailed the median
analyst estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. slumped 0.8 percent in the past five days,
while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 2 percent.  Revenue for companies in the China-US gauge missed
analysts’ projections by 6.4 percent in the first quarter,
widening the gap from a 1.5 percent miss in the prior reporting
period, the data show. Social-media provider Renren slumped the
most in a month this week after forecasting sales for this
quarter at least 8 percent below the median estimate. Bank of
America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut their 2013 Chinese
growth predictions to 7.6 percent this week, as reports showed
investment and factory output rose less than expected in April.  “Second-quarter sales from most companies didn’t give us
nice surprises,” Tian X. Hou, the founder of T.H. Capital LLC,
a research firm focusing on Chinese Internet companies, said by
phone yesterday from Beijing. “Entering into the second
quarter,  China ’s economic growth was pretty weak. Normally Q1
was the weakest quarter for many Internet companies, and you
would expect the economy to ramp up and then go on through Q4,
but this year we didn’t see that.”  Elong Sinks  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  led weekly declines on the China-US gauge
after it provided a forecast in line with what analysts had
projected. The Beijing-based mobile security software developer,
said May 15 revenue will be between $38.5 million and $38.8
million for the second quarter, compared with analysts’
projection for $38.3 million.  Its American depositary receipts tumbled 14 percent over
the past five days to $8.25, the biggest weekly slump since
March 15.  Elong, a web travel agency based in Beijing, sank 8.5
percent this week to $14.62 in New York, the steepest retreat
since November.  Elong  said  second-quarter revenue will rise as little as 15
percent from a year earlier to about 213 million  yuan  ($35
million), below the 232 million-yuan mean estimate of two
analysts before its May 13 report.  Renren (RENN) , based in Beijing, dropped 6.6 percent this week to
$2.85, sliding the most since the week ended April 19.  It forecast sales to be as much as $57 million for the
three months through June, compared with the $61.7 million
average  estimate  of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg before
its release May 13.  Slowing Growth  Chinese economic growth slackened to 7.7 percent in the
first three months, after expanding for the first time in eight
quarters in the last three months of 2012.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , China’s biggest Twitter-like service, posted a
net loss of $13.2 million in January-March, while 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg estimated a loss of $5.6 million on
average.  The company, whose sales mainly comes from online
advertisers, has seen a slowdown in the advertising market since
April, according to its Chief Executive Officer Charles Chao.  “At the end of first quarter, we saw slowdown and April is
OK, but when we enter into May, we saw a little bit more
slowdown again,” Chao said on a conference call yesterday. We
“don’t expect the overall market is going to be too good for
the second half of the year,” he said.  Sina’s Gain  Sina’s shares climbed 0.7 percent this week to $59.57 after
rising 1.3 percent yesterday. The advance was driven by optimism
its Weibo unit will make money after forming an alliance with
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce company,
according to Henry Guo, an analyst at ABR Investment Strategy
LLC in  San Francisco .  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , a provider of news, games and video, wants
to buy other online video companies to boost growth, Chief
Executive Officer Charles Zhang said in an interview in Beijing
yesterday. Sohu may buy Chinese video website PPTV.com, the
National Business Daily reported May 15, citing unidentified
investment bankers.  Sohu’s shares climbed 2.9 percent yesterday to $63, gaining
3.8 percent this week.  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , the biggest web video
operator in China, plunged 9.4 percent yesterday to $19.10,
sinking the most since September. For the week, Youku slumped
1.6 percent.  ETF Advances  Tip Fleming, Sohu’s external communication manager at
Christensen & Associates in  Hong Kong , declined to comment when
contacted by e-mail. An e-mail to Eric Yuan, Sohu’s media
relations manager in Beijing, didn’t immediately return when
contacted after business hours.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 1 percent in New York
yesterday to $37.91, cutting its decline for the week to 1.3
percent. The  S&P 500  gained 1 percent to 1,667.47 yesterday, up
2.1 percent in its fourth weekly rally.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
added 1.4 percent to 2,282.87 for a weekly gain of 1.6 percent.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong, which was
closed for a holiday yesterday, lost 0.6 percent to 11,019.48 on
May 16 for a 2.9 percent retreat on the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  