-- Rousseff Wins Congress’s Support for Brazil Port Investment Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r ,   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-05-17T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/rousseff-wins-congress-s-support-for-brazil-port-investment-plan.html
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff
yesterday won congressional support for a plan to attract
private capital and boost investment in ports by $27 billion.  The two houses of Congress approved government legislation
that eliminates concession fees and allows private ports to
handle shipments from outside companies.  Brazil ’s Senate
approved the bill in a 53-7 vote following lower house approval
earlier in the day.  The legislation is part of a government push to drum up
private investment for infrastructure, Claudio Goncalves Couto,
a political scientist at the Getulio Vargas Foundation, said by
phone from  Sao Paulo  yesterday before voting finished.
Rousseff’s administration is seeking to pull Brazil’s economy
out of its slowest two years of  growth  in more than a decade.  “The measure opens ports up to private businesses and
increased flexibility in the sector,” said Couto. “In a lot of
sectors, the government has a reputation for being state-centric
and interventionist. In reality, you cannot simply say that.”  Brazil’s port infrastructure is ranked 135th of 144
countries, lower than all other members of the BRICS group that
includes  Russia ,  India ,  China  and  South Africa , according to the
 World Economic Forum ’s Global Competitiveness  Report .  ‘Not Worth Exporting’  Ships are known to wait as long as 56 hours to dock at
Brazilian ports, according to the national industry
confederation, known as CNI. At one point last month, there was
a 21-mile line of trucks trying to access Santos, the country’s
biggest port.  “There are places in Brazil in the interior that are
globally competitive in terms of producing sugar or pulp, but by
the time you get it to port it’s not worth exporting,” Philip Guarco, JPMorgan Chase’s chief investment strategist for  Latin
America , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television May 13.
“What that does is raises the costs of everything you
produce.”  The legislation is positive for  Santos Brasil Participacoes
SA (STBP11)  because it allows the Brazilian port operator to renew its
concession contract, JPMorgan analyst Fernando Abdalla wrote in
a report yesterday before Senate voting finished.  ‘Important Moment’  Rousseff, speaking in Sao Paulo on May 13, called the vote
on her reform proposal as “a very important moment” for the
country, and said its passage would increase competition and
efficiency. Congress’s lower house earlier yesterday approved
the measure, which would have expired without the Senate’s
approval.  Brazil’s economy grew 0.9 percent in 2012 and 2.7 percent
in 2011, slower than all other nations in the BRICS group.
Exports, which account for 12.5 percent of gross domestic
product, last year dropped 5.3 percent from 2011.  Inflation in the meantime has accelerated, speeding up to
6.49 percent in April from 5.84 percent in December. That gives
Brazil the fastest inflation among major Latin American
countries behind Venezuela and  Argentina .  Infrastructure bottlenecks will limit Brazil’s ability to
capitalize on this year’s crop harvest, which may be a record,
said Raul Velloso, director of research company ARD Consultores
Associados.  Brazil is already the largest exporter of coffee, orange
juice and sugar, and the 2013 soybean harvest will surpass that
of the U.S., according to U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
forecast.  While the ports measure will facilitate trade and allow
Brazil’s economy to grow faster, officials also must be willing
to tackle other infrastructure bottlenecks, according to  David Fleischer , a professor of political science at the Federal
University of Brasilia.  “Port infrastructure is one thing,” Fleischer said in a
telephone interview from Brasilia yesterday before voting
finished. “There are also railroads, highways and airports.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  