-- Rules Favoring Proxy Advisers Need Review, SEC’s Gallagher Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-17T08:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/rules-favoring-proxy-advisers-need-review-sec-s-gallagher-says.html
Policy makers should examine the
prominence of advisory firms in corporate elections and consider
whether regulations give them preferential roles in the process,
a top U.S. securities regulator said.  The  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ’s rules may
spur too much reliance on proxy advisory recommendations in the
same way investors relied too much on credit ratings for
mortgage-backed securities that later proved toxic, Commissioner
Daniel M. Gallagher said in a speech today in Dublin. Regulators
and investors should scrutinize whether advisory firms’
recommendations financially benefit shareholders, he said.  Institutional investors such as public pension funds
consider recommendations from companies such as Institutional
Shareholder Services and  Glass Lewis & Co.  when they vote in
annual corporate elections. ISS recommended this month, for
instance, that shareholders separate the roles of chairman and
chief executive officer at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “It is critically important for policy makers to
understand, evaluate and, if necessary, address the practices
and business models of proxy advisory firms,” Gallagher said at
the event focused on corporate governance. “No one should be
able to outsource their fiduciary duties.”  The SEC last sought comment on whether to stiffen rules for
corporate elections in July 2010. The so-called “concept
release” asked whether investors properly voted shares and how
firms giving ballot advice handled conflicts of interest.  Gallagher said a 2003 SEC rule sanctioned the use of
advisory services in corporate elections. The rule said money
managers could avoid conflict-of-interest claims if they relied
on the recommendation of a third party when voting a client’s
shares, Gallagher said.  “As it had earlier done with  credit rating agencies , the
SEC had essentially mandated the use of third-party opinions,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  