-- Russian GDP Growth at 1.6% as Economy Weakest Since 2009
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-05-17T15:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/russian-gdp-growth-at-1-6-as-economy-weakest-since-2009.html
Russia ’s  economy  grew at the weakest
pace since 2009 in the first quarter as the euro area’s longest
recession hurt demand for commodity exports and investment at
companies including OAO Gazprom cooled.  Gross domestic product rose 1.6 percent from a year
earlier, slowing for a fifth consecutive quarter, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. That compares with a median estimate of 1.2 percent
in a Bloomberg  survey  of 23 economists and a 2.1 percent pace in
the final three months of 2012. The  Economy Ministry  estimated
first-quarter growth at 1.1 percent.  The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter is
grinding to a halt as the recession in the euro area, which
accounts for about half of Russian trade, extended into a sixth
quarter. That’s prompting companies to trim investment, while
 government spending  on the 2014 Sochi Olympics is drawing to a
close and public-wage growth slows.  “The main reasons for the slowdown are the generally
negative environment and, as a result, weak exports,” said
Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for Russia at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in Moscow. “There’s also a fairly
noticeable stagnation in investment demand, primarily because of
the weak exports.”  Lagging Behind  Russian  stocks  have underperformed emerging- and developed-market peers, with the  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  down 2.5 percent in the first
three months, compared with a 2 percent decline in the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index and a 10 percent advance for the  S&P 500 .
Russia’s benchmark was up for the first time in six days, rising
2.1 percent to 1,401.79 at the close in Moscow.  The ruble recorded first-quarter depreciation for the first
time since 2009, weakening 0.4 percent against the central
bank’s target basket of dollars and euros. It was little changed
at 35.4228.  The GDP slowdown prompted the Economy Ministry last month
to cut its 2013 growth forecast to 2.4 percent from 3.7 percent.
That is slower than last year’s 3.4 percent expansion. The
ministry reiterated the forecast in an e-mailed statement today,
saying a review of the forecast was planned in September at the
earliest.  Russia probably won’t slide into recession without an
external shock, such as a downturn in the global economy,
according to Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach . While the
euro area is stagnating, some improvement there is expected in
the second half, he told reporters yesterday.  Stagnation Evil  “For us, stagnation and low growth are no less of an evil
and no less of a threat,” Klepach said after a government
meeting in Moscow. “Accelerating the pace of growth without
starting serious, national macroeconomic projects is
impossible.”  The government this week submitted a draft plan to revive
the economy to President  Vladimir Putin , with measures including
lowering bank lending rates and slowing increases in utilities
tariffs.  “With the slowdown being driven in part by structural
factors, we fear there is little fiscal or monetary policy can
do to boost growth without stoking inflation pressures,” Liza Ermolenko, an emerging-markets economist at  Capital Economics  in
 London , said in a research note. “One of the most striking
features of the recent slowdown is that growth slowed despite
the fact that  oil prices  have remained high.”  Urals crude , the country’s main export blend, averaged
$110.77 a barrel in the first quarter, compared with $116.67 a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price
for exports via northwest  Europe  was $102.73 today.  Investment Contracts  Fixed investment fell 0.8 percent from a year earlier in
March, the second contraction in four months, according to the
statistics service. Investment by Russia’s biggest
infrastructure companies dropped 10 percent last year and may
tumble 12 percent to 13 percent in 2013, led by Gazprom, Economy
Minister Andrei Belousov said yesterday.  The slowdown has set off an argument between the government
and central bank about whether  interest rates  are to blame. The
Economy Ministry has called for lower borrowing costs and higher
investment spending by the state to stimulate domestic demand.
Bank Rossii has argued that unemployment near record lows and
consumer-lending growth at almost 40 percent mean cheaper loans
would only fuel inflation.  “Low expectations for the first quarter have been formed
by the Economy Ministry, which estimated GDP growth at 1.1
percent,” said  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP
Paribas SA in Moscow. The ministry may have been aiming to
trigger “aggressive” economic stimulus to stave off recession
risks, she said in a note to clients.  Holding Rates  Monetary-policy makers led by central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, who steps down next month, have resisted calls to
lower Russia’s key rates as inflation remains more than one
percentage point above their 5 percent to 6 percent target
range. They kept the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent for an
eighth month this week.  “The outlook is not looking positive for Russia at this
stage,”  Piotr Matys , an emerging-market economist at 4cast Ltd.
in London, said by phone. “The government will seriously have
to start implementing some bold structural reforms to reduce
corruption, improve investment sentiment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  