-- Russian Arms to Syria Risk Miscalculation, Dempsey Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-05-17T22:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/russian-arms-to-syria-risks-miscalculation-dempsey-says.html
The top U.S. general said Russian
deliveries of advanced anti-ship missiles and air-defense
systems to  Syria  risk leading Bashar al-Assad’s regime to
miscalculate its military power.  The shipments are “at the very least an unfortunate
decision that will embolden the regime and prolong the
suffering,” General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said at a Pentagon news conference yesterday.
“It’s ill-timed and very unfortunate.”  Any Russian weapons being sent to Syria are fulfilling
commitments in previous contracts, Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  said yesterday after talks in Sochi,  Russia , with
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  Russia is completing contracts to supply S-300 air-defense
missile batteries to Syria, according to a Kremlin official who
asked not to be named discussing the arms sales. The S-300
missiles would bolster Syria’s defenses, complicating any effort
by outside powers to enforce a no-fly zone over the country.  The improved air-defenses are “more capable, higher-altitude, have more range and pushes the standoff distance,”
Dempsey said yesterday. “It increases the risk, but it’s not
impossible to overcome.”  Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, director of the U.S.
Defense Intelligence Agency, told Congress last month that
Russia was supplying Syria with a supersonic anti-ship cruise
missile called the Yakhont, a weapon with a range of 300
kilometers (186 miles) that he said poses “a major threat to
naval operations, particularly in the eastern Mediterranean.”  Kerry’s Talks  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  brought up weapons
deliveries with Lavrov and Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
during a visit to Moscow last week, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said at yesterday’s news conference. The goal was to
underscore the common ground between the U.S. and Russia in
avoiding an escalation that could lead to a broader Mideast
conflagration, Hagel said.  Kerry has said the Obama administration is weighing options
to expand aid to the Syrian rebels. Lawmakers such as Senator
 John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, have called for enforcing a
no-fly zone and arming the rebel forces. The administration has
resisted providing arms, in part because the Syrian opposition
includes militants with ties to al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  