-- Russia’s Wider Inflation Band to Weaken Policy Stance, Alfa Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-05-17T09:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/russia-s-wider-inflation-band-to-weaken-policy-stance-alfa-says.html
A proposal by the Russian central
bank to widen its inflation target range will probably
“weaken” its commitment to shifting its policy regime to
target price growth, according to  Alfa Bank .  Bank Rossii, which planned to target an inflation range of
4 percent to 5 percent in 2014-2015, has proposed setting the
goal for the next two to three years at 4.5 percent, with a
possible 1.5 percent deviation on either side, Deputy Chairman
Sergey Shvetsov told lawmakers in Moscow yesterday. The proposal
was submitted to the government for discussion, Shvetsov said.  “Our concern is that the wider range will further reduce
the central bank’s incentive to communicate with the market,”
Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, analysts at Alfa Bank,
Russia’s biggest non-state lender, said in an e-mailed note
today. “The proposal may therefore de facto soften the central
bank’s commitment to inflation targeting and will certainly do
nothing to build its credibility.”  The central bank, which plans to begin formal inflation
targeting in 2015, left its main  interest rates  unchanged in May
for an eighth month, brushing off government calls for lower
borrowing costs as it waits to see a sustained slowdown in
inflation, which remains more than a percentage point above
target. Bank Rossii is targeting a range of 5 percent to 6
percent for consumer-price growth this year after overshooting
the same goal in 2012 to finish at 6.6 percent.  Rate Bets  Investor bets are pricing in a reduction in interest rates.
The three-month MosPrime rate, which large Moscow banks say they
charge one another, may drop 34 basis points, or 0.34 percentage
point, in the next three months, according to forward rate
agreements tracked by Bloomberg. That compares with an increase
of 15 basis points forecast at the end of March.  The central bank’s proposal “takes into account the global
reality, which is bringing more volatility to domestic
inflation,” Alfa said.  The 4.5 percent target is “optimum” for  Russia , according
to VTB Capital analysts Maxim Oreshkin and Daria Isakova.  “If achieved on a constant basis, it would mean low and
stable inflation, but still with room for structural shifts in
the economy,” Oreshkin and Isakova said in a note to clients.
“Widening the range from 100 basis points to 300 basis points
will give the central bank more flexibility and allow it to be
more forward looking. Had a more flexible approach used this
year, we believe we would already have seen lower repo rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  