-- S. African Soybeans Gain to Four-Week High as U.S. Price Climbs
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-05-17T13:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/s-african-soybeans-gain-to-four-week-high-as-u-s-price-climbs.html
South African soybean futures
advanced to a four-week high after prices in the U.S., the
world’s biggest producer, rose after a bulk purchase by  China ,
the largest soybean importer.  Soybeans for delivery in July, the most active contract,
surged 1.1 percent to 4,765 rand ($508) a metric ton by the
close in Johannesburg today. The grain has climbed 3.4 percent
this week, the biggest increase on that basis since the five
days through April 19.  China purchased 79 percent of 346,634 tons in the week
ended May 9 for delivery in the year beginning Sept. 1,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. That takes
total sales for the next marketing year to 8.86 million tons
before most farmers even planted their crops, USDA data show.
Soybeans climbed to the highest since March 27 in  Chicago 
yesterday.  “Soybean prices went up quite a lot following gains in
Chicago, which came about because of tighter supply in the
U.S.,” Benjamin Swanepoel, a trader at Trademar Futures (Pty)
Ltd., said by phone in Johannesburg.  White corn for delivery in July, the most active contract,
gained 0.2 percent to 2,181 rand a ton after the rand declined
to a four-year low against the dollar, making the price of
locally produced varieties more attractive than imports for
South African buyers.  The currency extended its longest losing streak in a year
after renewed labor unrest and falling commodity prices raised
concern over South Africa’s economy.  “The main thing that supported local corn prices on the
market is rand weakness,” Swanepoel said.  South Africa is the continent’s biggest producer of corn.
The white grain is a staple food in the country, while the
yellow variety is mainly used as animal feed.  Yellow corn due for delivery in July, the most active
contract, fell by 0.2 percent to 2,162 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gordon Bell at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net  