-- SAC Says Cooperation With U.S. No Longer ‘Unconditional’
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-05-17T22:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/sac-says-cooperation-with-u-s-no-longer-unconditional-.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP,  Steven Cohen ’s $15 billion hedge-fund firm, told investors it’s no
longer cooperating unconditionally with the U.S. government’s
 insider-trading  investigation.  Because of confidentiality agreements, there will be
limited disclosure for now on the progress of the investigation,
according to a letter sent to clients today, portions of which
were provided to  Bloomberg News . The firm said it expects there
will be “substantially more clarity” in coming months.  SAC is taking a more defensive stance “either because
they’ve given enough cooperation for the government to conclude
there hasn’t been any wrongdoing or because the government is
signaling that it intends to continue pursuing SAC and its
current or former employees,” said Marc Powers, New York-based
head of securities litigation at law firm Baker & Hostetler LLP.
Powers isn’t involved in the case.  SAC in March reached a $602 million settlement with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over claims the firm and
one of its units profited from illegal tips about a drug trial
received by former portfolio manager Mathew Martoma. The SEC
said at the time the investigation of SAC was continuing.  July Deadline  The Martoma case, which centered on trades in drugmakers
Elan Corp. and Wyeth Inc., was the first to link Cohen directly
to alleged inside information, though the billionaire hedge-fund
founder hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing. The statute of
limitations to indict anyone involved in the trades expires in
July.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based firm, declined to comment on the letter.  Ellen
Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ,
and SEC spokesman  John Nester  also declined to comment on SAC’s
disclosure.  The letter could indicate that either the SEC or the U.S.
attorney may be preparing to sue or indict Cohen, said lawyers
who asked not to be named because of the sensitive nature of the
case. Before today, SAC had said it was cooperating with the
investigation.  The missive could also be a sign that SAC is fed up with
the length, demands and costs of the multiyear investigation
that has already linked at least nine current or former
employees to insider trading while working at the firm.  Client Redemptions  “More often than not, hedge-fund managers feel that the
SEC demands more information than it is entitled to, or is not
sensitive to the costs related to providing the information” in
the course of an investigation, said Ron Geffner, a partner at
Sadis & Goldberg in  New York  who was previously an enforcement
lawyer with the SEC.  Some of those costs include fleeing clients. In February,
investors asked to pull $1.68 billion from the fund. About $660
million was returned at the end of March, with the remainder
coming out by the end of the year. Last week, SAC told clients
it was extending the deadline to ask for withdrawals for the
second quarter to June 3 from mid-May. It also recently told
them it was beefing up its compliance.  SAC is also under pressure from shareholders in Elan and
Wyeth, now a unit of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , who are seeking damages
related to the Martoma trades. Elan shareholders have said SAC
owes them at least $685.6 million. SAC has argued that its SEC
settlement means the Elan shareholders aren’t entitled to any
money for the alleged insider trading.  Last month, U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero 
conditionally approved SAC’s settlement with the SEC. Marrero
ruled April 15 that the settlement can go forward, while saying
it remains subject to a ruling by the U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in New York in a case involving an earlier SEC
settlement with Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  