-- Samaras Seeks China Investment to Revive Battered Greek Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-17T08:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/samaras-tells-china-to-see-greece-as-europe-s-investment-gateway.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
promised to give the “red-carpet treatment” to foreign
investors as he visited China to help revive an economy that
contracted for the 19th straight quarter.  Leading a delegation of business leaders from companies
including  Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA) , Gaea Products SA and Dynagas Ltd.,
Samaras told a business forum that China should see  Greece  as a
gateway to investment in the rest of  Europe .  “Greece is determined to turn the crisis into an
opportunity for a new start,” Samaras said today. “Combining
Greece’s advantages and China’s penetration in global trade as
well as its competitive production costs, we can build a strong
partnership.”  The trip is part of Samaras’s bid to raise money as Greece
looks to reverse an economic contraction that reached 5.3
percent in the three months through March. He got a boost on May
14 from  Fitch Ratings , which upgraded Greece to B- from CCC,
still six levels below investment grade.  Samaras met Premier Li Keqiang yesterday and was to meet
President Xi Jinping later today. Li called for doubling
bilateral trade by 2015 and expanding investment in the Piraeus
port, after  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199)  won a contract to run container
operations at its Pier II in 2009.  China is interested in Greece’s privatization program and
deals between businesses, Development Minister Kostis Hatzidakis
said in an interview.  Adjustment Program  “After completing our fiscal adjustment program and having
five years of recession I think it’s time now to start a new
era, recovery first, growth after,” Hatzidakis said.  Presentations to Chinese investors at today’s event
included pitches for investments in Greece’s ports, marinas, the
horse-racing industry and airports. Also included were remarks
on the benefits of Greek food, olive oil and wine.  Samaras spoke three days after Fitch upgraded Greece and
gave it a stable outlook, saying that “clear progress” had
been made toward eliminating its fiscal and current-account
deficits. The country’s Economic Adjustment Program is “on
track,” Fitch said.  Greece has been shut out of bond markets since March 2010
and Samaras said earlier this week that selling bonds next year
will sound the “all clear” to foreign investors. He said today
that political and social stability have been assured and that
Greece’s fate is tied to the euro area.  “Greece in now anchored in the euro zone and this is
unquestionable -- period,” Samaras said.  At the same forum, Vice Commerce Minister Jiang Yaoping
said  China  sees the European Union as the “major instrument”
for diversifying its foreign-exchange reserves and called on the
bloc to expand high-tech exports to the country. He said China
will expand investment in Piraeus while encouraging more
tourists to travel to Greece.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  