-- Santos Assembles Team That Could Run Colombia Re-Election Bid
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-05-17T17:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/santos-assembles-team-that-could-run-colombia-re-election-bid.html
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  put together a team that could manage a re-election
campaign next year, and said he’ll seek to ensure the
continuation of his policies after his first presidential term
ends in 2014.  Santos allies including former central bank co-director
Juan Jose Echavarria, former Defense Minister Gabriel Silva, and
former National Police Chief Oscar Naranjo will join the board
of Santos’ Fundacion Buen Gobierno, or Good Government
Foundation, which served as the base of his 2010 election
campaign. In a broadcast on the presidential website, Santos
said German Vargas Lleras will step down as housing minister to
join the foundation.  “I want the policies of peace to be re-elected, I want the
policies of housing that we designed with Dr. Vargas Lleras to
be re-elected, I want our policies that have reduced
unemployment and have generated close to 2 million jobs to be
re-elected, I want our security policies that have led to the
biggest strikes in our history against insurgent groups and
criminal groups to be re-elected,” Santos said in his speech.  Santos’ announcement confirms that he will seek a second
presidential term, which was already widely suspected, said
Marta Ruiz a columnist at Semana,  Colombia ’s biggest news
magazine.  “It’s the confirmation of something that was already
known,” Ruiz said in a telephone interview from Bogota.  Accomplishment, Opposition  Since taking office, Santos’s government tracked down and
killed the two most senior leaders of the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC, before starting peace talks with
the Marxist group in Cuba. His government has faced repeated
attacks from former President  Alvaro Uribe  and his supporters,
who accuse him of squandering security gains.  Santos said he won’t announce a formal decision on his
candidacy until later this year, out of respect for “the rules
of the game.”  The economy grew at an average pace of 5.3 percent during
Santos’ first two full years in office, helped by record foreign
investment in oil and mining. Other sectors of the economy such
as industry and agriculture have struggled, as the government
failed to weaken the peso, which it says is overvalued.  Coffee farmers blocked highways in February to protest
falling incomes from lower coffee prices and the strong peso,
while industrial output shrank 4.5 percent in February from a
year earlier.  The currency has gained 22 percent since 2008, the biggest
gain among 24 major emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Chilean peso. In trading today, the peso
weakened 0.1 percent to 1841.60 per dollar from 1840.05
yesterday.  The Good Government Foundation will discuss “how the
government’s work can be continued, with or without re-election,” Echavarria said today in a phone interview from
Bogota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  