-- Scene Last Night: El Barrio, Cohn Art; Foster, Wright
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-05-17T18:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/scene-last-night-el-barrio-cohn-art-foster-wright.html
Miami came to  Manhattan  last night,
at a gala honoring the chief executive officer for Latin America
of Banco Itau Unibanco, Ricardo Villela Marino.  The occasion was a gala for El Museo del Barrio, whose
roots are in its Latino neighborhood though it has extended its
mission to show art from around the world.  The gala was a debut for Chus Martinez, who started as
chief curator in December and is full of ideas for her new job
on Upper Fifth Avenue. The Heckscher Theater in particular, she
said, is an underused resource with wonderful acoustics and
murals by Willy Pogany.  Martinez lives near El Museo del Barrio and sends her son
to the nursery school operated by Boys & Girls Harbor, which is
in the same building as El Museo.  Harbor Music  Boys & Girls Harbor held its fundraiser Wednesday night, on
the terrace it shares with El Museo. The “Estampas on 6:
Postcards from El Barrio” featured entertainment by children in
the Harbor Conservatory for the Performing Arts. Guests included
music executives Lyor Cohen and Kevin Liles.  “Thank you for inspiring me even more and making me even
more optimistic about tomorrow,” said Chelsea Clinton Wednesday
night. She was accepting an award from  GenerationOn , a youth-service nonprofit founded by Silda Wall Spitzer, principal at
NewWorld Capital Group LLC.  Brian Goldner, CEO of  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , and actress America Ferrera were also at 583 Park for the GenerationOn gala, which
raised $797,000.  Cohn Paintings  Also on Wednesday night, Homer, interior designer Richard
Mishaan’s shop on University Place, held an opening for
paintings by Lisa Pevaroff-Cohn, wife of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  President Gary Cohn. Family members in attendance included
two of the couple’s three daughters: Melanie, a freshman at
Davidson College, and Chelsea, a junior at Columbia Grammar and
Preparatory School.  Asked if they’re more inclined to pursue a career in art or
banking, both girls replied “Neither.” Cohn stepped in to say
he wants his daughters to pursue their dreams. “Too many of us
get caught up in chasing what we think we’re supposed to do,”
he said.  The paintings are mostly beach scenes, some embellished
with words such as “love,” “sex,” and “ocean life” in
metallic lettering, as well as gold metallic butterflies.  Guests included  Marc Lasry , CEO of Avenue Capital Group
LLC, who said he was thinking of getting one of the paintings
for his beach house, and fashion designer Lisa Perry, in a
sweater with the initials “LP” on the front.  “People have come to me asking, is it for “Limited
Partnership” or it is about records? I wore it for Lisa” (who
shares the same initials), Perry said. The sweater, she added,
was a gift from a friend.  Foster, Wright  Sir John Soane’s Museum Foundation honored two giants of
architecture, Norman Foster and Frank Lloyd Wright, at a gala
Tuesday evening at 583 Park.  Malcolm Rogers, director of the Museum of Fine Arts in
 Boston , praised Foster for championing sustainability in his
design projects, then presented him with a medallion.  The Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation Archives Partnership,
which oversees more than 23,000 Wright drawings as well as
numerous  models, received its medallion from Catherine
Ingraham, a professor of architecture at Pratt Institute -- and
Wright’s great-granddaughter.  The event raised $300,000 and drew 260 guests, including
art dealer Angela Westwater and Anthony Marx, president and CEO
of the New York Public Library, which has hired Foster to work
on a renovation of its flagship building at 42nd Street.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on  auctions , Lili
Rosboch and James Tarmy on  weekend  events.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 