-- Scene in D.C.: Justice Stevens, Donahue at Citizen Awards
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-05-17T14:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/scene-in-d-c-justice-stevens-donahue-at-citizen-awards.html
With a record 720 dissenting opinions
to his credit, former  Supreme Court  Justice  John Paul Stevens 
joked that he should be given “a lifetime failure award.”  At last night’s  Public Citizen’s 2013 Gala , Stevens was the
recipient of the Public Citizen Lifetime Achievement Award at
the Ronald Reagan Building.  “Justice Stevens is a rock star in this crowd,” said Linda Greenhouse, the Joseph Goldstein Lecturer at Yale Law School,
referring to the 93-year-old, sporting his trademark bowtie.  “And he’s a Midwestern boy,” said Congressman Bruce Braley,
Iowa Democrat, after ticking off the Chicago native’s
superlatives.  Braley was joined by his colleague Congressman John Conyers, a Michigan Democrat and ranking member of the House
Judiciary Committee, and another long-time admirer of the judge.  Stevens was honored by  Public Citizen , a consumer watchdog 
organization founded by  Ralph Nader , for his dissent in 2010’s 
Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, in which he 
argued that corporations should not be able to spend unlimited 
amounts of money on campaign contributions.  “Although they make enormous contributions to our society,
corporations are not actually members of it,” he wrote, much to
Public Citizen’s approval.  Phil Donahue  Talk-show host Phil Donahue was the first Public Citizen
honoree in 2010. Last night he sat with  Sidney Wolfe , a
physician and the co-founder and director of Public Citizen’s
Health Research Group, and Wolfe’s wife Suzanne Goldberg, a
psychologist.  Donahue said he would most like to interview Justice
 Clarence Thomas  or Justice  Antonin Scalia , calling them some of
“the most fascinating judicial figures.”  After the chicken-and-risotto dinner, Stevens was
questioned by Greenhouse about his career and post-Court life.  He said he reads every opinion handed down by his former
colleagues, as well as non-fiction favorites like Charles Lane’s
“The Day Freedom Died: The Colfax Massacre, the Supreme Court,
and the Betrayal of Reconstruction.”  As for Chief Justice  John Roberts , they agree to disagree.
“He’s intellectually honest,” Stevens said.  Stevens inspired laughter and bitter memories when he
reflected on his dissent in Bush v. Gore and the difference
between hanging and dimpled chads.  The gala ended with peach tarts served with ice cream while
the  Sage String Quartet  played “Moon River.”  Other guests included Robert Weissman, Public Citizen’s
president, and Laura Handman, a partner with Davis Wright
Tremaine LLP.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include New York and London  weekend guides ,
 Farah Nayeri  on film,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Amanda Gordon’s 
Scene Last Night and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 