-- Sephora Rival Nocibe Said to Draw LBO France, Advent Bids
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-05-17T14:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/sephora-rival-nocibe-said-to-draw-bids-from-lbo-france-advent.html
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP is
in talks with bidders including Advent International Corp. and
LBO France to sell French perfume and cosmetics retailer Nocibe
SA, according to two people with knowledge of the process.  Nocibe, the competitor of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC)  unit Sephora, will receive a second round of bids before the
middle of next month, the people said, asking not to be
identified as the process isn’t public. Advent is making a bid
through the German cosmetics company  Douglas Holding AG (DOU)  that it
owns with the Kreke family, one person said.  Charterhouse bought the retailer from Bridgepoint Advisers
Ltd. in 2006 for 490 million euros ($630 million), according to
its website. While the sellers have sought a valuation of about
600 million euros for the asset, it’s unclear if Nocibe will
fetch a price in line with that amount, according to two people
with knowledge of the process.  Nocibe , based in Villeneuve d’Ascq near Lille in  France ,
was created in 1984. The company sells its own beauty products
as well as others such as La Petite Robe Noire fragrance by
Guerlain and Tommy Guns shampoo. Nocibe also offers beauty
services such as facials and make-up courses. The company has
about 450 outlets in France and employs about 3,000 people,
according to its website. It had sales of 680 million euros in
2012, the website shows.  Douglas Takeover  Officials at Advent and LBO France declined to comment. A
representative for Charterhouse wasn’t immediately available for
comment. Emilie Dufour, a spokeswoman for Nocibe, declined to
comment.  Advent bid 1.5 billion euros for Douglas last year after
almost a year of talks. Douglas, based in the Ruhr Valley town
of Hagen, owns perfume outlets as well as a jewelry brand,
fashion stores, confectioneries and a bookstore chain.  Hutchison Whampoa acquired Marionnaud Parfumeries SA in
2005 for 758 million euros, or about 10 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  L’Oreal SA (OR)  acquired Body Shop
International Plc for about 12 times Ebitda in 2006, while
Advent agreed last year to buy Douglas for 7.2 times Ebitda, the
data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  