-- Serbia Will Start Cutting Deficit as of May, Dinkic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-17T14:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/serbia-will-start-cutting-deficit-as-of-may-dinkic-says.html
Serbia  will start cutting its  budget
deficit  this month, after the Cabinet adopts measures to save an
equivalent to one percentage point of gross domestic product.  Fiscal consolidation will come in steps, with the first one
in May, when the  Finance Ministry  wants to launch measures to
save 32 billion dinars ($370.8 million), the Belgrade-based
ministry said citing Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic .  “We will start cutting the deficit as of this month and
adjust spending to an existing quantity of money,” Dinkic said,
according to the statement. “We will then monitor what happens
during the summer and if needed, we will have another wave in
September, which means that we will keep adjusting and spending
only what we earn.”  Serbia’s budget gap reached 62.3 percent of the full-year
target in the first four months as social-benefit payments
doubled and payments of  interest rates  on past debt more than
tripled. The central government deficit expanded to 75.9 billion
dinars, compared with a 122 billion-dinar shortfall planned for
the entire year.  The government needs to cut spending while leaving some
cash for growth because “Serbia is in a difficult economic
situation,” Dinkic said.  The deficit of 49.8 billion dinars in the first three
months was equivalent to almost 6 percent of quarterly GDP.
Dinkic said on May 10 that the gap will likely be 4.5 percent of
GDP, compared with a target in the 2013 budget of 3.6 percent of
GDP and last year’s gap of 6.7 percent of GDP.  The  International Monetary Fund  wraps up its two-week
mission to Serbia on May 21, checking the health of the economy
as part of the periodical Article IV consultation. The mission
had no mandate to negotiate a new loan agreement.  The government had two months to agree on fiscal policy
goals that would have paved the way for the start of talks on a
new loan with the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  