-- Serbia Seeks Investment in Trepca Mines Ahead of Kosovo Talks
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-05-17T13:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/serbia-seeks-investment-in-trepca-mines-ahead-of-kosovo-talks.html
Serbia  offered to U.S. New Generation
Power LLC to invest in Trepca lead and zinc mines in Kosovo as
it seeks to reclaim full control over the company located in its
breakaway province.  Serbs and Kosovo Albanians have conflicting claims over the
once large mining company, whose facilities in northern Kosovo
are controlled by Serbs and by the Albanian majority in central
areas. Kosovo and Serbia are to resume European-Union mediated
talks next week in Brussels on normalizing relations more than
five years since Kosovo declared independence.  Chicago , Illinois-based New Generation Power, or NGP, will
conduct a study on possible upgrades of Trepca mines and
processing plants, while also seeking to explore lithium
reserves in Serbia, NGP President Chirijeev Kathuria told
reporters after signing a cooperation agreement in Belgrade
today.  “Trepca is one of the most import natural resources” in
 Europe  for lead, zinc and rare earth metals, Chirijeev said.
“We understand that legal and ownership issues need to be
solved” and “NGP has been in contact with the U.S. State
Department before signing the document.”  The U.S. have
recognized Kosovo as have 22 of 27 EU countries.  The deal with NGP is “important for economic aspects of
our negotiations with Kosovo” Serbia’s Mining Minister Milan
Bacevic said. “Arrival of foreign companies improves our
position in the political dialogue” with Kosovo and is “the
best way to gain control of the part of Trepca that we don’t
control.”  Part of Trepca held by Serbs produced about 11,000 tons of
lead concentrate and almost 8,000 tons of zinc concentrate last
year, the company’s general manager Jovan Dimkic said. Chirijeev
said such output is about 15 percent of capacity, while NGP
would seek to boost that to 85 percent.  “There is no shortage of capital, we have talked to our
global investment banks,” he said. “Trepca is one of the most
attractive investment opportunities today in Europe” and NGP
will consider public-private partnership with both Serbian and
 Kosovo  governments, without seeking a majority stake in Trepca.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  