-- Sina Will Focus on Mobile in Alibaba Alliance as Earnings Falter
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-17T06:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/sina-will-focus-on-mobile-in-alibaba-alliance-as-earnings-falter.html
Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of  China ’s largest
Twitter-like service, will push into mobile e-commerce through
an alliance with Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. to revive flagging
advertising sales.  Alibaba, operator of the Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com
retail sites, will help Sina better target merchants wanting to
place ads on its Weibo microblog service, Sina Chief Executive
Officer Charles Chao said on a call today after the company
posted a first-quarter loss. The call marks Sina’s first public
comments detailing the partnership since Alibaba paid $586
million for an 18 percent stake in Weibo in April.  Sina is focusing on mobile platforms to bolster earnings
from advertising, its biggest sales contributor, after recording
the  smallest revenue gain  in three years in 2012. The Beijing-based company’s ad sales fell last quarter from the three months
ended December as a slowdown in  China’s economy  damped spending.  “The cooperation with Alibaba will help Sina to some
extent and bring in some more revenue” in the longer term, Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen Securities Co. in Hong Kong with a
neutral rating on Sina, said by phone. “However returns won’t
be too obvious” in the coming months, he said.  The two companies will also work closely on online search
capability on Weibo through mobile devices, with Sina investing
“quite heavily” in this area, Chao said. Alibaba will help
merchants with a strong  credit rating  on Taobao and Tmall set up
official accounts on Weibo, boosting user traffic on the
microblog, he said.  Payment Systems  “We believe these kinds of activities will help to increase
commercial eco-system on Weibo and create demand for
advertising,” Chao said. “We will be able to have much more
targeted advertising, effective advertising on Weibo” in
collaboration with Alibaba, he said.  Alibaba’s Alipay will become an important third-party
payment system on Weibo, the executive said, without providing a
timeframe. The microblog also has its own payment network, Weibo
Wallet, whose mobile version is in beta testing, he said.  Sina may hire more people to work on projects with Alibaba,
Chao said, without specifying how many.  Sina rose as much as 7 percent in  after-hours trading  in
 New York . The stock fell 1.2 percent to close at $58.81 on the
Nasdaq Composite Index yesterday, narrowing its gain this year
to 17 percent.  The company yesterday forecast second-quarter non-GAAP
revenue of $143 million to $147 million, including advertising
sales of $117 million to $119 million. Analysts project revenue
of $144 million, according to the average of nine estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Its first-quarter net loss narrowed to $13.2 million from
$13.7 million a year earlier. That’s worse than the $5.6 million
loss predicted by analysts, based on the average of 10  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg before the results. Sales climbed 19
percent to $126 million.  Advertising revenue fell 15 percent from the three months
ended Dec. 31 to $94.3 million, Sina said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  