-- Skinheads Taunt Gays at First Rally Since Russian Propaganda Ban
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-05-17T12:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/skinheads-taunt-gays-at-first-rally-since-russian-propaganda-ban.html
Skinheads armed with smoke bombs
taunted gays in central St. Petersburg in the first sanctioned
gay rally in  Russia ’s second-largest city since it banned so-called homosexual propaganda last March.  About 100 gay rights proponents were outnumbered two-to-one
by protesters identifying themselves as Orthodox Christian
activists at meeting that was cordoned off by police.  Participants arrived by bus carrying rainbow flags and
colored balloons and chanted slogans including “shame to
fascists” for about 15 minutes before leaving. They paused for
a minute of silence to honor a gay man murdered in Volgograd on
May 10 in what local police are calling a hate crime.  “This rally was organized as a reminder to civil society
about the rights of homosexuals,” Olga Lenkova, a spokeswoman
for the Coming Out advocacy group, said in an interview. The
rally was the first approved by the city since November 2011,
Lenkova said. Three prior petitions were rejected before changes
to local legislation were passed, she said.  International celebrities led by Madonna condemned  St.
Petersburg  Governor Georgy Poltavchenko’s decision last March to
sign legislation that bans lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender “propaganda.” Madonna was sued by nine city
residents for flouting the ban during her concert in St.
Petersburg last August. A judge dismissed the 333 million-ruble
($10.6 million) suit.  ‘Normal Families’  The law forbids comment or actions that give minors “the
false perception” that traditional and nontraditional
relationships are socially equal. Violators face fines of 5,000
rubles for private individuals, 50,000 rubles for government
officials and 500,000 rubles for organizations. Similar bills
have been enacted in 12 of Russia’s 83 regions.  The State Duma, or lower house of parliament, on Jan. 25
gave preliminary approval to a bill that would apply the
propaganda ban nationwide. Lawmakers in Moscow are scheduled to
vote in the second of three required readings May 25.  Thirty-six percent of Russians favor curbing the civil
rights of homosexuals, according to a  poll  published today on
the website of Moscow-based Levada Center. The survey of 1,601
people was taken April 19-22 and had a margin of error of 3.4
percentage points.  “It’s a shame that events like this happen in St.
Petersburg,” said Vitaly Milonov, the local lawmaker who wrote
the propaganda bill. “Normal citizens have to fight for normal
families,” Milonov said as he observed today’s rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  