-- Slaughter & May, Jones Day, White & Case: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/slaughter-may-jones-day-white-case-business-of-law.html
Slaughter & May and Latham & Watkins
LLP advised  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , the 172-year-old tour
operator that required an emergency loan 18 months ago, on plans
to raise 1.6 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) to restructure its
borrowings as it cuts jobs and closes stores to pare costs.  Linklaters LLP advised  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , Gleacher
Shacklock and Jefferies Hoare Govett and the other banks on the
Thomas Cook share placing and rights issue.  The Slaughter & May team was led by corporate
partners William Underhill, Tim Pharoah and Rebecca Cousin. The
team also included tax partner Gareth Miles. The Slaughter &
May financing team was led by partners Richard
Levitt and Stephen Powell.  Latham’s team included team leader Christopher Hall and
partners Tracy Edmonson on high yield matters and Olof Clausson
on equity  capital markets  matters.  The Linklaters team was led by partners Tom O’Neill, James Inglis and John Lane.  Shearman & Sterling LLP was counsel to the banks on the
bond element. Allen & Overy LLP provided counsel to the banks on
the bank debt.  The world’s oldest holiday company has begun a 90-day
consultation to cut 2,500 jobs, or 16 percent of the total, as
it closes unprofitable shops and consolidates airline operations
under a three-year recovery plan. The financial restructuring is
fully underwritten and will reduce the proportion of debt on its
balance sheet and extend the maturity of existing arrangements
while paving the way for a return to dividend payments.  The restructuring will help put  Thomas Cook  in a position
to consider resuming dividend payouts following completion of
the turnaround strategy in 2015, Chief Executive Office Harriet Green said on a conference call.  Credit Suisse and Gleacher Shacklock are joint sponsors of
the capital refinancing and are acting as joint financial
advisers with Short Partners.  Credit Suisse is the lone global coordinator and joint
corporate broker with Jefferies Hoare Govett for the rights
offer. Members of the banking syndicate that are providing the
new facilities will be joint book runners for the  bond issue .  For more, click here.  Jones Day Advises DDR on Blackstone Stake Purchase  Jones Day advised  DDR Corp. (DDR)  on its agreement to buy
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s stake in a group of U.S. shopping centers
operated under a joint venture between the companies for
$1.46 billion. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing
Blackstone.  The Jones Day deal team advising DDR is led by Michael Haas
and Zack Paris, Cleveland real estate partners. The Jones Day
deal team also includes partners Mike Solecki, capital markets
and Ron Weitz tax.  The Simpson Thacher partners included Greg Ressa and Erik
Quarfordt, real estate; Wilson Neely, mergers and acquisitions;
and Joyce Xu, derivatives.  DDR will acquire Blackstone’s interest in 30 of the 44
shopping centers in the venture, the Beachwood, Ohio-based real
estate investment trust said in a statement. New York-based
Blackstone has a 95 percent stake in the properties.  “The acquisition will be funded responsibly, and will
position us well for strong relative growth in  cash flow 
generated by high-quality shopping centers over the long term,”
David Oakes, DDR’s chief financial officer, said in the
statement.  The two companies announced the partnership in January 2012
to buy 46 shopping centers from a unit of Elbit Imaging Ltd. The
deal was completed in June, DDR said in a statement at the time.  DDR plans to fund the acquisition through the assumption of
$398 million in existing debt, almost $150 million from the
repayment of preferred equity and mezzanine loans, and from the
issuance of equity and unsecured debt. DDR also has the right,
subject to certain conditions, to issue common shares to
Blackstone in an amount of as much as $250 million.  For more, click here.  Moves  Shearman’s Kiem Joins White & Case in Frankfurt  White & Case  LLP hired Roger Kiem as a partner in the
global mergers and acquisitions practice in the Frankfurt
office. Keim and Andreas Wieland, who joins as a local partner
in Frankfurt, were previously at Shearman & Sterling LLP.  “Roger is one of the most prominent Corporate/M&A lawyers
in  Germany  which will fit well with White & Case’s strong global
platform and broad German practice. His arrival is a key
development for our Frankfurt office as well as our integrated
German, European and global M&A practice,” Markus Hauptmann,
White & Case’s regional section head for Germany, said in a
statement.  Kiem’s practice covers complex domestic and cross-border
mergers and acquisitions, including both public and private
transactions with a specific focus on the financial services
sector and other regulated environments.  White & Case has lawyers in 39 offices across 27 countries.  Jones Day Adds Patent Litigator David Burgert in Houston  David L. Burgert, a trial lawyer who focuses on patent
disputes, joined the Houston office of  Jones Day  as a partner in
the intellectual property practice. He was formerly a partner at
Houston’s Porter Hedges LLP.   Burgert has represented both patent holders and accused
infringers in high stakes and high technology lawsuits, as well
as representing brands on issues of internet and trademark law,
the firm said. He also has significant experience with oil and
gas matters, securities fraud issues, lender liability cases,
and real estate disputes.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  K&L Gates Adds Seattle Technology Transactions Partner  K&L Gates LLP said it hired Kate Spelman from Cobalt LLP as
a technology transactions partner in  Seattle . William H. Holmes
and Teresa A. Hill also joined as partners in the energy and
infrastructure projects and transactions practice in  Portland .
Both arrived from Stoel Rives LLP.   Spellman focuses on copyright, content, social media
policy, and digital publishing. She also counsels on a variety
of media and licensing matters, including the development,
production, sale, and defense of intellectual property, the firm
said.  Holmes advises investors, independent power producers,
utilities, and renewable energy companies on energy law matters,
the firm said. His practice has included projects that use wind,
solar, geothermal, natural gas and hydrokinetic energy, the firm
said. He also has experience in real estate law, water law, and
corporate transactions.  Hill counsels clients on power purchase agreements,
environmental and land use approvals, due diligence reviews,
environmental compliance and permitting, and appearances before
administrative agencies.  K&L Gates has lawyers at 48 offices located in the U.S.,
 Asia ,  Australia ,  Europe , the  Middle East  and  South America .  Covington Hires Former UCB General Counsel Trainor  Robert J. Trainor, former executive vice president and
general counsel of Brussels-based UCB SA, joins Covington &
Burling LLP as senior of counsel in the New York office.  He will advise clients on corporate, policy, and litigation
matters affecting the pharmaceutical industry and other
corporate clients, the firm said.  During his tenure at UCB, the company significantly
expanded its business and its research and development efforts.
He led the legal team for the company’s $5.6 billion 2006
acquisition of Schwarz Pharma AG.  Covington has more than 800 lawyers and 10 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Mintz Levin Hires Consumer Product Safety Counsel  Matthew R. Howsare, the chief of staff and chief counsel to
the chairman of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission,
will join Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo
PC’s Washington office as of counsel. He joins the consumer
product safety practice.  During his tenure at the CPSC, Howsare was the principal
adviser to the chairman, overseeing senior staff and providing
legal and policy counsel, the firm said. He supervised the
execution of the CPSC’s regulatory agenda and the implementation
of legislative mandates including the Consumer Product Safety
Improvement Act, according to the firm.  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and London.  Video  Business Development: You’re Doing It Wrong, Consultant Says  Trevor Faure, global leader of legal services for Ernst &
Young, tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia that the needs of
general counsels at large corporations have changed in recent
years and that most law firms need to change the way they
approach business development. Faure said that while building
personal relationships and augmenting a law firm’s reputation
are still part of getting new business, they are becoming less
important factors. Faure said law firms need to deliver more
focused and prescient communications that inform corporations of
the legal challenges they will face in the future.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  Judges  Senate Confirms William H. Orrick III for California Judgeship  San Francisco lawyer William H. Orrick, III, special
counsel at Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass LLP, was confirmed by
the Senate to a judgeship in the U.S District Court for the
Northern District of California.  The confirmation came after a 56-41 vote. He fills the seat
of District Judge Charles R. Breyer, who went on senior status.  Orrick, 60, worked in private practice for more than 25
years. He joined the firm in 1984 and became partner in 1988,
according to a statement by the Court. From 2009 to 2012, he was
in the  U.S. Department of Justice , initially as a counselor to
the assistant attorney general in the Civil Division, then as
the deputy assistant attorney general for the Immigration
Litigation Unit in the Civil Division. He returned to firm last
year.  Orrick is the son of the late U.S. District Judge William
H. Orrick, Jr., who served on the Northern District bench from
1974 until his death in 2003, the Court said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 