-- Slovenia’s Credit Rating Cut By Fitch as Economy Sours
-- B y   A n d r e w   L a n g l e y
-- 2013-05-17T17:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/slovenia-s-credit-rating-cut-by-fitch-as-economy-sours.html
Slovenia’s sovereign-credit grade was
cut by Fitch Ratings, which cited a worsening economic outlook
and a widening budget deficit as the euro-area nation battles to
rescue its banking industry and avoid a bailout.  The long-term rating was lowered one level to BBB+ from A-,
on par with Ireland and  Italy , Fitch said today in an e-mailed
statement from London. The outlook was left at negative, meaning
the ratings company is more likely to reduce its assessment
further than leave it the same or raise it.  “The macroeconomic and fiscal outlook has deteriorated
significantly since Fitch’s last rating review” in August 2012,
it wrote. “The agency now forecasts a 2 percent contraction in
real gross domestic product in 2013 and a decline of 0.3 percent
in 2014, when Slovenia is expected to be one of only two euro-zone economies to contract.”  Slovenia, struggling with its second recession since 2009,
is working to fix its ailing banking industry with a 900
million-euro ($1.2 billion) capital boost and the creation of a
so-called bad bank to cleanse lenders’ balance sheets and aid
economic recovery. Moody’s cut the country’s credit to junk last
month, citing the government’s bill for the bank rescue.  The yield on the government’s dollar note due 2022 was down
4 basis points at 5.33 percent as of 7:25 p.m. in the capital,
Ljubljana. It peaked at 6.38 percent on March 27 as investors
speculated Slovenia will be the next euro-area country to seek a
bailout after Cyprus.  Limited Utility  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
government bonds fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
suggests they should climb, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as the 1970s.  The government is preparing to sell state-company stakes
beginning in September to raise cash, Finance Minister Uros Cufer said yesterday in an interview. The European Commission,
the European Union’s executive, will assess an economic-overhaul
plan from the Adriatic nation this month.  The fiscal deficit will widen to 5 percent of GDP this year
from 4 percent in 2012, Fitch predicted today. That compares
with a government goal of 2.8 percent.  “Fitch now projects that a larger general government
deficit than previously expected, a poor macroeconomic outlook
and costs deriving from bank recapitalization and the issuance
of state guarantees for ‘bad bank’ bonds will cause gross
general government debt to rise to 72 percent of GDP in 2013-14,” the ratings company said. “This compares with a forecast
for 2014 of 63 percent when Fitch last downgraded Slovenia to A-in August 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Langley in  London  at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  