-- Sohu.com Seeks Investors in Search Engine Unit for Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-17T19:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/sohu-com-seeks-investors-in-search-engine-unit-for-growth.html
Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , owner of China’s
third-largest Web portal, is seeking strategic investment for
its Sogou search unit to compete with  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  for Internet
users and advertising.  The company is also looking to buy larger video websites to
provide content, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles Zhang, 48, said in an interview yesterday at the company’s
headquarters in Beijing.  Sohu, founded by Zhang as one of the first generation
Internet startups in China in the late 1990s, is seeking
acquisitions and partnerships as it lags behind Baidu in search
and  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  in online video growth. Zhang aims to
strengthen the company as an Internet media and entertainment
provider targeting consumers watching video and using
applications on their smartphones and tablet computers.  “None of the business units at Sohu are showing big
growth,” said Deco You, a Beijing-based analyst at Internet
consulting firm iResearch. “Only when the search engine reaches
a certain scale, can they realize its commercial value.”  Sogou accounted for 5.4 percent of search-engine queries in
China in the fourth quarter, placing it in third place. Baidu
had 82.3 percent and  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  8.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Sohu’s Web portal lags behind  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s
QQ.com and  Sina Corp. (SINA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  company ’s American depositary receipts  gained  3.7
percent to $63.51 at 3:26 p.m. in  New York  trading. The stock
has gained 34 percent this year.  Sabbatical Year  Zhang, who has a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, took a sabbatical to address some personal issues
and was away for about a year till January.  “I missed out on some things, but that’s life,” said
Zhang. “My goals in life have changed, and work is very
important now.”  In the past year Baidu and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,
 China ’s largest e-commerce company, have made acquisitions to
grow. Baidu said this month it will buy PPS Net TV’s Internet
video business for $370 million and combine it with iQiyi.com,
another video unit the company agreed to  acquire  last year.  On May 10, Alibaba announced the $294 million acquisition
of a 28 percent stake in Beijing-based mapping company AutoNavi
Holdings Ltd. And last month, it agreed to pay $586 million for
about 18 percent of Sina’s Weibo, a Twitter-like service.  Sohu is now exploring social media opportunities on mobile
devices.  The company “has to produce the best quality content
either text based, picture based, or video motion picture based,
and at the same time it has to have channels,” said Zhang.
“Sogou is very important, it is an access and a channel.”  Cash in Hand  Sohu had  cash and short-term investments  of about $951
million at the end of March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Strategic growth costs money,” Zhang said. “$1 billion
is not that much.”  The company last month posted first-quarter  profit  that
beat analyst estimates on higher online advertising sales. Net
income rose 14 percent to $23 million.  Second-quarter revenue will be between $333 million and
$342 million, Sohu said April 29.  “Online video is now in a high-growth period, but
competition is also very fierce,” Zhang said.  China had 564 million Internet users at the end of last
year, up 10 percent from the year before, according to the
government-run China Internet Network Information Center. That
is greater than the population of any country except  India .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  