-- Sony Shareholder Daiwa Opposes Loeb on Profit Concerns
-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-05-17T07:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/sony-shareholder-daiwa-opposes-loeb-on-profit-concerns-1-.html
Daiwa Asset Management Co., which
bought  Sony Corp. (6758)  shares last year as it bet a weaker yen would
boost earnings, is opposed to hedge-fund manager  Daniel Loeb ’s
proposal to spin off the electronic maker’s entertainment unit,
claiming it will drain the company of a source of profits.  “If you separate the entertainment business, which is
making stable profits, then profits are going to flow out of
Sony,” Mitsuhiro Shima, a senior fund manager at Daiwa, said in
a telephone interview. “It’s not a good proposal.”  Loeb, who successfully pushed for an executive shakeup at
Yahoo! Inc., will need to overcome a history of failed efforts
by activist investors in  Japan , including Christopher Hohn’s
Children’s Investment Fund Management LLP efforts to wring
profits at Tokyo-based Electric Power Development Co. Opposition
from Japanese fund managers may give support to Sony’s response
so far that its units are not up for sale.  Loeb’s Third Point LLC hedge fund, Sony’s largest
shareholder with a $1.3 billion stake in Sony, is pushing for
the Tokyo-based company to sell as much as 20 percent of its
entertainment business and focus on the “considerable and
under-appreciated value” of its electronics unit.  Sony responded that the unit is not for sale as its
entertainment divisions are “important contributors.” The
company’s shares are up 9 percent since Loeb’s proposal was
disclosed on May 14. These  gains  will be fleeting as profits
drop, Shima said. Sony shares fell 1.7 percent to 2,046 yen
today in  Tokyo .  “This proposal is just to raise Sony’s share price,” he
said. “It doesn’t matter if you say you will continue to keep
hold of the management rights, the profits will leave.”  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Daiwa Asset’s parent,  held  a
total of about 5 million Sony shares, or 0.5 percent, as of
April 30, including those held by Daiwa Asset’s active
investment and exchange-traded funds, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Shima declined to say whether his funds, including the
Daiwa Ryusei Japan Stock Open, still owns the shares, citing
company policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  