-- Sony Convertible Bond Buyers See Profits as Shares Gain
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-05-17T00:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/sony-convertible-bond-buyers-see-profits-as-shares-gain.html
Investors who bought into  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s convertible bond issue last year may reap profits of as
much as $1.7 billion, after the shares surged to more than
double the price at which the debt can be redeemed for equity.  Sony raised 150 billion yen ($1.5 billion) in November to
fund expansion, selling zero-coupon bonds which can be converted
into 157 million shares at 957 yen apiece, the Tokyo-based
company said in an e-mailed statement. Those shares would be
worth 327 billion yen at yesterday’s closing price of 2,082 yen.  The maker of Bravia TVs, which got a proposal from
billionaire  Daniel Loeb  to spin off its entertainment assets,
made its first convertible-bond sale in a decade amid a stock
price plunge on mounting losses from TVs last year. The shares
have more than  doubled  this year as Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  cut jobs, sold assets and benefited from a weaker
yen. While investors can now convert the debt, none have done so
yet, said Yuki Shima, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Sony.  “Exercising it at this point seems very attractive,” said
Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in Tokyo. “I’m
surprised no one’s done it yet, since the share price has
doubled.”  The zero-coupon notes may be exchanged for  Sony’s shares 
until Nov. 16, 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company has an option to buy the notes back at par should
its shares trade at 30 percent above the conversion price, or at
least 1,245 yen, over 20 consecutive business days after Nov.
30, 2015, the data show.  Third Point  If the bonds were redeemed fully, the shares issued would
be equivalent to about 13 percent of Sony’s stock.  The price of the bonds, which was initially offered at
102.5 yen for a 100-yen face value, has also surged to 218.65
yen yesterday, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. prices.  Sony’s shares jumped 10 percent in  Tokyo  on May 15 to close
at the highest level since July 2011 after Third Point LLC, the
hedge fund headed by Loeb, took a $1.1 billion stake and urged
the company to sell as much as 20 percent of its entertainment
business in an initial public offering. Sony rose 0.5 percent
yesterday.  Even after recent gains, Sony’s  market capitalization  of
about $21 billion compares with a valuation of more than $120
billion in 2000. The company has the U.S. dollar equivalent of
$8.6 billion of bonds and loans outstanding due by the end of
2022, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  Sony sold the convertible bonds to fund acquisitions and
the expansion of imaging-sensor facilities, the company said in
a Nov. 14 statement. It offered the convertible bonds instead of
straight debt to minimize interest payments with a zero coupon,
the company said at the time.  Credit Rating  The sale was announced less than a week after Sony had its
 credit rating  cut to the lowest investment grade by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited falling demand for its TVs and
cameras.  Third Point’s Loeb said in a May 14 letter to Hirai that
the company should sell as much as 20 percent of Sony
Entertainment in an initial public offering, giving current Sony
shareholders priority in owning the shares and reducing leverage
for the electronics business.  CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said Sony would be worth 28
percent more in a separation.  “The entertainment businesses are important contributors
to Sony’s growth and are not for sale,” Sony said in an e-mailed statement May 14.  Founded in 1946, Sony was emblematic of  Japan ’s post-World
War II rise, inventing the Trinitron cathode-ray tube TV in the
1960s and the Walkman portable music player a decade later. Its
market value has plunged as consumers shifted to flat-panel TVs,
smartphones and mobile devices made by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
of  South Korea  and Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  