-- Spain Posts First Trade Surplus on Record
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-05-17T09:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/spain-posts-first-trade-surplus-on-record.html
Spain posted its first  monthly trade
surplus  on record in March as imports slumped, after government
budget cuts undermined domestic demand.  The country’s trade balance in March swung to a surplus of
634.9 million euros ($818 million) from a deficit of 1.18
billion euros in February and 3.2 billion euros a year earlier,
data released today by the Trade Ministry show. That is the
first surplus since records began in 1971, Deputy Trade Minister
Jaime Garcia-Legaz said at a press conference in Madrid.  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy is seeking to convince
European Union partners that efforts to force banks to provision
real estate-linked losses, cut the EU’s widest  budget deficit 
and reduce labor costs may end a six-year slump in the euro
area’s fourth-biggest economy this year.  “Products made in Spain are replacing imports,” said
Garcia-Legaz, who forecast the surplus will continue to grow.
“That means products made in Spain are better and we are
creating jobs inside Spain instead of outside Spain.”  Imports dropped 15 percent in March from the same month a
year ago while exports rose 2 percent. The trade deficit for the
first three months of the year narrowed 62 percent from a year
earlier to 4 billion euros.  Labor Rules  Spanish exports last year rose to the highest level on
record even as the country’s main trading partners in the euro
zone battled recession. The government changed labor rules to
give companies more power to cut wages, fire workers or modify
their jobs as they struggle to regain the competitiveness lost
during a decade-long economic boom. The government forecasts
that’ll help the nation post a current-account surplus this
year.  Spain’s  10-year yield  dropped 9 basis points to 4.222
percent at 11:37 a.m. in  Madrid . That’s down from a euro-era
record of 7.75 percent on July 25, the day before European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi pledged to do “whatever it
takes” to defend the euro.  “Exports have improved,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said this week. “They are the main driver of Spain’s recovery
and of the economy’s transformation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  