-- Steinmetz Group Seeks Blair’s Help to Free Detained Guinea Staff
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-05-17T10:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/steinmetz-group-seeks-blair-s-help-to-free-detained-guinea-staff.html
BSG Resources Ltd., the mining
company controlled by Israeli billionaire Beny Steinmetz, called
on U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair to help get two of its
employees released from “illegal detention” in  Guinea .  Ibrahima Sory Toure and Issaga Bangoura were arrested in
the capital Conakry on April 19 and have since been held in
“appalling conditions” that contravene the West African
nation’s criminal procedure code and international human rights,
BSGR said today in an e-mailed statement.  Toure and Bangoura were arrested last month as part of a
U.S. probe into whether bribes were paid to win licenses
covering the Simandou deposit in Guinea in which Guernsey-based
BSGR has an interest. The project has been described as the
largest undeveloped iron ore deposit in the world and may be
valued at as much as $50 billion, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd.  The two have been held for 28 days “on baseless
allegations of so-called ‘passive corruption,’” BSGR said. It
wants Blair’s intervention “in his capacity as a close and
trusted adviser to the Guinean regime.” A spokeswoman for Blair
in  London  didn’t want to make any immediate comment.  “They are within their rights to want to challenge this,”
Guinean Justice Minister Christian Sow said in an interview on
his mobile phone today. “You’ll never find someone’s who’s
accused saying it’s perfect.”  The men were arrested following “suspicious activities
aimed at removing themselves from the ongoing process” around
the probe, Guinea’s justice ministry said in an April 22
statement.  ‘Key Witnesses’  Toure was preparing to leave Guinea and Bangoura was wanted
by his military unit for being absent without permission,
according to the e-mailed statement, which described the men as
“key witnesses” to the probe. Toure was charged by Guinean
authorities on May 10, his lawyer Momo Sacko said.  BSGR said in March that Guinea was preparing to strip its
joint venture with  Brazil ’s Vale SA, the world’s biggest
exporter of iron ore, of its mining rights in the country.  The venture is planning a $10 billion iron ore mine at
Simandou. The dispute with Guinea intensified amid a government
review into the agreements signed with mining companies.  A French citizen linked by the Guinea government to BSGR
pleaded not guilty in New York this week to charges he
obstructed a U.S. grand jury investigation into bribes paid to
win mining rights in Guinea.  The case in New York is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-mj-00975, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  