-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed Before U.S. Reports
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-05-17T13:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-before-u-s-reports.html
Swiss stocks were little changed as
a Federal Reserve policy maker said the central bank may cut its
monthly bond purchases as early as this summer, and investors
awaited U.S. data on leading indicators and consumer sentiment.  SGS SA, the world’s biggest product inspector, led losses
on the Swiss Market Index, slipping 2.2 percent, after industry
peer Intertek Group said profit at its mineral business will
continue to fall. Sonova Holding AG gained after Deutsche Bank
AG upgraded its recommendation on the shares.  The SMI fell 0.1 percent to 8,250.52 at 3:27 p.m. in
Zurich, paring its weekly advance to 0.9 percent. The equity
benchmark lost 0.7 percent yesterday as Zurich Insurance Group
AG reported earnings that missed analysts’ estimates and U.S.
jobless claims rose more than forecast. The gauge has still
risen 21 percent so far this year as central banks around the
world maintained monetary stimulus. The Swiss Performance Index
also slipped 0.1 percent today.  In the U.S., Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John
Williams  said quickening economic growth and an improving job
market may prompt the Fed to begin to reduce its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases in the next few months.  Williams was one of the first Fed officials to advocate
that the Fed buy bonds without setting a time limit or total for
such purchases. He doesn’t vote on policy this year.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators
probably rose 0.2 percent last month, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Economists in a separate Bloomberg poll forecast that the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer
sentiment today will rise to 77.9 this month from 76.4 in April.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Stoukas at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net  