-- U.S. Money Funds’ Deutsche Bank Holdings at Lowest Since 2011
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 2013-05-17T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/u-s-money-funds-deutsche-bank-holdings-at-lowest-since-2011.html
The 10 largest U.S. prime money
market funds’ holdings of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  securities declined
to the lowest in almost two years as Germany’s biggest bank cut
its reliance on short-term financing.  The funds’ holdings fell to $10.5 billion at the end of
April, down $3.2 billion from the previous month, according to a
survey by Bloomberg Brief: Risk Newsletter. That’s the lowest
since at least August 2011, when the survey began.  Some 9 percent of Deutsche Bank’s 1.1 trillion-euro ($1.4
trillion) funding base now comes from so-called discretionary
wholesale funding sources, a category that includes money funds,
down from 12 percent at the end of 2011, according to an April
29 presentation to shareholders by the Frankfurt-based lender.
That day, the bank announced a 5 billion-euro plan to boost
capital through debt and stock sales.  Deutsche Bank had 230 billion euros in liquidity reserves
on March 31, according to its filings. Deutsche Bank spokesman
Armin Niedermeier declined to comment.  Basel III liquidity rules make money funds less attractive
funding sources for European banks seeking to back assets that
are harder to sell. Under the rules, which European Union
lawmakers agreed to implement in March, banks must only hold
liquid assets against wholesale-funding liabilities with
maturities of less than 30 days.  Decline Since 2010  For the U.S. funds surveyed, the weighted-average maturity
of their investments was 53 days. The funds held $187 billion of
short-term securities issued by European banks at the end of
April, down from $329 billion in 2010. The European banks with
the most securities held by the funds are  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
of  Switzerland , France’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and Sweden’s
 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , with holdings of $18.8 billion, $16.4
billion and $13.7 billion respectively.  The funds surveyed were Fidelity Cash Reserves, JPMorgan
Prime Money Market Fund, Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund,
Fidelity Institutional Money Market Portfolio, Fidelity
Institutional Prime Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock TempFund,
Federated Prime Obligations Fund, Schwab Cash Reserves, Western
Asset Institutional Liquid Reserves and Dreyfus Cash Management
Fund. Together, the funds managed $687 billion in assets as of
the end of April, including  repurchase agreements  backed by
government debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net ;
Alberto Fuertes in  London  at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 