-- Gas Export Approval Not Seen Signaling U.S. Permit Flood
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-05-18T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/u-s-approves-gas-export-terminal-partly-owned-by-conocophillips.html
The conditional approval of a natural
gas export terminal in  Texas  doesn’t necessarily open the
floodgates for overseas sales as the U.S. weighs how best to use
its growing energy resources.  The U.S. Energy Department said yesterday that exports from
the Freeport LNG project, partly owned by  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and
 Osaka Gas Co. (9532) , according to the venture’s website, offered net
economic benefits and reflected the “transformative impact” of
record gas production from hydraulic fracturing in shale rock
formations.  How much of that bonanza should be sold to non-U.S.
customers has been hotly debated in Washington in recent months
as the Energy Department weighs 20 applications for export
terminals. While industry groups welcomed the decision, analysts
were split on how quickly the export facilities will go forward.  “I think we need to see more than one to get an idea of
what the pace is going to be,” said Randy Bhatia, an analyst
with  Capital One (COF)  Southcoast in Houston. The size and scale and
complexity of a project may effect the pace of review, he said.  “We don’t think it’s going to open the floodgates” for
the department’s approval of other applications, Mihoko Manabe,
vice president and senior credit officer for Moody’s Investors
Service Inc., said in a phone interview.  Manabe said she expects the Energy Department to approve
LNG export facilities proposed by  Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  of
Richmond, Virginia, and  Sempra Energy (SRE)  of San Diego.  Sabine Pass  In addition to the Freeport project, the agency has already
approved  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ’s Sabine Pass export terminal in
 Louisiana .  “The four facilities, we believe, have a good chance of
going forward,” said Manabe, lead author of a Moody’s report
issued May 1 on the prospects for natural gas exports.  The decision drew wide praise from industry groups, as they
called on the department to quickly approve the remaining
applications. The announcement was “welcome news,” said Bill Cooper, president of the Center for Liquefied Natural Gas in
Washington. Natural gas is cooled to a liquid so that it can be
transported by tanker to overseas markets.  “The rain cloud in that otherwise beautiful sky is we
don’t know the timeline for moving forward,” Cooper said in an
interview.  Erik Milito, director of upstream and industry operations
for the  American Petroleum Institute  in Washington, said in a
statement that the announcement was a “step in the right
direction.”  More Pollution  The  Sierra Club  criticized the decision, saying it would
lead to more development of natural gas.  “More drilling means more fracking, more air and water
pollution, and more climate fueled weather disasters like last
year’s record fires, droughts and superstorms,” said Deb
Nardone, director of the San Francisco-based environmental
group’s Beyond Natural Gas campaign.  While oil and gas producers have lobbied for unfettered
exports, companies including Dow that use natural gas as an
ingredient for their products have argued for limits on overseas
sales, fearing they could cause prices to rise domestically.  Dow issued a statement supporting the Energy Department’s
decision, saying it reflected a “measured and balanced” review
of the issue. George Biltz, Dow’s vice president for energy and
climate change, said the U.S. should neither block exports
entirely nor open the floodgates to overseas sales.  “We like the decision because it’s not in either
extreme,” Biltz said in a phone interview.  Import Terminal  Less than a decade ago, when U.S. demand for gas looked
like it might outstrip supply, Dow invested in a Freeport import
terminal that would now be converted for exports. That
investment may mean the company would get revenue from sales to
non-U.S. customers, despite its opposition to large export
levels.  Biltz said Dow isn’t investing in the multibillion-dollar
effort to convert the terminal for exports.  Other limited partners in the Freeport LNG development are
Zachry American Infrastructure LLC and Freeport LNG Investments,
according to the venture’s website.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and private
investor  Michael Smith  are co-owners of the management company
overseeing the original LNG import facility.  The Energy Department cited the changing energy landscape
in announcing conditional approval of the Freeport terminal,
which is jointly operated by Freeport LNG Expansion LP, and FLNG
Liquefaction LLC. The project calls for the installation of
refrigeration units,  storage tanks  and other equipment alongside
its existing gas-import terminal on Quintana Island about 65
miles (105 kilometers) south of Houston.  Transformative Impact  “The development of U.S. natural gas resources is having a
transformative impact on the U.S. energy landscape, helping to
improve our  energy security  while spurring economic development
and  job creation  around the country,” the department said in
its  news release .  Bill Gibbons, a department spokesman, said President  Barack Obama ’s administration was addressing the issue “in a
responsible way” and would weigh applications on a case-by-case
basis.  After a preliminary review, it seems “the order provides
us everything that we requested in terms of the authorization
and we commend the  Department of Energy  on the thoroughness of
their review and consideration of exports and getting to the
right result,” John Tobola, general counsel of Freeport, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  If all 20 projects were to win approval, they could ship
the equivalent of 41 percent of the total U.S. production this
year, according to Energy Department data.  FERC Approval  The Freeport LNG project must still win approval from the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission .  The big hurdle was thought to be the Energy Department,
which must decide if the projects are in the national interest.
The department concluded that exports from the Freeport facility
are “likely to yield net economic benefits” to the U.S.  Freeport would be able to export as much as 1.4 billion
cubic feet of natural gas a day for 20 years. In May 2011, the
department conditionally approved Cheniere Energy Inc.’s Sabine
Pass LNG Terminal in Louisiana for a rate of as much as 2.2
billion cubic feet a day.  The Energy Department’s action yesterday is “an indication
that other projects, including our own Cameron LNG, will receive
this authorization soon,” Mark Snell, president of Sempra
Energy, said in a statement.  The power company is awaiting federal approval for exports
from a $6 billion to $7 billion expansion of its Cameron LNG
project in Hackberry, Louisiana.  ‘Narrow Window’  “There is a narrow window opportunity for U.S. companies
to participate in the global LNG market,” Snell said.  In its release, the Energy Department cited an Energy
Information Administration forecast projecting production to
reach a record 69.3 billion cubic feet a day in 2013.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said the Energy
Department’s decision to review applications individually was
consistent with his view that a “measured approach on exports
will provide the greatest advantage for the  U.S. economy .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  