-- U.S.-Japan Yield Gap Shrinks as Asian Nation Shows Growth
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-17T05:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/u-s-japan-yield-gap-shrinks-as-asian-nation-shows-growth.html
The extra yield investors demanded to
hold 10-year notes in the U.S. instead of  Japan  was within four
basis points of the narrowest level in four months as the Asian
nation’s economy expands faster than analysts expected.  The  difference  was 1.07 percentage points. The gap was 1.03
points last month, which was the smallest spread since Jan. 14.
Japan’s  machinery orders  and economic growth picked up, reports
showed over the past two days. In the U.S., housing, industrial
production and inflation all showed declines.  “The Japanese economy is awakening,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a
debt salesman in  Tokyo  at CIBC World Markets Japan Inc., a unit
of  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender. “Yields are up. The U.S.
inflation rate is very low. Rates are going to be stable.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.88 percent at
6:39 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
The price of the 1.75 percent security due in May 2023 was 98
27/32. The yield dropped from 1.98 percent earlier this week,
which was the highest level since March.  Japan’s 10-year yield declined 2 1/2 basis points to 0.815
percent. It has climbed from the record low of 0.315 percent set
last month. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Treasuries have fallen 0.7 percent in May, versus a 1.4
percent decline for Japanese bonds, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Orders from the Asian nation’s businesses for machinery and
electronic equipment surged 14.2 percent in March from February,
versus a gain of 3.5 percent projected by a Bloomberg News
survey of economists, data today showed. Gross domestic product
grew at an annual pace of 3.5 percent in the first quarter, the
most in a year according to figures released yesterday.  Weaker Data  In the U.S., the week began with a gain in retail sales,
and the data declined from there. Producer prices, consumer
prices manufacturing and housing starts all fell. Initial claims
for jobless insurance climbed.  Reports today may show  consumer confidence  and an index of
leading economic indicators rose, based on Bloomberg surveys of
economists.  Investors are more confident in a Japanese leader than any
time since at least September 2010, with optimism about Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies exceeding that for counterparts
in the U.S.,  Europe  and  China .  The number of respondents who are more optimistic than
pessimistic on the impact of Abe’s plans on Japan’s investment
climate rose to 66 percent this month from 54 percent in
January, a worldwide poll of investors, analysts and traders who
are Bloomberg subscribers showed.  Debt Purchases  Central banks in both nations are buying debt to put
downward pressure on borrowing costs. The  Bank of Japan  is
scooping up about 7 trillion yen ($68.4 billion) a month. The
Fed is purchasing $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt
monthly.  U.S. officials are debating whether the economy is strong
enough for them to curtail their purchases.  Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said
yesterday the central bank may begin slowing the pace of its
purchases within months. Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said
yesterday income inequality and government cutbacks may slow
economic growth for years. Three regional central bank
presidents called for phasing out the purchases of mortgage-backed securities as the housing market strengthens.  10-Year Auction  The U.S. announced yesterday it plans to auction $13
billion of 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities on
May 23. It sold an equal amount of the securities on March 21 at
a yield of negative 0.602 percent.  TIPS have dropped 1.9 percent in May through yesterday,
already making this month the worst since December 2009,
according to the Bank of America indexes.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, was 2.26 percentage points.
The average over the past decade is 2.21 percentage points.  “We don’t see any inflation pressure in the U.S.,” said
Yusuke Ito, a bond investor at Tokyo-based Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $32.3 billion.
Mizuho Asset bought 10-year Treasuries this week, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  