-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Leading Indicators, Sentiment Rise
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-17T20:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-fall-before-consumer-confidence-data.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
declined for the third time in four days as measures of  consumer
confidence  and leading indicators climbed.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.3 basis points to a mid-price of 70.3 basis points at 4:08
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure has declined 1.9 basis points this week.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer  sentiment  rose to 83.7 in May, the highest
since July 2007, from 76.4 the month before, a report showed. A
gauge of the U.S. economic outlook for the next three to six
months climbed 0.6 percent in April after a revised 0.2 percent
fall in March, the New York-based Conference Board said today.
Signs that the economy is improving may reassure investors that
companies will be able to repay their debts.  “The bear case is just getting squashed one by one,”
Scott Carmack, a money manager at Leader Capital Corp. in
 Portland ,  Oregon , said in a telephone interview. “The Fed will
probably start to withdraw quantitative easing by the end of
this year or early next year, and I think they have enough
ammunition to do it.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Tesla Offering  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 8.2 basis points to 340.6 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Electric-car maker  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  sold $600 million of
convertible notes to help repay a U.S. loan, tapping the bond
market for the first time.  The vehicle manufacturer run by billionaire Elon Musk
issued 1.5 percent securities that may be swapped for shares at
$124.52 each by June 2018, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock closed at $91.50 in New York after almost
tripling in price this year.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the Brazilian state-run oil
producer, and drugmaker  Merck & Co. (MRK)  led at least $54 billion of
bond sales in the U.S. this week, the most in more than four
months, as relative yields widened.  Weekly Sales  Petrobras raised $11 billion in the largest dollar-denominated deal by an emerging-market issuer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based
Merck sold $6.5 billion of debt in a six-part offering. Sales
rose from last week’s $45.6 billion and compare with an average
of $29.5 billion during the past 12 months.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt tightened 3.5 basis points to 487.2 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  