-- Ukraine’s MHP Expects Unchanged 2013 Ebitda, CFO Says
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-05-17T14:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/ukraine-s-mhp-expects-unchanged-2013-ebitda-cfo-says.html
Mironovskiy Hleboproduct SA (MHPC) ,
Ukraine’s biggest poultry producer, expects this year’s Ebitda
to be unchanged from 2012, after a first-quarter decline, by
boosting chicken production and planting more grain.  “We have drivers for stabilization,” said MHP Chief
Financial Officer Viktoria Kapelyushnaya said in a phone
interview today after the company published its first-quarter
results. “We will produce more chicken and more grain. In the
face the kind of difficult conditions we have in Ukraine, we
will have a stable result this year.”  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell 13 percent to $73 million in the last quarter,
while average chicken meat prices fell 3 percent, the company
said today. Net income dropped 24 percent to $36 million as the
cost of grain rose.  Ukraine exited a six-month recession in the first quarter
when the economy rose 0.5 percent from the preceding three-month
period. Gross domestic product shrank 1.3 percent from year ago
and industrial output fell 5 percent. Inflation declined annual
0.8 percent and did not change in April from March.  MHP has a “conservative forecast” and expects chicken
prices to stay at the same level by year’s end, Kapelyushnaya
said. “The cost has risen, but inflation is unchanged.”  MHP expects to cut poultry costs after the Vinnytsya
facility starts operating to full capacity and helps push the
cost further down by the end of 2013 and 2014, Kapelyushnaya
said.  Corn Yield  MHP, which added 70,000 hectares to its grain-growing
operation this year, expects to have its average yield for corn
and sunflower to be much higher than average in Ukraine,
Kapelyushnaya said without elaborating on harvest forecast.  Poultry exports will account for between 25 percent and 30
percent of all sales in 2013, compared with 24 percent in the
first quarter, according to Kapelyushnaya.  MHP expects to resume poultry deliveries to  Russia  in one
week or 10 days, Kapelyushnaya said. Temporary poultry-export
limits were applied to MHP and other companies this month to
check the meat after reports by Russian food safety agency about
a possible bacteria infection.  MHP reduced the share of its shipments to Russia and
Kazakhstan from 85 percent last year to less than 50 percent
this month, CFO of MHP said today.  “The main task for export is diversification,”
Kapelyushnaya said. The company is seeking to increase supplies
to Middle East and  Africa .  MHP is planning to pay dividends this year and the size
will be announced by year-end, CFO Kapelyushnaya said.  MHP shares rose for the first time since May 3 to $18.82
per share in  London  today, Bloomberg data shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  