-- Turkey Bond Yields Drop to Record on Moody’s Investment Grade
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-05-17T14:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/turkey-bond-yields-drop-to-record-on-moody-s-investment-grade.html
Turkey ’s bonds rallied, sending
yields to all-time lows, after Moody’s Investors Service raised
the country to investment grade for the first time in two
decades, fueling expectation of capital inflows. The lira
weakened on speculation the central bank will cut rates.  Yields on two-year benchmark lira bonds fell as much as 19
basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to a record 4.61 percent
and closed 1 basis point lower at 4.79 percent at 5 p.m. in
Istanbul. The rates have plunged 136 basis points this year.
Ten-year yields dropped below 6 percent for the first time.  Moody’s lifted Turkey’s government bond ratings by one step
to Baa3, the lowest investment-grade ranking, citing “recent
and expected future improvements in key economic and public
finance metrics,” according to its statement yesterday.  Fitch
Ratings  raised the nation to investment grade in November.  “New channels of fund flows might emerge, especially those
funds that have so far been unable to invest in a country with a
junk status,”  Tevfik Aksoy , the chief economist for central and
eastern Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in
 London , wrote in an e-mailed note.  The  Borsa Istanbul 100 index  rallied as much as 1.3 percent
to a record before trading 0.3 percent higher at 92,257.45 as of
5:22 p.m. in Istanbul, bringing its advance this year to 18
percent.  The lira weakened 1 percent to 1.8417 per dollar,
depreciating for a seventh day, its longest losing streak since
June 2011.  Index Trigger  The Moody’s upgrade is likely to push the central bank to
continue cutting rates and raise lenders’ reserve requirements,
Deniz Celik, an analyst at Finansbank, wrote in e-mail.  Turkey’s central bank reduced  interest rates  by a larger-than-expected 50 basis points yesterday, sending the lira down
as much as 0.9 percent against the dollar.  Turkey’s debt as a percentage of gross domestic product has
fallen 10 percentage points since 2009 to 36 percent, Moody’s
said.  The Moody’s decision could trigger Turkey’s inclusion in
investment-grade indexes,  Christian Keller , an analyst at
 Barclays Capital (JNK)  in London, wrote in an e-mailed note. “The
current global liquidity environment and index-related
implications are more likely to continue to support inflows into
hard and local currency bonds.”  Turkey received its first investment-grade rating in 18
years from Fitch on Nov. 5. Standard & Poor’s ranks the country
BB+, one level below investment grade. S&P will hold a meeting
in Turkey on June 4, according to a statement on the rating
company’s website.  Five-year credit-default swaps fell six basis points to
114, dropping more than half from a year ago. The nation’s risk
premium is now on par with Brazil and Israel, and lower than
 South Africa , Russia or Hungary.  Obama Visit  The announcement coincided with Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s visit to Washington to meet President  Barack Obama  and
promote trade and investment in Turkey. Erdogan brought a
delegation of business leaders to the U.S. capital, where he
also addressed the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s
largest business lobbying group.  The move puts Turkey’s credit rating at the same level as
Spain, Colombia and India. At 4.64 percent, yields on Turkey’s
dollar-denominated bonds due in 2041 are 31 basis points higher
than similar-maturity Colombian securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gap has narrowed from as high as 205
basis points in January 2012.  Turkey should prepare for appreciation in the lira after
the Moody’s decision, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said in an
e-mailed statement. The move will cut foreign borrowing costs
for the government and boost financing options for companies,
Caglayan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  