-- Venezuela Said to Allow Oil Joint Ventures to Manage Fund
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-05-17T16:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/venezuela-said-to-allow-oil-joint-ventures-to-manage-fund.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA  will allow
joint ventures with  China  National Petroleum Corp. and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  to manage $6 billion in loans designed to reverse oil
output declines, said a PDVSA official.  The state-owned producer reached agreements on terms of a
$2 billion credit from Chevron for the Petroboscan venture and a
$4 billion loan from China Development Bank for Sinovensa, said
the official who was briefed on the negotiations. The
transactions probably will be signed by the end of June, said
the person, who isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  PDVSA is allowing the joint ventures to handle the funds
directly for oil infrastructure rather than being channeled
through the state company or the government, said the official.
PDVSA is also working on arrangements with oil service providers
to pay as much as $2 billion in overdue payments and for new
cash flow mechanisms.  Chevron spokesmen  Kurt Glaubitz  and James Craig didn’t
respond to e-mails and telephone messages left today. An e-mail
sent to CNPC after business hours wasn’t immediately answered.  Venezuela , which channels oil earnings into social programs
and regional fuel subsidies, is depending on the ventures with
foreign partners to tap more of the world’s largest oil
reserves. Progress on the funding had been delayed by two
presidential elections and the death of former President Hugo Chavez. Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said May 15 that he would
travel to China soon to sign the Sinovensa credit.  Output Target  PDVSA is in talks for similar funding with companies
including  Repsol SA (REP)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  as it targets
output capacity of 3.5 million barrels a day by the end of 2014
from about 3 million at the end of 2013, the official said.
PDVSA reported daily oil and natural gas liquids production of
3.03 million barrels last year from 3.13 million in 2011.  Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix didn’t respond to e-mails and
phone messages left today seeking comment. Shell’s press
department didn’t respond to phone messages and e-mails. A PDVSA
press official, who isn’t an authorized spokesperson, said the
company had no comment on the loans beyond those made by Ramirez
on May 15.  The Venezuelan company has no plans to sell dollar debt
this year, although the government may do so, said the official.
The company is studying ways to refinance debt maturing in
2014-2017, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  