-- Vilsack Says U.S. Proposals May End Brazil Cotton Impasse
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-05-17T20:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/vilsack-says-u-s-proposals-may-end-brazil-cotton-impasse.html
U.S. House and Senate agriculture
committee proposals for a new farm law represent a “good
faith” effort by lawmakers to resolve a trade dispute over
cotton with  Brazil , U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  The proposals passed this week may modify farm subsidies
enough to satisfy the South American nation, Vilsack said today
in an interview in  Mexico  City. The U.S. competes with Brazil in
exporting grain, soybeans, beef and cotton.  “We would not intentionally pass legislation with the
knowledge or awareness that it was going to invite a series of
challenges,” Vilsack said after a meeting with Enrique
Martinez, Mexico’s agriculture minister. Farm-bill subsidy
plans, which emphasize crop insurance over price-pegged
supports, represent “a real good-faith effort to resolve that
issue with Brazil and to get it finished once and for all,”
Vilsack said.  The U.S. is paying $147 million a year to Brazilian cotton
farmers in a temporary settlement of a World Trade Organization
case over policies that support the fiber. Under the agreement,
the payments were to continue until a new farm law changed the
U.S. subsidy system. In return, Brazil is holding off on broader
retaliation allowed by the WTO.  The Senate bill, which would cost $955 billion over 10
years, includes reforms that may not satisfy Brazil, while
spurring other cases, according to Senator Pat Roberts of
 Kansas . The House and Senate proposals include floor prices for
commodities including cotton.  “The WTO stove is hot,” Roberts said during Senate
Agriculture Committee debate over the bill this week. “We
should not reach out to touch it again.”  The full Senate will take up its version of the bill next
week. Lawmakers are seeking to pass a new farm law after failing
to renew policy last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  