-- Weale Says QE Scope Limited by Risks to Inflation Expectations
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-17T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/weale-says-qe-scope-limited-by-risks-to-inflation-expectations.html
Bank of  England  policy maker Martin Weale said the risk that adding stimulus will fuel  inflation (UKRPCJYR) 
expectations limits the bank’s room to aid growth.  “Failure to damp sufficiently any new shock pushing up on
inflation would result in inflation expectations becoming more
entrenched,” he said today in a speech in Birmingham, England.
“That, in my view, limits the scope we have to support demand
at the current juncture.”  The central bank raised its growth forecast and lowered its
projection for inflation on May 15, a week after officials
maintained their bond-purchase plan at 375 billion pounds ($572
billion). Minutes of the decision to be published next week
will show whether Governor Mervyn King and two colleagues kept
up their push to expand bond purchases by 25 billion pounds.  The government has broadened the BOE’s mandate in the style
of the U.S. Federal Reserve, giving officials more latitude to
stimulate growth amid inflation shocks as Mark Carney prepares
to take over from King on July 1. Weale, who has opposed the
push to increase QE, said the U.K.’s history of above-target
inflation stays his hand and contrasts with the Fed’s position.
Inflation is now in its fourth year above the 2 percent target,
with consumer prices rising a year-on-year 2.8 percent in March.  “I have certainly felt that this history is a constraint
on my freedom of action,” he said. Unstable and high inflation
hasn’t been a problem for many years, “and inevitably the
lessons from that get blunted with the passage of time. But the
long-term context is certainly one where, without appropriate
monetary policy, those problems could return.”  Market View  Weale said market expectations for the bank to keep
interest rates low accurately capture his view on the outlook
for policy. The bank has held its key rate at 0.5 percent since
March 2009.  “The market signal pointing to low  interest rates  for some
time to come is certainly at present consistent with the way I
see the outlook for the economy and the balance of risks
affecting inflation and output,” he said. The MPC “has
concluded that this implied path for bank rate is consistent
with its remit, at least in current circumstances.”  Inflation expectations are the highest among the Group of
Seven nations. The  five-year breakeven rate , a gauge of investor
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
regular and index-linked bonds, has risen to 2.90 percentage
points from 2.24 points at the end of 2012.  The remit change, announced by the Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne in March, “has led to a broader and
more realistic public understanding” of the problems
confronting the Monetary Policy Committee, he said. There’s also
a burden on officials to explain their commitment to their goal.  ‘Not Enough’  “It is not enough for us to do our job seriously; we have
to explain that we take it seriously,” he said. “If we
undertake this task effectively, there should be very little
entrenchment of inflation expectations, while if we are poor at
it, the effect may be substantial.”  Upward inflation pressures “have eased somewhat” so that
risks around the 2 percent target “are now more or less evenly
balanced,” Weale said.  The improved growth outlook has also been influencing his
votes to keep policy on hold, he said. The BOE forecast 0.5
percent growth in the current quarter, after the economy
expanded 0.3 percent in the first three months of the year.  “No one can be certain but it is possible that the near-stagnation of the past three years is being replaced by a move
to modest growth,” he said. “The sense that the improved
growth outlook we have been forecasting throughout my membership
of the committee may now be starting to appear has certainly
influenced my voting.”  Upward pressure from government-controlled prices offsets
the deflation risks from low growth in labor costs, he said.  “A further easing of the rate of growth of cost pressures
is necessary before I feel we are in danger of undershooting the
inflation target,” he said. “Such an easing may be in prospect
if wage growth remains very weak while productivity performance
improves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  