-- Wells Fargo Cites New Facts in Bid to Disband Plaintiffs
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2013-05-17T18:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/wells-fargo-seeks-to-cancel-lawuit-s-class-action-status.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , citing “new
facts,” asked a judge to revoke the class-action status he
bestowed on a suit by institutional investors who claimed the
bank marketed a risky securities-lending program as safe.  Wells Fargo today asked U.S. District Judge Donovan W. Frank in St. Paul,  Minnesota , to revisit his decision allowing
the plaintiffs to pursue their action together instead of
individually, giving them greater leverage to obtain a
settlement. The bank is also seeking dismissal of multiple
investor claims.  Frank certified the case as a group lawsuit last year,
finding that common questions predominated, including whether
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo “knew or should have known that
the investments it selected did not comport with investment
mandates.”  The case was filed in 2010 by the City of Farmington Hills
Employees Retirement System, a Michigan pension fund, on behalf
of more than 100 other institutional investors. They claim
breach of fiduciary duty and fraud.  “There are significant new facts that have come to light
and significant new arguments that have come to light that could
not have been known at the time of certification,” Dan Millea,
a Wells Fargo attorney, told the judge today.  ‘Sold Out’  The lead plaintiff, Farmington Hills, differs from other
investors and there’s no classwide method for calculating
damages, Millea said. “Farmington Hills exited the program and
sold out completely. Other members are either still in or paid
to get out.”  These differences don’t mean that a class shouldn’t be
certified, Peter Binkow, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said at
the hearing. Damages would be calculated by how much principal
was lost, he told the judge. How investors got into or out of
the program doesn’t matter, he said.  “There’s really no issue on damages.” he said.  The suit, set for trial Sept. 16, is one of  at least five 
against Wells Fargo over its securities lending. A case brought
by nonprofit organizations led by Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Minnesota goes to trial next month in federal court in  St. Paul .
In another, the Minnesota Life Insurance Co. claims $40 million
in damages.  Wells Fargo lost a $30 million jury verdict in 2010 in a
claim brought by the  Minnesota Workers’ Compensation Reinsurance
Association  and three charitable foundations. The verdict was
upheld on appeal. The suits have been brought in Minnesota where
the Wells Fargo securities lending program was located.  ‘Investment Guidelines’  Investments made by Wells Fargo Securities Lending “were
in accordance with investment guidelines and were prudent and
suitable at the time of purchase,” Laura Fay, a spokeswoman for
the bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “We strongly deny the
allegations that were made in these lawsuits.”  Securities lending is a practice whereby investors lend
stock or other investments to banks or brokers. In return, the
bank places cash collateral on behalf of the investor into
short-term investments until the shares are returned. It has
been traditionally viewed by pension funds and foundations as a
low-risk investment.  The pension fund and other class members participated in an
investment program in which Wells Fargo would hold its clients’
securities in custodial accounts and make temporary loans of
these securities to brokers.  The brokers would borrow the securities to support their
trading activities, such as short sales and option contracts,
and would post collateral worth at least 102 percent of the
value of the securities, the plaintiffs said in court papers.  ‘Highly Secure’  The Michigan pension plan claims Wells Fargo promoted its
securities-lending program “as a highly secure way for its
institutional clients to maximize portfolio returns.” Instead,
the pension fund said, “Wells Fargo invested a substantial
portion of the collateral in extremely risky securities.”  Wells Fargo also invested in “highly illiquid
securities,” including structured investment vehicles, or SIVs,
asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities, the plaintiffs said
in the complaint. The SIVs proved particularly risky during the
mortgage crisis, they said.  “We do not believe that Wells Fargo in any meaningful
manner tried to assess liquidity,” plaintiffs’ attorney Avi
Wagner said at today’s hearing.  Investor Claims  The investors claim Wells Fargo concealed  investment
performance  to keep them from exiting the lending program. They
allege breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract and
violation of Minnesota’s Consumer Fraud Act.  The class includes participants in the Wells Fargo
securities lending program starting on Jan. 1, 2006, “who
suffered losses to the program’s purchase and maintenance of
high risk, long-term securities,” Frank said in his order.  Wells Fargo blamed any losses on the financial crisis.  “Market conditions severely deteriorated and had a major
impact on the global financial markets and worldwide economies”
from 2007 to 2009, said Fay, the bank spokeswoman. “During that
time, the market for even the highest-rated debt instruments,
such as those invested in by WFSL, deteriorated substantially.”  The Michigan pension fund and the class “suffered no
recoverable damages,” lawyers for the bank said in court papers
in November. “Any losses sustained by plaintiff and the class
were caused by persons, entities or other factors for which
Wells Fargo was not and is not responsible.”  Losses ‘Offset’  Alleged losses were “offset, in whole or in part, by
profits in their accounts with Wells Fargo and profits arising
from purchases of other fixed-income instruments that would be
considered ‘unsuitable’ according to the allegations of
plaintiff and the class,” the bank’s attorneys wrote.  Wells Fargo also asked the judge today to dismiss claims
for breach of fiduciary duty and the consumer law violation.  The plaintiffs haven’t proven that “but for” Wells
Fargo’s actions, investment losses wouldn’t have occurred,
Lindsey Davis, an attorney for the bank, said at the hearing.  “The plaintiffs have not created a ‘but for’ world
comprised of appropriate investments,” she said.  In approving a class action, the judge wrote that it is
superior to multiple individual suits in promoting “the
interests of judicial economy and efficiency.”  “Class members who may not otherwise have the means to
litigate their claims will likely benefit greatly from a class
action, and a class action will ensure that class members who
are otherwise unaware that they possess a claim will have their
rights represented,” he wrote.  ‘Illiquidity Risk’  The suit particularly targets Wells Fargo’s investments in
structured investment vehicles. The plaintiffs sought
“conservative, safe and liquid investments,” their lawyers
wrote. “SIVs have a built-in illiquidity risk.”  “SIVs borrow money by issuing short-term securities,
usually commercial paper, at lower  interest rates ,” according
to the complaint. “The SIVs then lend money by buying long-term
assets at higher interest rates,” making a profit off the
spread, the lawyers said.  “To survive, SIVs need a constant infusion of new short-term refinancing, at favorable rates,” they said. This
financing fell apart when the mortgage crisis caused a
“liquidity crunch” in the short-term commercial paper market,
leading to defaults by two of the SIVs in which Wells Fargo had
heavily invested, Cheyne Finance SIV and the Stanfield Victoria
SIV, according to the complaint. Both went into receivership,
the plaintiffs’ lawyers said.  Frank will first oversee a trial to start June 17 in a case
brought against Wells Fargo by Blue Cross & Blue Shield of
Minnesota and 10 other nonprofits, including the pension plans
of  St. John’s University , Meijer Inc. and El Paso County.  The class action is City of Farmington Hills Employees
Retirement System v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 10-cv-04372, U.S.
District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 