-- Wells Fargo Leads Bank Foreclosure Halt After OCC Guidance
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-17T20:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/wells-fargo-postpones-some-foreclosure-sales-after-occ-guidance.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, halted some foreclosure sales until it can
understand new federal guidelines on seizures sent to the
nation’s large and mid-sized banks.  The rules from the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency dated last month laid out minimum standards that must
be met before a foreclosed home can be sold.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  also
said today it’s evaluating the OCC’s directive.  The pause is needed “while we study the revised guidance
from the OCC regarding imminent foreclosure sales,” Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said
today in a phone interview. “We expect it to be brief,” she
said, declining to specify which states were affected.  Mortgage firms have previously imposed moratoriums amid
reports of borrowers incorrectly being thrown out of homes.
Complaints pushed the five largest firms to sign a $25 billion
settlement last year that ended a probe of their practices.  The impact of the new halt may be muted, with U.S.
mortgages that are overdue or in  foreclosure  standing at a four-year low, according to data released May 9 by the  Mortgage
Bankers Association .  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  didn’t suspend foreclosure activity,
said  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender. “We manage our mortgage-servicing operations in
compliance with all laws, regulations and standards for sound
business practices,” Frahm said. U.S. Bancorp’s sales also
weren’t affected, said Tom Joyce, a spokesman for the
Minneapolis-based company.  In Progress  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
said the New York-based bank halted sales before resuming them
shortly thereafter.  “In response to the OCC guidance and in an abundance of
caution we temporarily halted foreclosure sales where we could,
to validate that our process covered the guidance,” Bonitatibus
said in a phone interview. JPMorgan is the biggest U.S. bank by
assets.  American Banker  reported on the halts earlier today.  “We are in the process of complying and following the
directive set forth in the OCC guidance,” Liz Fogarty, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The OCC posed 13 questions that must be considered before
banks sell homes, such as checking whether the loan’s delinquent
status is correct and that other remedies have been considered.
The review must be conducted for any sale planned within 60
days, according to the document.  Fed Action  “The purpose of this  guidance  is to ensure that borrowers
will not lose their homes without their files receiving pre-foreclosure sale reviews conducted under the standards listed,”
according to the April 19 document. If any of the answers to the
questions raise concern, the scheduled sale must be canceled or
delayed, the OCC said. The  Federal Reserve  released  similar
guidance  April 23.  “The OCC did not direct a slowdown or pausing,”  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “If
servicers are not certain they are meeting these standards,
pausing foreclosures is a responsible and productive step.”  Mortgage servicers handle billing and collections on behalf
of lenders or investors who own the loans, and oversee
foreclosures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  