-- Wells Fargo Rises to Record Close as Home Market Rebounds
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-18T06:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/wells-fargo-stock-sets-record-close-amid-home-market-rebound-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender and the nation’s most valuable bank, closed at a
record high yesterday as strength in the economy and housing
markets spurred buyers.  The shares rose 1.6 percent to $39.88 in  New York ,
surpassing the previous  closing record  of $39.80 set on Sept.
19, 2008. The bank touched an intraday high of $44.68 that day,
less than a week after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed
and before Wells Fargo announced plans to buy Wachovia Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  has reported three
straight years of record profit including $18.9 billion in 2012,
aided by a rebound in home sales and prices. Results were also
helped by the 2008 purchase of Wachovia, which added East Coast
branches, an investment-banking unit and a retail brokerage.  The bank dominates the U.S. mortgage business, where it
originated almost 3 in 10 home loans last year. The median
resale home price in 150 U.S. cities jumped 11.3 percent in the
first quarter to $176,600, the biggest rise in seven years, the
National Association of Realtors reported May 9.  Wells Fargo’s market value has been No. 1 among U.S. banks
for most of the past 18 months and now stands at about $211
billion. The shares have gained 17 percent this year, trailing
the 19 percent rise in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Berkshire Stake  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is the largest
shareholder with more than 8 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. This year’s performance added about $2.6 billion
to the value of Berkshire’s existing stake of about 456.2
million shares that he held at the end of December. Berkshire
also boosted its holdings by 4.2 percent to about 458.2 million
shares during the first quarter.  “I feel very good about our investment in Wells Fargo,”
Buffett said May 4 at Berkshire’s annual meeting. “I consider
the banking system in the  United States  to be stronger certainly
more than at any time in the past 25 years.”  Stumpf has vowed to return more capital to shareholders by
raising the quarterly  dividend  to 30 cents from 25 cents and
promising more stock buybacks.  Wells Fargo said first quarter profit rose 22 percent to a
record  $5.17 billion  on lower expenses even as revenue dropped
and lending margins narrowed. Net income at U.S. banks including
Wells Fargo has been helped by fewer costs tied to faulty
mortgages and foreclosures and lower litigation expenses.  The bank said yesterday it imposed a new halt on some
foreclosure sales until it can understand new federal guidelines
on seizures sent to the nation’s large and mid-sized banks. The
pause is expected to be brief, said Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman,
who declined to say which states are affected.  Mortgage firms have previously imposed moratoriums amid
reports of borrowers incorrectly being thrown out of homes.
Complaints pushed the five largest firms to sign a $25 billion
settlement last year that ended a probe of their practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  