-- West Australia Grain Regions to Get Rain as Farmers Sow Crops
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-05-17T02:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/west-australia-grain-regions-to-get-rain-as-farmers-sow-crops.html
Grain growers in  Western Australia ,
the country’s second-biggest wheat-producing state last year,
are set to receive rain in the coming days, boosting planting
prospects as farmers sow winter crops.  Parts of the state’s southwest may get as much as 10
millimeters (0.4 inch) in the four days to May 20, according to
a Bureau of Meteorology  weather model  that’s posted on the
Melbourne-based agency’s website.  Western Australian farmers accelerated planting of winter
crops including wheat after rain last week boosted soil moisture.
The state’s wheat output may rebound 33 percent to 9.1 million
metric tons after dry weather last season hurt output,
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia  estimates.  “The planting outlook in Western Australia is mostly good,
and rain will further boost that,”  Luke Mathews , a Sydney-based
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank, said by phone today.
Parts of New South Wales, particularly western regions, “need
significant follow-up rain,” he said.  Wheat in  Chicago  is heading for a second weekly loss as
warm, dry weather allows farmers in the U.S., the biggest
exporter, to speed up planting delayed by a wet April. Futures
traded at $6.8725 a bushel, 12 percent lower this year  Most of New South Wales, Australia’s biggest wheat-producing state last year, will remain dry, while parts of
Victoria may get as much as 5 millimeters to May 20, according
to the model.  Farmers in eastern Australia are sowing crops and waiting
for more rain,  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  Chief Executive Officer Alison Watkins said yesterday. Planting intentions are strong amid
attractive prices, she said. GrainCorp is the largest grain
handler in eastern Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  