-- WTI Crude Rises on Speculation Growth Will Boost Demand
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-05-17T20:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/wti-crude-rises-on-speculation-economic-growth-to-bolster.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
advanced to a one-week high on signals that global economic
growth will accelerate, bolstering fuel consumption.  Futures increased 0.9 percent as the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary  index  of consumer
sentiment rose to 83.7 in May, higher than any projection in a
Bloomberg survey. A government report yesterday showed Japanese
gross domestic product grew 3.5 percent at an annualized pace,
the most in a year.  “We’re seeing some moderate exuberance here,” said
Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “Traders are focusing on the
positive news at the moment.”  WTI oil for June delivery rose 86 cents to $96.02 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement
since May 10. Prices dropped 2 cents this week. The volume of
all contracts traded was 3.4 percent above the 100-day average
at 3:41 p.m.  Brent crude for July settlement increased 86 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $104.64 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The June contract expired at
$103.80 yesterday. Volume for all contracts was 18 percent lower
than the 100-day average.  The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $8.35 to
WTI futures for the same month, down from $8.64 yesterday. The
spread dropped to $7.65 at settlement on May 13, the narrowest
since January 2011 and down from a record $25.53 on Nov. 15.  Widening Spread  “The spread came in too far, too fast,” said  Michael Wittner , the head of oil-market research at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) 
in New York. “The WTI discount to Brent could easily widen back
to $12, give or take a dollar, soon.”  The Michigan survey follows a Bloomberg measure of consumer
outlook, which improved in May to its best reading in five
months. The Bloomberg consumer economic expectations  gauge ,
released monthly, rose to minus 1 from minus 4 in April.  The index of U.S. leading indicators climbed in April. The
Conference Board’s gauge of the  outlook  for the next three to
six months climbed 0.6 percent in April after falling a revised
0.2 percent in March that was steeper than previously reported,
the New York-based group said today. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.2 percent gain.  ‘Growing Optimism’  “Oil is higher because there’s growing optimism about the
U.S. economy,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks &
Opinions LLC in Houston. “U.S. demand is going to be higher as
a result of economic growth.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased to a record
intraday high of 1,667.17. The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the
U.S. currency against those of six major trading partners,
climbed to 84.371, the highest level since July 2010.  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President John Williams said yesterday that growth and job-market gains may
prompt the central bank to taper its $85 billion of monthly bond
buying under quantitative-easing stimulus.  “The statements from the San Francisco Fed president that
stimulus may be gutted in the next few months is a great vote of
confidence in the economy,” Larry said.  Japanese Economy  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will outline a growth
plan in a speech today. Investors are more confident in a
Japanese leader than at any time since at least September 2010,
according to a worldwide poll of investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers.  “The market is up because of positive economic data,”
said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an
Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The improving Japanese
economy is probably the main driver at this moment.”  Crude supplies  fell 624,000 barrels to 394.9 million last
week, an Energy Information Administration report on May 15
showed. In the week ended May 3, inventories were at the highest
level since 1931.  “It’s amazing that prices are moving higher, given the
level of inventories,” Lynch said.  U.S.  fuel demand  rose 0.1 percent to an average 18.5
million barrels a day in the four weeks ended May 10, the report
from the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, showed.  “I see Brent heading back to $110 or slightly higher in
the near term,” Wittner said. “While product demand isn’t
going gangbusters, it is growing.”  Middle East  President  Barack Obama  and Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan presented a joint front against Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad during the Turkish leader’s visit to  Washington  this
week. An uprising against Syrian government has killed more than
70,000 people since starting in March 2011, according to United
Nations estimates.  “You would have to be pretty brave to go home short any
weekend,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in St. Louis, which oversees
$1.4 billion. “With all of the unrest in the Middle East it’s
just too dangerous.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
July was 20.2 percent versus 21.8 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 521,745
contracts as of 3:40 p.m. It totaled 722,742 contracts in the
previous session, 24 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.75 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  