-- Yen Weakness May Spur Global Growth Paced by Asia, Sinche Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-05-17T17:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/yen-weakness-may-spur-global-growth-paced-by-asia-sinche-says.html
Japan’s efforts to stimulate its
economy could lead the yen to weaken further and help spur
global growth starting in Asia, according to Pierpont
Securities’ Robert Sinche.  Investors have more confidence in Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
than they’ve had for a Japanese leader since at least September
2010, with more optimism about Abe’s policies than for his
counterparts in the U.S., Europe and China, a worldwide poll of
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers
showed.  “The impact on the rest of the world could come throughout
Asia,” Sinche, Pierpont’s global strategist, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The yen was really seriously, seriously overvalued
versus the dollar. This has restored some better balance between
the two currencies.”  The yen has declined 24 percent against the dollar since
the end of September, falling as low as 103.13 per dollar today
in trading in New York, the least since October 2008. It is the
worst performing major currency tracked by Bloomberg during that
period.  The Bank of Japan’s plan to spend 7.5 trillion yen ($73
billion) on monthly asset purchases may lead other central banks
in the region to also initiate competitive stimulus measures,
which could boost economic activity, Sinche said.  ‘Some Decisions’  “We could be seeing a little bit of that in Asia as we go
through the rest of the year,” Sinche said. “As  Japan  adopts
quantitative easing, they’ve weakened up the yen and that’s now
making other central banks in the region having to make some
decisions.”  The Bank of  Korea  lowered the benchmark  seven-day
repurchase rate  to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent on May 9,
joining global easing from Europe to  Australia . The decision of
Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board to cut borrowing costs for
the first time since October came as a weak yen dims the outlook
for the nation’s exports and record household debt weighs on
consumption.  “Corporate Japan likes the weaker yen, I think corporate
Korea doesn’t,” Sinche said.  The number of respondents to the poll who are more
optimistic than pessimistic on the impact of Abe’s plans on
Japan’s investment climate rose to 66 percent this month from 54
percent in January, the Bloomberg poll showed.  Japan Opportunity  Japan offers one of the top two opportunities globally in
the next year, according to 33 percent of respondents, up from
21 percent and beating  China  for the first time in surveys
dating back to 2009.  The pace of yen weakness has outpaced strength in the U.S.
dollar, Sinche said.  “This is definitely not a strong dollar,” Sinche said.
“The dollar is now, adjusted for inflation, weaker than any
time since 1981 against emerging-market currencies. The dollar
is very competitive against emerging currencies. That’s a good
thing in terms of exports.”  Investors looking to bet on further declines in the yen
should continue to buying U.S. dollars, while the “Aussie
dollar is close to being cheap,” Sinche said. “If we’re right
that Asia’s going to start stimulating some more, there’s
probably a better environment for the Aussie dollar in the
second half of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  