-- Yield Beating Risk Buoys First Revenue-Bond Issuer: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/yield-beating-risk-buoys-first-revenue-bond-issuer-muni-credit.html
The city that sold the first U.S.
revenue bonds more than a century ago is the latest issuer in
the $3.7 trillion municipal market to gain from investor
appetite for riskier debt.  Wheeling, West Virginia, a city of 28,355 residents 60
miles (97 kilometers) southwest of Pittsburgh, sold about $38
million of water- and sewer-revenue bonds this week, its biggest
offer since at least 1990, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
city’s relative borrowing costs were 45 percent less than in
2010. The locality in 1885 was the first to issue bonds backed
only by a project’s earnings, according to a  study  by Paul Maco,
a partner at law firm Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in  Washington .  Water and sewer bonds are the worst-performing revenue debt
this year, returning 0.7 percent, compared with 1.1 percent for
the entire municipal market, Barclays Plc data show. Yet
Wheeling’s securities, with a Standard & Poor’s credit grade
five steps below AAA, benefited from a rally that has pushed the
yield penalty for similarly rated bonds to a five-year low.  “The sweet spot in the municipal market is between A and
BBB rated municipal bonds,” said Robert DiMella, co-head of
MacKay Municipal Managers, which oversees $7.6 billion of local
debt in Princeton, New Jersey. “Spreads are going to continue
coming down.”  2008 Levels  With the Federal Reserve keeping its benchmark overnight
lending rate  near zero  and extending a program of monthly bond
purchases, yields on local debt are near generational lows. As a
result, investors are buying lower-rated credits for the higher
yields, helping localities recover from the recession that ended
in 2009.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold A rated utility
bonds rather than top-rated issuers in that industry is 0.32
percentage point, the lowest since March 2008, Bloomberg data
show.  “With rates where they are, we’re barely looking at AA and
AAA names,” said Craig Pernick, a senior managing director at
Bethesda, Maryland-based Chevy Chase Trust Co., which oversees
about $1.3 billion in munis. “The high BBBs and the low single-As are where we’ve found a lot of value.”  The rally in lower-rated securities proved a boon to
Wheeling in its sale. The offering, rated A by S&P, included
six-year bonds that were priced to yield 1.63 percent, or about
0.56 percentage point more than benchmark munis.  1889 Vintage  Wheeling last sold bonds for its water system in April
2010, with six-year debt priced to yield 3.19 percent, or about
1.02 percentage points more than benchmark  securities . The debt
was specially qualified for bank buyers and was insured by
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.  The city will use proceeds of this week’s sale to build a
water-treatment plant, said city manager Robert Herron. Some of
the city’s clay pipes, which also deliver water to surrounding
cities, have stamps from 1889, he said. Herron said he’s been
told the city was the first to issue municipal revenue bonds.  “This may be in today’s dollars the single largest public
works this city has ever undertaken,” said Mayor Andy McKenzie.
“Our existing water plant is about 85 years old and it has
simply outlived its purposeful life.”  Revenue Relief  It wasn’t until 1950 that most states had legislation
authorizing revenue-bond financing, according to Maco’s report.  “No financing structure has been of greater importance to
growth of the U.S. municipal market than the revenue bond,”
Maco wrote in his report, titled “Building a Strong Subnational
Debt Market,” which was published in the Winter/Spring 2001
issue of the Richmond Journal of Global Law & Business.  Wheeling issued “the first ‘pure’ revenue bond” without
general-obligation backing, he said.  Revenue debt accounts for the brunt of municipal issuance.
Localities and their agencies sold about $273 billion of such
bonds last year, compared with $155 billion of general
obligations, Bloomberg data show.  Wheeling’s water system needs about $200 million of
upgrades, McKenzie said.  The city isn’t alone in needing such work. Investment
planned through 2020 in the U.S. on projects such as roads,
bridges and schools will fall $1.6 trillion short of what’s
sufficient to maintain the facilities, the American Society of
Civil Engineers said in a March report. The group gave
wastewater systems a “D” grade.  Issuance Drop  Wheeling sold before a drop in municipal issuance. The Los
Angeles Department of Water & Power plans to sell $480 million
next week in the slowest period for  supply  in about seven weeks.
States and cities are set to issue just $4.6 billion of debt.  At  1.83 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  1.88 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the two interest rates, a gauge of relative
value, is about 97 percent. It has risen from a two-month low
reached this week. The higher the figure, the cheaper local
bonds are when compared with federal securities. The ratio has
averaged 92 percent since 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  