-- Freeport Death Toll Increases to 17 as CEO Adkerson Arrives
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-05-20T19:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-17/yudhoyono-calls-on-freeport-to-intensify-mine-rescue-effort.html
The death toll from an accident at
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s (FCX)  Grasberg mine complex in
Indonesia rose to 17 as Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson
arrived in the country.  Work has been halted at the world’s second-largest copper
mine since a tunnel collapsed on May 14. Of the 38 workers who
had been in a classroom in an underground training facility at
the time of the accident, 10 have been rescued and 11 are
believed still buried under the rubble, according to an e-mailed
statement today.  “I am deeply saddened and disturbed by this event,”
Adkerson said in a statement today. “Our focus continues to be
continuing efforts to gain access to the victims still buried at
the accident, carried out as quickly as can be done safely.”  Grasberg in Mimika, Papua province, about 3,120 kilometers
(1,940 miles) east of Jakarta, includes underground and open-pit
operations and is the world’s second-biggest by output, Freeport
said in a March 14  presentation . The company was still shipping
concentrate, a semi-processed form of metal ore, as of May 17,
its local unit said last week.  Adkerson flew into Timika in Papua on May 18 and, together
with PT Freeport Indonesia President Director Rozik B. Soetjipto, has been visiting injured workers and the families of
those still missing, Freeport said yesterday. Indonesian
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  called last week on Freeport
to step up rescue efforts at the mine.  Accident Investigation  The Grasberg complex generated $3.92 billion of revenue for
Freeport last year, or 16 percent of the company’s  sales .
Freeport owns 91 percent of the mine, which also produces gold,
and Indonesia’s government holds the rest, according to the
company’s website.  The government should conduct a thorough investigation of
the accident, said Virgo Solossa, head of the Mimika branch of
the All-Indonesian Workers Union in the Chemical, Energy and
Mining Sectors, whose members include the labor union at
Freeport Indonesia.  “We demanded that all operations at Freeport remain halted
until the investigation is concluded, that is the least they can
do to value the life and the families of the victims,” Solossa
said May 17 by phone from Mimika.  Safety Lesson  The government would seek to improve mining safety
procedures, Coordinating Minister for the EconomyHatta Rajasa
told reporters in Jakarta May 17.  “A government team will conduct an investigation and after
they’re finished, we will see what needs to be done,” he said.
“This can be used as a lesson on how we can strengthen the
safety of underground mining.”  Freeport  Indonesia  was still shipping concentrate as of May
17, Daisy Primayanti, vice president of corporate communications
at the company, said by mobile-phone text message on May 18. The
company used concentrate that was delivered to the port site
before it suspended operations, she said.  Freeport has halted the negotiation process for the
2013-2015 Collective Labor Agreement because of the accident, it
said last week. The company and its labor union had started
contract negotiations on May 13.  Output at Grasberg was disrupted in 2011 and 2012 after
labor unrest and violence. The company said in a February filing
that 15 people died and 57 were injured in 37 shooting incidents
in and around the complex between July 2009 and Feb. 15 this
year.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Escondida mine in  Chile  is the world’s
largest copper mine.  Freeport today won the approval of  Plains Exploration &
Production Co. (PXP)  shareholders for a $6.6 billion takeover after
offering Plains holders an extra $3 a share in a one-time
special cash dividend, plus another $1 for each share in
Freeport they own after the merger closes. Freeport announced on
Dec. 5 it planned to buy both Houston-based Plains and  McMoRan
Exploration Co. (MMR)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  