-- Abortion Case Dropped as High Court Leaves Law Voided
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-04T21:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/abortion-case-dropped-as-high-court-leaves-law-voided.html
The U.S. Supreme Court dismissed what
would have been its first abortion showdown since 2007, backing
out of a clash over an Oklahoma law that sought to restrict
drug-induced procedures.  Today’s action leaves intact an Oklahoma Supreme Court
decision that struck down the 2011 law on the grounds it put an
unconstitutional burden on women seeking an abortion.  The high court will have other chances to consider abortion
limits in the coming months. Abortion-rights advocates today
asked Justice  Antonin Scalia  to block enforcement of a Texas law
requiring doctors who perform the procedure to have local
hospital admission privileges.  In the Oklahoma case, the Supreme Court in June took the
unusual step of saying it would review the dispute while
simultaneously asking the state’s highest court to clarify what
the law covered. The Oklahoma court responded on Oct. 29 by
saying the measure “effectively bans all medication
abortions.”  The U.S. Supreme Court then reassessed its involvement and
today said, in a one-sentence order, that it wouldn’t hear the
case after all.  The Oklahoma dispute tested what has become a favored
approach of anti-abortion groups and lawmakers: requiring
doctors to follow Food and Drug Administration instructions in
dispensing abortion-inducing drugs. Abortion-rights advocates
say the FDA-approved protocols no longer represent the safest
approach and that doctors must be able to prescribe drugs “off
label.”  ‘Outright Ban’  “The  Supreme Court  has let stand a strong decision by the
Oklahoma Supreme Court that recognized this law for what it
is,” said Nancy Northup, president of the Center for
Reproductive Rights, which sued to challenge the Oklahoma rules.
The law was “an outright ban on a safe method of ending a
pregnancy in its earliest stages and an unconstitutional attack
on women’s health and rights.”  Abortion-inducing pills have transformed the procedure --
and the debate -- since their approval in the U.S. more than a
decade ago. Rather than visiting a clinic, which can be subject
to protests and tight regulations, a woman early in her
pregnancy can start an abortion by taking a pill at her doctor’s
office and finish the process at home. Anti-abortion forces see
the drugs as vehicles for making the procedure more widely
available.  FDA Approval  The central question for the Oklahoma Supreme Court was
whether the state measure would bar doctors from using
misoprostol, an ulcer drug, because it hadn’t been approved by
the FDA for abortions.  Oklahoma officials urged the court to say that the statute
didn’t cover misoprostol. That interpretation might have
increased the chances that the U.S. Supreme Court would uphold
the measure.  The Oklahoma court instead said the language of the law
indicated it covered misoprostol, barring its use in abortion.  “Given the Oklahoma Supreme Court’s overly broad and
erroneous interpretation of the Oklahoma law, the U.S. Supreme
Court had little choice but to dismiss the case,” Oklahoma
Attorney General  Scott Pruitt  said in a statement today. “We
are disappointed with the state court’s interpretation of a law
that was crafted by the legislature to protect Oklahoma women
from potentially deadly protocols that have never been approved
by the FDA.”  Ectopic Pregnancies  The Oklahoma court also said the statute would bar the use
of another drug, methotrexate, in treating ectopic pregnancies.  Doctors use misoprostol alongside another drug,
mifepristone, which also would have been affected by the
Oklahoma law. Doctors now typically use only a third of the
mifepristone dosage approved by the FDA in 2000 and prescribe it
as long as nine weeks into pregnancy, two weeks longer than what
the FDA originally approved.  New York-based Danco Laboratories LLC makes mifepristone,
selling it under the name Mifeprex.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  sells
misoprostol under the name Cytotec.  When it struck down the law last year, the Oklahoma court
pointed to the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1992 decision, Planned
Parenthood v. Casey. In that case, the court said states can’t
place an “undue burden” on a woman’s right to end a pregnancy
before the fetus would be able to live outside the womb.  Texas Case  In the Texas case, the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
said last week that the state’s law could go into effect even
though a trial judge had concluded it was unconstitutional. The
appeals court ruling prompted women’s clinics in five cities to
stop providing abortions.  Planned Parenthood today told the nation’s highest court
that the law “would have an unprecedented and devastating
effect on women’s ability to obtain an abortion.”  Scalia, who handles emergency matters from the New Orleans-based appeals court, told state officials to respond to today’s
filing by Nov. 12. At that point, Scalia can either act on the
 Planned Parenthood  request himself or refer the matter to the
full nine-member court.  The case doesn’t ask the court to directly rule on the
Texas law, instead arguing that the 5th Circuit was wrong to let
the measure take effect while the state’s appeal was pending.  Separately,  Arizona  is asking the justices to revive a law
that bars abortion at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy. That
appeal asks the court to revisit part of the landmark 1973 Roe
v. Wade ruling, which legalized the procedure nationwide.  The Oklahoma case is Cline v. Oklahoma Coalition for
Reproductive Justice, 12-1094. The Texas case is Planned
Parenthood v. Abbott, 13A452.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  