-- Madoff Secretary Saw ‘Smug’ IT Guys After Private Meeting
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/madoff-secretary-saw-smug-it-guys-after-private-meeting.html
Two computer programmers accused of
aiding  Bernard Madoff ’s $17 billion Ponzi scheme, and extorting
the con man in the process, were seen by his secretary looking
“smug” as they left a closed-door meeting with Madoff two
years before his 2008 arrest, prosecutors say.  Eleanor Squillari, a receptionist and personal secretary
for Madoff from 1984 until his investment firm closed, found the
meeting with George Perez and Jerome O’Hara noteworthy because
Madoff “had a very low level of technical sophistication” and
almost always left his door open during meetings, the U.S. said
in a Nov. 1 filing in federal court in  Manhattan .  Perez and O’Hara are on trial in New York, charged with
aiding Madoff’s swindle. Their lawyers asked U.S District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain, who is overseeing the trial, to bar
Squillari from describing the men’s demeanor when she testifies,
claiming it’s unfair speculation. Prosecutors asked Swain to
deny the request, arguing Squillari’s observations are relevant.  The U.S. alleges that O’Hara and Perez in 2006 realized
their programming codes -- which allowed the firm’s computers to
“spit out fake paperwork” -- were essential to keeping the
fraud going and demanded more money from Madoff to keep quiet.
He gave the men $100,000 each and let them name their own annual
bonuses and salary increases, prosecutors say.  Perez’s lawyer, Larry Krantz, said in a Nov. 2 letter to
Swain that it would have been “impossible” for Squillari to
conclude the men felt smug “simply by observing the defendants
walk silently past her following the meeting.”  Dramatic Meeting  O’Hara and Perez, who joined Madoff’s firm in the 1990s,
acknowledge that a “dramatic meeting” with Madoff took place
in 2006, according to their lawyers’ Oct. 17 opening statements
to the jury. The men claim that they arranged the encounter to
challenge Madoff’s request for computer code they believed might
be abused, and that they were “extremely nervous” about
confronting him and being fired.  “That a witness observed them immediately after the
meeting appearing anything but nervous, but rather appearing
smug as they exited Madoff’s office, goes directly to one of the
central issues in the case,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew
Schwartz said in the letter to the judge. “There is thus no
question that this testimony is relevant.”  Krantz said the government’s proposed testimony shows the
“lengths it is willing to go to convict the defendants based on
sheer speculation and innuendo.”  Fake Documents  The programmers’ co-defendants in the case, all accused of
helping make fake documents for decades, are Annette Bongiorno,
who worked for Madoff for 40 years and ran the investment
advisory business; Joann Crupi, who managed large accounts; and
Daniel Bonventre, who oversaw the broker-dealer and proprietary
trading operations where real trading took place.  The ex-employees have all pleaded not guilty and argue they
didn’t know about the fraud until it unraveled with Madoff’s
arrest on Dec. 11, 2008.  David Kugel, a trader at Madoff’s brokerage for 38 years
who pleaded guilty in 2011 to  securities fraud , continued his
testimony yesterday, telling the jury that Madoff and Crupi
helped him commit  mortgage fraud  in 2002 by giving him faked
account documents to use in a loan application.  Kugel, who hasn’t been sentenced, is the first witness to
testify to admit involvement in the fraud. Defense lawyers have
said Kugel and others who pleaded guilty will lie to the jury to
implicate others and get less time behind bars.  Cross-Examination  Under cross-examination yesterday by Bongiorno’s lawyer,
Roland Riopelle, Kugel agreed that he exposed his wife to
federal tax charges by letting her sign joint tax filings over
the years without warning her the papers contained false
information about his inflated Madoff investment account.  Riopelle asked Kugel if he had put his wife at risk “for a
few pieces of silver.”  After a delay of several seconds, Kugel said, “Yes.”  Kugel also agreed he had allowed his son Craig to join
Madoff’s company around 2003 without warning him the firm
engaged in fraud. His son, who worked in Madoff’s human
resources department, pleaded guilty last year to a tax scheme
that paid salaries and benefits to people who weren’t employees,
including Bonventre’s son.  Kugel also agreed under questioning that he allowed his son
and daughter, Heather, to open investment advisory accounts with
Madoff, without warning them of the fraud.  ‘Account Full’  “He had an account full of trades you knew to be fake?”
Riopelle asked.  “Yes,” Kugel said.  Asked by Riopelle if he considers himself to be a good
father, Kugel said yes.  Kugel’s testimony is scheduled to continue today for most
of the day. The trial is in its third week of testimony. Swain
has said it might last five months.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in Manhattan federal court
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  