-- Thai Protesters Rally in Bangkok to Oppose Amnesty Bill Push
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-04T10:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/thai-protesters-opposing-amnesty-law-rally-in-streets-of-bangkok.html
Thailand ’s biggest opposition party
led thousands of supporters on a march through Bangkok’s streets
today in an attempt to derail government efforts to pass an
amnesty law for political offenses.  About 10,000 demonstrators joined rallies that paralyzed
traffic in separate parts of Bangkok, according to police
estimates. The Democrat party has vowed to continue organizing
demonstrations unless the government scraps the bill.  Thai stocks fell to a one-month low and the baht dropped on
concern the legislative push will spark instability in a country
that has been wracked by street violence since a 2006 coup that
ousted former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra . Some of the bill’s
opponents say the amnesty will whitewash crimes Thaksin
committed while in power.  “We are here to protect the country from a group of
corrupt people who passed this unfair law,” Suthep Thaugsuban,
a Democrat member of parliament, said before leading a march
from Bangkok’s Samsen railway station. “We will bring our
supporters to worship the sacred symbol that has helped protect
our country for a long time,”  The baht declined 0.2 percent to 31.26 per dollar as of
4:40 p.m. in Bangkok and touched a two-week low of 31.358
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
the 3.875 percent debt due June 2019 held steady at 3.6 percent.
The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  of stocks fell 2.9 percent, its biggest
drop since Sept. 23.  Blanket Amnesty  In its initial draft, the law would have freed members of
the public charged with crimes committed during past political
clashes. A parliamentary committee amended the draft to include
soldiers and politicians who oversaw deadly crackdowns on
protesters, and people charged on the basis of investigations by
state agencies established after the coup.  Thaksin’s opponents say the proposed changes will allow him
to recoup his fortune and return to Thailand without spending
time in jail. In 2008, Thaksin fled abuse of power charges that
stemmed from a military-appointed panel, for helping his wife
buy land from the government.  Some of Thaksin’s supporters, known as the  Red Shirts , have
also criticized the law because it would protect politicians who
ordered a crackdown on demonstrators in 2010. More than 100
people have been killed during protests since the 2006 coup.  Former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , now an opposition
leader who faces murder charges for authorizing soldiers to use
weapons during the 2010 unrest, opposes the legislation, even
though he himself would benefit, as would Suthep, Abhisit’s
former deputy who led today’s march.  Thaksin Pardon  Abhisit in August said the bill may lead to a pardon for
Thaksin. His Democrat party separately opposed changes to an
article in the constitution that gave an amnesty to generals for
staging the 2006 coup against Thaksin.  Opinion polls show most voters are opposed to a blanket
amnesty. An Assumption University poll released yesterday showed
87.2 percent of respondents aren’t confident the law will help
reconcile Thai society and believe the bill is designed to
benefit Thaksin. The poll surveyed 1,198 people in Bangkok and
other major cities Oct. 28-Nov. 2, and had a margin of error of
plus or minus 7 percent.  A Suan Dusit Rajabhat University poll released Nov. 2
showed 11 percent of respondents support the government’s
amnesty proposal and 58 percent oppose it. The survey of 1,134
people in Bangkok and its outskirts on Oct. 29-31 had a margin
of error of plus or minus 5 percent.  Senate Debate  The Senate may debate the bill starting Nov. 11 and a vote
might occur within 60 days, speaker Nikom Wairatpanich said
today. The government, led by Thaksin’s sister Yingluck Shinawatra, commands a majority in parliament.  “Our country has been wounded before and people are
concerned because they don’t want to see a repeat of the
violence,” Yingluck told reporters today. “If we don’t forgive
and do nothing, we are concerned that we will return to a cycle
of disputes.”  Rally organizers said they would move the main site of the
protest to Democracy Monument on Ratchadamnoen Klang Road.  Abhisit, the opposition leader, has said the Democrats will
petition the  Constitutional Court  to rule on the legality of the
law. Thaksin, sensing the bill could be overturned by the court,
is preparing the ruling Pheu Thai party to hold a snap election
early next year, the Bangkok Post reported today, citing an
unidentified party member.  Parties linked to Thaksin have won the past five elections
on support from rural areas, including the 2011 vote that
brought his sister to power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  