-- Thai Stocks, Baht Drop on Concern Protests Will Deter Investment
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-04T04:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/thai-stocks-baht-drop-on-concern-protests-will-deter-investment.html
Thailand’s stocks fell to a one-month
low and the baht and government bonds dropped on speculation
protests against a bill granting amnesty for political offenses
will escalate and deter investment.  The opposition Democrat party is leading a street rally in
Bangkok to demonstrate against the government’s plan to pass a
blanket amnesty bill for political crimes that occurred after
the 2006 military coup. The party claims the law would annul
legal cases against former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra,
brother of the current premier Yingluck Shinawatra. The bill
will next be debated in the Senate.  The  SET Index (SET)  fell 1.8 percent to 1,402.91 as of 10:46 a.m.
in Bangkok, heading for the lowest close since Sept. 30. The
baht fell 0.3 percent to 31.305 per dollar and touched a two-week low of 31.358 earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
yield on the 3.875 percent bonds due June 2019 rose three basis
points to 3.63 percent, the highest since Sept. 19.  “Most investors have just stopped any new investment in
Thai equities to assess the situation and the development of
anti-government demonstrations,” said Jitra Amornthum, the head
of research at Finansia Syrus Securities Pcl in Bangkok. “The
tourism sector, which has been the only bright spot for the Thai
economy, will certainly be affected.”  Hurting Confidence  Global funds  sold  $323 million more Thai bonds than they
bought last week and pulled a net $91 million from equities,
official data show.  The Internal Security Act has been imposed in three
districts of Bangkok near Government House and Parliament until
Nov. 30 to control anti-government protests. Major unrest in the
past seven years included an airport seizure, business center
blockages and arson attacks in Bangkok.  Thaksin is advising the ruling Pheu Thai party to promote
the amnesty bill and, if it’s not approved by the Constitutional
Court, to call a snap election to seek a fresh mandate,
according to a Bangkok Post report today, which cited an
unidentified party source.  “We are now into day five of the public protests against
the passage of the amnesty bill in  Thailand ,” Sophia Ng, a
Singapore-based assistant analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., wrote in a research note today. “Heightened social
unrest, which may lead to violence, is weighing on investor
confidence.”  One-month implied volatility in the baht, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, rose 20
basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, to 5.97 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  