-- Thai Top Money Manager Sells Stocks as Protests Hurt Growth
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-05T06:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/thailand-s-top-fund-manager-sells-stocks-as-protests-hurt-growth.html
Thailand ’s top-performing equity fund
manager has reduced holdings of domestic shares on expectations
that protests against the government’s amnesty bill will spur
prolonged political conflict and curb economic growth.  BBL Asset Management Co., which runs seven of the ten best-performing Thai  equity  funds during the past three years, has
raised cash holdings since mid-October, Voravan Tarapoom, chief
executive officer at Bangkok-based BBL, which oversees about $10
billion, said in an e-mail. The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  plunged 2.9
percent yesterday, the most since Sept. 23, as an estimated
10,000 protesters marched through Bangkok’s streets.  Thailand’s opposition Democrat party is rallying opponents
of the bill, which would exonerate people convicted of crimes
linked to political clashes since the 2006 coup that ousted
former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra . The government has
said the law is needed to heal social divisions, while opponents
say it’s designed to exonerate Thaksin and politicians who
ordered a deadly crackdown on pro-Thaksin demonstrators in 2010.  “The political conflict will intensify further, worsening
the economic outlook,” Voravan said yesterday. Her firm’s  BBL
Bualuang Top-Ten Fund (BTP)  returned an annualized 28 percent during
the past three years, the best performance among more than 200
local peers tracked by Bloomberg. “It’s still not a good time
for returning to domestic equities, even after prices declined
significantly to attractive levels.”  Relative Value  The SET Index retreated to a one-month low yesterday and
traded for 15 times reported earnings, versus 12 times for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. That’s the smallest valuation gap
since February 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas investors  sold  a net $25 million of Thai shares
yesterday, a third day of outflows, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Turnover on the Stock Exchange of Thailand
averaged about 32 billion baht ($1.02 billion) a day during the
past two weeks, down 34 percent from the 12-month average.  “The escalating conflict increased the political risk for
the overall economy and financial markets,” Voravan said.  The benchmark  stock index  gained 1.4 percent to 1,407.56 at
the midday break in Bangkok, poised for its first advance in
three days. Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said in a
televised address that the government will respect the Senate’s
ruling on the amnesty bill.  Tourism Concern  The Senate may debate the bill starting Nov. 11 and a vote
might occur within 60 days, speaker Nikom Wairatpanich said
yesterday.  Airports of Thailand Pcl , the nation’s biggest airfield
operator, climbed 3.2 percent, rebounding from yesterday’s 8.3
percent slide. True Corp. rose 5.1 percent, snapping a two-day
decline.  Businesses are concerned that political tension will
escalate and reduce tourism, Vorapak Tanyawong, the president of
state-controlled  Krung Thai Bank Pcl (KTB) , the nation’s third-biggest
commercial lender by assets, said yesterday. Thailand’s economic
growth slowed to a 2.8 percent pace in the second quarter from
5.4 percent in the first three months of the year.  In its initial draft, the bill would have freed members of
the public charged with crimes committed during past political
clashes. A parliamentary committee amended the draft to include
soldiers and politicians who oversaw deadly crackdowns on
protesters, and people charged on the basis of investigations by
state agencies established after the coup.  Public Opinion  Yingluck commands a majority in parliament through her
ruling Pheu Thai party.  An Assumption University poll showed 87.2 percent of
respondents aren’t confident the law will help reconcile Thai
society and believe the bill is designed to benefit Thaksin. The
poll surveyed 1,198 people in Bangkok and other major cities
Oct. 28-Nov. 2, and had a margin of error of plus or minus 7
percent.  Demonstrations by supporters and opponents of Thaksin --
who was removed from power in the 2006 coup -- have led to an
airport seizure, business center blockages and arson attacks in
Bangkok during the past seven years. Thailand has had nine
military coups and more than 20 prime ministers since 1946.  “Opposition against the amnesty bill has broadened to
several parts of the society, while the government continues to
push ahead with the amnesty bill,” said Voravan. “The
political concern will affect the entire stock market and every
sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  