-- Airlines Merger Needs Divestitures to Settle U.S. Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2013-11-04T21:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/airlines-merger-needs-divestitures-to-settle-u-s-suit.html
American Airlines  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  will have to divest assets at key airports across the
country if they want to settle the U.S. lawsuit seeking to block
their proposed merger, Attorney General Eric Holder said.  Shares of American parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  surged after Holder
said today he hopes to resolve the case before trial through
talks now taking place between  Justice Department  and the
airlines. Should the negotiations fail, the government is
prepared to go to trial to block a merger that would create the
world’s largest airline, he said.  “What we have tried to focus on is to make sure that any
resolution in this case necessarily includes divestitures of
facilities at key constrained airports throughout the  United
States ,” Holder said at a news conference in  Washington .  He declined to disclose the number of slots for takeoff and
landing rights that the government wants the airlines to sell
before it will approve the tie-up.  “We will not agree to something that does not
fundamentally resolve the concerns that were expressed in the
complaint and do not substantially bring relief to consumers,”
Holder said.  Share Prices  AMR rose 25 percent to $9.84 in over-the-counter trading in
 New York . That was the biggest jump since Feb. 14, the day the
deal was announced. US Airways rose 1.2 percent to $22.71.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due in
October 2014 rose 9 cents to 132.5 cents on the dollar in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting service of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The rally built on momentum generated last week when AMR
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  met with Florida Attorney
General Pam Bondi to discuss ending that state’s role in the
U.S. lawsuit.  Bondi said in a statement that both sides were “hopeful
that we will reach a timely resolution,” and Horton echoed that
with a statement saying he was “hopeful that a resolution can
be reached in the near future.”  Florida is among six states plus the District of Columbia
that have joined the Justice Department’s lawsuit. The U.S. and
the plaintiff states argue the combination would reduce
competition and raise fares. Texas dropped out of the suit last
month.  ‘Right Outcome’  Assistant U.S. Attorney General Bill Baer, head of the
Justice Department’s antitrust division, said when the lawsuit
was filed that “We’re in court today because we think a full-stop injunction is the right outcome for consumers.”  Bloomberg News  reported the settlement talks between the
airlines and the Justice Department Oct. 30.  “There has to be something where everybody can declare it
a win-win and it makes sense for the airlines and it makes sense
from the government’s standpoint to resolve the competitive
concerns they have,” said  Jonathan Lewis , an antitrust attorney
at BakerHostetler in Washington, who isn’t involved in the case.  American, which has been in bankruptcy since November 2011,
was set to exit court protection by merging with Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways  when the Justice Department and a group of
states sued to block the deal Aug. 13.  The lawsuit, unexpected by analysts and industry
executives, marked a sharp break with the Justice Department’s
past policy, which allowed six unprofitable airlines to merge
over the past five years in an effort to cut costs and end
losses.  Planned Merger  The Justice Department claimed the planned merger would
leave US Airways no incentive to offer discounted “Advantage
Fares” and could cause the industry’s legacy carriers, such as
United Continental Holdings Inc., Delta Air Lines Inc. and
American to charge more for tickets and ancillary services.  The U.S. said in its complaint that the merged airline
would control 69 percent of slots at Washington’s Reagan
National Airport, almost six times more than its closest
competitor, effectively blocking other airlines from entering or
expanding there to increase competition. A carrier that wants to
begin or expand service at Reagan must buy or lease slots from
another airline.  The case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in Washington at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  