-- Alcatel Seeks $2.7 Billion After Stock Surges Under Combes
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-11-04T17:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/alcatel-seeks-1-3-billion-in-capital-increase-after-stock-surge.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  is seeking to raise
$2.7 billion through a combination of new shares and debt,
taking advantage of a stock that has almost tripled since Chief
Executive Officer Michel Combes took over to finance the
network-equipment maker’s overhaul.  The plan includes the sale of 955 million euros ($1.3
billion) in new stock at 2.10 euros apiece. That’s 29 percent
less than the Nov. 1 close. Alcatel-Lucent is selling $750
million in high-yield bonds and getting a 500 million-euro
revolving credit facility, the Paris-based company said today.  With proof that Alcatel-Lucent is regaining confidence from
lenders and the stock market, Combes, who became CEO in April,
has a stronger hand to play during negotiations with potential
buyers of company assets. Fresh capital would also allow the
network supplier to compete more aggressively for contracts with
 Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and Chinese rivals such as Huawei Technologies Co.  “In the past few months we have gotten renewed confidence
from customers and the market,” Combes said during a conference
call. “Executing on the financial part of our plan will allow
us to refocus our energy on asset disposals.”  The stock closed 3.8 percent lower at 2.86 euros in Paris,
after falling as much as 9.3 percent for its biggest intraday
drop in a year. It has still more than doubled this year, giving
Alcatel-Lucent a market value of 6.68 billion euros.
Shareholders may subscribe to the new shares from Nov. 19 to
Nov. 29.  Keeping Promise  Combes, a former  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  executive, prompted a
19 percent jump in the stock on Oct. 31 -- the biggest increase
in five years -- by reporting earnings that beat estimates for a
second straight quarter since taking over from Ben Verwaayen.  Net debt will be close to zero when the transactions
unveiled today are completed, compared with 1 billion euros in
September, Chief Financial Officer Jean Raby said. Alcatel-Lucent also plans to regain full control of its portfolio of
patents, which Verwaayen had pledged as collateral in exchange
for loans from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Credit Suisse Group
AG. (CSGN)   Alcatel-Lucent’s bonds maturing in January 2016 rose 1.5
basis points to 113.8 basis points at 5:14 p.m. in  London , the
highest level since the securities were issued in November 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s debt is
rated  junk  by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s.  Profit Quest                    The cost of insuring Alcatel-Lucent loans as measured by
credit-default swaps fell 48 basis points to 296, the lowest
since November 2007, the data showed. The contracts are down
from about 920 basis points at the start of the year.  Merrill Lynch & Co.,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  are among banks working on the financing. Simon Poulter, a
Paris-based spokesman for Alcatel-Lucent, declined to detail how
the roles are split among the banks on the equity, bonds and
loan components.  The quest to make Alcatel-Lucent profitable started when
the company was created through the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA
and Lucent Technologies. CEO changes, job cuts and restructuring
have failed for almost seven years, as the company tallied more
than $10 billion in losses. To see a turnaround through, Combes
will have to execute on plans to sell 1 billion euros worth of
assets in the coming months.  Combes faces a tough market, with equipment prices under
pressure and European phone companies curbing spending. Finnish
rival Nokia Solutions and Networks reported a 26 percent slide
in third-quarter revenue. Ericsson, the largest maker of
wireless networks, missed profit-margin estimates on stiffer
competition with Huawei and  ZTE Corp. (000063)   Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s sale of its handset business and some patents
will hand the company 5.44 billion euros in cash, making the
Espoo, Finland-based company a potential buyer of Alcatel-Lucent
assets. To catch up to Ericsson and Huawei, Nokia is considering
a tie-up with Alcatel-Lucent’s wireless-equipment unit, a person
familiar with the plan said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  