-- Mehsud’s Death Risks U.S.-Pakistan Thaw in Sharif Test
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-11-04T05:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/taliban-mehsud-s-death-risks-u-s-pakistan-thaw-in-sharif-test.html
A U.S. drone strike that killed the
leader of the Pakistani Taliban risks reversing a thaw between
the nations two weeks after Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif cited
improved ties to woo investment on a visit to  Washington .  Pakistan will review “every aspect” of cooperation with
the U.S. following the killing of Hakimullah Mehsud on Nov. 1 in
North Waziristan, which violated an agreement to refrain from
targeting the group during peace talks, Interior Minister
Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan told reporters two days ago. Imran Khan,
whose party controls the militancy ravaged northwest, threatened
to block NATO supply routes in the region.  Sharif, who won a May election after pledging to hold peace
talks with the Taliban, faces his greatest challenge since
becoming premier for the third time as he considers his response
to the U.S. amid a campaign to stabilize the $231 billion
economy. Chronic energy shortages and the Taliban insurgency
have hamstrung the nation, which in September secured a $6.6
billion bailout from the International Monetary Fund.  “ Pakistan  can’t afford to break its relationship with the
U.S. when the economy is in such a dreadful shape,” Muhammad Waseem, a political science professor at the Lahore University
of Management Sciences, said in a phone interview. “At the same
time, this attack is a big blow to his peace move. We will see
some hardening of his attitude toward the U.S., but that will
not translate into policy actions. In the short run, he will not
want to be seen as a weak leader.”  Stocks Decline  The benchmark  KSE100 index  fell 1.9 percent, the most in
three weeks, at 10:02 a.m. local time.  “Mehsud’s killing and the consequences of that are
creating pressure in the market,” Yawar uz Zaman, research
analyst at Alternate Research in Karachi, said by phone.  Sharif will hold a cabinet meeting today to review the
situation after the drone attack, state-run Pakistan Television
reported. The Taliban ruled out peace talks with the government
after the killing of its chief, GEO television reported
yesterday, citing spokesman Shahidullah Shahid.  The U.S. plans to provide more than $300 million in aid to
fund power, road and education projects in Pakistan as part of
the release of $1.6 billion in mostly military assistance that
was held up by Congress when relations soured.  Afghanistan Exit  With Pakistan’s regional influence central to assuring a
smooth U.S. military exit from neighboring  Afghanistan , the two
nations were at a turning point in a relationship strained by
events of the past three years, including the operation that
killed Osama bin Laden in Pakistan and the death of 24 Pakistani
troops in a U.S. airstrike near the Afghan border.  Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry summoned U.S. ambassador
Richard Olson on Nov. 2 to protest the drone strike that killed
Mehsud. The interior minister said the U.S. had “interfered”
with the peace process.  “This is a temporary reaction mainly targeting the
domestic audience,” said Hasan Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-based
independent security analyst who formerly taught at Columbia
University in New York. “I don’t think the military will allow
to turn this into a complete breakdown, especially when the
Afghan end-game is so near and Pakistan needs U.S. help to
secure the IMF money.”  New Leader  Top Taliban commanders will continue to hold meetings over
the next few days to try to agree on a new leader, the
Associated Press reported Nov. 2. Asmatullah Shaheen, who heads
the Taliban’s executive council, was appointed interim leader,
the Dawn newspaper reported today.  Thousands of families fled Miranshah, the main town in
North Waziristan, and surrounding villages after the political
administration decided to impose a curfew, Dawn reported
yesterday.  Pakistani Taliban, a loose alliance of different militant
groups, emerged after the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan in 2001.
Influenced by the Afghan Taliban supreme leader Mullah Mohammad
Omar’s Islamic ideology, Pakistani factions want the government
to end its alliance with U.S. forces fighting in neighboring
Afghanistan and introduce their interpretation of Sharia law.
They have killed more than 1,200 civilians, soldiers and police
this year in more than 800 attacks, including 85 suicide and
bombings, according to government data.  Indicted in U.S.  Mehsud was indicted in the U.S. for his alleged role in a
suicide bombing that killed seven Central Intelligence Agency
employees in Afghanistan in 2009.  His death may worsen Pakistan’s internal strife if Taliban
groups escalate their bombing campaign in retaliation and
cricketer-turned-politician Khan uses his street power to block
NATO routes, Waseem said.  “We won’t let these supplies pass even if we have to
sacrifice our government” in the province, Khan, who strongly
opposes the U.S. drone campaign, said two days ago at a news
conference in Lahore.  Pakistan closed Afghan supply routes from its Karachi port
in November 2011 in retaliation against a U.S. airstrike that
killed its soldiers instead of intended militant targets. They
were reopened months later after the U.S. formally apologized
over the killings.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which will end its
combat role in Afghanistan in 2014, needs Pakistan’s routes to
supply its forces and remove equipment as they withdraw.  “I don’t think Pakistan will take that path again,” said
Waseem, referring to the closing of the routes. “After all,
Taliban are the enemy of the state and no side in this conflict
wants to be seen standing on their side.”  <a id=``ContactSectionStart''/>--With assistance from {Daniel Ten Kate} in New Delhi. Editors:
{Naween A. Mangi}, {Sunil Jagtiani}  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  