-- Anglo Hires Fund Manager Rutherford Amid Strategic Review
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-11-04T17:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/anglo-hires-fund-manager-rutherford-amid-strategic-review.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the global mining
company seeking to reverse a slump in earnings, appointed fund
manager Jim Rutherford to its board as it reviews operations to
save cash.  Rutherford, 54, has worked 16 years at Capital Group
investing in the mining and metals industry, London-based Anglo
said today in a statement. He starts his new role immediately.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani , who replaced  Cynthia Carroll  in April, is reviewing projects from Australia to Brazil
in pursuit of savings and cash-flow gains. Underlying earnings
fell 54 percent in 2012 as commodity prices slid and costs rose,
and are likely to fall again this year, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which has identified 15 assets for possible
divestment, withdrew from the Pebble copper project in  Alaska  in
September, leading to a $300 million charge. Anglo also said
today it completed the sale of its Amapa iron-ore mine in
Brazil, with buyer Zamin Ferrous Ltd. paying $134 million in
cash and as much as $130 million over five years.  Anglo’s largest Brazilian iron-ore venture is the $8.8
billion Minas-Rio development, which was subject to a $4 billion
writedown following cost overruns that preceded Carroll’s
departure. While the company announced earlier this year it was
seeking a partner for the mine, Cutifani said last month it may
be content to keep full ownership as iron-ore prices recover.  Anglo shares rose 2.4 percent to 1,494.5 pence by the close
in  London . They have declined 21 percent this year.  The CEO is targeting a total annual cash-flow gain of $1.3
billion, he said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  