-- Argor-Heraeus Rejects Allegations on Congo Conflict Gold
-- B y   J a m e s   K r a u s
-- 2013-11-04T22:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/argor-heraeus-rejects-allegations-on-congo-conflict-gold.html
Argor-Heraeus SA, a privately-owned
Swiss gold refiner, rejected accusations by the Geneva-based
non-governmental organization Trial that it illegally refined
gold from the Democratic Republic of the Congo from 2004 to
2005.  “Argor-Heraeus firmly refuses any such accusation since an
in-depth investigation by the UNO, the SECO and Finma resulting
that Argor-Heraeus has been cleared of all above mentioned
allegations,” the Mendrisio, Switzerland-based company said in
a  statement  today, referring to the United Nations,
Switzerland’s State Secretariat for Economic Affairs and the
Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority.  Trial, an acronym for Track Impunity Always, said in a
 statement  it had submitted a criminal complaint to Switzerland’s
Federal Prosecutor against Argor-Heraeus. The organization also
requested an investigation against the precious metals refinery,
saying it had information suggesting that the company may have
refined almost three tons of pillaged gold by an armed group in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo that financed its
operations by trafficking the metal.  Mineral-rich eastern Congo has suffered almost two decades
of conflict since the aftermath of  Rwanda ’s 1994 genocide spread
across the border. More than a dozen foreign and Congolese
groups are active in the region, some of whom help support their
activities by taxing or smuggling tin ore, tungsten, coltan and
gold.  Argor-Heraeus said it had been informed of the accusation
by the Ministry of Public Affairs, and that the allegations
dated back to 2004-2005 when the company’s name appeared in a
report of the UN’s Group of Experts of the Democratic Republic
of the Congo that analyzed some shipments by Hussar Ltd.
processed by Argor-Heraeus.  The refiner also said that as a precautionary measure it
decided in 2005  not to accept any material for processing at
its plant from Uganda and other unstable regions, and to end all
commercial transactions with Hussar.  Jacqueline Buehlmann, a spokeswoman for the Swiss Federal
Prosecutor’s office, didn’t immediately respond to a call
outside of office hours seeking comment on a Swissinfo website
report that the prosecutor had opened a probe into the
complaint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Kraus in Geneva at 
 jkraus2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  