-- Harley Seeking Global Buyers for New Lightweight Bikes
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-11-05T21:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/harley-eyes-global-buyers-for-new-lightweight-bikes.html
Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , which has long
dominated the market for heavyweight motorcycles, is rolling out
its first Harley-brand lightweight bikes in decades as it eyes a
global market that is big and, in some ways, smaller.  At events in Kansas City,  Missouri , and Milan yesterday,
Harley introduced the Street 500 and Street 750, the latest in
its Dark Custom line of bikes that aim to bring Harley’s classic
look and sound for a modern and younger audience.  The Street was developed with one eye on a global market,
where many customers are put off by Harley’s classic road hogs.
Harley interviewed more than 3,000 customers in 10 countries and
conducted about 1,000 focus groups in cities such as  Chicago ,
Mumbai,  Sao Paulo  and  Tokyo , making it the company’s most
researched and market-tested product.  “We’re doing a lot better job as a company getting the
voice of the customer into the front end of the process so the
bikes we design and develop really meet the needs and
requirements of the consumer,” Chief Executive Officer Keith Wandell, 63, said in an interview yesterday.  Harley expects to begin selling the Street in 2014’s first
half in the U.S.,  India  as well as  Italy , Portugal and  Spain ,
Matt Levatich, president and chief operating officer of the
Harley-Davidson Motor unit, said in a separate interview. The
500 will sell for about $6,700 and the 750 for about $7,500,
making them Harley’s least expensive bikes.  “This gives us an opportunity to go after good-volume
markets and learn how the product is received in different types
of motorcycling markets,” he said. “We have high
expectations.”  Customer Base  For most of its 110-year history, Harley sold motorcycles
as fast as it could to customers it knew well: wealthy, middle-aged American white men. The global recession forced a
reckoning. Revenue in 2009 fell almost a quarter from a year
earlier. Wandell, installed four years ago from auto-parts maker
 Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , cut costs, sped development and pushed
the company to expand its customer base, in the U.S. and
internationally.  That meant seeking input beyond Harley’s Milwaukee
headquarters from consumers in countries as disparate as India,
Italy,  Brazil  and the U.S. The feedback indicated when consumers
think Harley, they’re reminded of metal fenders and fuel tanks,
rich, glossy paint and the deep, throaty rumble of a Harley
engine, Levatich said.  Restricted Access  The company opened the doors of its product-development
center in nearby Wauwatosa,  Wisconsin , last year to dealers and
sales managers. About 800 engineers and designers there are
developing the next generations of Harley motorcycles. Only a
third of Harley’s 5,800 employees have access to the building.
It wasn’t until last year that a group of its dealers were
allowed in for a briefing on new product planning.  The Street, Harley’s first new bike platform in 13 years,
reflects the customer feedback. Harley tweaked the frame,
lowered the seat to 25.4 inches (64.5 centimeters) and changed
the handlebar sweep. At 480 pounds (218 kilograms), the bike is
Harley’s smallest and easiest to maneuver, Levatich said.  Harley, which received 25 percent of revenue outside the
U.S. in 2006, forecasts 40 percent of sales from international
markets by next year. More than half of its dealerships are
outside the U.S. as the company tries to broaden its traditional
customer base to new buyers: women, younger drivers, blacks,
first-time riders and customers outside the U.S.  Production Plans  “Harley’s core base in the U.S., the bread and butter of
the company, is a demo that isn’t growing a lot,” Robin Diedrich, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. who rates Harley a
buy, said in an interview. “They’ve really been putting a lot
of investment behind this push to expand beyond that.”  The company plans to build the Street in  Kansas City  for
U.S. buyers and Bawal, India, for some international markets.
Harley manufactures the rest of its bikes in the U.S. and has
facilities in India and Brazil that assemble motorcycles from
parts made in its U.S. plants.  Harley last sold a Harley-branded lightweight bike in the
late 1970s, when it stopped selling the Sprint. It sold the
Buell Blast through its Buell Motorcycle Inc. unit, which Harley
phased out in 2009 to focus on its main brand.  Harley’s last U.S.-built lightweight bike was the Bobcat, a
175-cubic-centimeter model the company last made in 1966.  The Street 500 also will serve as the bike for thousands of
participants in Harley’s Rider’s Edge driver training program.
Harley had used the Buell Blast. When graduates of the program
wanted to buy a bike, Harley didn’t have a lightweight bike to
offer them.  CEO Appointment  Harley fell 0.8 percent to $64.47 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 32 percent this year, outpacing the 24
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Harley has
more than tripled since Wandell’s appointment as CEO was
announced in April 2009.  Japanese motorcycle manufacturers, including  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) , exported 479,163 motorcycles last year, ranging in engine
size from less than 50 cc to 250 cc and above, according to the
Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association.  Of the 282,000 new heavyweight motorcycles registered in
2012, 57 percent were Harleys, a gain of 2.3 percentage points
since 2010, the company said in its  annual report . Heavyweight
motorcycles represented 62 percent of the new registrations in
the U.S. last year, the company said.  Harley sees the Street competing with bikes such as Honda’s
Rebel. That model, with a 234 cc engine, starts at $4,190 and is
one of Honda’s more popular lightweight models. That potential
has the dealer base excited, said Levatich, who showed the
Street to the national dealer council last month.  “This is what we haven’t been offering,” Levatich said.
“And it’s credible and its real and we’ve done it well. That’s
what the dealers really got excited about. This isn’t a cheap
alternative to a Harley.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  