-- Harper Seeks to Move Past Expense Scandal Amid Poll Slump
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-11-04T16:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/harper-seeks-to-move-past-expense-scandal-amid-poll-slump.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  signaled he won’t be distracted from his economic agenda
as he tries to dig his government out of a scandal that has
dropped his poll ratings to the lowest since he took power.  Harper used a weekend policy convention in Calgary to rally
his Conservative Party’s base, listing in a keynote speech his
government’s record of achievements on matters such as economic
management and crime prevention. He reiterated plans to balance
the nation’s  finances , develop its natural resources and lower
phone and cable costs for consumers.  “We have a strategy, we are focused and our plan is
working,” Harper told party supporters.  The government has been dogged this year by an expenses
scandal implicating four senators, including three Conservatives
that Harper appointed. Most damaging have been revelations that
his former chief of staff, Nigel Wright, helped one senator
repay disputed expense claims. The controversy has dominated
parliamentary debate as opposition parties accuse the government
of a cover-up, erasing a lead in opinion polls the Conservatives
have held for most of the past eight years.  Harper, who has denied knowledge of the payment, tried to
distance the Conservatives from the issue in his speech.  “Ours is not the party of entitlement, not guided by power
or privilege,” he said in a 40-minute address. “We didn’t go
to Ottawa to join private clubs or become part of some elite.”  Conservative Support  Support for the Conservatives, formed in 2003 as part of a
merger between two right-of-center parties, peaked during the
2011 election campaign that saw them win a majority of seats in
Parliament with 40 percent of the popular vote. Most polls now
put them at just under 30 percent, the lowest since they first
came to power in 2006.  According to poll aggregator  threehundeight.com , the
Conservatives have averaged support of 29.1 percent in surveys
taken since the end of August, compared with 35.7 percent for
the Liberals and 24 percent for the main opposition New
Democratic party. At the  end  of last year, the Conservatives led
with 35 percent, compared with 29 percent for the NDP and 23
percent for the Liberals.  Those numbers suggest the party’s base, pegged at about 30
percent, remains supportive even as support for Harper has
suffered among non-partisan voters, said  Nik Nanos , an Ottawa-based pollster, in a telephone interview.  While “the senate stuff has had a significant
psychological impact,” Nanos said, “from a polling
perspective, the Conservative core is still with them so far.”  Undermining Message  The scandal has been undermining Harper’s efforts to keep
public attention on economic issues such as the trade agreement
in principle with the European Union announced last month.
Parliament re-opened last month with a so-called  Throne Speech 
that laid out the government’s platform, listing jobs and the
economy as priorities.  Canada ’s economy has struggled to build momentum this year,
with average annualized quarterly growth rates of 1.3 percent
since the start of 2012, down from 3 percent in 2010 and 2011,
Statistics Canada  data  show. The economy has added just 113,100
jobs so far this year, on pace for its second worst annual
result in the past decade, while the labor force  participation
rate  fell to the lowest in more than 10 years.  To be sure, there are signs Canada’s economy is
strengthening, with data released by Statistics Canada Oct. 31.
pointing to the fastest quarterly expansion in two years.
Canadian  consumer confidence  rose at the end of last month for
the first time in five weeks, according to the Bloomberg Nanos
Canadian Confidence Index.  Economic Agenda  Harper’s agenda includes plans to balance the budget by
2015, freeze federal government operating spending and introduce
legislation that would require balanced budgets in the future.
Harper also plans steps to force cable television providers to
give more options to clients in selecting channels and to
encourage wireless firms to lower domestic roaming fees.  The Throne Speech came after Harper’s government tussled
with the country’s largest telecommunications providers:
Montreal-based  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers Communications (RCI/B)  Inc. of Toronto
and  Telus Corp. (T)  of  Vancouver . The government has limited their
ability to expand and sought to open the market to foreign
competition. All three company’s share prices are down from
highs set earlier this year.  Expense Claims  Harper’s political troubles intensified earlier this year
with reports that some senators were claiming expenses they
weren’t eligible for. The controversy escalated after it was
disclosed that Wright wrote a C$90,000 ($86,400) personal check
to Conservative Mike Duffy to help him reimburse the Senate.  Wright, a former managing director at Toronto-based
private-equity firm  Onex Corp. (OCX) , was forced to resign. Two other
Conservative senators, Pamela Wallin and Patrick Brazeau, have
also left Harper’s caucus amid investigation of their expenses.  The  Royal Canadian Mounted Police  allege that Wallin may
have committed criminal breach of trust and fraud by filing
ineligible expenses, according to court documents obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The  Senate , an unelected legislative body with lawmakers
appointed by the prime minister, has been debating a motion by
senate Conservative leader Claude Carignan to strip the three of
their salaries and office allowances. A vote on the motion could
come early this week.  “The Senate should do the right thing now, and suspend
those senators without pay,” Harper said in the Calgary speech,
referring to Duffy, Wallin and Brazeau.  Produced Documents  Duffy, a former journalist who covered Canadian politics
for four decades before being appointed to the Senate, denied he
made improper claims and accused the government of fabricating
what he calls a “scheme.” Last week, Duffy produced documents
showing the  Conservative Party  paid for his legal fees relating
to the repayment of expenses.  While Harper has said he didn’t know Wright gave Duffy the
funds, opposition parties have been riddling the prime minister
with questions about what he knew about the transaction, seeking
to expose contradictions in his story.  After initially saying he accepted Wright’s resignation,
Harper said last week that his former chief of staff was fired.
He also said that only a “very few” people in his office were
aware of the plan, after earlier insisting that Wright acted
alone.  A poll released by Nanos Research on Nov. 1 found only 21
percent of Canadians are satisfied with Harper’s explanation.  Although Conservatives have fallen in public opinion polls
since the scandal broke, Harper continues to have an edge on
economic issues, surveys show.  Eric Sykes, a Conservative convention delegate from British
Columbia, said he’s worried the scandal is distracting from the
government’s solid economic record and achievements such as the
EU trade pact.  “The Senate is a serious situation -- we’re bleeding
because of that,” said Sykes, a former production manager for
an aluminum producer. “But it’s a peanut in terms of the
Canadian economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Calgary at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Calgary at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  