-- Martha Stewart’s CEO May Hold Recipe for Sale: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-11-04T21:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/martha-stewart-s-ceo-may-hold-recipe-for-sale-real-m-a.html
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc. (MSO) ’s new chief executive officer Daniel Dienst has a track
record of dealmaking, stoking speculation he may follow the same
recipe with the magazines and home-decor company.  The $157 million company, controlled by founder Martha Stewart, last week tapped Dienst to lead a turnaround after five
years of sales declines and  losses . Dienst led companies that
were sold to both private-equity and strategic buyers. After
losing $1.7 billion in market value since 2005 and  trading  below
$3 a share for most of this year, a similar path may be the best
option for Martha Stewart Living, said Eidelman Virant Capital.  “I don’t think there’s really any other way to maximize
shareholder value other than to sell the company,” David Eidelman, president and founder of Eidelman Virant, which owns
Martha Stewart Living shares, said in a phone interview. “To
me, Martha Stewart has had every opportunity to implement her
strategy, and basically it hasn’t worked. At this point, I’d be
happy to get $4 or $5” a share from a buyer.  Martha Stewart Living trades at a cheaper sales multiple
than most peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
founder should consider taking her company private while the
stock is so cheap, said Royce & Associates LLC, which also sees
buyers with brand-building expertise as better suited to run the
business. Home-shopping companies QVC Inc. and  HSN (HSNI)  Inc. may be
interested, said National Alliance Securities LLC. While
shareholder Mario Gabelli isn’t a fan of selling at this low
valuation, Noble Financial Group Inc. said Dienst may improve
results and enhance the company’s appeal as a target.  Entertaining Advice  Claudia Shaum, a spokeswoman for New York-based Martha
Stewart Living, declined to comment on whether the company would
be open to selling itself.  Stewart, 72, the TV personality and dispenser of advice on
entertaining and home decorating, founded her namesake company
in 1996 and took it public in 1999. She served time in prison
after being convicted of lying about a 2001 stock sale, and
rejoined the Martha Stewart Living  board  in 2011. She’s now
chairman.  The stock, which in 2005 traded as high as $37.40, has
since plummeted as sluggish advertising sales and show
cancellations pressured its publishing and broadcasting units,
even as it secured merchandising agreements with retailers
including Macy’s Inc.  Today, Martha Stewart Living shares rose for a seventh
straight day, climbing 2.9 percent to a more than seven-month
high of $2.85.  Macy’s Suit  While the branded dishes and decor business is  profitable, 
the company is still embroiled in a lawsuit with Macy’s, which
claims it had the exclusive right to market certain goods that
Martha Stewart Living also agreed to sell at J.C. Penney Co.  Martha Stewart Living and J.C. Penney, which is itself
struggling to turn around slumping sales, have scaled back their
agreement.  “The advertising industry in and of itself has been under
pressure,” Boniface “Buzz” Zaino, a fund manager at Royce,
which oversees about $38 billion, said in a phone interview.
“You’re fighting that trend and this to-do with J.C. Penny.
It’s not been one of my winning stocks.”  New York-based Royce is the second-largest outside  investor 
in Martha Stewart Living with 1.8 million class A shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts estimate Martha Stewart Living  will post  a 1
percent increase in sales next year to $164 million. Even so,
the company trades at just 0.95 times the projected revenue, a
lower multiple than 88 percent of U.S. local media companies
valued at more than $100 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Going Private  With the stock languishing, Stewart herself should consider
taking the company private, Zaino of Royce said. Stewart owns
all of the class B shares and controls the voting rights.  Buyers in the publishing industry or with experience
developing brands may be better equipped to improve
 profitability , Zaino said.  Stewart could focus on “the skills that she’s good at and
someone else could create the strategy that really builds the
name and the business -- that’s business school 101,” Zaino
said. The risk for investors is “you couldn’t sell it at
probably what it would ultimately be worth as a functioning
organization.”  He estimated the company would get $4 a share at most in a
takeover.  Shopping Networks  In addition to companies involved in brand development,
private-equity firms may be interested in buying Martha Stewart
Living to gain control of the brand and royalty fees, said
Eidelman of Eidelman Virant, which oversees about $250 million.  QVC, which is owned by John Malone’s  Liberty Interactive
Corp. (LINTA) , or HSN could be lured by the chance to leverage the
Martha Stewart brand on their home shopping networks, said
Robert Routh, director of equity research for National Alliance
Securities.  “They have a need and desire for proprietary products that
only they have, and they have their distribution already in
place,” Routh, who personally owns Martha Stewart Living
shares, said in a phone interview.  Representatives for QVC didn’t immediately have a comment.
Gigi Ganatra Duff, a spokeswoman for St. Petersburg, Florida-based HSN, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  After the company’s legal fight with Macy’s, potential
suitors would need to be confident that they could sell Martha
Stewart Living products without violating existing contracts,
Routh said. Any deal would also need to be structured and priced
in a way that’s attractive to Martha Stewart herself, since she
has the power to block transactions and likely wouldn’t want to
relinquish creative control, he said.  Gabelli Opposed  From a shareholder’s perspective, “it would be absolutely
a mistake to sell the franchise today,” Gabelli, CEO of  Gamco
Investors Inc. (GBL) , which oversees about $40 billion including
Martha Stewart Living shares, said in a phone interview. “The
best alternative is to try to figure out how to take the brand
and reposition it to create very significant growth.”  Dienst may succeed in turning the company around, enhancing
its takeover prospects, said Michael Kupinski, director of
research at Noble Financial in Boca Raton,  Florida . He estimates
Martha Stewart Living could be valued at as much as about $8 a
share, based on the sum of its parts.  Dienst was chairman of Metals USA Inc. when it was sold to
affiliates of Apollo Management LP in 2005. He was then chairman
and CEO of Metal Management Inc. before selling it to Sims Group
Ltd. in 2008. He was CEO of the combined company until retiring
in June.  It’s logical to ask whether Dienst, given his history, was
brought in to ultimately sell the company, said Routh of
National Alliance Securities.  Eidelman hopes that’s case.  The CEO should “take a hard-nosed view at all their
businesses and do whatever is necessary to maximize
shareholders’ value,” he said. “They’re well enough known that
someone should be able to take the product line and the brands
and maximize them. The sooner, the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  