-- Cofco Prepares Bond Sale as Chinese Economy Shows Recovery Signs
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-11-04T04:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Cofco Corp.,  China ’s largest grain
trader, is meeting investors in  London  today about a possible
U.S. dollar-denominated bond sale amid signs of an upswing in
the world’s second-largest economy.  The company plans to issue notes through its Cofco  Hong
Kong  Ltd. unit, a person familiar with the matter said last
week, asking not to be identified because the details are
private. Investment-grade bonds sold by Chinese issuers in the
U.S. currency returned 1.53 percent in October, the most since
July 2012, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Seoul-based Hana Bank is marketing a three-year note at about
135 basis points more than Treasuries, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  China’s non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINMAN)  rose
to the highest level this year in October, a government report
showed yesterday, adding to signs that its 2013 growth target
will be achieved. At the same time, investors are returning to
fixed-income products amid growing consensus that the U.S.
Federal Reserve will delay cuts to record stimulus until next
year. Tapering is unlikely before next summer, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s Chief Operating Officer  Gary Cohn  said in
 Singapore ’s Business Times newspaper today.  “Tapering has really been the cause of all the market
distraction,” said Steven Nicholls, London-based head of fixed-income product specialists at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.
“China is certainly a source of optimism and actually the
production indices have again increased.”  Communist Party  China’s Communist Party leaders meet in Beijing from Nov. 9
for a policy-making summit, as signs of sustained strength may
give President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang more confidence
in tackling reforms. At the same time, excessive credit growth,
rising local-government debt and weaker export momentum may cap
a stronger recovery from a two-quarter slowdown.  Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties Co. is also meeting
investors today and may offer a dollar-denominated bond, people
familiar with the matter said on Oct. 31. It would be the first
sale of notes in the currency for China’s largest commercial
land developer, which is part of Dalian Wanda Group Corp.
founded by the nation’s richest man Wang Jianlin, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “There will be lots of deals coming in the next few weeks
now that expectations for tapering have been postponed,” said
Louisa Lam, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at HSBC Holdings
Plc. “Financial institutions may dominate issuance.”  Risk Increases  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in Asia
and  Australia  against non-payment rose today, according to
traders of credit default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  climbed 1 basis point to 134 basis
points as of 8:30 a.m. in Hong Kong, Standard Chartered Plc
prices show. The gauge has ranged between 99.5 and 177.8 this
year, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose by 0.5 basis points
to 104.5 basis points as of 11:04 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac
Banking Corp. prices show. The benchmark dropped about 20 basis
points last month, according to data provider CMA.  Markets in Japan are shut for a public holiday.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  