-- Treasuries Drop on Fed Bets as Oil to U.S. Stocks Decline
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-11-05T21:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/asian-futures-gain-after-commodity-slump-as-aussie-steady.html
Treasuries fell as service-industry
growth fueled speculation the  Federal Reserve  will taper
stimulus earlier than expected, while oil slid on forecasts for
growth in inventories. U.S. shares dropped and European stocks
retreated as the growth outlook for the euro region was trimmed.  Yields on 10-year U.S. notes rose six basis points to 2.66
percent by 4 p.m. in  New York , the highest level in more than
two weeks. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  closed down 0.3
percent after losing as much as 0.7 percent. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index fell 0.2 percent, retreating from a five-year high,
while Spanish and Italian 10-year yields jumped at least six
basis points. Oil fell to a five-month low as the S&P GSCI Index
of commodities sank to its weakest close since April.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s gauge of  service
industries  climbed more than economists predicted, stoking
concern that the economy is faring well enough for the Fed to
consider reducing asset purchases earlier than analysts
anticipated. Fed policy makers last week signaled diminishing
concern over higher borrowing costs as they maintained their $85
billion-a-month bond buying program and sought more evidence of
sustained growth before tapering stimulus.  “Today’s data was generally stronger than anticipated and
is suggesting that the economy may have withstood the shutdown
better than anticipated,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who
oversees $2.2 billion as chief investment officer at United
Nations Federal Credit Union in New York, referring to the
partial closing of the U.S. government last month. “There
doesn’t seem to be any flight to bonds anywhere in the world as
a haven. People are stepping back, gauging where we are
economically, and awaiting more robust data.”  Bonds, Stocks  Thirty-year U.S. bond yields jumped seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 3.76 percent, the highest level since
Oct. 15, while two-year rates were little changed 0.30 percent.  Eight of the 10 main  S&P 500  industry groups fell today
while AT&T Inc., Verizon Communications Inc. and International
Business Machines Corp. led losses in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . Delphi Automotive Plc lost 5.2 after narrowing its
profit projection.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  tumbled 8.8 percent as
the hospital chain’s earnings forecast missed analysts’
estimates. GT Advanced Technologies Inc. surged 21 percent after
signing an agreement to supply equipment to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The S&P 500 has rallied almost 24 percent in 2013,
challenging 2009 for its best yearly gain in a decade. The
 benchmark index  for U.S. stocks traded at about 16.8 times
member company reported earnings at its last record reached Oct.
29, the highest valuation in more than three years. The Stoxx
600 is up 15 percent this year and the MSCI All-Country World
Index has gained 16 percent.  Gains ‘Overdone’  “A lot of people are nervous by how strong the market has
been this year,” Patrick Kaser, a  money manager  at Brandywine
Global Investment Management in Philadelphia, said in a phone
interview. His firm oversees about $45 billion. “People are
looking at the big gains and saying ‘this is overdone.’ There is
still skepticism about how the economy is really doing and
whether these gains are from artificial factors, like the Fed,
or from real strength in company results.”  The ISM’s non-manufacturing index increased to 55.4 in
October from 54.4 the prior month. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted a drop to 54. Readings greater than 50
signal expansion.  A government report in two days is forecast to show the
 U.S. economy  grew at a 2 percent annualized rate in the third
quarter, compared with a 2.5 percent increase in the previous
three months. Economists predict a report the next day will show
payrolls climbed by 120,000 in October and the  unemployment rate 
increased to 7.3 percent from 7.2 percent in the previous month,
according to a separate survey.  European Markets  About three shares declined for every two that gained in
the Stoxx 600.  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  tumbled 6.3 percent as
the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by market value said it will
miss its profitability target after last week’s European
windstorms. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest
maker of  luxury vehicles , fell 2.9 percent after profit
declined. Beiersdorf AG jumped 5.3 percent after the maker of
Nivea hand cream increased its sales forecast.  The euro area’s economy will expand 1.1 percent in 2014,
less than the 1.2 percent forecast in May, and unemployment will
be 12.2 percent next year, above the 12.1 percent predicted
previously, the European Commission said.  All except three of 70 economists in a survey predict the
 European Central Bank  will keep its main refinancing rate at 0.5
percent Nov. 7. Bank of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and UBS AG predict a cut to 0.25 percent.  Bunds, CDS  German  government bonds  declined, with the 10-year bund
yield climbing seven basis points to 1.74 percent. The cost of
insuring against losses on corporate bonds rose from a 3 1/2-year low. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps
on 125 investment-grade companies increased 1.5 basis point to
84.92 basis points.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for a fourth day, the
longest losing streak in a month, sliding 1.1 percent.  India ’s
S&P BSE Sensex Index sank 1.3 percent, dropping from a record
high as trading resumed following a holiday. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index retreated 0.5 percent, Taiwan’s Taiex declined
1.1 percent, while  South Korea ’s Kospi Index lost 0.6 percent.
 Brazil ’s Ibovespa dropped 1.1 percent.  Thailand’s SET Index advanced 2 percent, the most in six
weeks, on speculation the nation’s Senate will reject a proposed
amnesty law for political offenses that has spurred protests.  Pound Rallies  The yen appreciated against 12 of 16 major peers, climbing
as much as 0.7 percent to 132.37 per euro, its strongest level
since Oct. 10, as traders weighed prospects for additional
monetary stimulus from the ECB. The euro weakened 0.3 percent to
$1.3473.  The pound rallied against all 16 major counterparts as a
gauge of U.K. services unexpectedly rose to the highest level in
16 years. Sterling rose 0.5 percent to $1.6044 and gained 0.8
percent per euro.  Crude oil, aluminum, wheat and soybeans lost at least 0.5
percent to lead declines in 20 of 24 commodities tracked by the
S&P GSCI Index.  West Texas Intermediate crude dropped to the lowest level
since June on speculation inventories increased for a seventh
week in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming country.  An Energy Information Administration report tomorrow will
probably show crude supplies rose 2.15 million barrels last
week, according to the median of 10 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. U.S. crude output surged to a 24-year high in
October while refineries idled units for maintenance, reducing
crude demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  