-- Atlantic Storms to Hit Europe in Warmer-Than-Usual November
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-11-04T17:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/atlantic-storms-to-revisit-europe-in-warmer-than-usual-november.html
November is predicted to be warmer
than usual across Europe for a second month with storm winds
from the Atlantic poised to boost electricity generation in
 Denmark , Germany and the U.K.  Temperatures will be as much as 3 degrees Celsius (5.4
degrees Fahrenheit) more than normal in western Europe and the
U.K., and 5 degrees higher in central and east Europe through
Nov. 10, Byron Drew, lead forecaster at MetraWeather in Reading,
 England , said in an e-mailed report. Three other forecasters
also surveyed by Bloomberg News since Oct. 30 predicted above-average temperatures for this month.  German power prices for November plunged 7.5 percent last
month, touching a record-low 38.60 euros ($52.10) a megawatt
hour on Oct. 31 after hurricane-force storms in northern Europe
drove wind generation to an all-time high. Atlantic gusts are
set to bring storm-like conditions and winds of as much as 100
kilometers (62 miles) per hour in  Germany  through tomorrow,
according to Simon Trippler, a Deutscher Wetterdienst
meteorologist based in Offenbach, Germany.  “Good wind power output will continue through the first 10
days of November as a sequence of Atlantic depressions bring
frequent strong spikes to the U.K., Denmark and Germany,”
Stephen Davenport, a London-based meteorologist at MeteoGroup
U.K. Ltd., said by e-mail Nov. 1. “These will also produce
wetter-than-normal conditions across the British Isles, Nordic
regions and the northern European mainland.”  Wind Peak  October, the first month of the winter heating season, was
warmer than expected from Iberia to the U.K., MDA Information
Systems LLC in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said in an e-mailed
report. The biggest divergence was in Britain where the
temperature was as much as 2 degrees higher than predicted.  Hurricane-force winds from the Atlantic blew through the
U.K., Germany and  Scandinavia  last week, killing at least 16
people across northern Europe. Strong winds in the U.K. left
220,000 homes without electricity, while gusts in Denmark
accelerated to 120 miles per hour in that country’s worst storm
since 1999.  Day-ahead electricity prices in Germany, Europe’s biggest
power market, declined 49 percent to 19.90 euros a megawatt-hour
as  wind generation  reached a peak of 24,874 megawatts on Oct.
28, European Energy Exchange AG data show. Wind output is
expected to reach a high of 19,535 megawatts today, compared
with 12,407 megawatts tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg wind
model for Germany.  Bearish Factors  Month-ahead power prices for November averaged 46.23 euros
per megawatt-hour last year, according to broker data compiled
by Bloomberg. German next-month electricity was trading at 37.70
euros at 5:34 p.m. in Berlin today.  “A warm, windy, wet November is not the favorite weather
of utilities,” Konstantin Lenz, the Berlin-based managing
director of markets adviser Lenz Energy, said by phone today.
“These three bearish factors in a row could drive prices below
34 euros.”  German wind generation may drop in the second half of
November, Andreas Gassner, a meteorologist at MMInternational in
Appenzell, Switzerland, said today by e-mail. Output won’t rise
above 5,000 megawatts in the week starting Nov. 18, he said.  Warmer Weather  In Germany, the temperature will be 8.2 degrees Celsius
next weekend, 1.6 degrees more than the seasonal norm, according
to MetraWeather using the ECMWF model at 7:55 a.m. in Berlin.
The average for November, based on records from 1961 to 1990, is
about 8 degrees, according to DWD.  Germany’s average temperature in October was 10.6 degrees,
1.6 degrees warmer than 1961-1990 reference period and 1.4
degrees warmer than 1981-2010, according to DWD.  Temperatures will remain mild across most of Europe with
the warmest spots in parts of Germany and southern Scandinavia
in the seven days to Dec. 1, MetraWeather’s Drew said. Above-average rainfall is expected for the U.K.,  France , Germany and
most of Scandinavia, with higher-than-usual winds for most
northern parts of western Europe, he said.  The mild weather is set to continue into December,
according to MDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  