-- Taymor’s ‘Dream’; Broadway’s Harlem Renaissance: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-11-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/taymor-s-dream-broadway-s-harlem-renaissance-review.html
Julie Taymor ’s billowy, acrobatic
staging of Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
inaugurates Theatre for a New Audience’s brand new home across
from the  Brooklyn  Academy of Music.  Three nomadic decades under the leadership of the
indefatigable Jeffrey Horowitz have finally come to an end.
Architect Hugh Hardy’s great-looking showcase has huge glass
windows looking out onto the BAM campus and an intimate, if
problematic, black-box inside.  The show, Taymor’s first since the $85 million debacle of
“Spider-Man, Turn Off the Dark,” is a homecoming for the
director, whose TFNA productions of “Titus Andronicus” and
“The Tempest” helped define contemporary Shakespeare staging.  “Dream” opens promisingly, with the audience encircling a
simple square stage with a bed in the center. Robin Goodfellow,
the sprite known as Puck and played by the astonishing
actor/contortionist Kathryn Hunter, takes to that bed, which
rises in a billow of white to the rafters before magically
disappearing. The notion of the play as indeed a dream has
seldom been so strikingly realized.  Mismatched Lovebirds  Before the facade of an Athenian palace and in the nearby
forest, the twin tales unfold. With Puck pulling the strings,
the mismatched lovebirds Hermia, Helena, Demetrius and Lysander
sort out their affairs with the help of some herbal magic. The
jealous fairy King Oberon induces his Queen Titania to make love
to an ass.  And of course, those working-class yokels known
collectively as the Rude Mechanicals are rehearsing their play
to be performed at the nuptials of Duke Theseus and Queen
Hippolyta.  Taymor winkingly quotes herself with visual references to
“The  Lion King ” (there are animal headdresses; Oberon sports
spiny golden crest). A gaggle of 20 children enlivens the crowd
scenes and Elliot Goldenthal’s music -- as often a soundscape as
a score -- increases the enchantment.  And the aerial scenes here are closer to vintage “Peter
Pan” than “Spider-Man.” You won’t find yourself fearing for
anyone’s safety in this satisfyingly non-techy production.  On the other hand, there’s a certain amount of repetition
as that billowing sheet rises and falls and rises again. Taymor
seems to run out of ideas, relying on the tried-and-true, from
the slapstick rubes to the awkward young lovers. (A bosky
pillowfight is embarrassing.)  Uneven Casting  In an uneven cast, David Harewood’s imposing, stentorian
Oberon and Tina Benko’s atypically icy Titania stand out along
with the spiky red-headed Hunter, whose impish mischief and
pretzel-twisting acrobatics imbue the proceedings with deep
humanity.  As for the theater, officially named the Polonsky
Shakespeare Center, I hope that future, traditional
configurations will be more forgiving of the austere space. For
“Dream,” the seats are uncomfortable and some face away from
the stage, and the audience is poorly raked, making it difficult
to see from the back rows. Leaving and entering the auditorium
is weirdly challenging.  Through Jan. 12, 2014 at Theatre for a New Audience, 262
Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn. Information: +1-866-811-4111;  http://www.tfana.org/season-2014/midsummer-nights-dream .
Rating: ***½.  ‘After Midnight’  “After Midnight” brings a tonic dose of Harlem’s vaunted
nightlife to Broadway for about 90 minutes of uninterrupted
pleasure wrapped in Isabel Toledo’s clingy, feather-crazed
costumes for the women and whimsical tails-with-a-twist for the
men.  The master of ceremonies is Dule Hill, a star of TV’s
“Psych” and “The West Wing.” He delivers Langston Hughes
sound bites to place us in the Depression-Era setting of uptown
spots like the Cotton Club.  Behind him on John Lee Beatty’s spare set are the Jazz at
 Lincoln Center  All Stars, whose director, Wynton Marsalis, is
one of the show’s producers.  The big band is so good it sometimes outshines the stars,
performing 24 songs that range from “I’ve Got the World on a
String” to Sippy Wallace’s “Women Be Wise”.  Conceived by City Center Encores! Artistic Director Jack
Viertel, “After Midnight” plans a series of guest stars to
entice patrons.  Fantasia Barrino  The headliner for the next few months is Fantasia Barrino,
who delivers fine, if not particularly self-stamped, versions of
“I Can’t Give You Anything But Love” and “Stormy Weather.”  Next up, in February, is  k.d. lang .  But for personality and edge, you must hear Adriane
Lennox’s hardcore cover of Ethel Waters’s “Go Back Where You
Stayed Last Night.”  Interpersed are dazzling dances (the seamless staging is by
director and choreographer Warren Carlyle), including tap
exhibitions by Jared Grimes, Julius “iGlide” Chisolm and
Virgil “Lil’ O” Gadson.  The sensational Karine Plantadit, dancing to the Ellington
masterpiece “Black and Tan Fantasy,” is the high point of the
show.  At the Brooks Atkinson Theatre, 256 W. 47th St.
Information: +1-877-2502929;
 http://www.aftermidnightbroadway.com/tickets.php . Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Lance Esplund 
on U.S. art,  Katya Kazakina  on the art market,  Stephanie Green’s 
D.C. Scene and  Robert Heller  on pop music.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 