-- Bank of America Investor Suit Over AIG Claims Rejected
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-11-04T20:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/bank-of-america-investor-suit-over-aig-claims-rejected.html
Bank of America Corp.  investors can’t
proceed with a lawsuit alleging they should have been warned
that American International Group Inc. was preparing its own
suit against the bank in 2011 over billions of dollars in
mortgage-backed security losses, a judge ruled.  Bank of America “cautioned investors that it faced
substantial and rising litigation risks,” U.S. District Judge
 John G. Koeltl  said in a ruling posted today in  Manhattan 
federal court. The judge also found that the likelihood of AIG
litigation and its approximate cost were disclosed in the press
and available to investors even though the specifics were
allegedly not in the company’s public filings.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank and its officers
“argue correctly that the alleged omissions did not mislead
investors because information about BoA’s exposure to MBS
litigation generally, and AIG’s claim in particular, was in the
public domain,” Koeltl wrote.  AIG, the New York-based insurer, sued Bank of America in
August 2011 over $10 billion in losses on mortgage-bond
investments, saying it was the victim of a “massive fraud.”
The insurer said the bank and businesses it took over --
Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co. -- misled
AIG as they sought to profit from the bundling of mortgages into
securities.  Bank of America’s stock fell 20 percent the day the AIG
lawsuit was filed.  ‘Grossly Understated’  Bank of America and the other defendants created mortgage
securities backed by shoddy loans and sold the investments based
on inflated credit ratings that masked their true risk, AIG said
in its complaint. Offering materials “grossly understated” the
risks of loans tied to the securities the insurer purchased, the
company said.  The investors’ lawsuit is In Re Bank of America AIG
Disclosure Securities Litigation, 11-cv-06678, U.S. District
Court,  Southern District of New York  (Manhattan). The underlying
case is  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  v.  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , 11-cv-06212, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Manhattan federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  