-- Banks Retaking Property-Loan Turf Punish Newcomers: U.K. Credit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-11-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/banks-retaking-property-loan-turf-punish-newcomers-u-k-credit.html
Private-equity firms, pension funds
and insurers face dwindling returns on loans to the U.K.
commercial property market as competition intensifies from banks
that shunned the business after the financial crisis.  A new lender has entered the market almost every week in
the past year in search of higher returns as  gilt  yields neared
record lows, according to brokers  Savills Plc. (SVS)  The U.K. banking
industry avoided the market following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 because of regulatory
requirements to meet stricter capital rules.  Greater competition on commercial-property loans has
narrowed lending margins by as much as 2 percentage points in
the past year, said Anthony Myers, a real estate executive at
 Blackstone Group LP. (BX)  With U.K. commercial-property values rising
for the first time since 2011 and balance sheets on the mend,
British banks are increasingly willing to offer loans backing
offices, stores, and industrial properties.  “Having to compete against the renascent energy being
shown by the banks, the amount of fat in the margins has been
squeezed out considerably,” said Ashley Goldblatt, head of real
estate lending at  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) ’s Investment
Management unit. The company set up its real estate lending
business three years ago and is on track to have loaned 500
million pounds ($800 million) by the year-end.  New Entrants  Fifty real estate lenders entered the market in the 12
months through June, according to London-based broker Savills.
 Aviva Plc (AV/) , Great-West Lifeco Inc.’s Canada Life,  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL) ’s LaSalle Investment Management affiliate, and
 Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s M&G Investments unit are among companies that
have loaned 100 million pounds or more on deals in the past
year, said William Newsom, a senior director at Savills.  Greater competition is narrowing interest-rate margins and
starting to slow the influx of new entrants, Newsom said in e-mailed comments.  “I’m skeptical about the amount of business the senior
debt funds are likely to do because interest-rate margins have
come down,” Newsom said. “They have to provide investors with
a certain level of return, so they’re in a bit of a bind.”  British lenders showed increased willingness to provide
commercial property debt for the fourth straight quarter during
the three months through September and that’s expected to
continue through the end of the year, according to the Bank of
England’s quarterly credit conditions survey.  Lloyds, Santander  “The improved economic climate and business confidence
levels in recent months has seen an uplift in the commercial
real estate market in general and hence an increase in demand
for finance from a range of providers,” Susan Geddes, managing
director of structured real estate finance at Banco Santander
SA’s U.K. unit, said in e-mailed comments.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Banco Santander have increased
their commercial-property lending in the past six to nine
months, Chris Bates, head of European real estate finance at
Cornerstone Real Estate Advisers LLC said by phone. The company,
which has $28 billion of debt investments in the U.S., started
lending for U.K. real estate a year ago and now has a 260
million-pound loan book.  “This increasing liquidity has meant pricing in  London  in
particular has come down quite dramatically,” Bates said.  The U.K. commercial real estate values rose for the fifth
straight month in September, posting the biggest gain since
April 2010, Investment Property Databank Ltd. said Oct. 14.  The
recovery in commercial-property prices has also helped attract
banks back to the loan market.  Banks and building societies provided 85 percent of all
loans to commercial-property companies last year, according to
data compiled by De Montfort University in Leicester,  England .  “The reason banks only did 85 percent last year is
because, for the majority of the year, they had to pull their
reins in,” L&G’s Goldblatt said. “This year they’re back out
in force.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  