-- Bayern Munich President Hoeness to Stand Trial for Tax Evasion
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-11-04T15:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/bayern-munich-president-hoeness-to-stand-trial-for-tax-evasion.html
Uli Hoeness, president of Bayern
Munich soccer club and a former German national team player,
must stand trial on  tax evasion  charges, a court said.  His trial is scheduled to start March 10, Andrea Titz, a
spokeswoman for the Munich criminal court, said in an e-mailed
statement today. Four days of trial and four witnesses are
planned, according to the statement.  Prosecutors investigated Hoeness, 61, for tax evasion after
he reported himself to authorities in January in a bid for
amnesty. He is the most prominent German to seek clemency after
lawmakers rejected a treaty that would have ended the country’s
practice of buying stolen Swiss bank data to uncover tax crimes.  Werner Leitner, Hoeness’s attorney, didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Hoeness will stay on as chairman, given his 30 years of
“outstanding service” to the club, FC Bayern Munich AG’s
supervisory board said in a statement on its  website . Two
lawyers backed the board’s decision, the board said.  “The law does not prescribe disqualification from office
for supervisory board members due to a criminal conviction,”
the board said in a statement. “There are ample examples of
cases in which board and supervisory board members, even of
publicly listed companies, have retained their positions despite
being accused of violating legal responsibilities in other areas
of their lives.”  Huge Folly  Hoeness told German weekly Die Zeit in an  interview  in May
that he committed a “huge folly” when he hid money in a Swiss
account. Former Adidas AG Chief Executive Officer Robert Louis-Dreyfus lent him 5 million euros ($6.75 million) and acted as a
guarantor for another loan of 15 million euros in 2001, Hoeness
said. He used the money to “gamble” and “speculate” on the
stock market, he said.  He later paid back the loans and kept profits from his
investment in  Switzerland  without paying taxes on them, he said.
His home, near the Tegernsee lake outside of Munich, was raided
as part of the probe in March.  Hoeness made his fortune as the founder of the HoWe
Wurstwaren KG sausage factory, which makes a version of the
famous Nuremberger Rostbratwurst. When the probe became public
in April, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  expressed her
disappointment at Hoeness’s actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  