-- Berlin Power Grid State Takeover Referendum Falls Short
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-04T10:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/berlin-power-grid-state-takeover-referendum-falls-short.html
A  voter initiative  in Berlin to force
the state to take control of the energy grid narrowly failed as
a majority in favor  fell short  of a required turnout.  Some 24.1 percent of voters in the German capital took part
in the referendum on setting up a municipal utility to produce
renewable energy and the repurchase of the  power grid , the city
government said. That fell short of the 25 percent turnout
required for the vote to be valid; 83 percent backed the
initiative, while 17 percent opposed it.  German states and municipalities have moved to regain
control of their energy resources after a wave of privatizations
in the 1990s to prop up budgets. Voters in Hamburg in September
backed a measure to buy back energy grids the state sold to
Vattenfall Europe AG and  EON SE. (EOAN)   The Berlin city government under Social Democratic Mayor
Klaus Wowereit, which urged voters to reject the measure, had
moved to preempt the voter initiative by passing legislation to
establish a city-owned utility for renewables.  “On the important question of public services, the
public’s influence must be strengthened, but without taking on
irresponsible risks,” Wowereit said in a  statement .  More than 70 new municipal utilities have started up since
2007, and public operators have taken over more than 200
concessions to run energy grids from private companies in that
time, according to the VKU association of public utilities.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc and
the Social Democrats, which are in talks to form a new national
government, reached an initial agreement last week to protect
local utilities from European Union efforts encouraging
privatization.  Public ownership of assets such as utilities and water
providers “belongs to the core purpose of state
responsibility,” a document produced by a negotiating group
focused on European policy said on Oct. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  