-- Best Rally Fueled by History Signaling Supply Drop: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-11-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/best-rally-fueled-by-history-signaling-supply-drop-muni-credit.html
The municipal market’s biggest rally
since 2004 is paving the way for gains in this year’s final
months amid a history of dwindling local-debt supply and bets
the  Federal Reserve  will extend its monthly bond buying.  Munis earned 0.9 percent in October, the best showing in
nine years, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The gains
defied a pattern of losses in the month and came even as
issuance shot to the highest since August.  The rally bodes well for the $3.7 trillion market in the
weeks ahead. If the past is any guide, localities won’t sustain
last month’s pace of borrowing. Issuance has waned after October
in each of the past four years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At the same time, outflows from muni mutual funds
last week were the smallest since September.  “There is a lot of pent-up demand on the sidelines and
supply is anemic at best,” said Vikram Rai, a fixed-income
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  October’s gain drove interest rates on city and state
borrowings to the lowest since June. It also ran counter to the
record of the past 13 years. Local bonds had lost 0.2 percent on
average in the month since 2000, making it the weakest part of
the year.  Fed policy makers last week maintained their $85 billion of
monthly asset purchases, even as they said the economy showed
signs of “underlying strength.” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
June hint that he might shrink the buying spurred declines
across fixed income.  Detroit ’s July bankruptcy also fed muni
losses.  Rebound Months  Munis rebounded the past two months, the first back-to-back
increases since February, and beat Treasuries in both periods,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  The bonds typically have momentum heading into year-end.
Since 2000, local debt has gained 0.3 percent in November on
average and 0.7 percent in December, Bank of America data show.  Localities typically cut back on issuance in the final two
months of the year, helping suppress yields. States and cities
have sold fewer bonds in November and December than in October
every year since 2008, Bloomberg data show.  The weeks that include the holidays of Thanksgiving,
Christmas and New Year’s are historically among the year’s
slowest.  Demand Display  The municipal market enters the period with signs of
rebounding demand. Individuals withdrew about $503 million from
muni mutual funds in the week ended Oct. 30, the least in five
weeks, Lipper US Fund Flows data show. In the 21 weeks through
Oct. 16, investors pulled a record $55 billion.  The boosted appetite has reduced the ratio of muni yields
to those on Treasuries to about 101 percent, from a seven-week
high of 111 percent less than two weeks ago, Bloomberg data
show. The figure is a gauge of relative value, and a decline
indicates local debt has become more expensive in comparison.  That shift indicates to some investors that October’s rally
has dimmed the appeal of city and state obligations.  “The word has gotten out that it was a good time to buy
munis and it’s not as compelling going forward,” said Paul Mansour, head of muni-credit research at Conning, a Hartford,
Connecticut-based asset manager that oversees $9 billion in
local debt. “It has been a very strong performance month for
munis and the sector is no longer all that cheap.”  Conning has been adding state and local debt rather than
other fixed-income securities this year, Mansour said.  Yield Expectations  Yields on 10-year Treasuries will rise to 2.95 percent next
quarter from about 2.62 percent now, according to the median
forecast of 64 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg last month. That’s
down from an estimated 3 percent in a September survey.  The lower forecast is partly a result of expectations that
the Fed will keep up the pace of its bond purchases into next
year. The  Federal Open Market Committee  won’t curb the buying
until its March 18-19 meeting, according to the median estimate
in an Oct. 17-18 Bloomberg survey of economists.  Citigroup’s Rai said the move may not come until April.  “I’d expect a slightly stronger market because tapering
has been pushed out,” Rai said. “That has a simulative effect
on the fixed-income market and that will keep yields
depressed.”  Market Week  Issuers from  Hawaii  to  Massachusetts  are set to offer about
$6.9 billion in long-term debt this week, up from last week’s
$4.9 billion as benchmark yields are close to a four-month low.  The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.65 percent ,  The ratio of the yield to that on similar-maturity
Treasuries is the lowest since July, though still above the
average of 94 percent since 2001. It has remained above 100
percent since June 24. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis
are compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  