-- Billions of Earth-Like Planets Exist, Scientists Say
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/billions-of-earth-like-planets-exist-scientists-say.html
About 4.4 billion planets are similar
to Earth in size and temperature, suggesting they may be able to
host life, according to a survey of the galaxy using telescopes
operating in space and on the ground.  The number is an estimate based on information taken from
42,000 stars similar to the Earth’s sun and their surrounding
planets by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s
Kepler Space Telescope, as well as telescopes in  Hawaii . Ideal
planet climate -- not too hot or too cold -- was determined by
how far they were away from their stars, according to the report
in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .  The scientists, including Geoffrey Marcy at the  University
of California  at Berkeley, used those findings to extrapolate
how many similar planets might exist across the galaxy. That
number suggests Earth may not be so unique after all, he said.  “The  New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  will not budge a penny at the
news about Earth-like planets,” Marcy wrote in an e-mail.
“Still, all of humanity is richer. The discovery of Earth-like
planets puts our beautiful home planet into a cosmic perspective
and gives us knowledge about our place in our galactic
community.”  Two reports last week in the journal Nature showed that a
planet, called Kepler-78b, located about 400 light years away,
has a similar density and size to Earth yet is much hotter and
can’t support life. The planet was discovered earlier this year
using data from the Kepler telescope.  100 Billion  About 20 percent of more than 100 billion stars in the
Milky Way galaxy are bodies like the sun. About 22 percent of
those sun-like stars are orbited by planets similar in size to
Earth and in the so-called habitable zone, making them not too
hot nor too cold to support life, according to the study
released yesterday.  That means there are more than 4.4 billion Earth-sized
planets in habitable zones orbiting sun-like stars, Marcy said.  The astronomers’ estimates also account for planets that
Kepler missed and those that wouldn’t be picked up by Kepler
because of their orbits.  The nearest Earth-sized temperate planet may be less than
12 light years from Earth, researchers said.  “With tens of billions of these water-laden Earth-size
planets, surely some of them have all the necessary attributes
of life,” Marcy said. “Our best shot is to point our radio and
television antennas at them, hoping to pick up their Reality TV
shows. Perhaps someday we will be part of a great Galactic
Internet, communicating with our kindred spirits among the
stars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  