-- BlackBerry Bidder Faces Deadline to Seal Deal
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/blackberry-bidder-faces-deadline-to-seal-deal-corporate-canada.html
Time is running out for  Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  to make good on its $4.7 billion bid for
 BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)   The Toronto-based firm has until 5 p.m. today to come
forward with a more definitive offer for the Canadian smartphone
maker, following the preliminary takeover proposal it made six
weeks ago. The company has been struggling to attract the
financing for the deal, according to people familiar with the
deliberations. It also has yet to name any other members of its
takeover coalition.  The deadline, which the two sides set when they signed the
acquisition agreement on Sept. 23, will force Fairfax Chief
Executive Officer  Prem Watsa  to show his hand. If his firm can’t
execute the current deal, it will have to ask for more time,
withdraw its offer or come back with different terms.  The lack of progress also presents an opportunity for rival
suitors. Cerberus Capital Management LP has been discussing a
joint bid with BlackBerry co-founders  Mike Lazaridis  and Doug Fregin and chipmaker  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , two people with knowledge of
the matter said. Today’s deadline was meant to be the end of a
go-shop period, during which BlackBerry could solicit higher
offers. If would-be bidders don’t expect Fairfax to reach a deal
on time, they have the luxury of waiting -- and seeing if an
already-battered stock falls further.  “If Watsa and Fairfax can’t get financing done by Monday,
they did the process a disservice by creating that deadline,”
said  Sachin Shah , a strategist in special situations and merger
arbitrage at Albert Fried & Co. in  New York . “These other
parties need more time.”  Stock Drops  Shares of Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry fell 5.6
percent last week, closing at $7.77 on Nov. 1. That puts the
stock almost 14 percent below Fairfax’s $9-a-share offer,
reflecting skepticism that the deal will happen. The shares have
tumbled 35 percent in 2013.  Fairfax is BlackBerry’s largest shareholder, with a 9.9
percent stake, so the firm would have benefited if its tentative
offer had sparked a bidding war. Still, Fairfax imposed a
breakup fee on BlackBerry that would force the smartphone maker
to pay $157 million if a superior bid emerged before 5 p.m.
today. The termination fee would rise to about $262 million if
Fairfax goes through with a definitive deal in time.  If the Fairfax proposal falls apart, other bidders could
sidestep the breakup fee, giving them more incentive to wait.  Cerberus Team  Cerberus, a private-equity firm that specializes in
distressed assets, has been examining BlackBerry’s finances with
an eye toward making a bid, one of the people familiar with the
situation said. The New York-based firm has teamed up with
Lazaridis, who served as BlackBerry’s co-CEO until last year,
and Fregin, who used to run the company’s operations, said two
of the people. If Qualcomm joins the group, it would bring the
support of the world’s biggest maker of mobile-phone chips.  Qualcomm gets the majority of its profit from licensing
patents, which cover much of the fundamental technology in
wireless networks. A stake in BlackBerry would give the company
access to additional patents, as well as mobile-phone hardware
and software.  Lazaridis and Fregin, who together own 8 percent of
BlackBerry, declined to comment, as did representatives for
BlackBerry, Cerberus and Qualcomm. Fairfax President  Paul Rivett 
didn’t return an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  Failed Comeback  BlackBerry kicked off the bidding process in August when it
said it would consider selling the company as part of a
strategic review. At the time, Fairfax’s Watsa left the
smartphone maker’s board so he could pursue a deal.  The company put itself on the block after a new operating
system failed to regain ground lost to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
devices powered by Google Inc.’s Android software. The first
model in its revamped lineup -- a touch-screen phone called the
Z10 -- flopped with consumers.  On Sep. 20, the company took a $960 million charge to write
off unsold Z10 inventory and said it would cut a third of its
workforce. Three days later, Fairfax made its tentative offer.  Fairfax hasn’t said what will happen if it can’t raise
financing for its bid by the 5 p.m. deadline. The firm’s
advisers,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Bank of Montreal , have been
rebuffed by other lenders in their search for funding, people
with knowledge of the talks have said.  Patent Value?  Even so, BlackBerry’s individual assets could be
attractive. Its patent portfolio would fetch between $1.6
billion and $3 billion, according to analysts’ estimates. And
its enterprise business, which manages fleets of e-mail servers
for corporate and government customers, may be worth as much as
$1.1 billion, according to Raymond James Financial Inc.  The company also had $2.6 billion in cash at the end of
last quarter. That means the sum of its parts could exceed
BlackBerry’s current  $4 billion  market value.  Given that scenario, Cerberus and a so-called strategic
bidder like Qualcomm could easily finance a deal, said Albert
Fried’s Shah. San Diego-based Qualcomm has a market value of
$120 billion, along with cash and short-term investments of
about $11.5 billion at the end of last quarter. That essentially
makes it a “strategic bank,” Shah said.  Still, there’s no guarantee the Cerberus-Qualcomm-Lazaridis
group will make a firm bid, said Matt Skipp, chief investment
officer of Toronto-based hedge fund SW8 Asset Management Inc.,
which has bet against BlackBerry’s stock in the past.  Companies may be taking advantage of the situation to look
at BlackBerry’s books, Skipp said. That doesn’t mean they’re
going to make an offer.  “A lot of people given the option to look at the inner
workings of a company like BlackBerry would probably do so,” he
said. “It’s interesting that the stock continued to go down,
even as you had perhaps more interest and louder news on
Cerberus and Qualcomm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  