-- Blackstone to Buy 40% Stake in Chinese Mall Owner SCP
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-04T04:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/blackstone-to-buy-40-stake-in-chinese-shopping-mall-owner-scp.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest manager of alternative assets including private equity
and real estate, agreed to buy a 40 percent stake in Chinese
shopping mall developer and operator SCP Co.  The purchase, the price of which wasn’t disclosed, is the
New York-based company’s largest mall investment in Asia to
date, said Chris Heady, head of Blackstone’s regional real
estate business. Blackstone is investing about $400 million in
SCP, according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
 Charlotte  Bilney at Citigate Dewe Rogerson, a public relations
firm that is representing Blackstone, declined to comment on the
figure.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman  is stepping up
real estate investment in Asia, tapping the market for $4
billion for Blackstone’s maiden property fund focused on the
region. Blackstone, which has been among the biggest buyers of
property in Australia and  India , is further seeking to boost
such investment in China as rising income and urbanization drive
demand.  “SCP is a fantastic collection of real estate assets and a
very well-respected company,” Heady told reporters in Hong Kong
today. “The retail space in China is one where we believe there
is going to be significant growth over the medium-to long-term
as the country repositions itself to be more dependent on
domestic consumption growth.”  ICBC’s Purchase  ICBC International Holdings, a Hong Kong unit of  China ’s
largest bank, also agreed to buy a 6 percent stake in SCP,
helping take the Shenzhen-based developer’s total asset value to
more than $2 billion, according to an e-mailed statement from
SCP today.  The Financial Times first reported the deal earlier today.  SCP owns and manages 19 shopping malls under its Incity,
SCP Plaza and One City brands, according to the statement. It
has developed and operated malls with an accumulated gross floor
area of more than 4 million square meters (43 million square
feet) across cities in the country’s  Pearl River Delta , Yangzi
River Delta and Bohai Economic Rim, it said.  Among its tenants are Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Inditex SA’s
Zara and Hennes & Mauritz AB, SCP Chairman Ding Liye told
reporters in  Hong Kong  today. It keeps the vacancy rate at its
malls below 5 percent, he said.  Middle Class  SCP was founded in 2003 with investment by the Shenzhen
government, according its  website  and Ding. The government is no
longer a shareholder, Ding said.  International companies such as Carlyle Group LP and Morgan
Stanley have invested in various SCP projects, Ding said.
Carlyle agreed to buy 49 percent stakes in SCP’s Suzhou and
Hangzhou Incity malls, according to a  statement  posted on SCP’s
website in May.  Blackstone is particularly attracted to SCP’s focus on the
the rising middle class instead of luxury brands, Heady said.  “It will give us a platform to continue to invest capital
in China in the mall sector,” Heady said, adding that
Blackstone may provide further financial support should SCP have
growth opportunities through new project development or property
acquisitions in the future.  China offers long-term opportunities, and the company is
investing in property projects including distribution centers
and a skyscraper in  Shanghai , Schwarzman said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television last month.  Asia Fund  Blackstone received $1.5 billion of investor commitments
for its  Asia  real estate fund by its initial close in June and
plans to start deploying the money immediately, according to its
letter to investors then. It was the largest Asian private-equity real estate fund seeking money by the $4 billion it’s
hoping to raise by final close, according to a July  report  by
Preqin, a London-based research firm.  Blackstone has allocated $3.05 billion to Asian real
estate, which represents more than half of its investment in the
region, according to the company upon the opening of its
Singapore office last month, its first in  Southeast Asia  and
eighth in Asia. The alternative assets manager is one of the
largest owners of shopping malls with more than 110 million
square feet of assets in Asia,  Europe  and the U.S., according to
today’s statement.  Blackstone bought the Greensborough Plaza mall in  Melbourne 
for A$360 million ($341 million), a person familiar with the
transaction said in July. At the end of last year, Blackstone
purchased the Top Ryde mall in Sydney in a  foreclosure sale  for
50 percent less than its A$700 million construction cost,
 Jonathan Gray , its global head of real estate, said at its May 3
investor day.  Investment Returns  The firm in 2010 took over management of more than $2
billion of Asian real estate assets from Bank of America Corp.
Its own Asia property fund will focus on China, India, Australia
and  Japan , a person with knowledge of its plans said in
December.  Blackstone is expected to achieve a net return of 1.8 times
on about $1.46 billion of equity invested in 15 Asia-Pacific
real estate transactions, according to a March 15  memo  from
Timothy Walsh, the director of the New Jersey Division of
Investment, to the state’s investment council recommending a
commitment to the new Blackstone property fund.  Blackstone’s third-quarter profit  rose  3 percent after
gains in property holdings offset a decline in its buyout unit.
Assets in Blackstone’s real estate business rose to $69 billion
from $64 billion at the end of the second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  