-- BP Spill Settlement Objectors Seek to Overturn Approval
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-11-04T18:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/bp-spill-settlement-objectors-seek-to-overturn-approval.html
Opponents of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s $9.2 billion
partial settlement of private-party claims from the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill asked a U.S. appeals court to reverse a judge’s
approval of the agreement.  The deal can’t be approved because it inconsistently
compensates victims with the same types of economic injuries,
opponents of the settlement told the U.S. Court of Appeals in
New Orleans today. The settlement should be more fairly
distributed, attorney  Brent Coon  told the panel.  “It’s not just the amount of money that’s paid, it’s money
that should have been paid,” he said. Coon and lawyers for
other objectors are seeking a reversal of U.S. District Judge
 Carl Barbier ’s December approval of the accord.  BP asked the court to delay any decision until after the
resolution of a dispute over how claims are paid.  “It’s a fair, adequate and reasonable settlement provided
those issues are resolved,” Theodore Olson, a BP lawyer, told
the appellate court today.  The company won review last month of the claims
administrator’s interpretation of the settlement, which London-based BP said was causing the approval of millions of dollars in
“fictitious” payments to businesses for economic losses. A
final ruling on the payments hasn’t been made.  ‘A Process’  “What BP agreed to was a process,” Olson said. The
payments changed under the formula used by the claims
administrator, he said. “Black became white.”  Judge W. Eugene Davis said BP lawyers appeared to have
“several months” to dispute the methods for calculating
business economic loss payments during BP negotiations with the
plaintiffs’ lawyers.  “I don’t understand how you can come in after all that
time and say you didn’t know what was going on,” he said at
today’s hearing.  “We did object,” Olson said.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history. The sinking of  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and the spill led to hundreds of
lawsuits against BP and its partners and contractors.  The company settled with most private plaintiffs in March
2012, just before a non-jury trial was to begin on liability for
the incident and on whether BP or its contractors,  Halliburton
Co. (HAL)  and Transocean, acted with gross negligence.  Barbier conducted that trial this year in New Orleans. A
second phase of the trial, over the size of the spill and the
efforts to contain it, finished last month. Barbier hasn’t made
decisions on either phase.  Loss Claims  The accord resolved economic-loss claims for multiple
classes of businesses and property owners in Louisiana,  Alabama 
and  Mississippi  and in parts of  Texas  and  Florida . It excluded
claims of financial institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in
parts of Florida and Texas, and residents and businesses
claiming harm from the Obama administration’s moratorium on
deep-water drilling prompted by the spill. It also didn’t cover
claims by governments.  BP initially valued its economic-loss settlement at $7.8
billion. It now puts the cost at $9.2 billion, according to an
Oct. 29 company regulatory filing.  Barbier gave final approval to the settlement in December.
Barbier approved the settlement as a class action, or group
lawsuit. Multiple groups of plaintiffs subsequently appealed,
contending the case couldn’t be certified as a class action
because victims weren’t treated the same.  The standard of commonality required for a class action to
be approved isn’t met in the BP settlement, Coon, who represents
thousands of victims, said in his appeal of the approval.  ‘Not Cohesive’  “The settlement class is not cohesive, but a large and
unwieldy aggregation of several distinct groups of individuals
and entities whose situations could possibly be described as
similar, but whose only common characteristic, across groups, is
that they happened to live or work or own property or operate
somewhere in the Gulf region in 2010,” he said in a Sept. 20
filing.  Lawyers for the Plaintiffs’ Steering Committee, who
negotiated the agreement, said the settlement was fair and
complied with legal standards.  The class certified in the settlement meets the requirement
of “commonality,” Samuel Issacharoff, a lawyer representing
the PSC, told the panel today.  ‘All Suffered’  The claimants in the Deepwater Horizon case, “hundreds of
thousands of them,” all have at least one thing in common, he
said. “They all suffered as the result of the oil spill.”  BP, which supported the settlement when it was approved
last year, contends the class can’t be certified unless it gets
a reinterpretation of which claims will be paid.  The interpretation by claims administrator Patrick Juneau
“creates an irreconcilable conflict among members  of the
class, which now includes both injured claimants seeking
recovery for actual losses and uninjured businesses seeking
utterly unjustifiable windfalls,” BP told the appeals court in
August.  BP appealed Barbier’s affirmation of Juneau’s
interpretation and a separate panel of the appeals court ordered
a review last month. The judges told Barbier to stop some
payments under the settlement until he can sort out who has
legitimate claims.  ‘Here Again’  Barbier has asked both sides to submit filings on their
positions on how to comply with the concerns of the appeals
court. He has to report back to the appellate panel by Dec. 2.  “And if it doesn’t go your way, you’ll be back up here
again,” Judge Emilio Garza told BP’s lawyer Olson today.  The case is In Re Deepwater Horizon-Appeals of the Economic
and Property Damage Class Action Settlement, 13-30095, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  The lower-court case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in the federal appeals court in New Orleans
at  allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  