-- Brazilian Swap Rates Fall on Mantega’s BNDES Outlook; Real Rises
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-11-04T20:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/brazilian-swap-rates-fall-on-mantega-s-bndes-outlook-real-rises.html
Brazil’s swap rates dropped as
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the  development bank  will
cut lending by 20 percent next year, helping to stem inflation.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2016 fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 11.39 percent as
traders bet Mantega’s comments will allow central bankers to
limit increases in borrowing costs. The drop in the swap rates
was the biggest since Oct. 25. The real climbed for the first
time in five days, appreciating 0.3 percent to 2.2465 per  U.S.
dollar  today.  Mantega said in an interview Nov. 1 that state lender BNDES
will provide about 150 billion reais in new loans in 2014,
compared with an estimated 190 billion reais this year. Policy
makers raised the  target lending rate  to 9.50 percent on Oct. 9
to curb consumer price increases, marking the fourth straight
time they increased it by a half-percentage point.  “Less investment over time can cause downward pressure on
swap rates,” Alex Agostini, the chief economist at Austin
Rating in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “The market
understands there should be just one more interest-rate hike.”  The annual rate of consumer price increases slowed to 5.75
percent through mid-October, still more than a percentage point
above the central bank’s target. Economists raised their
projection for inflation this year to 5.85 percent from 5.83
percent, according to the median estimate in a weekly central
bank survey published today.  The real dropped 3 percent last week, the most since
August, as the central bank pared back its efforts to support
the currency and a widening budget deficit added to concern that
the nation faces a credit rating cut.  Rollover Auctions  Brazil  extended the maturities on only about $6 billion of
the $8.9 billion of foreign-exchange swaps that matured Nov. 1
in rollover auctions last month. The real has climbed 8.4
percent since Aug. 22, when the central bank announced a
$60 billion program of swap and credit-line auctions to buoy the
currency and curb import price increases.  The intervention has been “successful” and will last at
least until December, the central bank’s executive director for
monetary policy, Aldo Mendes, said at an event in Sao Paulo on
Nov. 1. The central bank is committed to ensuring that inflation
is on a declining path, he said.  Equity portfolio managers stepping up their purchases of
Brazilian stocks have helped fuel the real’s gains,  Samarjit Shankar , managing director of global strategy at Bank of  New
York  Mellon Corp., said in an e-mailed research note to clients
today. The Bovespa benchmark stock index entered a  bull market 
Sept. 9 after rising 20 percent from this year’s low July 3.  Brazil’s Deficit  Brazil reported last week a  budget deficit  of 22.9 billion
reais in September, wider than the 19.3 billion reais median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, adding to concern
that the nation’s credit rating may be lowered. As a percentage
of gross domestic product, the deficit increased to 3.3 percent
in September, the largest since 2009.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service lowered
their outlooks this year on Brazil’s credit, which both
companies rate at two levels above junk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  