-- Broncos Name Jack Del Rio Interim Coach as Fox Undergoes Surgery
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-11-04T17:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/broncos-name-jack-del-rio-interim-coach-as-fox-undergoes-surgery.html
The  Denver Broncos  named defensive
coordinator Jack Del Rio as the team’s interim coach while John Fox recovers from aortic heart valve replacement surgery, the
National Football League team said.  Fox, 58, will take a leave of absence for several weeks,
the team said. Fox was in Charlotte, North Carolina, with the
Broncos on their bye week when he started to feel light-headed
during a golf outing.  Del Rio, who is in his 17th NFL season and second with the
Broncos, will continue as the team’s defensive coordinator. Del
Rio spent nine years as coach of the  Jacksonville Jaguars  from
2003-11 before joining the Broncos.  Doctors had told Fox months ago that his defective aortic
valve would require a procedure after the 2013 season, the team
said. During his trip to  North Carolina , he had a preoperative
appointment on Oct. 31 with his doctor, who told him to seek
medical attention immediately if he felt any discomfort.  “Testing revealed the need to have this procedure as soon
as possible,” the team said.  Fox has a 7-1 record this season with the Broncos, who are
scheduled to play at  San Diego  on Nov. 10.  “Although I am disappointed I must take some time away
from the team to attend to this pre-existing health condition, I
understand that it’s the right thing to do,” Fox said in a
statement released by the team. “I look forward to returning to
coaching as soon as possible.”  Fox is in his third season with the Broncos and has a 28-12
record. He previously coached the  Carolina Panthers  from 2002 to
2010, leading the team to the  Super Bowl  after the 2003 season.  Kubiak  Yesterday, Houston Texans coach  Gary Kubiak  was
hospitalized after collapsing as he left the field at halftime
of last night’s home game against Indianapolis.  Kubiak, 52, was in stable condition, didn’t suffer a heart
attack and didn’t lose consciousness during the incident, the
Texans said. He remains in the hospital today.  “Gary is alert, coherent and in good spirits. He is
continuing to be evaluated and monitored,” Texans General
Manager Rick Smith said in a statement on the team’s website.  Defensive coordinator  Wade Phillips  served as the team’s
coach for the remainder of the 27-24 loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  