-- Brooks Plotted to Hide Evidence Amid Frenzy: Prosecutor
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-04T15:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/brooks-took-notebooks-amid-hacking-firestorm-prosecutor-says.html
Rebekah Brooks led a conspiracy
involving her husband and code words to hide notebooks and
computers from police following the discovery that journalists
hacked the mobile phone of a missing teenager, prosecutors said.  “The heat was turning up” on Brooks, the former head of
News Corp.’s U.K. unit, amid a media firestorm that followed
revelations that  Milly Dowler ’s voice-mail messages had been
intercepted by the News of the World tabloid, prosecutor Andrew
Edis told jurors in London today. Seven boxes of notebooks were
taken from a storage facility to the home of her long-time
personal assistant,  Cheryl Carter , Edis said.  Brooks, 45, is one of eight people on trial on a variety of
charges stemming from wrongdoing at News Corp. newspapers.
 Rupert Murdoch , the company’s chairman, closed the News of the
World in July 2011 in a bid to defuse the scandal over Dowler,
who was found murdered in 2002.  “The atmosphere, we would suggest, became even more
fevered as time went on,” Edis said on the fourth day of the
trial. “You can imagine the extremely anxious, if not panic-stricken approach to what was going on.”  Following Brooks’s arrest on July 17, 2011, security guards
employed by News Corp.’s News International unit carried out a
complicated series of maneuvers to prevent police from seizing
computers, Edis said.  ‘Pizza Delivered’  One security guard texted “Broadsword calling Danny Boy.
Pizza delivered and the chicken is in the pot,” confirming the
drop off of a bag with laptops in it behind trash cans close to
Brooks’s Chelsea apartment, referring to a line from the 1968
film “Where Eagles Dare”  A cleaner later found the trash bag and turned it into
police.  Brooks, who had also been the editor of the Sunday News of
the World and News Corp.’s daily Sun tabloid, instigated the
retrieval of the notebooks, which covered 1995 to 2007, on the
Friday before the publication of the final issue of the News of
the World, Edis said.  Carter, who is also on trial in the case, tried to cover
for her boss, telling police that Brooks wasn’t in the office
that day, Edis said. Mobile-phone data, however, indicate Brooks
was on site, Edis said.  Brooks and Carter are both charged with obstruction of
justice in relation to the boxes of notebooks. Mark Hanna, the
former head of security at the News Corp. unit and Brooks’s
husband, Charlie, also face obstruction of justice charges.  ‘Trusted’ People  “Who picks up the matter? Not couriers, but people that
she trusted,” Edis said. The boxes have never been seen again,
he said.  Brooks is also charged with phone hacking and bribery of
public officials. Another former News of the World editor,  Andy Coulson , faces similar allegations at the trial.  Coulson’s lawyer, Timothy Langdale, told jurors that his
client wasn’t aware of phone hacking while he was editor of the
News of the World. Coulson’s own phone was hacked by  Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator who did much of the voice-mail interception at the tabloid.  Coulson, who later went on to be a media adviser to Prime
Minister  David Cameron , had resigned his post at the tabloid in
2007 when royal reporter  Clive Goodman  and Mulcaire were
sentenced to prison for phone hacking.  Badly Wrong  “Clearly something went badly wrong” at the News of the
World “during his watch -- he recognized that and resigned,”
Langdale said. “He wishes he had made some different decisions.
He did not commit these offenses. It is our case that he was
never party to an agreement to hack phones, whatever anyone else
might have been doing on his watch.”  The other defendants include Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old former managing editor of the News of the World, and Ian
Edmondson, a 44-year-old former news editor, who are both
accused of phone hacking. The newspaper’s one-time royal
reporter, Goodman, 56, is charged with conspiring to commit
misconduct in a public office.  Mulcaire is one of four former News of the World employees
who have pleaded guilty to phone-hacking charges in the current
trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  