-- Bullard Says Jobs Not Sole Determinant of QE Buying Pace
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-11-04T15:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/bullard-says-jobs-not-sole-determinant-of-qe-buying-pace.html
The  Federal Reserve  could maintain
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, now at a “torrid”
pace, even as the job market improves, said  James Bullard ,
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.  “You should think about QE more as a normal policy when
the policy rate is at zero,” Bullard said, speaking on CNBC
today about bond purchases known as quantitative easing. The Fed
could try to boost inflation to its 2 percent goal by
maintaining the policy, he said.  The central bank is currently purchasing assets at “a
torrid pace, and I’d rather get out of it if we can, but I’d
like to meet our goals,” he said.  Price gains have been lagging behind Fed policy makers’
target, and the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, rose 1.2 percent in August. In
their October statement, members of the policy making  Federal
Open Market Committee  said inflation “persistently below its 2
percent objective could pose risks to economic performance,”
projecting that inflation will move back toward the objective
over the medium term.  The FOMC in October decided to press on with bond
purchases, awaiting further signs the economy will grow quickly
enough to bring down 7.2 percent  unemployment . Economists had
originally expected a taper in Septemeber. Now, the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey projects that scaling back will
begin in March.  Fed Constrained  Bullard, who voted for the October decision, called bond
buying “conventional” policy when the Fed is constrained by
near-zero interest rates, and said “it’s a very reasonable
thing to do to substitute for the fact that you can’t lower
 interest rates  any further.”  Bullard also said the pace of monetary easing is “too
experimental” for policy makers to make its direction totally
obvious to onlookers.  “Ideally, we’d like to have a policy rule for quantitative
easing, where you could show how we react to variables in the
economy,” Bullard said. “The truth is, we’ve never been able
to get to that. It’s too experimental of a policy, we just don’t
have enough experience with it to get to that point. But that
would be the sort of Holy Grail on this.”  Bullard, 52, has been an advocate of an open-ended approach
to bond buying, and has urged the Fed to hold off on adjusting
bond purchases, saying any change should depend on whether
inflation moves toward the Fed’s target.  Bullard joined the  St. Louis  Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky , Mississippi,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  