-- Bumi Seeks to Complete $501 Million Bakrie Deal This Year
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-11-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/bumi-coal-output-gains-10-amid-challenging-price-outlook.html
Bumi Plc, the Indonesian coal
producer at the center of an ownership dispute, is seeking to
complete a planned $501 million separation from founding
investors the Bakrie Group by the end of the year.  “We are finalizing the key documents now with various
regulators,” Chief Executive Officer Nick von Schirnding said
in a phone interview. The “economic terms” of the deal remain
consistent with what has been announced, he said, declining to
comment on whether there’ll be changes to other terms.  For longer than 18 months, Bumi has been at the heart of a
battle for control between  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family and
 Nathaniel Rothschild , scion of a centuries-old British banking
dynasty. The shares sank 69 percent in London last year as each
side made rival proposals to unwind the $3 billion deal that
brought them together in 2010. The stock was also hurt by lower
coal prices, board infighting and probes in the U.K. and abroad.  Bumi, owner of stakes in two Indonesian coal suppliers, has
agreed to sell its 29.2 percent holding in  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  to
the Bakrie Group as part of a two-step plan to separate from the
family. Bumi Chairman Samin Tan has agreed to buy the Bakries’
23.8 percent interest in Bumi Plc for $223 million.  Information on the separation is due to be sent to
shareholders in a circular this week before a vote.  Bakrie Funds  Von Schirnding said in August he couldn’t guarantee the
Bakries could fund their exit from the company by buying back
the stake in PT Bumi they vended into the original deal. He said
 Bumi Plc (BUMI)  was arranging to have the $501 million placed in escrow
before the shareholder vote.  Von Schirnding declined to comment yesterday on whether the
funds are in escrow. “We need to wait until the circular comes
out before commenting in detail.”  Bumi gained 3.9 percent to 202 pence by the close in London
yesterday. The stock has dropped 26 percent this year, valuing
the company at about 487 million pounds ($776 million).  Bumi plans a “substantial” cash return to investors from
the proposed sale of its PT Bumi stake to the Bakries, it said
in July. The company’s proposal to return about $400 million in
cash remains accurate, von Schirnding said yesterday.  Bumi also said yesterday that coal output gained 10 percent
in the third quarter, even as prices remained “challenging.”
Production from its  PT Berau Coal Energy (BRAU)  mines rose to 6 million
metric tons from 5.5 million tons a year earlier, it said in a
statement. The cost of sales dropped 6 percent in the first nine
months of the year to $36.80 a ton, Bumi said.  The company owns 76 percent of PT Berau, which is traded in
Jakarta. The average sale price in the quarter was $58.50 a ton,
an 18 percent decline from a year earlier. Bumi maintained its
full-year production forecast of 23 million tons.  “While coal prices have moved off their lows, the near-term outlook remains challenging,” von Schirnding said in the
statement. “We remain very focused on operational improvements
and efficiencies, which is our priority in the current weak
coal-price environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  