-- Canada Dollar Weakens as Crude Oil Near Lowest Since June
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-11-04T22:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/canadian-dollar-gains-as-aussie-boosts-commodity-currencies.html
Canada’s dollar fell versus most
major peers as crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, traded at
almost a four-month low and a discount on western Canadian oil
increased to the steepest level since January.  The currency weakened from the strongest in more than a
week against the  U.S. dollar  as oil from the Alberta province
dropped more than competing grades on concern production will be
stymied by bottlenecked pipelines. A gauge of consumer
confidence rose earlier for the first time since September as
opinions about  house prices  and  job security  improved.  “We could see more downside from here for commodities;
obviously it’s not positive for the Canadian dollar,” Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by
phone from Toronto. “Oil is now below a pivotal $95 a barrel,
and on top of that you have the spread for Western Canada Select
near its record wide.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, declined against all of its 16
most-traded peers tracked by Bloomberg except Taiwan’s dollar
and the South Korean won. It was little changed against its U.S.
counterpart at C$1.0425 at 5 p.m. in Toronto after appreciating
earlier to C$1.0398, the strongest since Oct. 24. One Canadian
dollar buys 95.92 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  pared gains to trade little changed. The
benchmark  10-year note  yielded 2.49 percent, while the price of
the 1.5 percent debt due in June 2023 rose 2 cents to C$91.61.  Confidence Rises  The loonie gained earlier versus the U.S. dollar as the
Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index, a weekly measure of
the economic mood of Canadians, advanced to 58.5 in the seven
days through Nov. 1 from 57.7 the previous week. The share of
people in the survey giving positive responses on  home prices 
rose to 38.6 percent from 38.0 percent, the highest level in
three months.  “This shows that naysayers of the housing market were
wrong,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at forexlive.com, said
by telephone from Montreal. “Housing will continue to be a key
driver of  consumer confidence  and the economic recovery.”  The housing market remains one of the strongest parts of
the economy after years of support from low  interest rates  and a
solid labor market. Output rose 0.3 percent to an annualized
C$1.59 trillion,  Statistics Canada  said Oct. 31 in Ottawa,
beating the 0.1 median forecast in a Bloomberg economist survey.  Oil Discount  The discount faced by benchmark crude Western Canada
Select, to West Texas Intermediate, swelled to $40.75 per
barrel, the biggest gap since Jan. 14, Bloomberg data show. It
reached a record $42.50 in December. The 2013 average is $23.39.  Enbridge Inc., the owner of Canada’s largest oil-pipeline
network, said in a Nov. 1 notice to crude shippers that its main
export pipeline was overbooked for the month. Routes out of the
landlocked  oil sands  proposed by Calgary-based Enbridge are key
to relieving bottlenecks plaguing exports out of the world’s
third-largest proven oil reserves, after  Saudi Arabia  and
 Venezuela .  Crude-oil futures for December delivery traded at $94.45 a
barrel in  New York  after touching $94.06, the lowest level since
June 26.  Implied volatility for one-month options on Canada’s dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart fell to 5.6 percent from this year’s
high of 9.4 percent in June. The measure is used to set option
prices and gauge the expected pace of currency swings. The
average for this year is 6.5 percent.  Canada’s dollar has lost 2.6 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback has gained 2.9 percent and the
euro has risen 5.7 percent, while  Australia ’s dollar has dropped
6.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  