-- Canada Stocks Rise as Gold Miners Surge to Lead Materials Shares
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-11-04T21:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/canada-stocks-fluctuate-as-gold-miners-gain-blackberry-sinks.html
Canadian  stocks  rose, after a two-day
drop, as raw-materials producers rallied and investors awaited
data for clues on when the U.S. central bank will reduce its
bond-buying program.  Aurico Gold Inc. and China Gold International Resources
Corp. added at least 6 percent as gold miners led gains among
materials producers. Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. climbed 3.6
percent after the crude producer received licenses from
 Colombia ’s environmental agency for a new oil field. BlackBerry
Ltd. sank 16 percent after Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd.
walked away from a $4.7 billion plan to buy the smartphone
maker.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  gained 24.32
points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,361.78 at 4 p.m. in Toronto after
falling as much as 0.2 percent earlier in the day. The benchmark
Canadian equity gauge fell 0.9 percent in the prior two
sessions. It has added 7.5 percent this year. Trading volume was
10 percent below the 30-day average today.  Investors are waiting for “further confidence or
clarification in terms of what the Fed’s going to do,”  Ian Nakamoto , director of research with MacDougall MacDougall &
MacTier Inc., in a phone interview from Toronto. The firm
manages about C$4 billion. “There’s not a lot of action either
way here. October was a great month. We can’t keep having great
months.”  Stimulus from the  Federal Reserve  and other central banks
has helped fuel a global rally in equities. The S&P/TSX surged
4.5 percent in October, for a fourth straight monthly gain and
the biggest in two years.  Taper Timing  The Fed last week maintained the pace of its monthly bond
buying even as policy makers noted underlying strength in the
economy, which fueled speculation the central bank could cut
stimulus sooner than anticipated.  Data this week on U.S. gross domestic product and
employment will provide clues to whether the economy is strong
enough to continue growing with less stimulus.  In  Canada , a report today showed  consumer confidence  rose
for the first time in five weeks as opinions about  job security 
and  house prices  improved. The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian
Confidence Index, a weekly measure of the economic mood of
Canadians, advanced to 58.5 in the seven days through Nov. 1
from 57.7 the previous week.  Four of 10 main groups in the S&P/TSX rose today, led by a
2.3 percent rally among  raw-materials companies . Nine of the 10
biggest advances in the broad index were gold miners. China Gold
added 6 percent to C$2.85 and Aurico climbed 6.4 percent to
C$4.48.  Gold Miners  The S&P/TSX Gold Index jumped 3 percent, with all 24
members advancing to snap a two-day losing streak. The metal
gained 0.1 percent from a two-week low in  New York . A decline in
the  U.S. dollar  boosted demand for gold as an alternative
investment.  Pacific Rubiales climbed 3.6 percent to C$22.22, halting a
five-day losing streak. Colombia’s largest independent oil
producer plans to start production at the well next year after
the licensing process experienced repeated delays.  Energy producers retreated less than 0.1 percent as a
group, as oil fluctuated near the lowest level in four months.
The industry has fallen four straight days, the longest streak
since August.  Advantage Oil & Gas Ltd. slid 3.6 percent to C$4.06 and
Bonavista Energy Corp. dropped 2.4 percent to C$11.90 to pace
the declines.  BlackBerry plummeted 16 percent to C$6.75, the lowest since
September 2012.  Fairfax Financial, (FFH)  the company’s largest
shareholder, ended its bid to buy the smartphone maker, opting
instead for a $1 billion bond deal and a management shakeup.  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins will step down and
former Sybase Inc. CEO John Chen will become executive chairman,
putting him in charge of the company’s strategy.  Fairfax Financial dropped 2.5 percent to C$423.98,
extending its losing streak to five days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  