-- Canada Rail-Car Shortage Slows Grain Exports on Record Crops
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-11-04T21:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/canada-rail-car-shortage-slowing-grain-exports-amid-record-crop.html
Record crops in  Canada , the world’s
top canola grower and second-largest wheat exporter, are
overwhelming the country’s rail system, creating a shortage of
grain cars and slowing shipments to foreign buyers.  The nation’s two major carriers, Canadian National Railway
Co. and  Canadian Pacific  Railway Ltd., are each providing about
5,000 to 5,500 cars a week to move grain at a time when
companies need more than twice that amount, said Wade Sobkowich,
the executive director of the Winnipeg-based Western Grain
Elevator Association, which represents grain-handlers including
Cargill Inc. and Glencore Xstrata Plc’s Viterra unit.  “It’s not enough,” Sobkowich said in a telephone
interview from Winnipeg. “It’s sort of a typical amount for an
atypical crop year. That’s part of the problem. There doesn’t
seem to be any consideration for increased demand.”  Harvests this year across the Prairie provinces of Canada
will jump 14 percent to a record 80.8 million metric tons, the
government said Oct. 16. The supply surge is eroding prices and
testing the limits of domestic storage. About 95 percent of the
nation’s export grain is shipped by rail, according to the
Western Grain Elevator Association.  CN Rail, based in  Montreal , is delivering about 5,500 cars
per week to grain elevators, the most in the company’s history
and 15 percent higher than the five-year average, Mark Hallman,
a spokesman, said in an e-mail. Adding more cars to the supply
chain will cause backlogs at ports, he said.  ‘Rush Hour’  “It’s like morning rush hour on a freeway,” Hallman said.
“You put too many cars on the road, the road plugs and everyone
slows to a crawl. It’s no different with the grain-supply chain.
Cars get to the port, can’t get unloaded, and sit.”  CP Rail (CP) , based in Calgary,  Alberta , planned to deliver
5,049 cars to move grain the week of Nov.4, or 32 percent of the
total orders, according to a service  report  on its website.
There was a total of 8,091 outstanding grain-car orders for  CN
Rail (CNR) , according to a Nov. 1 report posted on its website. The
two companies own the majority of the nation’s rail lines,
Sobkowich said.  CP Rail is increasing train lengths where possible to move
more of the crop with each shipment, spokesman  Ed Greenberg  said
in an e-mail. The company moved 317,000 carloads of grain in the
first nine months of 2013, up from 311,000 in the same period a
year earlier, he said.  Prices for wheat, Canada’s biggest crop, fell 23 percent in
the past 12 months to $6.6775 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade and canola in Winnipeg slid 20 percent. Grain and oilseed
prices are forecast to average as much as 30 percent lower in
2013, the Canadian government forecasts.  Record Harvests  Record harvests in Canada and the U.S. may increase rail
demand by 2 percent to 3 percent over the next 12 months,
Barclays Plc said in a report. Bumper crops will mean improved
railway earnings, including more than 4 percent boosts for
Canadian Pacific and  Kansas City Southern (KSU)  in 2014, the bank
said.  The lack of rail capacity leaves farmers unable to cash-in
and market crops when they want to, Kevin Hursh, the executive
director of the  Inland Terminal Association of Canada , said in a
telephone interview from Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.  “If you wanted to sell some of the major products you
pretty much have to bide your time, and make a forward sale,”
Hursh said.  There were 20 vessels waiting for grain in Vancouver and
five ships waiting in Prince Rupert as of Oct. 31, said Mark
Hemmes, president of Edmonton-based  Quorum Corp. (QUOR) , which monitors
Canada’s grain-transportation system. Some ships are idling
because the rail cars with the crops haven’t arrived yet, he
said.  ‘We’re Behind’  “We’re in trouble,” Hemmes said in a telephone interview.
“We’re behind where we were last year in terms of the amount of
tons we shipped out of the country.”  It costs between C$3,000 and C$15,000 a day to have a ship
waiting in port for grain, Jason Skinner, the chief executive
officer of North West Terminal in Unity, Saskatchewan, said
today in an interview. The terminal has one ship in  Vancouver 
that has waited at least five days for grain, he said.  The difficulties moving the crop may “get worse before it
gets better” because cold weather and snow can disrupt rail
service, Collin Hulse, a senior risk-management consultant for
INTL FCStone, said today in a presentation in Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan. Ports are pretty much booked, he said.  “Railways in general seem to have more issues when we have
cold weather,” Hulse said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  