-- Carlyle Hires Kewsong Lee From Warburg Pincus for Buyouts
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-11-04T21:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/carlyle-hires-kewsong-lee-from-warburg-pincus-for-buyouts-1-.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  hired veteran deal
maker Kewsong Lee from Warburg Pincus LLC to become its No. 2
buyout executive.  Lee, 48, will start in late December as deputy chief
investment officer, a newly created position, and report to co-founder and chief investment officer Bill Conway, Washington-based Carlyle said today in a statement. He will assist Conway,
64, in overseeing 11 buyout and growth capital funds with $58
billion in assets, and join the firm’s management and operating
committees.  The role positions Lee as a potential successor for Conway
as investment chief, said a person familiar with the firm, who
asked not to be named because the matter is private. Carlyle’s
leaders -- Conway,  David Rubenstein  and  Daniel D’Aniello  --
started the firm in 1987 and are now in their mid-60s, fueling
speculation about who will take over when the founders
eventually leave.  Conway, who also is co-chief executive officer with
Rubenstein, has no plans to retire any time soon, the person
said. Other candidates for future top spots at the firm include
Peter Clare, co-head of Carlyle’s U.S. buyouts group; Michael “Mitch” Petrick, who oversees credit investments and  capital
markets ; and Sandra Horbach, a managing director of U.S.
buyouts, according to the person.  Buyout Veteran  Elizabeth Gill, a spokeswoman for Carlyle, declined to
comment beyond the press statement.  Lee, who has been with Warburg Pincus for 21 years, was
instrumental in dozens of buyouts, including those of
department-store operator Neiman Marcus Group, which  Warburg
Pincus  sold this year, aircraft-parts maker TransDigm Group Inc.
and insurer Arch Capital Group Ltd.  “Kew will be a great addition to this team and will play a
critical role in helping us ensure the platform we have created
continues to make superb investments and create value for our
investors,” Conway said in the statement.  Carlyle’s holdings include government contractor Booz Allen
Hamilton Holdings Corp., building products distributor HD Supply
Inc. and telecom equipment provider CommScope Holding Inc.  Carlyle, the second-largest manager of manager of
alternative such as private equity and real estate, had $180.4
billion in assets as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  