-- Caterpillar Shuts West Virginia Mining Factory to Cut Costs
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-11-04T20:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/caterpillar-to-close-west-virginia-underground-mining-factory.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s biggest
maker of mining equipment, plans to shutter a plant in West
Virginia to curb costs as demand drops for machines used to dig
up coal and copper.  Production of highwall miners used in underground mines
will move to  Pennsylvania  from Beckley, West Virginia, by the
middle of 2014, Caterpillar said today in an e-mailed statement.  The closing is among a half dozen announced in the past
year by Caterpillar as it copes with its first drop in  sales  and
profit since 2009. Others include a Summerville, South Carolina,
plant that does re-manufacturing work for the auto industry, a
tunneling business near Toronto and a facility that makes jumbo
shaft drills in Sudbury,  Canada , Rachel Potts, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail last week.  “This is consistent with the company’s strategy and
something we expect to see more of as the company right-sizes
its manufacturing footprint for the current demand
environment,” Ted Grace, a Boston-based analyst for Susquehanna
Financial Group, said in a telephone interview today.  A limited number of engineers among the 40 workers to be
affected by the latest closing may be retained and moved to the
Pennsylvania plant, Barbara Cox, a spokeswoman for Peoria,
Illinois-based Caterpillar, said in a telephone interview today.
Caterpillar also will offer a severance package, according to
the statement.  Cost Reductions  The factory closing is part of the company’s efforts to
“improve its cost structure,” Cox said. Caterpillar is
“looking at structural cost reductions” including shifting
production between plants, scaling back some product lines and
consolidating functions, Chief Financial Officer Brad Halverson
said on a conference call with analysts on Oct. 23.  The Beckley plant and the factory in Kilgore,  Texas , that
makes dippers and ballast boxes, which Caterpillar announced
last week would also be closed, will be put up for sale, Cox
said.  The biggest hit to demand is coming from mining. Analysts
on average expect capital spending plans for major mining
companies to fall 16 percent in 2013 and as much as 12 percent
in the next two years, Karen Ubelhart, an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries, wrote in a report on Oct. 15  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  