-- CBI Backs Cameron on ‘Fundamental’ Need for U.K. in Reformed EU
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/cbi-backs-cameron-on-fundamental-need-for-u-k-in-reformed-eu.html
The  Confederation of British Industry 
backed Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s position on membership of
the European Union in a report that said the single market is
“fundamental” to Britain’s economic future.  Keeping Britain in a reformed EU will aid growth and boost
trade with emerging economies in  Brazil ,  India ,  Russia  and
 China , CBI Director-General  John Cridland  said as the business
lobby group published the results of a 10-month investigation to
coincide with its annual conference today.  “There’s a false premise that we either trade with  Europe 
or go on a mission to the rest of the world, but companies need
to do both and they need to do it at the same time,” Cridland
told reporters in  London . “We’ve concluded that Europe is
essential to helping us compete in new markets.”  Cameron has promised a referendum on EU membership by the
end of 2017 if his  Conservative Party  wins a majority in the
2015 general election. Cameron said in January he wants to
negotiate the return of some powers to the U.K. before putting
it to the popular vote.  Cridland cited 30 free-trade agreements between the EU and
countries outside the 28-member bloc as evidence of the benefit
for trade with  emerging markets . EU membership is worth as much
as 5 percent of U.K. gross domestic product, or about 3,000
pounds ($4,800) for every household in Britain, the report
found.  Changes Sought  Reform of the EU must include a genuine single market for
services and legal safeguards for countries outside the euro
area, the CBI said. EU regulations should be cut back and there
should be a moratorium on legislation where decisions could be
made by individual governments.  An opt-out used by the U.K. and 17 other member states to
avoid the working-time directive, which limits workers’ hours to
48 hours a week, should be made permanent, Cridland said.  “We have looked beyond the political rhetoric to examine
the pros and cons of EU membership and British business is
unequivocal: The single market is fundamental to our future,”
Cridland said. “But the EU isn’t perfect and there is a growing
unease about the creeping extension of EU authority.”  There need to be more Britons in senior positions in the
key European institutions, including the EU Parliament and
Commission, to ensure the U.K.’s influence isn’t diluted,
Cridland said.  Economists and executives warned at the time of Cameron’s
speech in January at Bloomberg LP’s European headquarters in
London that the referendum pledge might damage investment in
Britain as companies weighed the uncertainty of remaining in the
EU. Cridland declined to say if he thought the vote was a good
idea, saying it was a matter for the premier.  Constant Uncertainty  “Business lives with uncertainty, uncertainty was there
before the prime minister’s speech at Bloomberg and after the
prime minister’s speech at Bloomberg,” Cridland said. “It’s
one of a cocktail of factors business deals with.”  Danny Alexander , the chief secretary to the Treasury and a
member of Cameron’s pro-European Liberal Democrat coalition
partners, welcomed the 180-page CBI report, which he said makes
a “powerful” case for continued EU membership.  “We can only build a stronger economy working together
with our neighbours, exerting maximum influence in our continent
and leading the reform agenda as the most liberal economy in
Europe,” Alexander said in an e-mailed statement. “EU
membership is one of the reasons why Britain is an attractive
place to invest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  