-- CBOT Pit Traders Testify Volume, Profits Fell After Rule
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-04T21:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/cbot-pit-traders-testify-volume-profits-fell-after-rule.html
Three  Chicago  Board of Trade corn pit
traders told an  Illinois  judge that their trading volume and
profits have fallen since a change in end-of-day settlement
pricing was imposed last year.  The traders are part of a group of 20 who sued the CME
Group Inc.-owned exchange seeking to block the shift in
determining final prices, from reliance upon just the last
minute of floor trading to a blended method incorporating
electronic-platform trading results.  “We should have at least had a vote,” Ralph Dynek, 55,
one of the suing traders, told Cook County Circuit Judge  Jean
Prendergast Rooney  today in state court in Chicago.  Dynek and the other traders contend exchange members were
entitled to a vote on the change because it adversely affects
the CBOT’s stated commitment to maintain traditional open-outcry
floor trading.  Lawyers for the exchange argue that  the shift  in pricing
methods, which took effect in June 2012, was necessary to ensure
the integrity of markets that were already migrating away from
the commodities exchange pits and to electronic trading
platforms.  The price settlement process determines who makes or loses
money on the day’s trading.  “You want to get ready to play,” Dynek said of the final
moments of a day’s floor trading. “To make it or lose it.”  Commitment Reiterated  The hearing before Rooney started on Nov. 1 and is
scheduled to last two more days. CME Group Chief Executive
Officer Phupinder Gill reiterated the exchange’s commitment to
open-pit trading in testimony on the first day of the hearing.  CME Group Chairman  Terrence Duffy  echoed Gill’s testimony
today, telling the court that the change in pricing methodology
was motivated in part by a letter received from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission in November 2011.  Duffy, once an open-outcry livestock commodities trader,
said the regulator wanted to know if CME Group was in compliance
with the “core principles” of the federal Commodity Exchange
Act.  “I felt we were,” Duffy said today. “My belief was that
we were in compliance before receiving the letter” and that the
company’s exchanges are now. During the intervening time, Duffy
said his views on that question evolved.  “Integrity is the most important part of what we do,” he
said. Ultimately he and Gill decided to impose the blended
price-settlement rules on CBOT’s agricultural trade-settlement
pricing even after two company boards rejected the proposal
because because 90 percent of the market’s liquidity was in
electronic trading, not open outcry.  The new rules weren’t imposed on the CME’s livestock
traders out of concern for causing financial injury to American
farmers, he said.  The case is McKerr v. The Board of Trade of the City of
Chicago, 12CH23185, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,
 Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  