-- Centrica Says Wind-Farm Talks Continue After Report of Ax
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-11-04T12:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/centrica-says-wind-farm-talks-continue-after-report-of-ax.html
Centrica Plc (CNA)  said it remains in talks
with the U.K. government on investing in an offshore wind farm
after the  Telegraph  reported that the utility may abandon the
project unless it gets increased state support.  Centrica hasn’t made a final investment decision and is
still trying to “make it work,” Greg Wood, a spokesman, said
today by telephone.  The Telegraph said yesterday that the 2 billion-pound ($3.2
billion) Race Bank venture off eastern  England  may be axed
because government support for offshore wind is too low. That
may further inflame debate about appropriate subsidy levels for
renewables at a time when Britain is studying how best to meet
binding clean-energy goals.  Centrica said in February it was in talks with a financial
partner it didn’t name to develop the 580-megawatt Race Bank
project and was prepared to commit 200 million pounds to the
venture.  Race Bank may supply more than 450,000 homes a year when
built, according to the Windsor, England-based utility. The
company plans to make a final  investment decision  next year,
according to documents published on its website  last month . It
said in July 2012 it planned to decide early this year.  Four of Britain’s six biggest energy suppliers raised
prices last month, citing renewable-power subsidies among
reasons for the increase in customer charges. That prompted
Prime Minister  David Cameron  to order a review of green levies.  The U.K. in June said offshore wind farms will receive 155
pounds a megawatt-hour starting next year, about triple the
market price for electricity. The subsidy declines to 135 pounds
by 2018. Electricite de France SA, which last month agreed to
build the Hinkley Point C nuclear plant in southern England,
will earn 92.50 pounds a megawatt-hour for 35 years. Centrica
pulled out of Hinkley Point in February over costs.  Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  is still studying responses
to the consultation over draft subsidy levels and may increase
them, the Telegraph reported, citing the minister. A final
determination is expected in December, Centrica’s Wood said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  