-- CFTC to Offer New Take on Speculation-Limits Rule Judge Rejected
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-11-04T20:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/cftc-to-offer-new-take-on-speculation-limits-rule-judge-rejected.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
will consider a reworked proposal to limit speculation blamed
for price surges in energy, wheat and other commodities after
Wall Street groups successfully challenged an earlier version.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission will meet tomorrow
in  Washington  to vote on releasing the proposal mandated by the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act that overhauled U.S. financial regulation.
The CFTC rewrote the plan, which may cap the number of futures
contracts a single firm can hold in 28 commodities, after a
federal court rejected its previous proposal for failing to
justify the reason for imposing position limits.  The measure will reveal how the agency responds to that
legal setback for regulators implementing Dodd-Frank. Industry
groups successfully challenged several rules mandated by the act
by arguing that policy makers misread the statute or failed to
consider input from businesses impacted by new rules.  “They are going to have to come forward with some type of
economic analysis based on the markets that shows there is a
real need to have a limitation imposed here,” said Thomas O. Gorman, a partner at Dorsey & Whitney LLP whose practice
includes securities and commodities cases. “This was a
controversial position the last time it came up.”  Congress told the CFTC to consider the rules after
commodity prices soared in 2008 when wheat reached a record of
$13.495 a bushel and oil soared to $147.27 a barrel. Related
consumer prices rose as well, and airlines and other businesses
sensitive to commodity prices blamed speculators for the surge.
The CFTC’s rulemaking effort generated 13,000 public comments.  Like ‘Antitrust’  “Definitely, oil was the big issue,” said  Tyson Slocum ,
energy-program director at  Public Citizen , which advocated for
position limits. “It’s kind of like an antitrust rule. It just
limits the ability of one or a small handful of players to
dominate a given market.”  The CFTC’s previous rule relied on an interpretation that
the law didn’t require it to show position limits were necessary
to diminish or prevent excessive speculation. Two Wall Street
lobbying organizations, the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association and Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, asked a federal court in December 2011 to annul the
rule.  The U.S. District Court for the  District of Columbia  ruled
in their favor in September 2012. While agreeing that Dodd-Frank
authorized the CFTC to limit trading in over-the-counter
commodity swaps and exchange-traded futures, District Judge
Robert L. Wilkins found the agency failed to consider whether
limits were necessary or appropriate to limit speculation.  Withdrawing Appeal  CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton said on Oct. 31 that he
expects the agency to withdraw an appeal of the judge’s ruling
after it issues the new proposal.  The rejected CFTC rule, issued in October 2011, limited
traders to 25 percent of the supply of specific commodities
available for futures contracts on each exchange. The limits
applied to 28 physical commodity futures and their financially
equivalent swaps, including contracts for corn, wheat, soybeans,
oats, cotton, oil, heating oil, gasoline, cocoa, milk, sugar,
silver, palladium and platinum.  The rule called for traders to aggregate their positions, a
measure that may have affected large firms with multiple
strategies. It also would have tightened an exemption allowing
so-called bona fide hedgers to exceed the caps.  Chilton and CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , both Democrats,
supported the earlier rule. Republican Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  opposed it.  If the four-member commission approves the draft rule
today, businesses and other groups interested in the rule would
have at least 30 days to provide feedback before regulators
could vote adopt it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  