-- Chinese Spurned Wheels for Sledge to Build Forbidden City
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-04T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/chinese-spurned-wheels-for-sledge-to-build-forbidden-city.html
Chinese workers appear to have used a
sledge, not wheels, to lug stones heavier than a Jumbo Jet to
build Beijing’s Forbidden City palace six centuries ago.  Ice sledges were safer and more reliable for loads that
weighed more than 300 tons, even though they were slower and
more labor-intensive than wheeled alternatives, researchers in
the U.S. and  China  found after studying records and
experimenting with ancient haulage systems.  Wells were dug every half kilometer (third of a mile),
providing water to slosh on roads that would freeze in winter,
creating an artificial path of ice that lubricated the sledge,
the scientists said. The research, by scientists from  Princeton
University  and Beijing’s University of Science and Technology
and  Tsinghua University , was published yesterday in the
 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences .  Construction of the Forbidden City, the seat of imperial
power during the Ming and Qing dynasties, started in 1417 after
the Ming emperor Yongle moved his capital from Nanjing to
Beijing, according to the  Palace Museum ’s website.  Wheeled vehicles were capable of hauling as much as 95 tons
by 1596, which wasn’t sufficient, the authors said. The palace’s
heaviest stone feature, the  “Large Stone Carving,”  weighed
more than 300 tons when it was being transported. In comparison,
 Boeing’s 747  aircraft, nicknamed the Jumbo Jet, weighs about 220
tons when empty.  The translation of one 500-year-old text detailed how, in
1557, workers transported a stone weighing about 123 tons from a 
quarry to the palace in central Beijing, according to the study. 
The 70-kilometer journey took 28 days.  .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  