-- China Bottler Accuses Newspaper of Making Up Report on Water
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-05T05:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/china-bottler-accuses-paper-of-making-up-report-on-water-quality.html
China ’s Nongfu Spring Co. filed a
complaint with the country’s media regulator as part of a long-running dispute with a Beijing newspaper that reported its
bottled water is no better than tap water.  Closely held Nongfu said the Beijing Times published as
many as 76 fake stories in April and May in a smear campaign,
according to a statement on its official microblog. Nongfu sued
the paper for defamation in May, seeking 60 million  yuan  ($9.8
million) in damages, the China Daily newspaper reported today.  Nongfu’s complaint marks an escalation in a case that led
to allegations of corporate infighting while raising concerns
over product quality in a country beset by food-safety scandals.
The company had argued the Beijing Times stories were instigated
by another  bottler , China Resources C’estbon Food & Beverage
Shenzhen Co. C’estbon, a subsidiary of China Resources Holding
Co., denied the claims, according to the state-run Global Times
newspaper.  The Beijing Times published an  article  on April 10 titled
“Nongfu Spring water standards are not as good as tap water.”
Nongfu rejected the paper’s claim that its bottled water only
met the standards of Zhejiang province where it’s based, rather
than national standards, according to the microblog statement.  The newspaper “fabricated the country’s administrative
departments’ opinion,” and were of an “obvious premeditated
and organized nature,” the company said in its report, which
urged the regulator to investigate. The Beijing Times said in a
mobile text message today that it has no plan to respond to the
allegations. Today’s edition didn’t mention Nongfu Spring.  Tap Water  The role of China’s media was thrust into the spotlight
last month with the New Express newspaper apologizing after a
reporter was shown on state-run  China Central Television  telling
police he had accepted payments in exchange for publishing
fabricated reports about construction machinery maker  Zoomlion
Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co.   The media regulator, the General Administration for Press,
Publication, Radio, Film and Television, issued a statement Nov.
1 saying media outlets should “improve their internal
management and regulation on reporting and editing.”  “An unprofessional era is upon us,” a commentary in the
Global Times said today about the Nongfu case. “We lack
professional media as well as professional enterprises. But we
want them to just not be professional but also resolve disputes
through legal means.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  