-- Most Chinese Stocks Rise After Service PMI Data
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-04T07:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-after-non-manufacturing-data.html
Most Chinese companies rose after an
official government report showed  service industries  expanded at
a faster pace in October. Property stocks declined.  ZTE Corp. and Beijing Zhongke Sanhuan High-Tech Co. surged
more than 3 percent. Zhejiang Beingmate Technology Industry &
Trade Co., a maker of baby formula, gained the most in two weeks
after its controlling shareholder bought back shares. Beijing
Orient National Communication Science & Technology Co. slid 10
percent after getting approval for a private placement.  China 
Vanke Co., the biggest-listed developer, lost 2 percent.  Five stocks gained for every three that fell on the
 Shanghai  Composite Index, which was was little changed at
2,149.64. The non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINMAN)  rose
to 56.3 in October from 55.4 in September. That was the highest
level this year and followed faster-than-estimated growth in two
manufacturing indexes last week. China’s top party officials
will meet from Nov. 9-12 to map out a blueprint for reform.  “Data over the weekend was all right,” said Mao Sheng, an
analyst at Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu. “The market’s not
going to do much before the plenum.”  The CSI 300 Index retreated 0.2 percent to 2,380.45 and the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  increased 0.1 percent. The
ChiNext index of smaller companies rose less than 0.1 percent.  President  Xi Jinping  said a blueprint for “comprehensive
reform” will be put forward to the third plenary session of the
Communist Party Central Committee, according to a Nov. 2 report
from the official  Xinhua News Agency .  Property Bubble  Telecommunications and technology stocks led gains on the
CSI 300 index, advancing at least 1.5 percent. ZTE rose to 15.70
 yuan . Beijing Zhongke Sanhuan jumped 4.1 percent to 13.51 yuan.
Zhejiang Beingmate advanced 3.8 percent to 33.70 yuan.  China Vanke fell 2 percent to 9.20 yuan. China’s real
estate bubble poses a “danger” to the economy and the
government should combine property controls with economic reform
of land and tax policies, according to a front-page editorial
published by China Securities Journal.  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 5.3 percent this year and
trades at 8.5 times projected profits for the next 12 months,
lower than the seven-year average of 15.4, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volumes in the index were 44
percent below the 30-day average for this time of day.  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the world’s largest distressed-debt investor, is buying Chinese stocks after valuations
tumbled, Chairman  Howard Marks  said.  Share Sales  The nation’s equities are “tremendous bargains,” Marks
said at a media briefing in Shanghai today, declining to name
the specific shares he’s purchasing. While  China’s economy  faces
risks from being weaned off stimulus, a burgeoning middle class
and government plans for urbanization will bolster the country’s
long-term potential, Marks said.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics will release a
services PMI for October tomorrow. Their index fell to 52.4 in
September from 52.8 in August. A number more than 50 indicates
an expansion.  China may lift a 12-month ban on new share sales this year
following the party summit, according to the nation’s largest
brokerage by market value.  “We still have reasons to believe that the IPOs may resume
before the end of this year, as the policy meeting ends Nov.
12,” Boming Cheng, president of Citic Securities Inc., said in
an interview in  New York , where he was attending the Chinese
Finance Association’s annual conference.  The Bloomberg China-US Index of the most traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. gained 0.5 percent on Nov. 1. Qunar Cayman
Islands Ltd. and 58.Com Inc. jumped in New York after selling
shares above their price targets, a signal that appetite for
Chinese companies remains unshaken by Muddy Waters LLC’s fraud
allegations against NQ Mobile Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  