-- Chorus Falls Most This Year on Price Ruling: Wellington Mover
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-11-04T22:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/chorus-falls-most-this-year-on-price-ruling-wellington-mover.html
Chorus Ltd., the operator of  New
Zealand ’s telephone network, is headed for the biggest drop this
year after warning earnings will fall and it could default on
its debt after regulators said it must reduce its prices.  New pricing that will apply from Dec. 1, 2014, will cut
annual operating earnings by NZ$142 million ($118 million),
Wellington-based Chorus said in a statement today. The  stock 
fell 7.6 percent, headed for its biggest decline since Dec. 3.  Chorus said the lower price for existing copper-wire
services will deter consumers from switching to a new ultra-fast
broadband network it is building in partnership with the
government. Chorus Chief Executive Officer Mark Ratcliffe said
without government intervention, the company’s ability to fund
itself is compromised.  “We would have much less cash every year to invest and we
simply will not be able to borrow the sums of money we need to
make up to a NZ$3 billion investment in UFB,” he said.  Unless the government steps in, the company will have to
notify its lenders that there may be a material adverse effect
next year, raising the possibility of a default, Ratcliffe said.
Capital structure, dividend policy and the need for a large
future equity raising needs to be assessed, he said.  The government has said it may review telecommunications
regulation. Prime Minister John Key told reporters today the
government will assess all options, including taking an equity
stake in Chorus, the  New Zealand Herald  reported.  Chorus fell 20 cents to NZ$2.43 at 11 a.m. in Wellington.  The Commerce Commission ruled that the price Chorus can
charge for a copper broadband service should fall to NZ$34.44 a
month from NZ$44.98.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  