-- Chris Christie Is Showing Conservatives How to Win
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-11-04T16:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/chris-christie-is-showing-conservatives-how-to-win.html
If you were trying to predict the
future four years ago, you might have expected Republicans to be
in better shape in  Virginia  than New Jersey. Republicans romped
in the election for governor in the first state, while winning
more narrowly in the second. New Jersey is also much more
Democratic than Virginia: It went for President  Barack Obama  by
a bigger margin than any other state with a Republican governor.  Yet the polls show Republican Governor Chris Christie is
cruising to an easy re-election in New Jersey while Republican
Ken Cuccinelli is trailing in the race to lead Virginia.
Cuccinelli is losing even though he’s running against Terry McAuliffe, who is widely derided even among Democrats as a weak
candidate.  In northern Virginia, where I live, McAuliffe’s campaign
has been pounding Cuccinelli with ad after ad making him out to
be an extreme social conservative who wants to restrict birth
control and divorce. Those ads appear to have worked, especially
among women, who favor McAuliffe by a huge margin. The federal
government shutdown, which affected a lot of people in northern
Virginia, probably hurt Cuccinelli, too, but he was down in the
polls and losing support before it began.  The social-conservative writer and activist Maggie Gallagher blames Cuccinelli’s  poor showing  on his failure to
stand up for his views. She draws on a recent  report  from the
socially conservative group American Principles in Action, which
argued that  Mitt Romney  erred in the 2012 presidential campaign
by taking a defensive tack on social issues.  She argues that the flaw of the “truce” strategy now
favored by many Republicans is that the other side doesn’t
observe it. Last year, for example, Democrats said that
Republican views on social issues amounted to a “ war on
women .” When Republicans don’t respond vigorously to such
attacks, they demoralize their allies and lead moderate voters
to think that maybe the Republican candidate really is a social-issues extremist who wants to hide it.  Solving Problems  The argument is persuasive, to my mind, but incomplete. To
get a fuller picture, think back to the 2009 contest for
governor in Virginia. Republican Bob McDonnell, the current
governor, won big even though Democrats tried to paint him, too,
as a social-issues extremist.  Why do they seem to be succeeding now when they failed
then? It’s partly a matter of countenance: McDonnell was
cheerful (if boring), and Cuccinelli often appears dour and
argumentative. And it’s partly because McDonnell, unlike
Cuccinelli (or Romney), responded to the attacks with his own
effective ads.  Another difference, though, is that Cuccinelli made his
name as a conservative crusader, especially on social issues,
where McDonnell made his as a bipartisan problem-solver.
McDonnell’s Democratic critics had to dig up a 20-year-old  grad-school thesis  he had written to make him look out of the
mainstream; Cuccinelli’s have more recent initiatives and
statements to work with. Refusing to defend that record put
Cuccinelli in the worst possible position.  He would probably have been better off restating his views
while criticizing McAuliffe’s own extremism. (McAuliffe refuses
to say if he thinks partial-birth abortion should be legal, for
instance.) That would have given conservatives more reason to
come out to vote for Cuccinelli, and at the very least given
moderates less reason to vote against him.  Cuccinelli may have hesitated because polls have shown him
losing a significant number of votes to a third-party candidate
running as a pro-choice libertarian. But even a lot of
libertarian-leaning Republicans are willing to vote for pro-life
candidates, as McDonnell’s landslide proved.  Christie’s Example  Socially conservative positions on hot-button issues don’t
seem to be a deal-breaker even for the much more liberal voters
of New Jersey. Christie has vetoed legislation to grant state
recognition to same-sex marriage -- a judge later ordered it,
though Christie briefly appealed -- and vetoed bills to fund
Planned Parenthood five times.  He does not, however, seem obsessed by social issues:
Democrats haven’t gotten much mileage out of ads saying that his
priorities are different from those of voters, as they have
against Cuccinelli. Christie has also avoided taking unpopular
socially conservative stands on issues that aren’t live debates,
and taken the occasional opportunity to soften his profile.  If the polls hold up, Cuccinelli’s defeat may demoralize
social conservatives -- especially if the news media spin the
defeat as a sign that their concerns are a millstone around the
neck of Republican politicians. Christie’s likely re-election
shows that such an interpretation is wrong. Being a social
conservative is not by itself a political death sentence even in
deep-blue territory.  If Christie wants to run for president, he may find that
pointing this out is a low-cost way of appealing to a national
constituency that matters a lot in his party.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 