-- Co-Operative Sees ‘Significant’ Job Cuts as Branches Shut
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-11-04T12:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/co-op-bank-sweetens-offer-to-junior-bondholders-in-restructuring.html
Co-Operative Group Ltd., the 150-year-old British mutual, will cut a “significant” number of
jobs at its banking unit as it cedes control of the division to
creditors.  Co-Operative Bank Ltd. will close about 50 of its 324
branches by the end of 2014, the Manchester, England-lender
company said in a statement today. Creditors will own about 70
percent of the bank, which Co-Operative Group doesn’t expect to
post a profit before at least 2015.  “The branch network closures have already started,” Co-Operative Group Chief Executive Officer Euan Sutherland told
reporters on a conference call today. “There will be
significant job cuts,” he said, declining to say how many will
be eliminated. The lender employs about 7,800 people.  Co-Operative Group, whose businesses range from
supermarkets to funeral parlors, was forced last month to give
up control of its banking unit to help plug a 1.5 billion-pound
capital hole at the division. Because Co-Operative Group is
owned by customers, it couldn’t plug the gap at the banking unit
by turning to shareholders in a rights offering, like publicly
traded competitors including Barclays Plc.  Initially, Co-Operative Group tried to raise part of the
money pledging 1 billion pounds to the banking unit through
selling assets and increasing borrowings and asked bondholders
to provide 500 million pounds more in a debt swap. Instead, a
group of creditors opted to take over control of the bank, which
has about 5.5 million customers.  LT2 Group  A group owning 48 percent of the lender’s Lower Tier 2
securities have agreed to exchange its bonds for shares and new
bonds, and to inject 125 million pounds of fresh equity. The
group includes Aurelius Capital Management LP, Canyon Capital
Advisors LLC and and Silver Point Capital LP. Co-Operative Group
will be left with a 30 percent stake after injecting about 462
million pounds into the bank.  The restructuring will be “the first successful consensual
creditor bank bail-in in the U.K., without taxpayer support,”
the LT2 group said in a statement today.  The lender today offered its most junior bondholders a
sweetener to encourage them to support the plan.  Holders of the bank’s 9.25 percent preference shares and 13
percent perpetual subordinated bonds, securities with a total
face value of 170 million pounds, can opt for either as much as
129 million pounds of 11 percent 12-year notes or repayment of
principal in 12 equal installments without interest.  Final Notes  The 11 percent bonds, called Final Repayment Notes, will be
guaranteed by Co-Operative Group. Owners of 200 million pounds
of 5.5555 percent undated bonds will be offered 11 percent bonds
due 2023 and guaranteed by Co-Operative Bank.  Holders of those securities who agree to the exchange will
be deemed to have voted in favor of allowing the bank to swap or
transfer the ownership of any securities left outstanding on the
same terms as they received, according to the release. The
condition is designed to prevent holdouts blocking the deal.  Regulators pushed Co-Operative Group to close the capital
shortfall following the failure of the bank’s bid for more than
600  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  branches this year, a deal that
would have more than doubled its number of outlets.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Andrew Bailey  told
lawmakers in July the “main issue” that brought down Co-Operative Bank was the assets it acquired from Britannia
Building Society in 2009. Those souring loans prompted Co-Operative Bank to report a fourfold increase in impairments in
2012 and a pretax loss of 673.7 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  