-- Coal Miner Bets on Steel Mills to Boost Profit: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-11-04T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/coal-miner-bets-on-steel-mills-to-boost-profit-corporate-india.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest
producer of the fuel, will raise output of the metallurgical
variety to  boost earnings  after discounted sales to power
utilities led to its  first profit drop  in at least five
quarters.  The  state-owned  company plans to start work on four new
mines that will annually produce about 12 million tons, a third
of which will be the coal used in steelmaking, Ashoke Sarkar,
technical director at unit  Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. , said in an
interview. The new lines will fetch about 30 billion rupees
($485 million) a year at current prices of coking coal when full
production starts in three years, he said.  Metallurgical coal sells for three times the price of the
thermal type and a jump in production may help revive growth at
the company, which is struggling with frequent unrest among
workers demanding wage increases and government directives to
increase supply to  power plants  at subsidized rates.  “Coking coal is an important part of our portfolio, and it
is important to raise its production to help our steel
companies,” Sarkar said. “All the four mines will need
underground mining, which will help us limit the damage to the
environment and tap the resources buried deeper.”  Indian steelmakers including  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the nation’s
biggest, and Steel Authority of India Ltd. also stand to gain as
better supply may help them cut their dependence on imports of
the blast furnace fuel.  Not Suitable  The mines are expected to start production in a year and
reach full capacity in three years, Sarkar said. Kolkata-based
Coal India expects a 12 percent internal rate of return on its
investment in the mines, he said.  The miner produced 43.7 million tons of coking coal in the
year ended March 31, about 9.7 percent of its total output.  The four new mines are located in the eastern state of
Jharkhand. Their development will be outsourced, Sarkar said.  A large part of Coal India’s lower-grade coking coal gets
supplied to power stations, as it isn’t suitable for use in
 steel mills . The company is setting up new washeries to refine
such coal to make it more usable by steel producers, Sarkar
said. Unit Bharat Coking itself will install 6 new washeries
with a capacity of 18 million tons a year, he said.  “Considering that coking coal is a scarce commodity in
India and is in high demand, it brings incremental value to Coal
India’s business,” said Deven Choksey, managing director at
K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai, which has a
“buy”  rating  on the stock. “I estimate the company can make
2.5 billion rupees in net earnings when these four mines gain
maturity.”  Burning Mines  Indian steelmakers rely on imports to meet their
requirement of metallurgical coal, even as the nation’s richest
deposit of the fuel is wasted away in uncontrolled underground
fires in the fields of Jharia in the eastern state of Jharkhand.
 State-owned Steel Authority (SAIL) , Coal India’s biggest customer,
imports 70 percent of its needs, mostly from  Australia .  Dependence on imports often exposes the mills to price
fluctuations caused by bad weather or infrastructure constraints
and losses on foreign currency loans taken for these purchases.  The makers of the alloy, backed by India’s federal steel
ministry, have been lobbying to get access to the burning Jharia
mine, saying their intervention and investments could save the
resources.  Sales Growth  Some analysts say they will look for actual output data
before they start factoring the new coking coal into their Coal
India earnings estimates.  “We would like to see some actual production to start
coming out of the mines before basing our investment thesis on
coking coal,” said Asyraf Salman, an investment analyst at
London-based Somerset Capital Management, which  owns shares  of
Coal  India .  Sales at Coal India will  grow 6 percent  to 723.8 billion
rupees in the year ending March 31, 2014, according to the
median of 51 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, the
slowest pace in five years. Profit in the three months ended
June 30 fell 17 percent to 37.3 billion rupees.  Coal India  shares  rose 1.4 percent to 292.05 rupees in
Mumbai on Nov. 1. Indian markets were closed yesterday for the
Diwali holiday. The stock has lost almost 18 percent in value
this year, compared with a 9 percent advance in the benchmark
 S&P BSE Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The government, which owns 90 percent of the company, is
preparing for a 5 percent stake sale, from which it aims to
raise as much as 100 billion rupees amid opposition from labor
unions that have threatened to go on strike.  Bonus, Wages  Workers won a pay raise for five years starting July 2011
and Coal India agreed to a 19 percent increase in bonus payments
this year to win support for the share sale.  The miner is selling thermal coal at below-market rates to
utilities with 78,000 megawatts of capacity after Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  forced it to sign supply contracts to help
increase electricity generation and boost growth. The company
faces monetary penalties for failing to meet the obligations.  That, along with rising costs of fuel used to run machines
and wages, is causing concern the miner’s profitability may
decline further.  “Adding more coking coal is good for Coal India as it
gives the company a free market,” said Giriraj Daga, an analyst
at Mumbai-based Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt., who has a “hold”
rating on the stock. “It’s a difficult territory though and the
company must keep costs in check.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  