-- Coderre Elected Montreal Mayor, City’s Fourth in a Year
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-11-04T14:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/coderre-elected-montreal-mayor-city-s-fourth-in-a-year.html
Former Canadian Immigration Minister
Denis Coderre, who vowed to “bring back trust” to municipal
politics, was elected mayor of  Montreal , becoming the city’s
fourth leader in the past year.  Coderre won about 32 percent of the vote in yesterday’s
municipal election, with 96 percent of polling stations
reporting, according to the city’s election  website . Melanie
Joly, a 34-year-old public relations executive running in her
first campaign, was the runner-up with about 26 percent of the
vote, while Richard Bergeron received slightly less than 26
percent. Voter turnout in Canada’s second largest city was 41
percent.  Coderre, 50, will inherit a  city  of about 1.7 million
people shaken by corruption scandals that pushed two of the last
three mayors to resign. He will need to bolster Montreal’s
economy, fix its aging infrastructure and tackle the rising
costs of an underfunded pension plan that soaks up more than a
10th of the municipal budget.  “Montreal will be an honest city,” Coderre told
supporters in a late-night victory speech. “Montreal needs to
find itself again. Montreal needs men and women who will not be
dedicated to partisanship, but instead to the reconstruction of
the link of confidence that will allow Montreal to shine
again.”  Illegal Contributions  Gerald Tremblay, who was in his third term at City Hall,
quit last year amid reports that his party received illegal
contributions as part of a system that involved price-fixing of
construction contracts. His successor, Michael Applebaum, was
arrested in June and charged with conspiracy, fraud against the
government, breach of trust and corruption in municipal affairs.
He resigned the next day. Both men have denied the allegations.  Coderre, a former insurance broker and radio announcer who
has lived in the same multicultural borough for four decades,
spent 16 years as a federal member of parliament in Ottawa. He
announced his intention to run for mayor in May, saying he would
have “zero tolerance” for corruption in his administration.  Among other pledges, Coderre has promised to create the
position of  Inspector General  to act as a shield against
fraudulent behavior. He told voters his track record in politics
guarantees he won’t have any learning curve when he takes
office, and will allow him to defend the city’s interests as the
provincial and federal levels.  Underperforming Economy  Montreal’s economy is underperforming several of its
Canadian peers. Unemployment in the city was 10 percent in
September,  data  from the provincial statistics institute show,
compared with the national average of 6.9 percent.  Total debt amounts to about C$5.6 billion ($5.4 billion)
this year, compared with C$6.7 billion for Toronto, according to
a DBRS report published in July. At C$1,882 per inhabitant,
Montreal’s tax-supported debt burden is one of the highest in
 Canada , only trailing  Vancouver ’s C$2,476, DBRS said.  Montreal’s debt is rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
A+ by Standard & Poor’s and A (high) by DBRS Ltd.  Coderre was the only one of the four major candidates
running for mayor to eschew outdoor electoral signs, saying he
preferred door-to-door campaigning. He’s an enthusiastic  Twitter 
user, having sent out more than 31,000 messages to his more than
114,000 followers.  His team included more than 20 candidates from Union
Montreal, the party that former mayor Tremblay used to lead. One
of his candidates was forced to resign over bribery allegations
last week, even after Coderre had assured voters in an interview
that he possessed an infallible “integrity filter” -- the
result of looking his candidates in the eye as he interviewed
them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  