-- Copper Futures Fall Most in Week on Signs Demand Growth Slowing
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-11-04T18:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/copper-falls-a-third-session-on-speculation-fed-to-slow-stimulus.html
Copper futures dropped the most in
more than a week in New York as U.S. factory orders rose less
than forecast in September, adding to concern that demand for
the metal may slow.  The 1.7 percent gain in bookings trailed the 1.8 percent
median increase in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Orders for
non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a measure of
future business investment, fell 1.3 percent. Concern about
 China ’s housing market also weighed on prices. An editorial
published by China Securities Journal said the Asian nation’s
real-estate bubble poses a “danger” to the economy and called
for property controls and reform of land and tax policies.  “Continued economic worries are keeping the bulls at bay
in copper, and we’re seeing some fund liquidation,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at Citigroup Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “The factory report goes along with the
general sense that growth is going to be tepid.”  Copper futures for delivery in December lost 1.4 percent to
settle at $3.253 a pound at 1:13 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest decline for a most-active contract since Oct. 23.
The metal slid 0.7 percent last month.  Communist Party leaders in China, entering a summit this
week, will weigh signs of an economy on an upswing against
concern that excessive credit growth, rising local-government
debt and weaker export momentum may cap the recovery. China is
the world’s biggest copper user.  The Copper Development Association says construction
generates about 40 percent of demand for the metal, used in
pipes and wiring.  Dallas Federal Reserve Bank president Richard Fisher said
today he wouldn’t rule out backing a reduction by March of the
central bank’s $85 billion-a-month debt-buying, depending on
economic conditions.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 1.3 percent to $7,149 a metric ton ($3.24 a pound).  Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc also declined in
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  