-- WTI Crude Little Changed Near Lowest Level in Four Months
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-11-04T21:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/crude-drops-to-four-month-low-as-libya-to-resume-exports.html
West Texas Intermediate crude was
little changed near the lowest level in four months amid rising
supplies and as the dollar weakened against the euro.  Prices ended up 1 cent.  Libya , North Africa’s largest oil
producer, prepared to resume exports at two terminals, according
to the state oil company. U.S. crude stockpiles are at the most
in four months, and shipments from  Iraq  jumped in October,
government reports showed last week. The dollar slid from a six-week high, strengthening oil as an alternate investment, amid
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will maintain stimulus.  “The news that Libya is going to raise exports should be
bearish,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “U.S. crude
inventories are over abundant. That’s keeping WTI lower than
Brent. People are pricing in Fed stimulus and a weaker dollar.”  WTI for December delivery reached $94.62 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . It settled at $94.61 on Nov. 1,
the least since June 21. The volume of all futures traded was 23
percent below the 100-day average at 3:53 p.m. WTI dropped 5.8
percent in October, the biggest monthly decline in a year.  Brent for December settlement gained 32 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $106.23 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume was 4.7 percent above the 100-day
average. The European benchmark’s premium over WTI widened to
$11.61 from $11.30 on Nov. 1.  Libyan Loading  A tanker is scheduled to take on oil at Libya’s Mellitah
terminal tomorrow and loadings will probably resume next week at
Hariga once vessels arrive at the eastern port, said Mohamed
Elharari, a spokesman for state-run National Oil Corp.  Production in the country has been reduced amid nationwide
protests. Output was about 250,000 barrels yesterday, Elharari
said. It averaged 450,000 barrels a day in October, according to
a monthly Bloomberg survey of production across the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  “Libya is trying to get more oil out and as they move that
direction, it’s putting downward pressure on both Brent and
WTI,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price
Futures Group in  Chicago .  Crude futures tumbled 14 percent in the eight weeks ended
Nov. 1 on the economic outlook and as U.S. crude inventories
surged to the highest level since June.  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude  inventories  climbed to 383.9 million barrels in
the week ended Oct. 25, capping 7.9 percent jump over six weeks,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  “That’s what a  bear market  looks like in terms of unending
downward pressure,”  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital
LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “We
have plenty of supplies here.”  The two Brent contracts closest to expiration moved into a
pattern known as contango in intraday trading, when December
Brent  fell  1 cent below the January contract. December futures
closed 13 cents above January. The most active contracts last
settled in contango in June.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said earlier that the “push toward
contango” was caused by a combination of weak demand, an
increase in supplies from Iraq and the start of a North Sea
oilfield. Iraq exported 2.25 million barrels a day last month,
compared with 2.07 million in September,  Asim Jihad , an oil
ministry spokesman, said Nov. 1. Total SA said Oct. 28 that the
Ekofisk South field was brought on stream.  Dollar Weakens  WTI futures climbed as much as 0.5 percent as the dollar
weakened against the euro as the Commerce Department reported
slower-than-estimated factory orders. The euro strengthened amid
speculation that the  European Central Bank  will refrain from
cutting  interest rates  at a meeting this week.  The U.S. currency fell 0.2 percent to $1.3518 per euro at
3:51 p.m. in New York.  “The dollar is coming off from its highs and it’s bringing
the market some support,” said Bill Baruch, a senior market
strategist at Iitrader.com in Chicago.  The Fed decided at its meeting last week to press on with
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases, saying it needs to see
more evidence that the economy will keep improving. Fed Bank of
Dallas President  Richard Fisher , who has criticized the bond-purchase program, said in an interview with Bloomberg in Sydney
that he wouldn’t rule out backing a tapering of purchases by
March depending on economic conditions.  “The data is not great, and it encourages further easing
from the Fed,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “If
there are more crude-oil builds, it’s going to prevent prices
from moving higher.”  Margin Cut  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the Nymex, cut the margin
requirement for speculators on front-month futures by 9.8
percent to $4,070 per contract from $4,510, the company said in
a notice to customers on Nov. 1. The rate will be effective at
the close of business tomorrow.  “Lower margins are usually reasons for people to buy more
futures,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions
LLC in Houston. “Supplies are keeping pressure on prices.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 21 percent, up from 20 percent on Nov. 1, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 425,494
contracts as of 3:53 p.m. It totaled 577,812 contracts on Nov.
1, 0.6 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was
1.75 million contracts, the least since June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  