-- Dallas Fed’s Fisher Says U.S. Economy Hog-Tied by Government
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-11-04T05:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/dallas-fed-s-fisher-says-u-s-economy-hog-tied-by-government-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher said fiscal discord has led to the U.S.
government playing a suppressive role in the economy’s recovery
and the central bank should move back to interest-rate
driven monetary policy at the earliest possible time.  “I am not a proponent of increasing government spending
without restraint,” Fisher, who will hold a vote on monetary
policy next year, said a speech in Sydney today. “The
excessively over-indebted U.S. government has, as mentioned,
been hog tied -- prevented from providing stimulus. It has thus
played a counter-cyclical, suppressive role.” Fisher said the
views expressed were his own.  A deadlock over the  federal budget  led to a 16-day partial
shutdown of the U.S. government last month. The nation’s economy
probably slowed last quarter and employers hired fewer workers
in October, indicating the expansion was losing momentum before
the shutdown, economists project reports to show this week.  “We have a government that hasn’t been able to agree on a
budget in five years; that has historically, under both
Republican and Democrat presidents and Congresses, spent money
and committed itself to fund long-term programs without devising
revenue streams to cover current costs or fund future
liabilities,” Fisher said. “The inability of our government to
get its act together has countered the pro-cyclical role of the
Federal Reserve.”  Balance Sheet  Asked by an audience member after the speech whether he
could envisage circumstances in which the bond purchasing
program was increased, rather than tapered, Fisher said he
personally couldn’t see the balance sheet being expanded further
than what is currently expected by the market.  “I think at the earliest possible moment we need to focus
on transitioning back to having an interest-rate driven monetary
policy,” he said.  “I can envisage us holding the base rate low for a very
long time until we see an acceleration in the economy and
especially in our case given our mandate on employment, as long
as inflation stays in its current range, at less than 2
percent,” Fisher said.  Australian Heritage  Fisher’s ties to Australia trace back to his father, who
was born in the northeastern state of Queensland, and placed in
a reformatory at age five, then an orphanage and foster homes,
“one so cruel as to tie him by his ankle at night to an outdoor
post,” the  Dallas  Fed president said in a  2012 speech . His
father would later travel to South Africa, Mexico and China
before settling in the U.S.  Fisher, born in Los Angeles, studied economics at Harvard,
graduated with honors, went to Oxford University, earned an MBA
from Stanford University and then worked at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. He built his own investment firm in Dallas before
becoming an ambassador and deputy minister of trade for the U.S.
and, ultimately, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas.  “In one generation, a great shift occurred: from homeless
to Harvard; from a brutal reformatory in Queensland to the great
banking house of Brown Brothers Harriman in New York,” Fisher
said in the July 9, 2012 speech.  In his criticism of the American government in today’s
address, Fisher noted that private expenditures on goods and
services in the U.S. increased at a 3.2 percent rate over the
expansion to date, whereas gross domestic product has risen at
2.2 percent.  Government Drag  “One could say that GDP would have risen at 3.2 percent
had government expenditure increased at the same rate as private
expenditure,” he said. “Or, more modestly, if government
spending had just been held constant, instead of contracting,
GDP would have grown at an annual rate of 2.6 percent.”  The government suspension shaved at least 0.6 percent from
fourth-quarter 2013 gross domestic product growth, or took $24
billion out of the U.S. economy, Standard & Poor’s said last
month.  “Under these circumstances, it is no small wonder American
businesses are not expanding and growing jobs at the pace we at
the Fed would like to see,” Fisher said. “It is no small
wonder that our economy is growing at a substandard pace
compared to previous recoveries. It is no small wonder that the
most expansive monetary policy the Federal Open Market Committee
has ever engineered has been hampered from accomplishing what it
set out to do.”  RBA Meeting  Fisher, who met with Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor
Glenn Stevens earlier today, has regularly called for reducing
the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  Stevens, grappling with a higher currency in response to
the Fed’s stimulus, said in a speech last week “surely the
‘taper’ will come,” adding that an unwinding would lessen some
of the “uncomfortable spillover effects” unavoidably
associated with the present set of policies.  “For some countries, including Australia, the beginning of
a return to something resembling more normal conditions, in at
least one major advanced country, would lessen some of the
difficulties we face in our own policy choices,” Stevens said
in the Oct. 29 speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  