-- Dallas Fed’s Fisher Doesn’t Rule Out Backing Taper by March
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-11-04T08:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/dallas-fed-s-fisher-won-t-rule-out-backing-tapering-before-march.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas 
President  Richard Fisher , who has criticized the central bank’s
bond buying program, said he wouldn’t rule out backing a
tapering of purchases by March depending on economic conditions.  “It’s really a question of what the circumstances are at
the time and how the financial markets, and most importantly,
the real economy is doing,” Fisher, who is scheduled to vote on
monetary policy next year, said in an interview with Bloomberg
News in Sydney. “I would say in terms of my own support, that I
wouldn’t rule out my supporting doing something before March.
That’s me. I cannot speak for the members of the committee.”  The Fed decided at its meeting last week to press on with
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases, saying it needs to see
more evidence that the economy will continue to improve. Ben S. Bernanke  is pushing unprecedented accommodation into the final
months of his Fed chairmanship as he seeks to shield the four-year economic expansion from the impact of last month’s partial
U.S. government shutdown.  “I did say publicly that I did not expect us, this is my
personal view, that I would have a hard time personally
supporting cutting back at this last meeting we had because
there was so much uncertainty,” Fisher, 64, said today. “As we
got to the meeting itself the picture was a little bit brighter
than I expected, but still the data’s been skewed.”  President  Barack Obama  last month nominated Vice Chairman
Janet Yellen to succeed Bernanke, whose term expires on Jan. 31,
sending the  U.S. dollar  lower and stocks higher as markets bet
she would pursue a dovish policy. If confirmed by the  U.S.
Senate , Yellen will take on the challenge of dialing down
quantitative easing and withdrawing stimulus while maintaining
growth.  Leader Talking  “You have to think of her as the leader of the group,
rather than voicing her own opinions,” he said of Yellen’s
likely approach as Fed chairman. “I’m not saying you shift to
being hawkish, I’m just saying that you can’t think of the
individual anymore.”  Fisher said the nation’s housing market “is in full
recovery” as the economy improves.  The Fed will delay the first cut to its bond-buying program
until March, according to the median estimate of 40 economists
in a Oct. 17-18  Bloomberg News  survey. In a Sept. 18-19 survey,
economists said the central bank would first reduce the
purchases in December.  Fisher’s ties to  Australia  trace back to his father, who
was born in the northeastern state of Queensland, and placed in
a reformatory at age five, then an orphanage and foster homes,
“one so cruel as to tie him by his ankle at night to an outdoor
post,” he said in a 2012 speech. His father would later travel
to  South Africa , Mexico and China before settling in the U.S.  ‘Great Shift’  Fisher, born in  Los Angeles , studied economics at Harvard,
graduated with honors, went to Oxford University, earned an MBA
from  Stanford University  and then worked at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. He built his own investment firm in Dallas before
becoming an ambassador and deputy minister of trade for the U.S.
and, ultimately, president of the Fed Bank of Dallas.  “In one generation, a great shift occurred: from homeless
to Harvard; from a brutal reformatory in Queensland to the great
banking house of Brown Brothers Harriman in  New York ,” Fisher
said in the July 9, 2012 speech.  Balance Sheet  Asked by an audience member after a speech in Sydney today
whether he could envisage circumstances in which the bond-purchasing program was increased, rather than tapered, Fisher
said he personally couldn’t see the balance sheet being expanded
further than what is currently expected by the market.  “I think at the earliest possible moment we need to focus
on transitioning back to having an interest rate-driven monetary
policy,” he said.  “I can envisage us holding the  base rate  low for a very
long time until we see an acceleration in the economy and
especially in our case given our mandate on employment, as long
as inflation stays in its current range, at less than 2
percent,” Fisher said.  In the speech, Fisher said fiscal discord has led to the
U.S. government playing a suppressive role in the economy’s
recovery.  “The excessively over-indebted U.S. government has, as
mentioned, been hog tied -- prevented from providing stimulus.
It has thus played a counter-cyclical, suppressive role,’’ he
said. “The inability of our government to get its act together
has countered the pro-cyclical role of the  Federal Reserve .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  