-- Dana Gas Posts Lower Profit, Says Kurds Try to Strip Iraq Assets
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-11-04T14:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/dana-gas-posts-lower-profit-says-kurds-try-to-strip-iraq-assets.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) , an energy producer
forced to restructure debt last year, said third-quarter profit
fell amid faster depreciation of assets in Egypt and as Kurdish
authorities tried to sell company holdings in Iraq.  Net income slipped 2 percent to 102 million dirhams ($28
million), from 104 million dirhams a year earlier, Dana Gas said
in a statement today to the Abu Dhabi stock exchange. The
company is owed 2.78 billion dirhams in total trade receivables,
mostly in Iraq and Egypt.  Dana Gas, based in the United Arab Emirates sheikdom of
Sharjah, changed terms on about $1 billion in Islamic bonds, or
sukuk, last year after the Egyptian and Iraqi governments
delayed payments for fuel. These receivables and the global
financial crisis hampered its efforts to refinance.  Ashti Hawrami, natural resources minister of  Iraq ’s semi-autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government, approached several
outside “parties” about selling Dana Gas’s stake in the
Chemchemal natural gas field in the north of the country, Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Allman-Ward said on a conference call
today. He didn’t identify any of the parties.  “That was in breach of the contract and disregarding the
sanctity of that contract and disregarding the rule of law, and
we felt that was a significant escalation of the dispute”
between Dana Gas and the KRG over oil payments, he said. “We
are still ready and willing and hoping for an amicable solution
to this situation.”  Neither Hawrami’s spokesman nor his adviser answered
separate calls to their mobile phones seeking comment on the
accusation.  Seeking Arbitration   Dana Gas began arbitration proceedings in  London  on rights
and money owed from the energy development contract it signed
with the KRG in 2007, according to an Oct. 22 company statement
to the Abu Dhabi bourse.  In Iraq, Dana Gas trade receivables grew to 1.65 billion
dirhams at the end of September from 1.47 billion dirhams at the
end of June, according to the statement. In Egypt, the company
was owed 1.09 billion dirhams at the end of September, up from
960 million dirhams at the end of June.  “We are not going to be making any material additional
capital expenditures in Egypt of course until we have redressed
or addressed the receivables issue,” said Allman-Ward. Dana Gas
hopes the Egyptian government will sign a contract for
exploration at the Block 6 offshore Al Arish area by the end of
the year, he said.  Outside Iraq,  Egypt  and the United Arab Emirates, where the
company already operates, Dana Gas is looking for investment
opportunities in the region, with “a number of possible
opportunities that we hope will be coming close to fruition in
the very near future,” he said.  Dana Gas’s production of oil, gas and other fuels increased
17 percent in the third quarter to an average of 66,850 barrels
of oil equivalent per day compared with the same three months of
2012, according to the statement. Gross revenue gained 21
percent to 623 million dirhams.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  