-- Death to America Chants in Tehran as Hardliners Rally
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-11-04T13:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/death-to-america-chants-in-tehran-as-hardliners-rally.html
Tens of thousands of Iranian
demonstrators held one of the biggest anti-American rallies in
years outside the former U.S. Embassy in Tehran, as hardliners
stepped up opposition to President Hassan Rouhani’s outreach to
President  Barack Obama .  Demonstrators waved banners attacking the U.S. and burned
American flags during the annual state-sponsored event termed
the “Day of National Confrontation Against World Imperialism.”
The gatherings mark the anniversary of the 1979 takeover of the
U.S. Embassy, referred to in  Iran  as a “nest of spies” and
come after conservative politicians and Revolutionary Guards
leaders called for a show of force.  Former top nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili gave a keynote
address at the rally, saying a confrontation between Iran and
the U.S. is a struggle between good and evil, according to a
translation by the state-run Press TV.  Two months ago, Rouhani and Obama spoke by phone, the first
direct contact between presidents since the  Islamic Revolution 
in 1979. Rouhani’s campaign to end Iran’s diplomatic isolation
and revoke economic sanctions imposed over the country’s nuclear
program have also sparked a debate on whether it’s still
appropriate to use the 20th century revolutionary slogan of
“Death to America.”  Hardliners have defended the phrase and attacked Rouhani’s
telephone conversation with Obama as a diplomatic blunder.  Friday prayer leader Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami encouraged the
use of the chant and said at Tehran University on Nov. 1 that
the Islamic Republic would continue talks with the U.S. while
continuing to use the slogan.  Iran’s armed forces Chief of Staff General Hassan
Firouzabadi defended the chant as something aimed at the top 1
percent of the American people and “Zionist Americans ruling
the world’s unjust system,” and not the American people, Fars
news agency reported.  In 1979, a group of revolutionary Iranian university
students took over the U.S. Embassy and kept 52 diplomats and
staff hostage, with government support, for 444 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in London at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  