-- Detroit Emergency Manager Spars With Bankruptcy Judge
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-04T18:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/detroit-emergency-manager-ends-testimony-as-unions-begin.html
Detroit ’s emergency manager ended 10
hours of testimony in a federal court by defending his decision
to put the city into bankruptcy instead of trying to persuade
unions to negotiate over cuts to pensions and other benefits.  Kevyn Orr denied that he was trying to “mislead anyone”
at a public meeting on June 10 when he told a retiree that
municipal pensions were “sacrosanct” under Michigan law. Orr
has since argued that federal bankruptcy law allows him to cut
pensions even though a clause in the state constitution bars
such reductions.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes asked Orr what he would
tell the retiree today.  “I would say his rights are subject to the supremacy
clause of the U.S. Constitution,” Orr said.  “That is a bit different from sacrosanct isn’t it?”
Rhodes asked in response.  Orr said it wasn’t different because he also told people at
the meeting that all creditors of the city, including employees
and retirees, must be prepared to accept cuts.  The bankruptcy’s opponents, including unions and retiree
groups, are trying to show that Orr and state officials,
including Governor Rick Snyder, acted in bad faith in filing the
case under Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which covers
municipalities.  Rhodes must decide whether the city is eligible to remain
in bankruptcy court, where it’s protected from lawsuits and
other legal actions that might disrupt reorganization efforts.  Show Insolvency  To remain in bankruptcy, the city must show that it’s
insolvent, that it’s entitled under state law to file for
bankruptcy, that it tried to negotiate with creditors or was
unable to do so, and that it intends to file a plan to adjust
its debts.  Retirees and unions say Orr never tried to negotiate with
them and that Snyder violated the  Michigan  constitution by
authorizing a bankruptcy that could cut payments to the city’s
pension system.  The unions and retirees began mounting their case by
calling Shirley Lightsey, a former city worker who leads one of
Detroit’s retiree associations.  Under questioning by a city attorney, Lightsey acknowledged
that she didn’t have authority to negotiate cuts to retiree
benefits that would be binding on members of her organization,
the Detroit Retired City Employees Association.  “I’ve never had the authority to do binding and I’ve never
asked the membership for authority,” Lightsey said.  Orr testified that the bankruptcy was necessary partly
because the unions refused to negotiate with him over possible
cuts to retiree pension and health insurance benefits.  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  