-- Deutsche Wohnen Says 79% of GSW Investors Accepted Takeover Bid
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-11-04T08:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/deutsche-wohnen-says-79-of-gsw-investors-accepted-takeover-bid.html
Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) ’s offer to buy
residential landlord  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  in the biggest German
real estate acquisition in five years was accepted by 78.6
percent of GSW shareholders.  Investors who haven’t yet participated in the share swap,
which values GSW at about 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion), have
until Nov. 18 to take part, Deutsche Wohnen said in a statement
today.  Deutsche Wohnen said on Thursday the number of GSW
shareholders participating in the swap had surpassed the 75
percent needed to proceed with the deal. The transaction is
valued at 3.5 billion euros including debt, making it the
biggest since at least 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Both GSW and Deutsche Wohnen are focused on Berlin, where
home-price and rent gains have outpaced the rest of the country.
The merger will create a company with about 150,000 apartments
valued at 8.5 billion euros. It will be  Germany ’s second-biggest
landlord after  Deutsche Annington (ANN)  Immobilien SE.  Deutsche Wohnen made its offer on Aug. 20, about two months
after GSW’s chief executive officer Bernd Kottmann and its
chairman resigned following investor complaints about the way
Kottmann was hired. Deutsche Wohnen CEO Michael Zahn said at the
time that he took advantage of the power vacuum to make a bid
for a competitor he has considered buying since before  GSW’s
initial public offering  in 2011.  GSW management on Oct. 14 recommended that shareholders
accept the bid and said its co-CEOs Joerg Schwagenscheidt and
Andreas Segal will become chief operating officer and chief
financial officer, respectively, of the combined company.  Deutsche Annington is Germany’s biggest residential
landlord, with 180,000 apartments and a market value of 4.3
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  