-- Deutsche Bank Co-CEO Fitschen Probed Amid Kirch Case
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-11-05T08:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/deutsche-bank-co-ceo-fitschen-probed-amid-kirch-case.html
Deutsche Bank (DBK)  AG co-Chief Executive
Officer  Juergen Fitschen , already facing a tax evasion case, was
added to suspects in a probe of former bank executives’
testimony in a lawsuit filed by  Leo Kirch ’s media group.  Munich prosecutors told Fitschen he is being investigated
over “suspicion that incorrect information was deliberately
provided when giving evidence to bring about the dismissal” of
an appeal filed by a Kirch Group unit, Christian Streckert, a
Deutsche Bank spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Kirch companies say in lawsuits that Germany’s biggest bank
secretly plotted the group’s demise in 2002. Former Deutsche
Bank CEOs Rolf Breuer and  Josef Ackermann , former Chairman
 Clemens Boersig  and former board member Tessen von Heydebreck
are already under investigation over their testimony in the
decade-old dispute.  “The bank is absolutely convinced that this suspicion will
prove to be unfounded,” Streckert said.  Thomas Steinkraus-Koch, a spokesman for Munich prosecutors,
said today the probe was extended to Fitschen. Defense lawyers
have been granted access to the files and then have opportunity
to comment, he said in an e-mailed statement.  Kirch, once one of Germany’s biggest media tycoons, started
his battle against Deutsche Bank after his group filed the
biggest German bankruptcy in April 2002. The lawsuits, which
continued after his death in July 2011, claim Kirch’s company
failed after Breuer questioned its creditworthiness in a 2002
Bloomberg TV interview.  He pursued lawsuits against Breuer, 76, and Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank seeking at least 3.3 billion euros ($4.46
billion).  Bank Liable  Deutsche Bank was found partially liable by a Munich court
in December over the collapse of Kirch’s media group. The bank
has asked  Germany ’s top civil court to review the ruling.  That same month, Deutsche Bank said Fitschen was the
subject of a separate probe of whether bankers evaded taxes in
the carbon market. Five hundred German police and tax
investigators raided Deutsche Bank offices in Berlin, Dusseldorf
and Frankfurt as part of the investigation.  Deutsche Bank said in December that Fitschen is a subject
of the investigation because he signed its tax declarations.  The bank has said it’s cooperating with authorities and
that any errors in those declarations were corrected in a timely
manner. Fitschen told the media in December that the allegations
were groundless.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  