-- Johnnie Walker One Shot at a Time Boosts Diageo in Africa
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-11-04T16:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/diageo-woos-africa-with-johnnie-walker-one-shot-at-a-time.html
In Africa, where most spirits are
what the industry calls “unbranded” -- meaning “homemade” --
 Diageo Plc (DGE)  is betting smaller bottles can persuade more drinkers
to sample its well-known labels instead.  Diageo, the maker of Smirnoff vodka, Johnnie Walker whisky,
and scores of other liquor brands, has introduced 20-centiliter
containers -- a bit less than a third the size of a normal
bottle of spirits -- in sub-Saharan Africa. The approach
provides a cheaper way for friends to share one of Diageo’s
global brands instead of choosing a local tipple or a beer.  “There’s a perception that spirits are expensive in
Africa,” Gerald Mahinda, a managing director at Diageo, said on
the sidelines of an investor conference in  London . “This allows
people to try them.”  With fast-growing economies and relatively low alcohol
consumption -- Nigerians last year drank 0.3 liter of spirits
each and Ghanaians 2.4 liters, versus 20.9 liters in  Russia  and
7.4 liters in the U.S., Diageo says -- Africa is becoming a
major battleground for alcohol producers. Though the scant
consumption is largely due to low incomes, consumer spending
power is increasing, Mahinda said.  Diageo has introduced 20-cl bottles of  Johnnie Walker  Red,
one of the cheapest variants of the whisky, in three countries.
A bottle costing some 12 cedis ($5.43) in  Ghana  has six
servings, making it roughly equivalent in price to Guinness
beer, which runs about 2.10 cedis for a 33-cl bottle.  Aspirational Drinkers  The smaller bottles have helped the brand grow an average
of 60 percent per year in  South Africa  since their introduction
in 2010, according to Diageo, appealing to aspirational drinkers
who want to try something new. Last year, the company started
selling the bottles in Ghana and  Nigeria .  While beer accounts for about two-thirds of Diageo’s Africa
revenue -- its Guinness was first exported to Sierra Leone in
1862 -- the company lags behind  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and  Heineken NV (HEIA)  in
the region.  In sub-Saharan Africa, by contrast, the company is the
clear market leader in sales of branded spirits, according to
 UBS AG (UBSN) , eclipsing rival  Pernod Ricard SA. (RI)  Diageo had Africa
revenue of 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) last year, or 13
percent of the company’s global total and almost seven times
Pernod’s sales in the region.  Pernod’s incoming Chief Executive Officer, Alexandre Ricard, has said Africa is a priority and in September told
reporters that the region is “like  Asia  was 15 years ago.” The
company made its first major push in the region outside of South
Africa in the past two years, and Africa accounts for roughly 3
percent of global sales, according to Pernod.  Sampling Strategy  “Diageo has a clear competitive head start” over Pernod,
said  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in London. With demand
rising fast, though, there’s plenty of opportunity for all
players, she said. Sub-Saharan Africa has expanded at an average
of more than 5 percent annually since 2010, and Diageo’s sales
growth in the region has averaged 13 percent a year since 2004.  Diageo  shares  rose 0.6 percent to 1,990.5 pence in London,
giving the company a market value of about 50 billion pounds.
Its shares have increased 11 percent  this year .  With its mini-bottles, Diageo is taking a page from
consumer-goods giant Unilever, which has long sold small sachets
of shampoos and soaps in Asia for just pennies apiece, according
to  Martin Deboo , an analyst at  Investec Plc. (INVP)   “It’s about educating the consumer -- clearly most
Africans aren’t going to go straight for 700-milliliter bottles
of Johnnie Walker Blue” -- a variant that can top $200 per
liter, Deboo said. “It’s not just about price -- it’s a
sampling strategy.”  Nigerian Guinness  The company is working with owners of mainstream bars such
as licensed shebeens -- pubs in South Africa’s townships -- to
attract lower-income drinkers who haven’t traditionally consumed
its brands. Diageo sales people tour such taverns urging
bartenders to serve shots of its spirits.  To woo drinkers of moonshine and local brands, Diageo has
created cheaper labels for Africa. Its Jebel gin, Smirnoff 1818
vodka, and Richot brandy, for instance, typically cost less than
$10 for a standard 700-ml bottle. Such brands offer better
margins than beer, Diageo says, and are almost as profitable as
big international spirits like Johnnie Walker or Baileys.  Diageo plans what it calls a “ladder” of brands at
different prices to cater to consumers who may seek a shot of
Johnnie Walker after they get their paycheck, but choose a Jebel
in tighter times. Africans, Mahinda says, are keen to adopt new
products, as seen in the rapid growth of mobile technology
across the continent.  “Ten to 15 years ago, there was disbelief about what
mobile phones would do to  Africa ,” he said. “Now people can’t
keep up. I think people will be shocked in the next four to five
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  