-- Euro Weakens on Bets ECB Will Ease Monetary Policy; Aussie Drops
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-11-05T08:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/dollar-holds-declines-versus-peers-before-services-gdp-data.html
The euro fell to a three-week low
versus the yen as traders weighed the prospects for additional
monetary stimulus in the region before the  European Central Bank 
meets in two days.  The common currency declined versus most of its 16 major
counterparts before ECB President  Mario Draghi  speaks today in
Frankfurt. The dollar fell for a second day against the yen
before an industry report that economists said will show growth
in U.S. service industries slowed last month. Australia’s dollar
weakened for the third time in four days after the central bank
said the currency is “uncomfortably high.”  “We expect Draghi to be fairly dovish, and I think people
are already beginning to position for that, either by cutting
euro longs or initiating euro shorts,” said Hamish Pepper, a
currency strategist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . A long
position is a bet a currency will advance, while a short
position is a wager on a decline.  The euro fell 0.6 percent to 132.49 yen at 8:05 a.m. London
time after dropping to 132.39, the weakest level since Oct. 10.
The single currency declined 0.2 percent to $1.3488 after
sliding to $1.3442 yesterday, the lowest since Sept. 18. The
dollar slipped 0.4 percent to 98.22 yen.  Bank of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
UBS AG all predict the ECB will cut its benchmark main
refinancing rate by a quarter percentage point to 0.25 percent
at its meeting on Thursday. The other 65 of 68 economists
 surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  forecast policy makers will leave
borrowing costs unchanged.  Second Worst  The euro slumped 2.3 percent versus the dollar last week as
a report showed the region’s annual inflation rate unexpectedly
fell to 0.7 percent in October, the least since November 2009.  “Most people are focusing on the ECB meeting, given the
weakness in recent data coming out from Europe, particularly the
low inflation print,” said Khoon Goh, a senior currency
strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Singapore. “The market is ascribing a chance of a potential
rate cut from the ECB, so that’s seen the euro come off.”  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  will today release economic growth forecasts for the
region in Brussels.  The euro fell 1.2 percent in the past week, the worst
performer after the Swedish krona of 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar and the yen both gained 0.9 percent.  Dollar Weakens  The dollar dropped against the yen before today’s data on
the nation’s service industries.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. non-manufacturing index fell to 54 in October, from 54.4 the
previous month, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  “ Monetary policy  is likely to need to remain accommodative
for some time so that we can achieve full employment within a
reasonable forecast horizon,” Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , who votes on monetary policy this year, said in a
speech in Boston yesterday. “The economy remains challenged.”  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  gives a speech today
on the labor market in Charlotte, North Carolina. The
probability of another recession is “bigger than we thought,”
he said after a speech on Nov. 1.  The Aussie fell against all except two of it 16 major peers
after the  Reserve Bank  kept its key rate at a record-low 2.5
percent and signaled concern currency strength risks undermining
the recovery.  “The Australian dollar, while below its level earlier in
the year, is still uncomfortably high,” Governor  Glenn Stevens 
said in a statement. “A lower level of the  exchange rate  is
likely to be needed to achieve balanced growth.”  The Australian currency weakened 0.3 percent to 94.82 U.S.
cents after declining to 94.22 cents on Nov. 1, the lowest level
since Oct. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  