-- Dolphins Suspend Incognito, Ask NFL to Probe Alleged Abuse
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-11-04T22:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/dolphins-suspend-incognito-ask-nfl-to-probe-alleged-misconduct.html
The Miami Dolphins indefinitely
suspended Richie Incognito for conduct detrimental to the team
as they investigate an incident of alleged harassment involving
fellow offensive lineman Jonathan Martin.  Incognito asked Martin to contribute last summer to an
unofficial team trip to  Las Vegas , and in April left him an
expletive-filled voice message that contained a racial slur,
according to ESPN. Martin, who did not go with his teammates to
Las Vegas, gave Incognito $15,000, the report said, citing
unidentified people familiar with the situation.  David Dunn , Incognito’s agent, didn’t immediately return an
e-mail or telephone message left at his office seeking comment.  Martin’s father, Gus, an acting associate dean and
professor of criminal justice administration at  California State
University , Dominguez Hills, said in a telephone interview that
the family wouldn’t comment until after a National Football
League investigation and that all inquiries are being handled by
his son’s agent, Kenneth Zuckerman. Zuckerman did not respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  Dolphins coach Joe Philbin said today that the team asked
the NFL yesterday to conduct a review of alleged misconduct in
its locker room. Martin left the team on Oct. 28 after an
incident in the team dining area, Philbin said.  “As the head coach of the  Miami Dolphins , I am in charge
of the workplace atmosphere,” Philbin told reporters. “If the
review shows that this is not a safe atmosphere, I will take
whatever steps necessary to ensure that it is.”  Dinner Bills  Dolphins rookies have also been pressured into paying for
social outings for older players, the Miami Herald reported,
citing an unidentified person familiar with the situation. The
practice, which included handing younger players the bill on a
$30,000 team dinner, is a financial burden and is affecting
locker room chemistry, the newspaper said. The NFL rookie
minimum salary is about $405,000.  The NFL and the Dolphins have heard the voice message in
which Incognito used a racial epithet, ESPN said. There are also
 text messages  that contain derogatory terms referring to sexual
orientation, according to the network.  “A toxic locker room environment is when those in
perceived power kind of exert that power through intimidating,
degrading and disrespecting those around them,” former NFL
quarterback Trent Dilfer said today on ESPN’s SportsCenter.
“And it sounds like that’s what’s happened in Miami.”  Philbin said he spoke with Martin the evening the player
left the team, and was in contact throughout the week with
Martin and his family. The coach said the team first heard of
possible allegations of misconduct yesterday morning, after
being contacted by one of Martin’s representatives. That’s when
the team reached out to the NFL, according to Philbin.  NFL Review  “The NFL is going to conduct a review of the workplace,”
the coach said. “It’s going to be comprehensive, it’s going to
be objective, and we as an organization are going to give our
full cooperation.”  After contacting the NFL, the Dolphins issued a statement
yesterday regarding the suspension for the 30-year-old
Incognito, a nine-year NFL veteran who started the team’s first
eight games.  “We believe in maintaining a culture of respect for one
another and as a result we believe this decision is in the best
interest of the organization at this time,” the team said.  Martin, 24, is in his second season with the Dolphins after
being taken in the second round of the 2012 draft.  “Our primary concern for Jonathan is his overall health
and well-being,” the Dolphins said yesterday in a statement.  ‘A Mess’  League spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail that the NFL
has been in contact with the team since last week and will
conduct a thorough review. He declined to comment on any
possible violations of league policy.  Former NFL coach  Brian Billick , who won a  Super Bowl  with
the  Baltimore Ravens  and is now an analyst for Fox, said that
while every team has traditions for rookies, the Dolphins’
handling of Martin’s case has been “a mess.”  “Every team has something like this, like you have to
bring the doughnuts in this week,” Billick told ESPN Radio.
“It’s part of the atmosphere in the locker room but you have to
stay on top of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  