-- The Primary Care Technician Will See You Now
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-04T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/the-primary-care-technician-will-see-you-now.html
One obvious way to address the
shortage of primary medical care in the U.S. is to train more
people who can provide it. Even if this could somehow happen
overnight, though, it wouldn’t necessarily solve the problem:
Only 1 in 4 medical-school graduates goes into primary care (the
least lucrative area of medicine), and no more than half of
nurses and physician assistants do.  Just as important, those who do practice general medicine
are rarely drawn to work in the rural and inner-city areas where
people most lack access to medical treatment.  What’s needed is a strategy to lure people who already live
in underserved communities to practice health care there. One
clever way of doing that, just  proposed  by a group of authors
writing in the November issue of Health Affairs, is inspired by
the successful model of emergency medicine -- that is, give
people the level of training that emergency medical technicians
and paramedics receive, but aimed at primary rather than
emergency care.  After all, what do EMTs and paramedics do but bring medical
skills and equipment to places where doctors and nurses aren’t
readily available? In their case, the places are wherever car
crashes, heart attacks or other sudden medical catastrophes
happen. EMTs and paramedics are also trained relatively quickly
and paid relatively modestly, with a mean annual salary of less
than $35,000.  An EMT receives 150 hours of classroom instruction, plus
supervised practice. A paramedic logs 1,000 to 2,000 hours of
study and practice beyond that and may have an associate degree.
“Primary care technicians” -- as Arthur Kellermann, dean of
the medical school at the Uniformed Services University of the
 Health Sciences , and his co-authors call them -- would get the
same amount of training in basic preventive care, health
counseling, management of chronic conditions and treatment of
minor illnesses.  Like EMTs, PCTs would practice under a doctor’s
supervision. To enable them to visit patients in a variety of
settings -- storefront offices, community centers, even
patients’ homes -- PCTs would be equipped with portable medical
devices, including stethoscopes, blood-pressure cuffs, video-equipped ear scopes and the like, as well as tablet computers.
The tablets would give them access to information on treating
all sorts of medical problems, enable them to keep patients’
medical records up to date, and allow them to send photos or
videos of patients for supervising doctors to evaluate.  Of course, PCTs could not instantly materialize. Training
programs, which do not currently exist, would need to be
created, and state licensing requirements would have to be
updated. And a presumably reluctant medical establishment would
need to be convinced the idea would work. Perhaps only states
with a great need for more widespread primary care would take up
the strategy to begin with.  Nor could PCTs by themselves solve the  shortage of primary
care  doctors -- a problem that’s set to worsen as millions more
people get health insurance through the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. Increasing the number of primary care
doctors, nurse practitioners and physician assistants remains
essential.  But a primary care technician is a fresh idea that combines
the virtues of technology with convenience, and at a relatively
low cost. It’s certainly worth a try.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 