-- ECB Says German Lenders Need to Increase Leverage Ratios
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-04T16:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/ecb-says-german-lenders-need-to-increase-leverage-ratios.html
Banks in Belgium, Cyprus and  Germany 
are among the most leveraged in the euro area and probably need
to increase their equity as a share of assets, the  European
Central Bank  said.  Banks in Cyprus were most leveraged on average, with equity
amounting to 3 percent of assets at the end of 2012, while
lenders in Estonia were least leveraged with a ratio of 13.3
percent, the Frankfurt-based ECB said in a  report  published on
its website today. That dispersion suggests some banks “need to
make further progress,” according to the ECB.  Regulators are increasingly focusing on the broadest
measure of leverage as well as gauges that include the risk
banks assign to assets. Investors are waiting to hear what
emphasis the ECB will place on different methods to assess
banks’ health as it begins a review of the assets of about 124
of the region’s biggest lenders, including ING Groep NV,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , this month and takes over
supervision next year.  The median equity-to-assets ratio at euro-area banks rose
to 7.1 percent in 2012 from 6.7 percent a year earlier,
according to the statement. The lenders increased their total
equity by 6 percent in the period while reducing assets 1.4
percent, the ECB said, without identifying individual companies.  Asset Cuts  Banks have focused on eliminating risk-weighted assets that
command the highest  capital requirements , according to the
document. German and French banks accounted for 85 percent of
the reduction in risk-weighted assets related to “market
risk,” indicating that investment banks are responding to
regulatory changes and working to reduce leverage, the ECB said.  The definitions of equity and assets used by individual
countries can differ, meaning a comparison between the ECB data
published today with that in disclosures from banks and
regulators isn’t necessarily meaningful.  Earlier this year, European bankers including Deutsche Bank
co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain said focusing on equity as
proportion of total assets, known as the  leverage ratio , could
increase risk and curb lending. Lenders have since sought to
show investors that they exceed stricter standards even though
 European Union law  doesn’t require them to comply with a
leverage ratio.  The debate over the leverage ratio is “done” and lenders
have to comply as clients and investors will switch to the
safest banks, Jain said at a conference in September.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, plans to shrink its
balance sheet by about 186 billion euros ($251.3 billion), or 12
percent, from its level at the end of September through 2015,
company filings show.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, is
considering an increase of its 80-billion-pound ($127.7 billion)
balance sheet reduction target, CEO  Antony Jenkins  told
reporters on a conference call last week.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank, said in August that
it is “done” with efforts to shrink and that it already meets
leverage standards and doesn’t plan further asset cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  