-- Ecuador Lawsuit Backer Tells Chevron Judge He Backed Out
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-11-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/ecuador-lawsuit-backer-tells-chevron-judge-he-backed-out.html
A lawyer who helped fund pollution
litigation in Ecuador against Chevron Corp. that resulted in a
$19 billion judgment told a judge he became concerned about how
the case was being handled and recommended plaintiffs settle.  Joseph Kohn of Philadelphia’s Kohn, Swift & Graf PC
testified yesterday in a non-jury trial in  Manhattan  federal
court that he left the environmental case in November 2009 after
the plaintiffs refused to allow his firm to take a more active
role in its management. Kohn said his firm invested more than $6
million in the lawsuit, which was filed over a polluted oil
drilling site in the Ecuadorean Amazon.  Chevron alleges in its case before U.S. District Judge
 Lewis Kaplan  that the Ecuadorean plaintiffs, led by Manhattan
lawyer Stephen Donziger, engaged in a racketeering scheme
against the second-largest U.S. energy firm and won the judgment
through fraud and bribery. Donziger denies doing anything
illegal in Ecuador and claims he was merely matching Chevron’s
own tactics.  “There was a frustration on our part,” Kohn said in court
yesterday under questioning by Donziger, who is representing
himself alongside a team of other lawyers, in reference to
discussions about financing in 2009. “Budgets were frequently
not followed.”  In testimony filed with the court, Kohn said that his
firm’s relationship with Donziger began to deteriorate in 2008
when the case began to take longer than expected and Chevron
raised questions about possible unethical conduct. When Kohn
tried to take a more active role in the case, Donziger
obstructed his efforts, Kohn said in testimony filed with the
court.  Strategy Decisions  In November 2009, Kohn wrote to other lawyers on the
Ecuadorean case recommending that they approach Chevron with a
settlement. The other lawyers rejected that offer and said
Donziger was handling strategy decisions, Kohn said in his
written testimony.  Kohn said in court yesterday that he responded with a
letter stating that he could “no longer function as counsel.”
In a follow-up meeting in 2010 in Philadelphia, Kohn told other
members of the Ecuadorean plaintiffs team that they should
consider transitioning to other lead legal counsel.  “I gave them my best advice that the case appeared to be
running off of a cliff,” he said yesterday in court under
Donziger’s questioning.  In the underlying 20-year-old environmental dispute,
Donziger and other lawyers for indigenous people in  Ecuador ’s
Lago Agrio region sought damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged
dumping of toxic drilling wastes from 1964 until about 1992. The
lawsuit continued against Chevron when it acquired Texaco in
2001.  Joint-Venture  Chevron contends that state-owned Petroecuador, a former
Texaco joint-venture partner, is responsible for most of the
pollution and that Texaco already paid to clean up its share.  In the racketeering case, Chevron alleges the Ecuadorean
plaintiffs bribed and pressured judges who oversaw the case,
including the judge who issued the $19 billion ruling, and
ghostwrote a court-appointed expert’s damages report as well as
the ruling itself.  The  San Ramon , California-based energy company is seeking a
ruling barring Donziger and his associates from trying to
enforce the Ecuadorean judgment in courts around the world.  Kohn said he has waived any interest in the judgment. He
agreed to put on hold plans to sue Donziger in an effort to
recover the funds.  The racketeering case is  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691, U.S. District Court,  Southern District of New York 
(Manhattan). The appeals court case is In re Naranjo, 13-00772,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  