-- Emerging ETF Rises as Vale Jumps on China’s Economic Data
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-04T21:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/emerging-stocks-decline-for-third-day-as-thai-tensions-escalate.html
The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
Index exchange-traded fund advanced for a second day as  Vale SA (VALE5) 
drove gains in commodity producers after an official report
fueled optimism that  China ’s economic growth is picking up.  The developing-nation ETF advanced 0.6 percent to $42.74
in  New York . The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.1
percent to 1,027.06, falling for a third day. ZTE Corp. and
Beijing Zhongke Sanhuan High-Tech Co. rallied more than 3
percent, while Brazilian iron-ore producer Vale rose to the
highest since March. The Budapest Stock Exchange Index increased
to a three-month high as Hungary’s ruling party proposed aiding
foreign-currency mortgage borrowers using existing tools after
legal obstacles delayed new assistance measures.  China’s Purchasing Managers Index for services was 56.3 in
October, up from 55.4 in the previous month, official data
showed yesterday, after a manufacturing  PMI (CPMINDX)  on Nov. 1 that also
pointed to an expansion. The nation’s top party officials will
meet from Nov. 9-12 to map out a blueprint for reform.  “The Chinese data is continuing to show a pretty healthy
trend,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million in assets, said in a
telephone interview from Lisle,  Illinois . “Within EM as a
whole, it’s just going to drive everything around it.”  Gauges of commodity companies in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index posted the only gains among 10 industries. The broad
measure trades at 10.5 times projected earnings, compared with
the  valuation  of 14.3 for the MSCI World Index. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, advanced 1.1 percent to 21.91.  Beef Plants  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose 0.8 percent after a two-week slump.
Vale, whose top export market is China, advanced 2.3 percent in
a fourth day of gains. Meatpacker Minerva SA climbed after
agreeing to buy two beef plants from BRF SA, which will hold a
15 percent stake in the company once the deal is completed.  The Budapest Stock Exchange Index jumped 1.7 percent. OTP
Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rose to the highest level
in more than three months and the forint rallied. Benchmark
indexes in the  Czech Republic  and  Poland  increased, while stocks
in  Turkey  retreated. The Russian equity market was closed for a
holiday.  Five stocks gained for every three that fell on the
Shanghai Composite Index, which was was little changed.
Telecommunications and technology stocks led gains on the CSI
300 Index. ZTE rose the most in almost a month, while Beijing
Zhongke Sanhuan jumped 4.1 percent.  Thailand, Indonesia  Thailand ’s stocks dropped by the most in six weeks and the
baht slipped on speculation protests against a bill granting
amnesty for political offenses will escalate and deter
investment. The  SET Index (SET)  slid 2.9 percent, the most since Sept.
23. Indonesia’s rupiah fell to a three-week low on concern an
unexpected trade deficit in September will weigh on the nation’s
current account.  Woori Finance Holdings Co. sank to the lowest level in more
than three weeks, leading declines among South Korean financial
companies, after it reported earnings that missed estimates. The
nation’s bonds fell, pushing the three-year yield to a two-week
high.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 316 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  