-- Men’s Wearhouse Calls Jos. A. Bank’s Bid ‘Inadequate’
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-04T21:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/men-s-wearhouse-calls-jos-a-bank-s-bid-inadequate-.html
Men’s Wearhouse Inc. (MW)  said  Jos. A.
Bank (JOSB)  Clothiers Inc.’s takeover bid undervalues the company and
isn’t in the best interest of shareholders.  Men’s Wearhouse Chief Executive Officer Doug Ewert said in
a statement that the retailer’s own strategic plan would create
more value than the offer from smaller competitor Jos. A. Bank.
The board of Houston-based Men’s Wearhouse won’t provide Jos. A.
Bank access to nonpublic information for limited due diligence
after Jos. A. Bank said in a letter last week it would consider
raising its $2.3 billion bid if given access.  “We are enthusiastic about Men’s Wearhouse’s prospects and
are confident that our strategic plan will deliver more value to
our shareholders than Jos. A. Bank’s inadequate, highly
conditional proposal,” Ewert said in the statement.  Jos. A. Bank Chairman Robert Wildrick said in a letter sent
to Men’s Wearhouse last week he will terminate the buyout offer
on Nov. 14 if Men’s Wearhouse doesn’t engage in “good faith
discussions.” Shares of both companies fell, signaling
investors are skeptical a deal will be completed. Jos. A. Bank
dropped 0.5 percent to $47.71 at the close in  New York , while
Men’s Wearhouse slid 2.8 percent to $42.14.  Jos. A. Bank reiterated in a statement today that its
proposal will remain open until the deadline next week.  “We are disappointed that the board of Men’s Wearhouse has
rejected our request for information and thereby chosen not to
explore the potential of Jos. A. Bank’s proposal for the benefit
of their shareholders,” Wildrick said in the statement. “Their
board’s position is a matter for consideration by the
shareholders of Men’s Wearhouse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  