-- Energy Week Ahead: Oversight Panel to Examine Gas Well Emissions
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-11-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/energy-week-ahead-oversight-panel-to-examine-gas-well-emissions.html
A U.S. Senate panel will explore ways
to reduce the amount of potent greenhouse gases that escape
during natural gas and oil operations.  Sarah Dunham, director of the Office of Atmospheric
Programs at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, is
scheduled to be the lead witness at tomorrow’s hearing. The
oversight panel of the Environment and Public Works Committee
also will hear from Mark Boling, general counsel for gas driller
 Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) , and A. Daniel Hill, head of the
petroleum engineering department at Texas A&M University.  Witnesses will discuss technologies that reduce methane
emissions that occur from drilling, according to Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, the Rhode Island Democrat who heads the panel.  “Unburned methane in the atmosphere contributes
significantly to climate change,” Whitehouse, said in an e-mail. “As domestic natural gas production grows in the coming
years, fugitive methane emissions will be a source of lost
profits for producers and will pose a growing threat to our
environment.”  When burned to produce electricity, natural gas emits about
half the carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, as coal. If
too much methane escapes during production or transportation,
the environmental benefit is lost.  Methane, the main component of natural gas, is 21 times
more potent at trapping heat in the atmosphere than carbon
dioxide, according to the EPA. A boom in U.S. natural gas
supplies brought on by hydraulic fracturing has sparked a debate
over whether expanding the use of gas sets back efforts to fight
climate change.  A September study that examined only stray emissions from
gas wells found that 0.42 percent of gas produced in the U.S. is
released into the atmosphere. A 2010 Cornell University study
using data provided by drillers estimated leakage at 0.6 percent
to 3.2 percent.  The EPA in 2012 issued the first rules to fight air
pollution from gas drilling. The regulations require operators
to use a technology known as green completions in which escaping
gas is captured.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  CARBON SEQUESTER: Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz will address a
ministers meeting of the Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum
in  Washington , Which runs from today through Thursday. In
addition to Moniz’s speech on Thursday, Tom Fanning, the chief
executive officer of  Southern Co. (SO) , which is building a carbon-capture coal plant in  Mississippi , and Kai Bjarne  Lima , vice
president for carbon management at  Statoil ASA (STL) , will address the
gathering.  ENERGY EXPORTS: Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat,
discusses the benefits of exporting natural gas to energy-hungry
countries such as  Japan  during a panel sponsored by the American
Council for Capital Formation on Thursday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  