-- Merkel Facing Power Dilemma as Coal Plants Open: Energy Markets
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-11-04T14:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/merkel-facing-power-dilemma-as-coal-plants-open-energy-markets.html
Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest power
market, is poised to open its first new coal-fired plants in
eight years, just as prices slump because of a glut of
electricity.  GDF Suez SA, Trianel GmbH and Steag GmbH will bring three
new plants online by December, enough to supply more than 4.4
million homes. The nation is already producing so much
electricity that exports will surpass last year’s record in
2013, according to the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy
Systems in Muenster, Germany. Power prices may slide 12 percent
by 2016, according to UBS AG in Zurich.  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who before the Sept. 22 election
said revising the nation’s renewable energy law was her first
priority, plans to shut Germany’s nine nuclear reactors within a
decade, replacing the round-the-clock output with intermittent
solar and wind plants. Even as the  $757-billion energy shift 
boosts renewable power output to 35 percent of total supply by
2020, from 23 percent now, Merkel will be more reliant than ever
on fossil fuels to drive Europe’s biggest economy on cloudy and
still days.  “Merkel’s government has put itself in a dilemma,” said
Danny Graefe, who has traded power and natural gas for four
years at AVU AG fuer Versorgungs-Unternehmen in Gevelsberg,
Germany. “On the one hand it is promoting green energy, on the
other hand, we see all those hard coal plants coming online now.
I don’t see anything bullish in the power market.”  Losing Streak  German power for next-year delivery is headed for a third
annual decline, its longest losing streak since trading began on
the Leipzig, Germany-based European Energy Exchange AG in 2002.
Power fell 17 percent this year to 37.47 euros a megawatt-hour
at 3 p.m. Berlin time, according to exchange data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
fell 5.7 percent in the period and the MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities advanced 17 percent.  Wholesale costs declined almost 60 percent since their peak
in 2008 amid record renewable output and two years of weakening
demand, according to AG Energiebilanzen e.V., an association of
energy lobbies and research institutes. Europe’s biggest economy
consumed 606 terawatt-hours last year, the least since 2009.  The three new plants mark the start of  Germany’s (GRGDPPGQ)  biggest
new-build program since its power market was liberalized in
1998. The units will boost the nation’s hard-coal capacity by
8.5 percent, and the total generation ability by 1.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Renewables  “With additional renewables and efficient thermal plants
entering the system, we believe the downward pressure on power
prices toward about 33 euros a megawatt-hour will continue until
2016,” said Patrick Hummel, an analyst at UBS in Zurich.  Steag will start commercial output at its 725-megawatt
plant near Duisburg in the “next few days,” Juergen Froehlich,
a spokesman based in Essen, Germany, said Oct. 30.  Trianel, an Aachen, Germany-based producer and energy
supplier owned by more than 100 regional utilities, will start a
750-megawatt unit outside Dortmund by the end of December.  GDF
Suez (GSZ) ’s 731-megawatt plant in Wilhelmshaven on the North Sea
coast will also start by then, according to data from
 Bundesnetzagentur , the Bonn-based grid regulator. A supply of
1,000 megawatts powers 2 million European homes.  “Investment decisions for those coal plants were made
around 2008 or before, before Germany’s nuclear phase-out plans
and when power prices were still high,” said Konstantin Lenz,
the Berlin-based managing director of Lenz Energy, an energy
markets adviser.  Nuclear Exit  The profit for hard coal-fired plants in Germany, based on
next year’s power, coal and emissions prices dropped 7.5 percent
in the past 12 months, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. The clean-dark spread was at 8.70 euros a megawatt-hour today.  “Right now is indeed not an ideal point of time to start a
new hard coal-fired plant,” Alexander Kox, head of Trianel’s
energy business, said Oct. 31 by e-mail. “We still opted for
running the plant as we’d have to pay for the fixed costs,
especially for interest and debt retirement, even if we don’t
run the plant.”  The last German coal plant to start generating power was
Grosskraftwerk Mannheim AG’s 255-megawatt GMK-6 in Mannheim. It
opened in December 2005, the year power prices jumped a record
42 percent on EEX.  The power glut is poised to widen because utilities plan to
add 9,397 megawatts of mainly coal and gas-fired plants by 2015,
including two units at  RWE AG (RWE) ’s 1,530-megawatt Hamm plant next
year, grid-regulator data show.  Nuclear Reactor  Utilities will shutter less than a third of that, or 3,077
megawatts, in the next two years, the data show. EON SE,
Germany’s biggest utility, will close its 31-year-old 1,275-megawatt Grafenrheinfeld reactor on Dec. 31, 2015 after Merkel
decided to abandon atomic energy within the next decade after
the Fukushima nuclear disaster in  Japan  in March 2011.  The glut spurred Societe Generale SA analyst Paolo Coghe to
cut his forecast for the average price of electricity delivered
in 2015 and traded next year by 7.3 percent to 36.7 euros,
according to a Sept. 16 report.  “Between today and the end of 2016, the German power
system will be more than adequately supplied thanks to existing
and planned new generation, moderate retirements and chronically
muted demand,” Coghe, said. Consumption will stagnate this year
and rise 0.5 percent in 2014, he said.  Expanding Economy  Germany’s economy expanded 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, after no growth in the first three months of the year.
Europe’s biggest economy will expand 1.7 percent next year, from
0.5 percent in 2013, according to the median of 47 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The nation’s year-ahead power contract will probably slide
to 35 euros by the end of next year, according to Ingo Becker,
the head of utilities research at Kepler Cheuvreux, a brokerage
in  Frankfurt .  At least three of the nation’s biggest power plants being
built have been delayed because of public protests and legal
action by environmental groups. A court in Muenster stopped the
construction of EON’s Datteln-4 coal plant in June 2012 after
green groups said the unit was built too close to a residential
area. The 1,100-megawatt plant is two years behind schedule and
the Dusseldorf-based utility needs a license to complete it.  Swedish Utility  Germany’s 13-year-old renewable energy law, known as EEG,
is designed to increase the share of electricity from green
sources to 80 percent by 2050 and gives priority grid access to
solar and wind over coal, gas and nuclear.  New coal plants and the renewable energy boom, with wind
and solar power flooding the grid on sunny and windy days, will
probably push net exports to 30 terawatt-hours this year, from
23 terawatt-hours in 2012, said Bruno Burger, a  Fraunhofer 
researcher.  Angela Merkel , who is currently in talks with the  Social
Democratic Party  to form a coalition government, vowed to change
the clean-energy subsidy system after she won a third term in
the Sept. 22 elections.  “We won’t comment on the question of new coal plants right
now, as coalition talks are currently dealing with this issue,”
Nikolai Fichtner, a spokesman for the German environment
ministry in Berlin, said Nov. 1 by e-mail.  Reserve Power  With gas-fired generation in Europe unprofitable until at
least 2016, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, coal-fired
plants act as the main backup to solar and wind power, while
emitting twice as much carbon dioxide as natural gas.  The profit from  burning coal next year  compared with the
loss from using gas rose to 27.35 euros a megawatt-hour on Oct.
11, the most in at least four years.  “Coal and lignite will continue to play an important role
when it comes to complementing the fluctuation of renewable
energy,” Hildegard Mueller, head of BDEW, the Germany utility
lobby, said. “If you want the energy transition to succeed you
won’t be able to renounce coal from the German energy mix for
the foreseeable future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  