-- Hernandez Casts Doubt on Future at Manchester United: Roundup
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-04T12:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/hernandez-casts-doubt-on-future-at-manchester-united-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Hernandez Future  Manchester United’s Javier Hernandez threw uncertainty on
his future at the club by retweeting a report about his lack of
games, the  Daily Telegraph said .  The  Sky report  quoted fellow Mexican Carlos Vela, who plays
for Real Sociedad, saying Hernandez should consider his options
if he can’t find a regular spot at United. Hernandez’s re-sending of the story could be seen as an endorsement of the
view, the Telegraph said. The 25-year-old striker has started
only one Premier League match this season.  Pato to North London?  Brazilian international Alexandre Pato may be on the way to
north London in the new year, the  Daily Star reported .  The former AC Milan forward, currently at Brazilian side
Corinthians, is a possible target for Arsenal and Tottenham
Hotspur, the newspaper added. A director at Corinthians said the
club is open to offers for the 24-year-old.  West Ham Bid for Ba?  West Ham wants to bring Chelsea striker Demba Ba back to
Upton Park when the January transfer window opens, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Coach Sam Allardyce wants to boost his team’s attacking
options after it failed to score in six of this season’s 10
Premier League games, the newspaper added. Senegal’s Ba played
11 matches for West Ham in 2011 before moving to Newcastle. He
signed for Chelsea in January, but only made two Premier League
appearances this season.  Norwich Eyes Mackay  Norwich is considering firing coach Chris Hughton and
replacing him with Cardiff manager and former Canaries player
Malky Mackay, the  Daily Mail reported .  Hughton is under pressure following a 7-0 loss to
Manchester City at the weekend which left the team in the bottom
three, the newspaper said. Norwich also suffered a heavy midweek
defeat, going down 4-0 to Manchester United in the League Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the  London  Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  