-- Letta’s Justice Minister Rebuffs Pressure to Quit Over Ligresti
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-11-05T16:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/letta-s-justice-minister-faces-ouster-push-for-financier-release.html
Italian Justice Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri rebuffed calls to resign over the release from
prison of a financier and family friend, telling parliament that
the discharge was decided independently by judges.  “I never asked the authorities in charge for the release
of Mrs. Giulia Ligresti,” Cancellieri, 70, said today in a
speech to the Senate in  Rome . Ligresti, the former chairman of
 Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) , was arrested in July on charges of
false accounting and market manipulation. She was granted house
arrest in August after officials determined her health was at
risk.  The case risks weakening Letta’s three-party coalition.
While the most vocal criticism has come from Beppe Grillo’s
opposition Five Star Movement, questions about Cancellieri’s
behavior have also been posed by lawmakers in Letta’s Democratic
Party. Letta confirmed his backing for the justice minister in a
Nov. 2 statement.  Lawmakers began questioning Cancellieri’s role in the
Ligresti release after la Repubblica reported on Oct. 31 that a
phone call between the minister and Ligresti’s mother was
intercepted by police in July. Senator Felice Casson of the
 Democratic Party , in an interview with the newspaper Libero,
called on Cancellieri to step aside, saying she had “put
herself more or less at the service” of the Ligrestis.  In her Senate speech, Cancellieri was conciliatory to her
critics after repeatedly rejecting lapses of judgment in
newspaper interviews in recent days. She said her emotions got
the best of her in the wiretapped conversation with Ligresti’s
mother, Gabriella Fragni.  ‘Step Down’  “I am aware that some of the expressions I used in that
call could have created doubts about the meaning of my words,”
Cancellieri said. “I’m sorry for that.”  Massimo Bitonci, a senator with the opposition  Northern
League , said today in parliament that the minister took a
special interest in the Ligresti case which is unfair to all
other people facing jail. “Your speech did not convince us, we
are asking you to step down.”  The charges against Ligresti stem from the control once
wielded over insurer  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA)  by the family through its
Premafin investment vehicle. Ligresti, her father, Salvatore Ligresti, and sister, Jonella Ligresti, are accused of
misleading at least 12,000 investors by concealing 600 million
euros ($810 million) of losses at Fondiaria-SAI in its 2010
accounts,  Italy ’s financial police said in a July statement.  Minister Son  The ties between the minister’s family and the Ligrestis
were amplified in 2011 when Cancellieri’s son Piergiorgio Peluso
was hired by Fondiaria-SAI as general manager. Peluso, who left
the insurer in September of last year, got that job on merit,
Cancellieri said.  Peluso, a former investment banker at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , is now
 chief financial officer  at  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA (UNI)  is in the process of taking
over Fondiaria, Premafin and Milano Assicurazioni to become
Italy’s second-biggest  insurer . Giulia Ligresti was granted
house arrest because of her health conditions and following her
guilty plea request, Turin Chief Prosecutor Giancarlo Caselli
said on SkyTG24 Nov. 1.  Cancellieri was scheduled to speak in the Chamber of
Deputies at 5:30 p.m. Five Star, the biggest opposition party,
has said it will push for a no confidence vote on Cancellieri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  