-- EU Nations Should Cut Some Wind, Solar Subsidies, Alstom Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-11-04T16:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/eu-nations-should-cut-some-wind-solar-subsidies-alstom-says.html
European nations should cut subsidies
paid to onshore wind and solar photovoltaic projects after 2020
and focus instead on new technology, said turbine-maker  Alstom
SA (ALO) ’s vice president of environmental policy and global advocacy.  “There are some renewable technologies out there now that
need much less subsidy than they did five years ago,” Giles Dickson said Oct. 31 in an interview in  London . Onshore wind and
solar “possibly” don’t need boosting, as long as they can
compete against other forms of power generation, he said.  Electricity generated by onshore wind farms costs only 5.5
percent more than power from coal plants, according to data from
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The price for offshore wind is
double that of coal-fired generation, the data show.  The European Commission wants to propose new climate and
energy policies for the decade through 2030 by the middle of
January, EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said the same
day at a Green Alliance seminar in London. The bloc should be
able to deliver such a package by March, HSBC Holdings Plc said
Nov. 1 in an e-mailed research note.  The EU should also raise a target for the amount of energy
that comes from renewable sources by 2030 to about 35 percent,
compared with the 20 percent goal for 2020, Dickson said. “That
does not mean we are pushing for more renewable subsidies,” he
said.  Focused Subsidies  Beyond 2020, “subsidies should be focused on those
technologies that still need a lot of support to get up the
learning curve and down the cost curve,” including offshore
wind, tidal and carbon capture and storage, Dickson said.  The total cost of developing and producing energy from
onshore  wind turbines  in the second quarter of 2013 was $82.61
per megawatt hour, compared with $78.30 per megawatt hour for a
coal-fired power plant, according to data from Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. In the same period, offshore wind cost $220.65
per megawatt hour and tidal power was $440.15 per megawatt hour,
the data show.  Renewable energy targets should continue alongside
emissions markets as a way of curbing carbon, Dickson said. “It
makes sense not to put all your eggs in one basket. If you look
at all the jurisdictions around the world that are serious about
low carbon, they are generally doing both CO2 pricing and
renewables targets,” he said.  Overgenerous Payments  Many EU nations have been overgenerous with subsidies, such
as feed-in tariffs, for renewable energy, leading to inefficient
allocation of resources, Dickson said. “Three years ago there
was more investment in solar PV in the  Czech Republic  than the
whole of the U.S.,” Dickson said.  U.S. consumption of  renewable energy  was about 51 million
tons of oil equivalent last year, compared with 1.3 million tons
for the Czech Republic, according to statistics from BP Plc.  Germany recognizes it has more than enough solar
photovoltaic and onshore wind capacity, Dickson said. Prior to
the Sept. 22 election, in which her party won the largest share
of the vote,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said revising the nation’s
costly renewable energy subsidies was her first priority.  Paris-based Alstom is a preferred bidder to make steam
turbines for a nuclear power station  Electricite de France SA (EDF) 
proposes to build at Hinkley Point in  England .  The U.K. government has agreed that EDF will receive a
92.50-pound ($148) per megawatt-hour fixed price for power
generated by the venture, nearly double the current level of the
wholesale  electricity market .  This would make Hinkley Point the world’s costliest power
station, Liberum Capital Ltd. said last week in a research note.  “The U.K. government wanted new nuclear build,” Dickson
said.  Centrica Plc , the U.K.’s biggest utility, and EON AG and
RWE AG in  Germany  have all dropped plans to help finance nuclear
stations in England, potentially because the price being offered
wasn’t working for them, Dickson said.  “The one company that stayed the course, EDF, agreed a
deal,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  