-- EU Presidency Sees Nations Approving Carbon-Fix Mandate Nov. 8
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-11-04T13:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/eu-presidency-sees-nations-approving-carbon-fix-mandate-nov-8.html
European Union governments will
“almost certainly” approve this week a mandate to start talks
on a draft carbon-market fix with the region’s Parliament,
according to an EU presidency official.  Lithuania , which holds the rotating presidency of the 28-nation EU, expects member states to agree at a Nov. 8 meeting
that their negotiating position will be to accept the draft
measure as amended by the Parliament in July, said the official,
who declined to be identified citing policy.  Carbon permits rose as much as 2.8 percent on speculation
that legislative work on the fix, known as backloading because
it delays sales of some permits, will accelerate. The price of
emissions fell to a record 2.46 euros a ton in April amid an
oversupply aggravated by the region’s recession.  “Today’s news indicates that the meeting is likely to
result in a green light, in which case we expect EU permits to
finish the week in the range of between 5.10 euros and 5.30
euros,” said Jerry van Houten, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  London . “But an inconclusive result and
further delays remain possible, in which case allowances are
likely to come under further bearish pressure.”  EU carbon allowances for December rose 1.7 percent to 4.70
euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at 1:06
p.m. in London. The bloc’s emissions trading system includes
about 12,000 installations owned by power companies and
manufacturers, which must surrender permits to cover their
shrinking quota of carbon dioxide discharges.  Final Draft  Should representatives of national governments approve the
mandate at this week’s meeting in Brussels, talks about the
final version of the draft backloading measure will start
between Lithuania, representing member states, and the
parliamentary team, led by chairman of the environment committee
Matthias Groote.  The outcome of negotiations will need to be backed by the
assembly and by ministers before the measure, which will enable
delays of carbon auctions, becomes a law. In the next stage,
member states will need to vote on a separate regulation to set
out the details of backloading, including the exact timing and
volume of allowances to be postponed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net  