-- Euro Rises From 6-Week Low as Manufacturing Grows; Aussie Gains
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-04T22:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/euro-climbs-from-6-week-low-as-manufacturing-grows-aussie-rises.html
The euro strengthened from a six-week
low against the dollar after a report showed manufacturing in
the currency bloc expanded for a fourth month in October.  The 17-nation currency advanced for the first time in three
days versus the yen amid speculation the  European Central Bank 
will refrain from cutting  interest rates  this week, and after
data showed manufacturing activities in the region improved.
 Australia ’s dollar rose against all of its 16 most-traded peers
after retail sales increased before the  Reserve Bank  reviews
borrowing costs tomorrow. The pound climbed from a two-week low
versus the dollar after U.K. construction output expanded.  “We saw some encouraging data on manufacturing in  euro
zone  -- that provided short-covering opportunities for
investors,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.,
said in a phone interview. “There’s a growing minority
expectation that we could see a cut this week. But even if we
don’t, it looks like there’ll a big chance of monetary easing in
the not-very-distant future.” A short position is a bet an
asset is going to decline in value.  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3514 at 5 p.m. New York
time after falling to $1.3442, the weakest level since Sept. 18.
The common currency gained 0.1 percent to 133.25 yen after
sliding 1.7 percent during the previous two days. The dollar
slipped 0.1 percent to 98.60 yen.  Aussie Rebounds  The Australian dollar gained for the first time in three
days after the Bureau of Statistics said  retail sales  rose 0.8
percent in September, compared with the median forecast of 0.4
percent in a Bloomberg survey.  “From an interest-rate perspective domestically, there’s a
growing view that we have hit the bottom,” said Hans Kunnen, a
senior economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “We think
the Aussie remains at these levels unless expectations somewhere
are totally knocked off the track.”  Australia’s dollar jumped 0.8 percent to 95.10 U.S. cents
after falling to 94.22 cents on Nov. 1, the weakest level since
Oct. 14.  The pound strengthened against most major peers after
 Markit Economics  said its index of U.K. construction activity
expanded at the fastest pace in six years.  “The data is suggesting that the economy is about as good
as it can get,” said  Gavin Friend , a currency strategist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in  London . “We should see a
renewed downward focus on the euro against sterling because
people are starting to think about the growth divergence.”  The pound rose 0.3 percent to $1.5968 after falling to
$1.5904, the lowest level since Oct. 16. The U.K. currency
traded at 84.63 pence per euro.  ‘Slightly Stronger’  An index of euro-area manufacturing based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  was at 51.3 last month, matching the
preliminary number and up from 51.1 in September, London-based
Markit Economics said. A level above 50 signals expansion. The
euro slumped last week after a report showed the annual
 inflation rate  fell to the least since November 2009.  “The issue this week is there might not be much coming out
of the ECB meeting,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a phone
interview. “If the ECB doesn’t cut rates, there might be some
rebound in euro-dollar, although we think it’s going to be
temporary.”  The euro will fall to $1.32 by year-end as the central bank
will lower the benchmark rate in December, Serebriakov said.  ECB Watching  Bank of America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
UBS AG all forecast the ECB will cut its main refinancing rate
this week, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 68
economists. The remainder predict no change. The ECB last
lowered its  benchmark  in May to a record 0.5 percent.  “We need to see the outcome of the ECB meeting before
calling euro performance into year-end,” Morgan Stanley
strategists led by head of global currency strategy Hans Redeker
in London, wrote in a note to clients. “While any rate cut
would likely have an immediate negative impact on the euro, the
longer-term impact could be milder.”  The common currency fell below its 50-day moving average at
$1.3489 before crossing back above it, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Its seven-day relative strength index was at
28.6 today after touching 22 on Nov. 1, below the 30 threshold
which indicates the currency’s decline may be losing momentum.  Options Trading  Volume in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options on the
euro-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $10 billion today, the
largest share of currency trades at 29 percent, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. The total was 148 percent more
than the average trading for the pair for the past five Mondays
at a similar time.  Options on the dollar-yen rate totaled $6.6 billion, or 19
percent of the total, with trading in the pair 8 percent below
average. Total options trading was $35 billion today, from $39
billion on Nov. 1.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, which
monitors price swings among currencies, was at 8.14 percent
after reaching 8.28 percent, the highest in almost four weeks.
The gauge fell to 7.55 percent on Oct. 28, the lowest since Jan.
9.  The euro rose 5.7 percent this year, the best performer of
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes The dollar strengthened 2.9 percent and the yen
slumped 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in  New York  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  