-- Ex-Sberbank Employee Called ‘Cokehead’ Wins Harassment Suit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-11-04T13:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/ex-sberbank-saleswoman-called-cokehead-wins-harassment-suit.html
A former equity saleswoman at OAO
Sberbank’s  London  unit won her sexual harassment lawsuit against
the bank after male colleagues sent messages referring to her as
“mad Svetlana” and “Ms. Cokehead.”  Svetlana Lokhova was subjected to harassment, victimization
and unfairly fired, a U.K. employment tribunal ruled in an
opinion dated Oct. 28. The three-judge panel didn’t decide how
much compensation she should receive.  David Longmuir, Lokhova’s former manager at Sberbank CIB
(UK) Ltd., sent e-mails and made remarks behind her back that
were “offensive and derogatory, and often personal in nature,”
the judges said. Longmuir told the tribunal in April that
although he regretted the comments, she had insulted him too. He
has since resigned from the bank.  Lokhova is the second woman to win a sexual discrimination
lawsuit in London this month, reversing a recent run of losses
for claimants at the city’s employment tribunals. Isabel Sitz, a
former stock broker at  Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. (OPY) ’s European
unit, won her claim for unfair treatment after managers
discussed cutting her salary to the U.K. legal minimum of 6.80
pounds ($10.85) an hour, then fired her.  Paul Marriott, a spokesman for Sberbank, said it was
committed to equal opportunities. He said the tribunal had
rejected 19 of the complaints made by Lokhova.  All-Male Desk  The tribunal judges didn’t accept a number of her claims
including that she was put under surveillance by the bank, and
that she was added to a list of underperformers because of the
dispute with Longmuir.  The allegations stem from her second stint working at
Sberbank’s U.K. unit in 2011, when she was earning an annual
salary of 120,000 pounds, plus a guaranteed first bonus of
$300,000. In January 2012, she went on leave because of stress,
citing a hostile environment on the all-male equity sales desk,
and never returned.  Lokhova’s spokesman, Neil McLeod, declined to immediately
comment.  “The language on the desk at Russian brokers was pretty
uncensored when I was at Aton for the first time from 2001 to
2004,” Peter Westin, chief strategist at Moscow brokerage Aton
Capital, said by mobile phone.  Crude Culture  “The culture was pretty crude and the women used to join
in but I noticed it had improved and caught up somewhat with
western standards after I re-joined in 2009 from JPMorgan,”
Westin said.  Sberbank, the former Soviet savings bank, has been
transformed under Herman Gref, a former economy minister for
President  Vladimir Putin . The bank held about 46 percent of the
nation’s deposits last year, according to Deposit Insurance
Agency data, and has diversified into  investment banking  and
asset management and expanded overseas. It acquired Troika
Dialog, Moscow’s oldest brokerage, in January 2012 for $1
billion.  Longmuir also referred to Lokhova “shrieking,” having
“unfortunate natural brain chemistry,” and living in a flat
her father bought, according to the tribunal’s ruling. The
judges said Paolo Zaniboni, who headed the London office,
“failed to manage properly the situation” and described his
failure to suspend Longmuir as “lamentable inaction.”  There is no cap on damages for gender discrimination cases.
If Sberbank and Lokhova can’t agree on compensation, the
tribunal will have another hearing to decide how much she should
receive.  Lokhova quit her first job at the bank as head of fixed
income sales in February 2010 after being told by bosses that
her complaint about alleged  insider trading  wasn’t acceptable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  