-- Texans Coach Gary Kubiak Is Stable After NFL Halftime Collapse
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-04T06:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/texans-coach-gary-kubiak-collapses-at-halftime-of-nfl-game.html
Houston Texans coach  Gary Kubiak  is
in stable condition after collapsing as he left the field at
halftime of last night’s  National Football League  game against
the  Indianapolis Colts .  Kubiak, 52, didn’t suffer a heart attack and didn’t lose
consciousness during the incident, the Texans said. He was taken
off the field at Reliant Stadium in Houston after being attended
to by medical personnel and then to a local hospital in an
ambulance for further tests.  “He had an episode at the end of the first half where he
was lightheaded and dizzy,” Texans General Manager Rick Smith
said in a televised interview after the 27-24 loss. “He’s been
evaluated by a number of specialists. He is awake, he’s coherent
and he’s talking, so we’re just trying to get some information
about what his condition is.”  Defensive coordinator  Wade Phillips  took over as the
Texans’ coach during the second half. Houston, which led 21-3 at
halftime, was outscored 24-3 in the second half.  “It was a shock to everybody,” Phillips said in his post-game interview. “But the game came down to them playing well at
crunch time and we didn’t.”  Smith said Kubiak’s vital signs were stable at the hospital
and he could rejoin the team today.  Kubiak’s collapse came two days after Denver Broncos coach
John Fox felt lightheaded during a bye week golf outing in  North
Carolina  because of a heart condition. Fox, 58, will undergo
aortic heart valve replacement this week and take a leave of
absence from the team for several weeks. Doctors had told Fox
months ago that his defective aortic valve would require a
procedure after the 2013 season, the team said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  