-- Facebook $9.5 Million Privacy Accord Let Stand by Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-04T15:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/facebook-9-5-million-privacy-settlement-let-stand-by-top-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  left intact
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s $9.5 million settlement of privacy claims,
declining to hear objections that none of the money was being
paid to people whose rights were violated.  The justices today let stand a federal appeals court
decision that upheld the accord, which resolved claims over
 Facebook ’s discarded Beacon advertising program.  A dissatisfied Facebook user challenged the agreement as
violating the federal rules that require class action
settlements to be “fair, reasonable and adequate.”  Beacon, started in 2007, tracked the activity of logged-in
Facebook members and broadcast their purchases to their friends.
After users complained about violations of their privacy,
Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  apologized, and
the company shut down Beacon in 2009.  The settlement calls for $6.5 million of the funds to go
toward a foundation that will promote online privacy and
security. The suing attorneys will get more than $2.3 million in
fees.  A federal appeals court upheld the accord as a legitimate
type of agreement in which the class members receive an indirect
benefit rather than money, often because the payments would be
so small as to be impractical.  Today’s action came without published dissent, although
Chief Justice  John Roberts  issued a statement saying the Supreme
Court might need to consider such settlements in a different
case. Because the challenge to the Facebook settlement was
focused on the particular features of that accord, the court
might not be able to reach the “fundamental concerns
surrounding the use of such remedies in class action
litigation,” Roberts wrote.  The case is Marek v. Lane, 13-136.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  