-- FICO to Offer Barclaycard Holders Credit Scores for Free
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-11-04T13:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/fico-to-offer-barclaycard-holders-credit-scores-for-free.html
FICO, owner of the credit-scoring
formula most widely used by U.S. lenders, is giving some
consumers access to their credit scores for free, even before
they apply for a loan.  The offering starts today for credit-card holders of two
companies: Barclaycard US, a unit of London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
and First Bankcard of Omaha, Nebraska-based  First National Bank 
of Omaha, FICO said in a statement.  San Jose , California-based
FICO, formerly known as  Fair Isaac Corp. (FICO) , is talking to other
banks about giving the scores for free, said Anthony Sprauve,
the firm’s senior consumer credit specialist.  “This is just the beginning,” Sprauve said in an
interview. “In 2012 we sold 10 billion FICO scores to lenders
and we’re prepared to make all of those scores available to
consumers.”  FICO scores, which are used in lending decisions such as
applications for credit cards and  interest rates  on home loans,
range from 300 to 850. Consumer advocacy groups and lawmakers
including U.S. Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent,
have pushed for more access to credit information, Chi Chi Wu, a
staff attorney at the National Consumer Law Center in Boston,
said an interview before today’s announcement.  “Consumers should have the right to get their credit score
for free before they apply for credit,” Wu said.  Many Americans “may not be fully aware of the significance
of their credit score or know what they can do to correct
serious errors,” Sanders said in a statement in March as he
introduced legislation on the topic.  Credit Reports  Previously, consumers who wanted to see their scores
typically had to buy them through FICO’s website for $19.95 or
sign up for a free trial subscription to its monthly score-monitoring service, unless they were denied credit or received
less money than they sought in a loan application.  Credit scores differ from credit reports, which are
provided by  Equifax Inc. (EFX) ,  Experian Plc (EXPN)  and TransUnion Corp. The
three agencies are required to give consumers a free copy of
their credit report upon request once every 12 months. They also
can sell people a credit score, which may be an “educational
score” that differs from the one used by lenders, Wu said.  FICO isn’t paying the banks or receiving compensation from
them for the free-score offering, Sprauve said. Banks purchase
FICO’s algorithm and data from the three credit-reporting
agencies used to generate credit scores, he said.  ‘Financial Health’  “Having people aware of their current credit score is
important to financial health,” Paul Wilmore, managing director
of consumer markets at Barclaycard US, said in an interview. Its
customers will be able to go online to see their FICO scores and
sign up for free alerts whenever they change.  The majority of Barclaycards don’t have an annual fee,
Wilmore said. The company is giving free FICO scores to
customers of its Barclaycard-branded cards and those with
 Frontier Airlines  and Carnival Cruise Lines. It will add other
partner programs in 2014.  First Bankcard, a provider of co-branded credit cards,
serves more than 400 financial firms and partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  