-- Firearm Ban After Assault Left Intact by U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-04T14:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/firearm-ban-after-assault-left-intact-by-u-s-high-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  declined to
take up a new gun-rights case, turning away an appeal from a man
barred from owning a firearm because of a misdemeanor assault
conviction 45 years ago.  The appeal by Jefferson Wayne Schrader contended that the
ban violated the Constitution’s Second Amendment, which protects
the right to bear arms.  The justices have repeatedly turned away gun-rights appeals
in the last three years. The court hasn’t considered a Second
Amendment case since 2010, when it said people have a right to
have a handgun in the home for self-defense purposes.  Schrader was convicted of misdemeanor assault and battery
after getting into a fistfight with a gang member in Annapolis,
 Maryland , in 1968. He received a $100 fine and no jail time.
Since then, he says, he served in  Vietnam , received an honorable
discharge from the Navy and has had no meaningful encounters
with  law enforcement  in the last 45 years.  Schrader sued after he failed federal background checks
while trying to acquire a shotgun and a handgun in 2008. The
Bellevue, Washington-based Second Amendment Foundation joined
Schrader in pressing the suit.  Federal law bars firearms possession by people convicted of
a crime punishable by more than a year in prison, or more than
two years if the crime is a misdemeanor.  A federal appeals court in Washington unanimously said that
provision applied to Schrader because Maryland law doesn’t
specify a maximum penalty for assault.  The three-judge panel said the firearm ban didn’t violate
the Second Amendment, even though Schrader “may well” present
no risk.  “Congress is not limited to case-by-case exclusions of
persons who have been shown to be untrustworthy with weapons,”
Judge David Tatel wrote for the panel.  The Supreme Court ruled in 2008 that the Constitution
protects individual gun rights. The majority said that nothing
in the ruling “should be taken to cast doubt on longstanding
prohibitions on the possession of firearms by felons.”  The case is Schrader v. Holder, 12-1443.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  