-- Fired Deutsche Bank Rates Traders Said to Return to Work
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-11-05T12:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/fired-deutsche-bank-rates-traders-said-to-return-to-work.html
Four  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  traders who
were fired in February as part of the lender’s probe into
manipulation of benchmark  interest rates  returned to work, two
people familiar with the matter said.  The men won reinstatement from a Frankfurt Labor Court in
September after they sued Deutsche Bank. A spokesman for the
lender confirmed that the traders returned to work yesterday and
declined to comment further.  Regulators around the world are investigating whether more
than a dozen firms, including Deutsche Bank, colluded to rig
benchmark interest rates.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  are among companies that have been fined
about $3.7 billion for rigging the London interbank offered
rate, or Libor, the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of
securities worldwide.  Norbert Pflueger, a Frankfurt-based employment lawyer, said
sending staff back to work was a standard tactic to force the
company to settle the case while an appeal is still possible.
While Deutsche Bank hasn’t yet lodged an appeal, the deadline to
file hasn’t passed.  “You send the employee back to the bank while the case is
pending,” Pflueger said. “He shows up, which practically means
to say: ’Hello, I’m back, but I am no longer employee XY - from
now on I’m your problem.’”  The pressure created by having the employees back in the
office helps when negotiating a settlement, he said.  More Trouble  “About 95 percent of these cases aren’t about actually
getting back your old job,” Pflueger said. “They are about
money. And the more trouble you can cause, the better deal you
may make.”  The bank argued at the Frankfurt court that the four men,
who made submissions for Euribor and Swiss franc Libor,
exchanged improper instant messages with derivatives traders
about what data to submit to help increase their profits.  The court said the dismissals were improper because bank
didn’t have processes in place to prevent conflicts of interest
when submitting data to calculate interest-rate benchmarks.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s largest lender, has said that an
internal probe found no wrongdoing by current or former
management board members and that it would fire or suspend
employees who acted inappropriately.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  