-- Florida’s Crist Says He Wants to Reclaim Governor’s Office
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-11-04T18:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/florida-s-crist-tells-rally-he-wants-to-serve-as-governor-again.html
Charlie Crist,  Florida ’s former
Republican governor who fled the party to become a Democrat,
told supporters he wants to reclaim the office next year,
setting up a campaign-spending spree that may eclipse the more
than $100 million spent in 2010’s record-breaking race.  Crist, 57, said at a rally in  St. Petersburg  today that he
wants to oust his successor, Republican Governor  Rick Scott ,
whose approval rating in Quinnipiac University polls has been
below 50 percent since he was elected in 2010. Crist said he
would fight for the middle class, and described Scott as
beholden to lobbyists and big businesses.  The former governor’s entry into the race opens the spigot
of spending for consultants, pollsters and advertising agencies
from both parties.  “It’s going to be a bonanza,” said Jay Goldfarb, who
earned more than $18,000 this year through his Budget Printing
Center in Riviera Beach, producing fundraising invitations for
the 60-year-old incumbent. “I expect this to continue, very hot
and heavy, right down to the wire.”  Scott, a former chief executive officer at  HCA Holdings
Inc. (HCA) , has raised more than $18.7 million for next year’s race.
As he traveled to Japan on Nov. 2 for a trade mission, his re-election committee spent more than $500,000 on a two-week blitz
of television ads targeting Crist.  National Barometer  The larger states of  California ,  Texas  and  New York  are
more predictably Democratic or Republican. That makes Florida,
the fourth-most-populous in the nation, a barometer. Donors from
across the U.S. plan to pour resources into its governor’s race,
to lay the groundwork for the next presidential election.  “Florida is a microcosm of the nation, and people look at
Florida because we have the evolving demographics, and we have
the ability to swing the 2016 presidential campaign,” said
Kevin Cate, a Democratic consultant who was the Florida
spokesman for President  Barack Obama ’s 2008 campaign.  Cate, who’s advising Crist, owns a Tallahassee-based firm
that provides media consulting and digital advertising. It’s one
of hundreds of businesses that stand to benefit from a race that
will require direct-mail advertising, hotel stays, private
flight services, flowers, food and more.  Scott listed his net worth at $218 million in 2010 and $83
million in a disclosure report this year. Crist, a lawyer at
Tampa-based law firm Morgan & Morgan, listed his net worth at
about $441,500 just before leaving office in January 2011. He
entered the race Nov. 1 and has yet to file a new disclosure.  ‘People’s Governor’  Crist told about 200 people gathered in a downtown St.
Petersburg park today that he would reverse spending cuts in
public education, restore  voting rights  for ex-felons and
restart a high-speed rail project Scott blocked in 2011. Crist
described Scott as beholden to his campaign contributors.  “Under this administration, big business, big
contributors, big lobbyists —- they’re the winners,” he said,
standing in front of a sign that read “The People’s Governor.”
“As governor, we’re going to have a  tax policy  that puts you,
the people, first.”  Melissa Sellers, a spokeswoman for Scott, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking a response to Crist’s
comments.  State Republicans created a website that criticized their
former leader as an opportunist.  “Throughout his career,  Charlie Crist  has only been
interested in one person -- himself,” said Lenny Curry,
chairman of the  Republican Party  of Florida, in a statement.
“When things got tough in Florida, he abandoned the state to
pursue the bright lights of  Washington .”  Re-Election Spending  Crist told a Florida Democratic Party conference last month
that Scott plans to spend $100 million on his re-election. Scott
hasn’t publicly said how much the campaign will cost, though he
has said he won’t use his own money.  Curry said his party will spend what’s necessary to tell
voters about shifts in Crist’s policy positions and an economic
decline while he was governor from 2007 to 2011, when the
state’s  unemployment rate  more than tripled to 10.9 percent from
3.5 percent.  Crist led Scott 47 percent to 37 percent in a June poll by
Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University . The  survey  of
1,176 registered voters had a margin of error of plus or minus
2.9 percentage points.  Between Crist and Scott, spending may rival California’s
2010 governor’s race, the most expensive in history, as
billionaire Republican  Meg Whitman , former chief executive
officer of  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , spent $144 million of her own money in a
bid that ultimately failed.  Biggest Beneficiary  In Florida’s 2010 governor’s race, the biggest beneficiary
of spending was Multi Media Services Inc. The media-buying
company in Alexandria,  Virginia , got more than $20 million to
help Scott blanket Florida with television ads.  Top donors like the Florida Chamber of Commerce will spend
millions to help Scott and highlight the state’s economic
rebound, said  Mark Wilson , its president. Unemployment in
Florida was down to 7 percent as of August, lower than the
 national rate  of 7.3 percent that month.  “We’ll invest whatever it takes,” Wilson said. “This is
not just an election in Florida, this is very much a signal” to
the rest of the country.  Phil Cox, executive director of the  Republican Governors
Association , said his group is prepared to match or beat the $10
million it spent in Florida in 2010.  ‘Real Money’  “It’s an incredibly expensive state with 11 media markets,
so it’s harder for outside groups to have an appreciable
impact,” he said in a telephone interview. “You have to put
real money on the table.”  In addition to protecting Scott, Republicans want to make
sure Crist doesn’t win as a Democrat. A lifelong Republican who
fled the party during an unsuccessful 2010 U.S. Senate race,
Crist embodies a narrative that his former party is trying to
combat.  He is releasing a book titled, “The Party’s Over: How the
Extreme Right Hijacked the GOP and I Became a Democrat,” and
has criticized Republicans for calcifying around positions
unpopular with most Americans, such as calls to cut spending on
 Social Security  and Medicare.  In a speech endorsing Obama at the Democratic National
Convention last year, Crist said that Republicans are “beholden
to the my-way-or-the-highway bullies, indebted to billionaires
who bankroll their ads and allergic to the very idea of
compromise.”  The state Republican Party, which spent almost $67 million
during the 2010 elections, has already put out daily ads and e-mails attacking Crist. One sent last month was titled: “Unfit
to Govern: Part XVII.”  The Democratic nominee will have help from national groups
including the Democratic Governors Association, said Danny Kanner, a spokesman for the Washington-based group.  “We believe he’s deeply vulnerable,” Kanner said of
Scott. “Because of that, it’s one of our top-targeted races.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  