-- France’s Plan to Give Factories Cheaper Gas Will Start in South
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-11-05T13:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/france-plans-cheap-gas-for-heavy-users-to-aid-domestic-factories.html
French plans to provide cheaper
natural gas to factories to help them stay competitive will
start with industrial users in the south.  “It’s a first step to try to solve the problem,” Benjamin
Gallezot, an official at the Industry Ministry, said at an
energy conference in Paris today.  France  yesterday said heavy users that face international
competition will be given special status in its regulated gas
market. Prices in the south have been higher than in the north
due in part to a diversion of imports from  Europe  to  Asia , where
prices are higher, as well as what the regulator has called
“structurally” tighter supply.  The pricing measure should also help balance differences
between gas in the U.S. and Europe, Gallezot said.  French manufacturers say they’re struggling to compete with
U.S. rivals that benefit from lower energy prices because of a
boom in production from shale reserves. France banned hydraulic
fracturing, the technique that extracts gas and oil from shale.
At the same time, it’s grappling with 14-year-high unemployment.  France’s energy regulator  Commission de Regulation de
l’Energie  has made a series of recommendations to improve the
flow of gas to the south such as increasing transport capacity
and merging the southern and northern markets, known as Point
d’Echange de Gaz Sud, or PEG Sud, and PEG Nord.  Cheap energy prices for industries that use the most is key
to making them competitive, Energy Minister Philippe Martin and
Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg said in a joint statement
yesterday. Steel, metallurgical and chemical plants are the
country’s industrial base, the ministers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  