-- Fuchs Defies Weak Currencies by Winning Market Share in Asia
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-04T09:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/fuchs-defies-weak-currencies-by-winning-market-share-in-asia.html
Fuchs Petrolub SE, the world’s
largest independent lubricant maker, won market share in  Asia 
and  Europe  as demand growth compensated for lower euro revenue
because of weaker emerging-market currencies.  The company has been seeing the positive effects of hiring
more people, Chief Executive Officer Stefan Fuchs said today on
a conference call with journalists. The preferred stock jumped
the most in three months in Frankfurt trading.  Fuchs, based in  Mannheim ,  Germany , today reiterated a full-year target of increasing earnings and sales after new factories
in Yingkou,  China , and Kaluga,  Russia , opened in the last two
months. The company has hired 101 workers since the beginning of
the year in sales, as well as in research and development.  “Due to its niche market strategy and investments in new
plants and new people, we assume Fuchs will gain further market
share,” Martin Roediger, an analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux, said
in a note to clients today. Roediger rates Fuchs buy.  Earnings before interest and tax gained 5.8 percent to 83.4
million euros ($112.7 million) in the third quarter. Sales were
little changed at 468.7 million euros and net income increased
5.7 percent to 57.9 million euros.  Growth of existing businesses in the first nine months led
to extra revenue of 39.6 million euros, which canceled out 39.8
million euros less in sales because of translation effects from
weaker currencies such as the Brazilian real and the South
African rand.  The preferred shares jumped as much as 4.4 percent, the
biggest intraday gain since Aug. 2, to 62.04 euros. They were
trading up 4 percent at 61.78 euros as of 10:34 a.m. local time.
The stock has risen 9.7 percent this year, valuing the company
at 4 billion euros.  Fuchs has said he’s seeking acquisitions to boost this
year’s revenue increase beyond the “low single-digit percentage
range” that the company is forecasting for organic growth.  The lubricant maker is majority owned by the Fuchs founding
family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  