-- Fuel-From-Soy Makers Mount Last-Ditch Lobby Push on EPA
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-11-04T17:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/fuel-from-soy-makers-mount-last-ditch-lobby-push-on-epa.html
Companies that make biofuels from
corn husks, soy and other materials are mounting a last-ditch
lobbying campaign to prevent a weakening of the U.S. renewable-fuel mandate, saying a lower requirement would set back an
industry that is ready to blossom.  The Environmental Protection Agency, responding to
complaints from refiners and fossil-fuel oil producers, has
proposed a reduction in the amount of renewable fuels that
refiners must blend into gasoline and diesel next year,
according to a draft obtained by Bloomberg on Oct. 10.  The proposal, which may be released this week, has been
sent to the Office of Management and Budget for review. The
agency has held 22  separate meetings  with outside groups about
the 2014 mandates since Sept. 23, according to its records.
Seventeen have been since the draft emerged -- 11 with renewable
fuel makers such as  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  Abengoa SA (ABG)  trying to fend off
the reductions.  “The worst thing that the Obama administration would be
doing is creating uncertainty for the industry,” Javier Garoz,
chief executive of Abengoa Bioenergy, said in an interview.
“You would be killing the industry for no reason.”  The mandates affect a wide range of industries. Refiners,
fast-food restaurants, ethanol producers and motorboat makers
all say the EPA’s decision is crucial to their industries. The
catch is that what each wants is very different.  Leaked Draft  The leaked EPA draft would cut the renewable fuel mandate
to 15.21 billion gallons for 2014 instead of the 18.15 billion
gallons  established by a 2007 law . News that the agency was
exploring that cut sent stocks for producers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  falling, while boosting refiners such as
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  The draft called for the
use of 13 billion gallons of conventional corn-based ethanol and
2.21 billion gallons of advanced biofuels such as biodiesel,
down from 13.8 billion gallons and 2.75 billion gallons
respectively  this year .  Makers of corn-based ethanol and advanced renewable fuels
say the cutbacks would curb investments in their fuels and
undercut the industry just as it is set to take off. In the
meetings at the White House, company executives and lobbyists
are urging the administration to change course before the plan
is officially released.  Market Certainty  Producers argue that cutting back on the advanced biofuels
doesn’t make sense, because, after long delays, companies such
as Abengoa and a joint venture of Royal DSM NV and Poet LLC will
begin making commercial quantities of biofuels from corn stalks
or other farm wastes in 2014.  They argue they need the government mandate to stay at its
current level so they have a certain market. Without that,
operating corn-ethanol plants would be idled and investments in
plants using non-food crops constrained, Garoz said. Abengoa has
six ethanol plants in the U.S., and is building a new plant in
 Kansas  that will make  cellulosic ethanol  from corn and wheat
waste. It is set to begin producing next year, he said.  Separately, scientists from the  Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory  announced research results today that could speed up
research into identifying the best enzymes to break down corn
stalks or wood waste into fuel. Creating the right enzyme
cocktail is crucial to bringing down the cost of these fuels,
Aaron Wright, a chemist at the government-funded lab, said in a
statement today.  ‘Strong Signal’  Outside analysts say renewable-fuel producers have reason
to worry about the government’s proposal.  If the EPA’s draft is adopted “they would be sending a
pretty strong signal to anyone investing in cellulosic biofuel
that you may not have the guaranteed market you think,” said
Scott Irwin, a professor in the department of agricultural
economics at the  University of Illinois . If this policy holds,
“EPA is adopting a policy of not forcing a stretch in the
market.”  At the same time refiners such as  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) 
say falling demand for motor fuels mean they are unable to blend
an increasing amount of ethanol without putting engines at risk.
In their meeting with OMB, Marathon officials said the
escalating requirements of ethanol to be added would force them
to sell fuel blends exceeding 10 percent or export gasoline, a
phenomenon known as “hitting the  blend wall .”  Blending in ethanol at greater than 10 percent can cause
problems with engine materials breaking down and the operation
of emission-control systems, according to the  American Petroleum
Institute . Older vehicles can’t handle blends of 15 percent
ethanol, the Washington-based trade group said.  API’s Push  Based on the Energy Information Administration’s  estimated 
132.9 billion gallons of gasoline demand in 2014, an ethanol
requirement of 13 billion gallons would fall below that 10
percent share.  The EPA proposal of that amount is “directionally
positive, but I think EPA needs to go a little further to
provide the certainty consumers want,” Bob Greco, downstream
director at the API, the fossil-fuel trade group based in
 Washington , said Oct. 24.  Critics say that the 10 percent “blend wall” is a fiction
created by refiners trying to preserve a market for gasoline. If
the mandate for renewable fuels grows, gasoline retailers will
have an incentive to sell more E85, an 85 percent ethanol blend,
to flex-fuel vehicle owners, ethanol makers say. Irwin said that
a higher overall mandate could also be filled by surging
biodiesel production, which is primarily made from  soybean oil .  “The blend wall has been used as an excuse, but it’s not a
real problem,” Paul Beckwith, the chief executive of Butamax, a
joint venture of DuPont and  BP Plc (BP/)  making biobutanol for fuel
use, said in an interview. “It can be overcome if the industry
sets its mind to overcoming it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  