-- Gangsters Torched by Vigilantes West of Johannesburg
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-11-04T14:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/gangsters-torched-by-vigilantes-west-of-johannesburg.html
Six people were killed and several
injured after a mob set suspected gangsters on fire and stoned
others in towns southwest of Johannesburg, according to the
South African Police Service.  The violence erupted after about 400 men met in a field in
Khutsong, 77 kilometers (48 miles) from Johannesburg, to discuss
crime in the area, said SAPS spokesman Neville Malila. Some of
those at the meeting formed splinter groups to hunt down the
gangsters.  “There’s a group that’s robbing community members when
they are going to work,” Malila said by mobile phone today.
“They wanted to address that issue and from that meeting they
left and started killing people.”  While South Africa’s murder rate has dropped by more than
half since 1995, it remains six times higher than that of the
U.S. South African President  Jacob Zuma ’s government has missed
its annual goal of reducing homicides and other serious crimes
by 7 percent to 10 percent. The nation’s murder rate rose for
the first time in six years in the year to March 31 amid an
upsurge in violent protests over mine wages and the provision of
basic services.  The vigilantes killed two men aged between 20 and 24 years
old from the Casanova gang by setting them on fire, the police
service said in a statement on its  website  yesterday. A 61-year-old traditional healer was also killed after being set alight,
while a further two gang members were stoned to death in nearby
Carletonville and others were assaulted by the mob.  No Arrests  “It’s murder and public violence,” Malila said by phone.
The police have made no arrests and are appealing to the
community not to take the law into their own hands, according to
the statement. Law enforcement officers have been sent to patrol
the area.  “It’s simmered down now but we’ll still maintain a police
presence in the area,” Malila said. “We haven’t seen this
level of violence previously.”  South Africa ’s Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa condemned the
violence.  “Mob justice is unjustifiable,” he said in an e-mailed
statement today. “You cannot resolve crime through committing
crime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  