-- Gap Between Big U.K. Firms and Rest: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/gap-between-big-u-k-firms-and-rest-business-of-law.html
While top-tier U.K. law firms weather
the economic difficulties that have gripped the profession,
their mid-market counterparts could be facing a serious risk of
survival, according to a survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers.  “Against a challenging backdrop, 2013 could be seen as a
turning point for the legal sector with the gap between best and
worst performing firms widening further -- and clear blue water
between the Top 10 firms and the rest of the sector,” David
Snell, partner and leader of PwC’s Law Firms Advisory Group,
said in a statement.  Pricing pressures, inefficient work allocation and cost-reduction challenges are putting the firms’ survival at risk,
according to the survey, which looked at the 100 U.K. law firms
with the largest global fee incomes.  Average profit margins for the Top 10 firms are more than
14 percentage points higher than the next 15 firms, three points
more than last year, according to the survey. By comparison, the
survey found that there was only a 1.5 point difference between
the Top 11-25, Top 26-50 and Top 51-100 firms.  The top U.K. firms are also outperforming in other areas,
including in profit per equity partner. At the top 10 U.K.
firms, such profit averaged 1 million pounds ($1.6 million), up
6.1 percent from last year, while average U.K. firm profit per
equity partner for the Top 11-25 firms was 448,000 pounds, a
decline from 481,000 pounds in 2012, according to the survey.  “Continued focus on cost reduction and innovative delivery
is required across all firms to maintain profitability in a
highly competitive U.K. market,” Snell said in the statement.  Firm News  O’Melveny Names Washington and San Francisco Office Heads  O’Melveny & Myers LLP announced two new office leadership
appointments last week in  Washington  and San Francisco.  Jeffrey Kilduff is the new managing partner of the
Washington office, succeeding Steve Bunnell, who will become
general counsel at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
Luann Simmons is the new managing partner in San Francisco,
giving the firm a third woman managing partner in its California
offices.  Kilduff, the firm-wide chairman of O’Melveny’s securities
litigation practice, represents clients in securities litigation
and enforcement matters as well as in antitrust litigation and
counseling, the firm said. His securities practice has included
class-action defense, the defense of derivative litigation,
internal corporate investigations and other matters.  Simmons, who succeeds criminal antitrust litigator Michael Tubach, is a member of the intellectual property and technology
practice within the litigation department. She works with the
firm’s technology clients in the enforcement, defense and
litigation of patent, trade secret, copyright and other
intellectual property rights.  With Simmons, three of the firm’s five  California  offices
have women at the helm. Elizabeth McKeen became the managing
partner of the Newport Beach office in May of 2013. Carla Christofferson has been managing partner in Los Angeles since
the beginning of 2008.  O’Melveny & Myers has approximately 800 lawyers in 16
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  King & Wood Mallesons Joins SJ Berwin to Form $1 Billion Firm  The combination between King & Wood Mallesons and SJ Berwin
LLP, forming a firm with about $1 billion in revenue and more
than 2,700 lawyers, was completed on Nov. 1, according to
statements from the firms.  The combined firm will have more than 550 partners in 30
locations and be based in Asia.  The deal added London-based SJ Berwin to Asia’s largest law
firm, formed last year by the combination of Beijing-based  King
& Wood  and Sydney-based Mallesons Stephen Jaques. King & Wood
Mallesons’ global managing partner is Stuart Fuller. Wang Junfeng, who founded King & Wood in 1993, remains the chairman,
based in Beijing. SJ Berwin’s former senior partner Stephen Kon
is co-deputy chairman of the combined firm.  “In an increasingly crowded market, our powerful Asia-Pacific base is our key difference and means that we are best
placed to meet the current and future needs of our clients,”
Kon said in a statement last week. “King & Wood Mallesons will
operate seamlessly across Asia, Europe and the Middle East
offering our clients unparalleled law capability of the highest
standard at the speed of global business.”  Hogan Lovells Asia Partner Barr Sees ‘Conservative Optimism’  Jamie Barr, head of the Asia corporate practice at Hogan
Lovells LLP in Hong Kong, spoke to Bloomberg Brief on Oct. 31
about the law firm’s recent survey of 240 senior executives on
mergers and acquisitions, the outlook for deal activity in Asia
and global economic trends.  Q: We have a global recovery that still hasn’t gained
traction in several major economies. How do Asian companies view
this environment?  A: The global findings are entirely consistent, in fact,
reassuringly consistent, with what we see here in Asia.  Overall, corporates have got $5.6 trillion of cash on their
balance sheet, which is twice as much as they had 10 years ago.
They’re trying to work out what to do with it. You’re seeing
examples where there are share buybacks or special dividends
being paid, suggesting that corporates think their investors
have better ideas as to how to deploy that money. Others are
looking at what they can do with it.  But interestingly, the general overview is that the markets
are still going to be shaky for the next couple of years. There
is some emerging optimism, but nonetheless the general mood is
conservative. It’s conservative optimism, perhaps you could
describe it.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Wife Poisoning Husband’s Lover Tests Weapons Law at High Court  What began as attempted revenge for marital infidelity has
turned into a U.S. Supreme Court showdown over the power of the
federal government.  The high court will hear arguments tomorrow in the case of
Carol Anne Bond, a microbiologist who tried to poison her
husband’s lover -- and was prosecuted under a U.S. law enacted
to implement a chemical-weapons treaty. Bond says her crime is a
local one that never should have involved federal prosecutors.  The case poses the most important test of the federal
authority since the Supreme Court upheld President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law last year.  “The case is hugely important because it’s about a
fundamental principle of constitutional law, which is limited
federal power,” said Nicholas Quinn Rosenkranz, a Georgetown
University Law Center professor.  Bond, of Pennsylvania, is challenging a 1920 high court
ruling that said Congress can use its constitutional power to
implement treaties as a mechanism to regulate local conduct.  The Obama administration, backed by the chemical industry,
defends the prosecution and the 1920 ruling. The administration
says Bond’s argument would undermine the president’s ability to
strike agreements with other countries and cut against a
centuries-old understanding of the Constitution’s treaty power.  “In international affairs, the federal government has
complete sovereignty and acts on behalf of all the citizens of
the nation,” U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued in
court papers. “And it follows from the national government’s
exclusive power to make treaties that it must have the power to
ensure treaty compliance.”  Those weighty constitutional questions come to the court
through a tale worthy of a soap opera.  Bond was thrilled when she learned in 2006 that her closest
friend, Myrlinda Haynes, was pregnant. That excitement turned to
rage when Bond discovered that her husband, Clifford Bond, was
the father.  Bond, who worked for the chemical maker Rohm & Haas Co.
outside Philadelphia, stole a bottle of an arsenic-based
substance from her employer. She used the Internet to order a
second toxic chemical, potassium dichromate, which is commonly
used in printing photographs.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  bought Rohm &
Haas in 2009.  Bond, now 42, tried to poison Haynes 24 times over the next
several months, spreading the chemicals on her doorknob, car
door handles and mailbox. Although Haynes usually noticed the
substances and avoided touching them, on one occasion she
suffered a chemical burn on her thumb. Postal inspectors
eventually installed surveillance cameras and identified Bond as
the perpetrator.  Federal prosecutors then charged her with violating the
1998 Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act,  a law  that
carries out a 1997 treaty covering the development, production,
stockpiling and use of chemical weapons. The treaty, which
supplements an earlier accord that applies in wartime, was
designed in part to protect against the use of chemicals by
terrorists.  Bond pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six years in
prison, while reserving her right to appeal and try to overturn
the conviction. Had she been prosecuted under  Pennsylvania  state
law for assault, she would have served no more than two years
and one month, according to Paul Clement, the lawyer who will be
arguing on her behalf. She was released from prison last year.  Clement, who was solicitor general under President George W. Bush, said in court papers that Bond’s circumstances “are
far removed from the United States’ treaty obligations or any
issues of national or international importance.”  For more, click here.  Moves  WilmerHale Appellate Partner Named California Solicitor General  Edward DuMont, the vice chairman of Wilmer Cutler Pickering
Hale & Dorr LLP’s appellate and supreme court litigation
practice group, was appointed to the position of California
Solicitor General by Attorney General Kamala D. Harris.  In his new role, DuMont will oversee all civil and criminal
appeals and litigate key cases throughout the appellate process
in state and federal courts, according to a statement from the
attorney general’s office.  “I am confident that his talent, drive and background will
supplement the department’s already robust appellate practice
and help us establish the best solicitor general’s office in the
country,” Harris said in the statement.  DuMont has more than 27 years of public and private sector
experience. He spent seven years as an assistant to the U.S.
solicitor general and as an associate deputy attorney general at
the U.S. Justice Department, focusing on computer crime and
privacy. He has argued 18 cases before the U.S. Supreme Court on
issues involving employment law, the First Amendment, criminal
law and administrative procedure. He has been a partner at
WilmerHale since 2004.  “While it will be hard to leave my current clients and
colleagues, I look forward to returning to California, joining a
new team and working together to build an expanded solicitor
general’s office that we will all be proud of,” he said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  