-- Gazprombank Sees MegaFon-MTS Gap Fading: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-11-04T02:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/gazprombank-sees-megafon-mts-gap-fading-russia-overnight.html
OAO MegaFon (MFON) ,  Russia ’s second-largest
wireless carrier, will shrink its valuation premium to  OAO
Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  as its purchase of Scartel shrinks profit
margins, OAO Gazprombank said.  American depositary receipts of MTS, Russia’s largest
wireless carrier, trimmed its discount to MegaFon’s London-traded shares to 17 percent on Nov. 1 from 27 percent in July.
The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian
stocks in the U.S. dropped for a second week, led by OAO Mechel.
RTS stock-index futures fell in U.S. hours.  MTS, controlled by billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov,
boosted its annual profitability forecast in August after the
company reported earnings that beat estimates. While the
acquisition of mobile-data operator Scartel gives MegaFon a
faster network, it will also drive margins lower at the Moscow-based carrier, according to Gazprombank.  “The company has been spending aggressively and margins
will start showing that,” Sergey Vasin, analyst at Gazprombank,
said by phone from Moscow Nov. 1. “It’s unfair for MTS, with
its sound spending and well diversified revenue sources, to
trade at a discount to MegaFon. MTS will gain and MegaFon
decrease.”  Five out of 24 analysts covering MegaFon’s London-listed
stock recommend selling the shares, a record ratio, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Eleven analysts have a hold rating,
while eight say buy.  Buy Ratings  MegaFon may have paid almost twice the actual price for
Scartel, Gazprombank’s Vasin said, estimating the transaction at
about $1.8 billion, including Scartel’s debt. That would mean
that MegaFon overpaid $800 million for Scartel, he said.  None of 24 analysts covering MTS recommend selling the ADR,
while 17 analysts have a  buy rating , according to data collected
by Bloomberg.  MTS rose 1.8 percent to $23.20 in New York on Nov. 1,
extending this year’s rally to 24 percent and trading at almost
10.5 times estimated earnings. MegaFon slipped 0.7 percent to a
four-week low of $36.06 in  London , trimming a 52 percent advance
this year. MegaFon trades at 12.3 times projected profit.  MTS traded at an 11 percent premium to its Moscow-listed
shares, the widest in two weeks, while MegaFon’s depositary
receipts in London traded at 0.5 percent discount to its Moscow-listed stock.  Mechel Falls  The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity gauge rose 0.1 percent to
103.32 on Nov. 1, trimming last week’s drop to 1.3 percent. The
 Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded fund
dedicated to Russian equities, retreated 1.2 percent to $29.35
in the week.  Futures contracts on the dollar-denominated RTS
gauge  fell 0.1 percent to 147,190. The RTS Volatility Index,
which measures expected swings in  stock futures , climbed 0.9
percent to 20.73.  Mechel, Russia’s biggest supplier of steel-making coal,
sank 5.2 percent last week to $3.11 in New York, the lowest
level in eight weeks. Mechel settled at a 2.1 percent discount
to its Moscow-listed shares.  United Co. Rusal (486) , a Moscow-based aluminum producer,
rose 0.4 percent to HK$2.38 in Hong Kong trading as of
10:34 a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  