-- German Stocks Rise After Four-Week Rally as Fuchs Gains
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-11-04T16:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/german-stocks-rise-after-four-week-rally-as-fuchs-gains.html
German stocks  advanced, after the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index posted the longest streak of weekly gains
since May, as investors awaited this week’s monetary-policy
decision from the  European Central Bank .  Fuchs Petrolub SE rose the most in more than eight months
after saying third-quarter profit climbed.  K+S AG (SDF)  rallied the
most since April 2009 after analysts upgraded their ratings on
the fertilizer producer. Stada Arzneimittel AG fell 5.2 percent
as Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the drugmaker.  The DAX gained 0.3 percent to 9,037.23 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt . The gauge climbed 0.3 percent last week,
its fourth consecutive weekly advance, as Volkswagen rallied on
better-than-expected third-quarter profit and cooling inflation
fueled speculation the ECB may ease monetary policy. The broader
HDAX Index advanced 0.4 percent today.  “We would expect the ECB to strike a dovish tone at the
press conference,” Morgan Stanley economists led by Jonathan Ashworth wrote in a note. “Renewed appreciation of the euro and
continued weakness in the economy support our view that further
monetary-policy stimulus will eventually be necessary.”  Economists at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, UBS AG, and
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit  project  the central
bank will cut its benchmark  interest rate  to 0.25 percent after
its policy meeting on Nov. 7. Still, 65 of 68 economists predict
no change from 0.5 percent, according to estimates compiled by
 Bloomberg News . The ECB last cut the main refinancing rate after
its May 2 meeting.  U.S. Data  In the U.S., data today showed factory orders rose 1.7
percent in September after declining 0.1 percent in the prior
month, missing the median economist estimate for a 1.8 percent
increase.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 27 percent lower than the average of the past 30 sessions,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Fuchs Petrolub added 5.8 percent to 62.84 euros. The
world’s largest independent lubricant maker said third-quarter
earnings before interest and taxes rose 5.8 percent to 83.4
million euros ($113 million) from the same period last year, as
demand growth in Europe and  Asia  compensated for lower euro
revenue arising from weaker emerging-market currencies.  K+S climbed 9.3 percent to 20.98 euros as HSBC Holdings Plc
upgraded the shares to neutral from underweight, while
Commerzbank AG raised its rating to hold from reduce.
Commerzbank increased its estimate for potash prices to $330 per
tonne from $300 a tonne, and said K+S could announce plans to
cut as much as 200 million euros in costs when it reports
quarterly results on Nov. 14.  ThyssenKrupp Advances  ThyssenKrupp AG rose 1.5 percent to 19.14 euros. Ursula
Gather, head of the board of trustees at  Germany ’s Krupp
Foundation, didn’t exclude taking part in a capital increase by
the steelmaker in a briefing last week, Handelsblatt reported.
The foundation is ThyssenKrupp’s largest shareholder, data
complied by Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Wohnen AG added 0.6 percent to 14.20 euros after
saying 78.6 percent of GSW Immobilien AG shareholders accepted
its offer to buy the residential landlord. GSW gained 0.5
percent to 34.98 euros. Separately, Kepler Cheuvreux upgraded
its recommendation on both property developers to buy from hold.  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  fell 5.2 percent to 39.84 euros, its
largest decline in almost two months. Deutsche Bank cut its
rating to hold from buy, citing a lack of catalysts to drive the
stock higher after it surpassed its 40 euros per share price
target. The company  gained  72 percent this year through to Nov.
1, the best performing member of the Stoxx 600 healthcare index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  