-- Globalstar Rises as FCC Agrees to Airwaves Service
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-11-04T22:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/globalstar-rises-as-fcc-agrees-to-airwaves-service.html
Globalstar Inc. (GSAT)  rose as much as 29
percent after U.S. regulators agreed to review whether it may
offer mobile service over airwaves reserved for satellite use,
potentially boosting the value of the company’s spectrum.  The Federal Communications Commission issued a  notice  on
Nov. 1 saying it will consider rules Globalstar requested last
year, according to a posting on the agency’s website. A final
decision on the request by the Covington, Louisiana-based
satellite company depends on votes under new FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler, who was confirmed by the Senate on Oct. 29.  Globalstar, which has a market capitalization of about $1
billion, rose 18 percent to $1.65 today. The shares have traded
as low as 26 cents this year.  The FCC’s action “represents a seminal development and yet
another step forward in Globalstar’s renaissance,” Jay Monroe,
Globalstar’s chief executive officer, said in a statement
yesterday. “We look forward to receiving the public’s comments
and working towards a final order over the next several
months.”  FCC permission would increase the value of Globalstar’s
spectrum and may spur cable operators or phone carriers to try
to acquire the company, according to Falcon Point Capital LLC.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  used airwaves controlled by Globalstar to
test a wireless network that connects Amazon’s devices to the
Internet, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Boost Capacity  The change in airwaves use will increase Wi-Fi capacity in
the U.S. by one third and improve service for millions of
devices, Globalstar said in a  Web presentation . The company told
the FCC in June it had almost 561,000 customers.  The commission last year gave  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  permission
for a mobile-phone network on airwaves previously used for
satellite services.  The agency blocked financier  Philip Falcone  from using
satellite airwaves for LightSquared Inc. after officials
concluded the proposed terrestrial service would interfere with
global-positioning system equipment.  Globalstar’s use won’t interfere with GPS, the company said
in a June presentation to the FCC.  The agency has set expanded use of airwaves among its
priorities as it meets growing demand from smartphones, tablets
and other wireless devices. In a filing last year, Globalstar
said that with FCC approval it could offer high-speed wireless
 Internet service , or broadband, “very quickly in numerous areas
of the  United States .”  The service will help alleviate congestion that’s impeding
Wi-Fi use in cities, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  