-- Global Warming Seen Taking Toll on Economy, Health, Crops
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-04T10:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/global-warming-seen-taking-toll-on-economy-health-crops.html
Global warming is expected to take an
increasing toll on the economy,  food production , fresh water
supplies and human health as the century progresses, according
to a draft study for the  United Nations .  A temperature increase of 2.5 degrees Celsius (4.5 degrees
Fahrenheit) since industrialization may lead to losses of as
much as 2 percent of global economic output, an analysis by the
UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change showed.
Temperatures have already risen by about 0.8 degrees.  The document,  posted  on the No Frakking Consensus blog,
charts declining crop yields, increased coastal flooding and the
migration of species toward the poles as the planet warms. It’s
the second of three reports by the panel designed to inform
lawmakers worldwide as they work toward a global treaty and
devise domestic policies to cut  greenhouse gases  and protect
against the effects of climate change.  “Observed impacts of climate change are widespread and
consequential,” the researchers wrote. “Recent changes in
climate have caused impacts on natural and human systems on all
continents and across the oceans.”  The draft document, on “impacts, adaptation and
vulnerability” due to climate change, is dated Oct. 28, and
will be revised line-by-line by representatives of governments
around the world at a meeting in Yokohama,  Japan , from March 25
to March 29.  ‘Secret’  The No Frakking Consensus blog, which uses the strap line
“Climate skepticism is free speech,” is written by Donna
Laframboise, a Canadian journalist who has authored a collection
of essays critical of IPCC Chairman  Rajendra Pachauri .  “The IPCC believes this document should remain secret,”
Laframboise wrote. “I think the public has a right to examine
it. It’s important to be able to compare what IPCC personnel
have written in this draft to what the final, non-draft version
will say when it’s released to much fanfare next March.”  Jonathan Lynn, a spokesman for the panel, confirmed in an
e-mail that the final draft was sent to governments on Oct. 28.
He declined to comment on its contents.  “This report is still a work in progress, so we don’t have
anything to say,” Lynn said. “It’s likely to undergo further
changes in the approval plenary in March.”  The document says that  climate change  will reduce median
crop yields by as much as 2 percent a decade for the rest of the
century, compared to a baseline that assumes no warming.
Tropical countries face the greatest risks, it said. At the same
time, the researchers project crop demand to increase by 14
percent a decade through 2050.  Food Prices  The assessment is more alarming than the panel’s report in
2007, which projected global food production to increase for
temperature rises of 1 degree to 3 degrees.  “Negative impacts of climate change on crop and
terrestrial food production have been more common than positive
impacts,” the researchers said. “Recent periods of rapid food
and cereal price increases have indicated that current markets
in key producing regions are sensitive to climate extremes.”  Local temperature increases of a degree or more above
preindustrial levels are predicted to reduce yields of wheat,
rice and corn in both tropical and temperate regions, with some
more localized areas benefiting, according to the study.  Climate change is likely already harming human health,
according to the paper. The researchers say with “very high
confidence” that warming will worsen existing health problems
between now and mid-century, and they have “high confidence”
that it will increase ill-health in many regions through 2100,
compared to a scenario without warming.  Health Risks  There will be a greater likelihood of injury, disease and
death due to more intense heat waves and fires, a bigger chance
of under-nutrition due to diminished food production, and
increased risks of catching food- and water-borne diseases,
according to the study. At the same time, there will be
“modest” improvements in cold-related deaths.  The economic cost of warming of 2.5 degrees from pre-industrial levels may range from 0.2 percent to 2 percent of
global output, according to the study. Little is known about the
total cost of impacts above 3 degrees of warming, it said.  “Throughout the 21st century, climate change impacts will
slow down economic growth and poverty reduction, further erode
 food security  and trigger new poverty traps, the latter
particularly in urban areas and emerging hotspots of hunger.”  In the UN’s last summary report in 2007, researchers said 4
degrees of warming could cost the global economy 1 percent to 5
percent of output. They were less precise on costs associated
with lower levels of warming that are more likely in the nearer
term.  Violence  The report on impacts is the second in a trilogy of reports
planned by the panel. The IPCC in September published a synopsis
of the already observed physical changes in the Earth’s climate,
and in April will publish a third study examining the tools we
have to fight climate change. An overarching summary is due for
publication in October.  Other findings of the document include:  * Climate change will indirectly increase risks of violent
conflict due to civil war, inter-group violence and violent
protests as resources become scarcer.  * By 2100, hundreds of millions of people may be affected
by coastal flooding due to climate change and development
patterns that don’t take into account the need for adaptation.  * Animal and plant species are shifting their ranges and
seasonal activities in response to warming temperatures. the
tropics are likely to lose species diversity as creatures move
their ranges away from the Equator.  Extinctions  * A “large fraction” of land and freshwater species face
increased risk of extinction at projected rates of warming.  * At higher projected rates of warming, areas such as the
tundra and the Amazon rainforest face a high risk of “abrupt
and irreversible” changes in their ecosystems.  * Climate change will cut available freshwater
“significantly in most dry subtropical regions.”  * Governments aren’t standing still. Most national
governments in  Africa  are starting efforts to adapt their
economies and peoples to the changing climate. In Australasia,
planning for sea-level rise is widespread, and local governments
in  North America  are adapting public infrastructure to better
cope with impacts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  