-- Goldman Sachs to BofA Are Said to Trade With SAC After Plea Deal
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/goldman-sachs-to-bofa-said-to-trade-with-sac-after-guilty-plea.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are among Wall Street
firms still catering to SAC Capital Advisors LP after the hedge
fund agreed to plead guilty to  insider trading  charges.  The banks, which also include Morgan Stanley, continue to
provide trading and prime-brokerage services to SAC, said people
briefed on the matter, who requested anonymity when discussing
specific clients. The hedge-fund firm, run by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen , agreed yesterday to pay $1.8 billion -- a record
penalty for insider trading -- to settle allegations it
illicitly reaped hundreds of millions of dollars since 1999.  “The presumption is that if JPMorgan should resign the
business, then someone else would do it,” said  Roy Smith , a
finance professor at New York University’s Stern School of
Business and a former Goldman Sachs partner. “These people all
say we serve our clients, so if our clients get into trouble, we
serve them as long as we can.”  Banks are weighing the potential damage to their
reputations and finances if they continue dealing with  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based SAC, one of Wall Street’s largest trading
clients. While SAC agreed to stop managing money for outsiders,
it may continue investing Cohen’s personal fortune of about $9
billion.  Choosing Carefully  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender, said last month it chose
to reduce risk by stepping away from certain clients, including
500 foreign banks, and individuals who may be linked to money-laundering. The company, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57, is negotiating a $13 billion settlement to end
investigations into its mortgage bond-sales.  SAC Capital was granted court approval in August to
continue operating until the cases were resolved. Yesterday’s
deal is contingent upon the approval of U.S. District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain, who’s presiding over the criminal case, and
U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who’s overseeing the civil
money-laundering case.  Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein told CNBC in September
that regulators encouraged banks to maintain business relations
with SAC because withdrawing that liquidity would “vaporize a
firm.” Goldman Sachs gets more than half its revenue from
trading.  ‘Existential Decision’  “They’ve been indicted,” Blankfein, 59, said in the Sept.
18 interview. “They haven’t been convicted. We are a big
liquidity provider, we’re a major prime broker. That would be
quite an existential decision for them if all the liquidity
providers withdrew liquidity on the basis of an indictment which
they’re contesting.”  Spokesmen for Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
which are all based in New York, as well as  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America declined to comment.  Cohen’s firm takes “responsibility for the handful of men
who pleaded guilty and whose conduct gave rise to SAC’s
liability,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, said in
an e-mailed statement. “The tiny fraction of wrongdoers does
not represent the 3,000 honest men and women who have worked at
the firm during the past 21 years.”  Gasthalter said SAC has never “encouraged, promoted or
tolerated insider trading.”  ‘Zero Tolerance’  In July,  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara called SAC
Capital “a veritable magnet for market cheaters.” The hedge-fund firm had “zero tolerance for low returns but seemingly
tremendous tolerance for questionable conduct,” he said.  Cohen, 57, who wasn’t charged in the indictment, faces an
administrative action filed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for allegedly failing to supervise the firm’s
activities.  Prosecutors said he encouraged SAC employees to obtain
trading information from corporate insiders while ignoring
indications that it was illegal.  Yesterday’s agreement provides “no immunity from
prosecution for any individual and does not restrict the
government from charging any individual for any criminal
offense,” the government wrote in the court filing.  A representative of SAC will plead guilty on its behalf in
Manhattan federal court as early as Nov. 8, said a person
familiar with the matter.  The criminal case is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-CR-00541, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan). The civil case is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors
LP, 1:13-cv-5182, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  