-- Google Taps Video Growth With $608 Million Finnish Investment
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-11-04T09:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/google-taps-video-growth-with-608-million-finnish-investment.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, plans to spend 450 million euros
($608 million) to expand its Finnish data center as mobile video
demand increases.  “Google is in Finland for the long term,” Dieter Kern,
manager of the data center, told reporters in Hamina, about 150
kilometers east of Helsinki. “We’re digging deep roots, both
figuratively and in a concrete way.”  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , is stepping up
investments to cope with increasing volume from wireless devices
as it chases advertising revenue. Its third-quarter capital
expenditure, mainly on equipment, data centers and real estate,
rose to $2.29 billion from $1.6 billion in previous quarter.  Companies in need of more capacity as data demand grows are
increasingly looking toward the Nordic region, attracted by a
stable electricity grid as well as the chilly climate which
helps save on equipment cooling costs.  Microsoft Corp. said on Sept. 3 it will invest 250 million
euros in a new data center in  Finland . Facebook Inc. opened its
first data center outside the U.S. in Luleaa,  Sweden , in June.
London-based Telecity Group Plc, which hosts Spotify Ltd.’s
music services, last year bought Helsinki-based data-center
operators Academica Oy and Tenue Oy with plans to expand
capacity.  Creating Jobs  Google bought the former newsprint mill in Hamina in 2009
for 40 million euros with an initial investment of 160 million
euros to convert it into a data center. It added further 150
million euros to expand the site last year. Construction of more
data center space has already started, Kern said.  The construction will provide jobs to 800 engineers and
builders and the data center’s staff count will increase from
the current 125, according to a statement.  Finland’s government is seeking to fuel the data-center
boom by reducing the energy tax collected from companies
investing in data storage starting next year. That would reduce
their energy tax rate to a similar level as other industrial
companies, Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen said today. The
proposal needs approval from the European Commission, the
executive arm of the 28-member European Union, he said.  “This is one of the biggest foreign direct investments
into Finland,” Katainen told reporters. “These extensive
investments also say something about Finland. We’re able to
offer a competitive environment to international companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  