-- Grainger Fends Off Amazon Push With Rising Web-Based Orders
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-11-04T21:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/grainger-fends-off-amazon-push-with-rising-internet-based-orders.html
W.W.  Grainger (GWW)  Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Jim Ryan said the largest U.S. industrial supplies
distributor is increasing Internet sales, helping boost profit
margins while fending off competitors including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   Grainger, based in Lake Forest,  Illinois , is expanding U.S.
sales 1.5 times faster than the industrial supplier market,
maintaining its long time pace of share gain even after Amazon
created a unit in April 2012 that competes directly with
Grainger, Ryan said.  “Our U.S. business continues to be very healthy,” Ryan
said in a telephone interview. “We’re growing at a multiple of
the industry. It’s not at all unusual for different types of
competitors to come into this industry.”  The company’s shares slumped 12 percent in the two months
after the AmazonSupply website began operations amid concern
that the Web retailer would lure Grainger’s industrial customers
with goods such as drill bits and pumps. Grainger’s shares have
advanced 54 percent since June 14, 2012.  Grainger gets 95 percent of its  U.S. sales  from medium and
large businesses, which rely on Grainger’s salespeople and
branch stores to complement their online purchases, Ryan said.
Businesses depend on Grainger’s “multichannel” service to help
manage their supplies and reduce inventory, which is factored
into the final cost of products, Ryan said.  Internet Competition  “There are a number of large companies in this industry
that have a catalog shipped directly to customers out of
regional distribution centers -- with no sales force, no
branches. That’s very similar to Amazon and the many other
Internet-based business models,” he said. “We’ve been
competing with that model for years.”  Grainger  shares  have risen 34 percent this year, outpacing
a 24 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The stock
climbed 0.7 percent to $271.88 at the close in New York.  Sales through the Internet are now a third of Grainger’s
 total , up from 25 percent in 2010, said Ryan, whose company has
been selling over the Web since 1996. The operating margins on
those sales are as much 400 basis points higher than non-Internet sales.  Larger companies shopping for supplies or spare parts are
more concerned with availability of products and technical
assistance than price, said John Baliotti, an analyst with
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in New York, who has a buy rating on
the stock. Grainger’s spending to build distribution centers,
add salespeople and improve its Internet system is helping the
company take market share, he said.  $118 Billion Market  “Grainger is so far ahead of the competition and they just
keep accelerating,” Baliotti said in an interview. “They’re
not looking back and waiting for the competitors to catch up.”  In one example, the company introduced an Internet service
in October that lets customers send a photograph of a part they
need through a live chat to a sales representative, who can look
up the item, Baliotti said.  There’s room for competitors, Ryan said. The $118 billion
market for supplies for U.S. businesses is one of the few
industries in the nation left that’s still divided among
hundreds of small distributors, providing opportunities for
larger ones to grow faster, Ryan said. Grainger, the biggest,
has only 6 percent of the market, up from 4.6 percent in 2008.  Fragmented Market  “It’s highly fragmented and possible to grow for many
years as the industry consolidates,” he said. “We’re still
very much on the front end of the consolidation.”  Grainger’s shares are commanding a premium from investors
because sales are growing faster than the market, said Brandon Geisler, a fund manager with Marsico Capital Management LLC in
Denver, who owns the stock. The company has proved it can retain
larger customers with services and compete for smaller ones on
price with private-label goods, said Geisler, whose firm manages
about $17 billion.  Grainger trades at a price-to-earnings ratio of 24 times
compared with 17 for S&P 500 Index companies.  “We’re in a low-growth environment, so people are paying
up for franchises where there’s relatively consistent growth,”
Geisler said in a telephone interview. “Grainger is viewed as
one of the better growth franchises.”  The company has opportunity to grow overseas, where markets
for industry supplies are even more fragmented than the U.S.,
Ryan said.  Forecast Reduction  Grainger gets about 25 percent of its sales outside of the
U.S., with most of that in  Canada . The company lowered the top
end of its annual earnings per share forecast in October to
$11.65 from $12 after third-quarter sales shrank in Canada and
the stronger yen cut into its Japanese profits, Ryan said. The
company also has operations in Europe and Latin America.  Grainger eventually aims to expand in  China  and  India ,
where the $94 billion industrial supplies market is the second-largest behind the U.S. The company has had small operations in
China since 2006 and in India for two years to study the market,
he said.  “Once we figure out how to grow in China, we’ll get much
more aggressive about investing,” Ryan said. “It won’t take us
another five years. We’ll figure it out before then.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  