-- Rehn Confident Greece to Meet Targets as Troika Talks Resume
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2013-11-05T13:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/greece-resumes-talks-with-troika-to-bridge-fiscal-gap-difference.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said he’s confident Greece can
meet its fiscal targets as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said
the country can’t accept across-the-board wage and pension cuts.  Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras met today with the
troika, comprising representatives of the European Commission,
the  European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund ,
who are back in Athens following a five-week hiatus. As he seeks
to convince them that Greece is complying with its bailout
terms, one disagreement involves the extent of fiscal measures
needed to achieve Greek budget-deficit targets.  “Let the review resume and the Greek authorities now
continue and even intensify their work,” Rehn said in Brussels
today. “I’m sure that we will be able to find a satisfactory
solution as regards to how to ensure the fiscal gaps will be
filled and the fiscal targets will be met.”  Greece is in the sixth year of a recession that has
destroyed about a quarter of its gross domestic product and sent
the  unemployment rate  soaring to almost 28 percent, the highest
in the euro area. As labor unions prepare to hold a general
strike tomorrow against austerity measures tied to Greece’s 240
billion euros ($324 billion) of bailouts, Samaras has staked his
credibility on avoiding more across-the-board cuts to wages and
pensions.  Today’s talks were “good” and focused on structural
reforms and banks, a Greek  Finance Ministry  official said,
speaking on condition of anonymity because the discussions are
ongoing. Talks between the Finance Ministry and the troika will
resume Nov. 8.  EU Forecasts  The European Commission today released updated forecasts
for Greece, seeing economic output expand 0.6 percent in 2014
after shrinking 4 percent this year. The country’s public debt
ratio will peak at 176 percent of GDP this year, while this
year’s budget deficit will be around 4 percent of GDP after one-time factors not included in the troika’s evaluation.  The yield on 10-year Greek  government bonds  rose 5 basis
points to 8.02 percent at 1:59 p.m. in Athens today. The
benchmark Athens Stock Exchange fell 0.8 percent, its third day
of decline.  “Markets are not sure what to make of the latest standoff
given the lack of transparency around the whole process,”
Michael Michaelides, a rates strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in  London , said in an interview. “Particularly
since Greece has been beating fiscal targets since its deficit
targets were made more realistic in November 2012.”  Debt Relief  Samaras’s government presented a draft budget last month
forecasting a surplus before interest costs of 344 million euros
this year and one of 2.8 billion euros in 2014, or 1.6 percent
of GDP. While that would qualify  Greece  for additional debt
relief under the terms of a year-old agreement with euro finance
ministers, the country disagrees with creditors over the size of
cuts needed to realize next year’s projection.  “I don’t think there will be a conflict on this,” Samaras
said in an interview on MEGA TV late yesterday. “If something
more is needed, we can always find structural reforms which
won’t directly touch pensions and wages.”  Greek officials say the 2014 fiscal gap is 500 million
euros, in a worst-case scenario. They say it can be met through
targeted changes to the social security system. The newspaper
Naftemporiki reported Oct. 29 that the troika sees the shortfall
at 1.2 billion euros.  A further sticking point includes the fate of two state-owned defense companies, which the troika wants closed, and
progress in meeting targets for firing civil servants.
Disbursement of 1 billion euros of bailout loans agreed to by
euro finance ministers in July is tied to these measures, and
Kathimerini newspaper reported on Oct. 23 the troika may delay
the loan, which was due last month, until the second quarter
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  