-- Grupo Clarin Submits Plan to Comply With Argentine Media Ruling
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-11-04T17:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/grupo-clarin-submits-plan-to-comply-with-argentine-media-ruling.html
Grupo Clarin SA said it plans to
divide its audiovisual assets into six units, enabling
 Argentina ’s largest media group to comply with antitrust media
legislation.  The Buenos Aires-based company will present its plan to the
country’s media regulator today even though it will lodge an
appeal with international courts over an Oct. 29 Supreme Court
ruling that the 2009 law is constitutional, Clarin said on its
website. Clarin shares fell 7.6 percent to 17 pesos at 1:05 p.m.
local time.  “We are forced to do this under the threat of
confiscation,” Clarin said in the the  statement . “This
violates the rights not only of Clarin but also of millions of
people to be able to access the media and services they freely
choose.”  Media regulator Martin Sabbatella said on Nov. 1 that
authorities had begun to value Clarin assets in preparation of a
forced sale as the group hadn’t presented its own divestment
proposals within time limits established by the legislation.  “We need to study the plan to see if it complies with the
law,” Sabbatella said on CN23 television channel today.  The seven-member  Supreme Court  voted to overturn an appeals
court ruling that the law limiting media ownership violated the
constitution. Clarin shares have dropped 39 percent since the
day before the Supreme Court ruling.  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who pushed the
law through Congress, said the legislation seeks to democratize
the media and avoid monopolies. In a 392-page ruling, the court
said the government should compensate license owners for the
loss of their rights.  ‘Favors Freedom’  The law “favors freedom of expression by preventing the
concentration of the market,” the court said in a  statement 
accompanying its ruling.  Fernandez, 60, and her government have clashed frequently
with Clarin and its owners since 2008, when the government
accused the group’s flagship newspaper of biased coverage during
a four-month protest by farmers opposing plans to increase
export taxes. The government has promoted campaigns against the
media group with phrases such as “Clarin Lies.”  To comply with the new limits, Clarin’s cable TV operator
Cablevision SA will have to reduce to a maximum of 24 the 158
licenses it holds across the country and pare its market share
to 35 percent from 47 percent, according to the company.  Clarin also owns 10  radio stations , four broadcast TV
channels and  Internet providers . The company posted second-quarter  revenue  of 3.3 billion pesos ($560 million), an increase
of 22 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Buenos Aires at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  