-- Michigan Offers First G.O. Since Detroit Bankruptcy: Muni Deals
-- B y   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-11-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/michigan-offers-first-g-o-since-detroit-bankruptcy-muni-deals.html
Michigan  plans to sell $30 million of
debt this week in its first general-obligation offer since
 Detroit ’s historic bankruptcy froze the market for the state’s
debt.  This week’s sale of taxable securities will refinance bonds
that fund environmental clean-up programs. Investors are
demanding higher yields on its 10-year general obligations than
on those from lower-rated states.  Michigan has an Aa2 grade from Moody’s Investors Service,
the third-highest rank. The yield spread on the state’s tax-exempt securities is 0.59 percentage point, or about 20 percent
wider than the average this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The figure reached about 0.75 percentage point in August,
after the Motor City filed the nation’s biggest municipal
bankruptcy July 18.  In comparison, investors demand less than 0.1 percentage
point of extra yield on borrowings of New York, with the same
Moody’s grade, Bloomberg data show. California, two levels
lower, trades at a spread of 0.35 percentage point.  “The market’s shown there’ve been a number of other deals
that have been done and we’re just confident that this deal will
go through without any issues,” said  Terry Stanton , a spokesman
for Treasurer Kevin Clinton.  Revival Time  Bond sales in the state are reviving. Issuance in Michigan
shrank the month after Detroit’s bankruptcy to the slowest in a
decade. The city of  Battle Creek  and the counties of Genesee,
Saginaw and Oakland postponed a combined $481 million of
borrowing. Battle Creek and Genesee have since returned to the
market. Oakland borrowed in a private placement.  Michigan last issued general obligations in April, when it
sold federally taxable debt. Twenty-year bonds in that offer
were priced to yield 3.8 percent, or about 0.8 percentage point
more than 30-year Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Michigan joins issuers from  California  to Massachusetts
offering about $6.9 billion in long-term debt this week, up from
last week’s $4.9 billion. Benchmark yields are near the lowest
in four months.  Individuals pulled about $500 million from muni-focused
mutual funds in the week through Oct. 30, the least since
September.  The Michigan bonds, which will price Nov. 6 and mature in
December 2015, fund projects such as improving water quality and
pollution control.  Moody’s cited as a strength the stabilization of the
state’s auto industry since 2009. The company also said the
state of 9.9 million people can withstand Detroit’s struggles,
as “there is no evidence the city’s fiscal crisis will trigger
state budget burdens in the form of extraordinary financial
support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Priya Anand in  New York  at 
 Panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  