-- Illegal Tobacco Cost Australia A$1 Billion: KPMG Report
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-11-04T02:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/illegal-tobacco-cost-australia-a-1-billion-kpmg-report.html
Illegal tobacco sales deprived the
Australian government of about A$1 billion ($946 million) of
taxes in the 12 months ended in June, according to a  report 
commissioned by cigarette makers.  Accounting firm KPMG LLP released the study today as the
first since a federal law prohibiting the sale of cigarettes in
branded packages took effect Dec. 1 to discourage smoking and
reduce related spending on health care. Illicit sales increased
1.5 percentage points to 13.3 percent of total shipments, while
consumption didn’t drop in the year, according to the report.  Planned increases in tobacco taxes will cause illegal sales
to increase, the report said, citing  Scott McIntyre , a spokesman
for British American Tobacco Plc’s Australian unit.  Australia 
announced plans in August to boost tobacco excise to raise more
than A$5 billion and help narrow the country’s fiscal deficit
over the next four years.  “Instead of steep excise hikes, more resources for
agencies and greater enforcement of plain pack laws by the
health department will see a reduction in illegal tobacco
sales,” McIntyre said.  Officials from Australia’s health department didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment on the
report, sent to the department’s media section.  Price Differentials  Taxes  made  up about 63 percent of the price of a packet of
cigarettes last year in Australia, where a pack of 25 costs
about A$20 for the best-selling brands. A pack of 20  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM)  Marlboro brand cigarettes sells for
A$15.96, compared with A$1.08 in  Vietnam , A$2.66 in  China  and
A$10.29 in  Singapore , according to the KPMG report.  British American Tobacco, Philip Morris International Inc.
and Imperial Tobacco Australia Ltd. commissioned the KPMG
report.  About 17.4 million kilograms (38 million pounds) of tobacco
were consumed in Australia in the year, matching the level in
the previous 12 months and compared with 18 million kilograms in
2011, according to the report.  Australia last year banned the sale of cigarettes in
packaging depicting tobacco companies’ trademarks and logos.
Cigarettes are now sold in olive green packs, with graphic and
written health warnings covering 70 percent of the front of a
package. Brands are shown in uniform font at the bottom of the
package.  Australia’s top court upheld the validity of the law on
Aug. 16, 2012, dismissing a challenge from the  tobacco companies 
arguing that the government illegally seized their intellectual
property.  KPMG said tobacco companies set specific terms of reference
and the report was issued to the parties “for information
only.” The accounting firm didn’t specify the terms of
reference in the report, which covered the 12 months ended June
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  