-- IMF Says Sudan Can Ease Austerity on Poor With Social Funds
-- B y   A h m e d   F e t e h a
-- 2013-11-05T06:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/imf-says-sudan-can-ease-austerity-on-poor-with-social-investment.html
Sudan could cut back on tax breaks
for businesses and delay investment in “non-priority” public
projects to create more revenue for social services that help
low-income earners, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Protests against the removal of fuel subsidies in September
that caused prices to almost double and lifted public-transit
tariffs led to clashes with security forces that left about 200
people dead, according to  Amnesty International . President Umar al-Bashir’s government maintained the policy, saying the
subsidies fanned inflation and hurt the economy, which  lost  most
of its oil-producing areas and 75 percent of revenue when  South
Sudan  gained independence in July 2011.  Sudan “could do reforms that do not necessarily create
hardship on the poor,” Edward Gemayel, the IMF’s mission chief
to Sudan, said by phone from the capital, Khartoum, on Oct. 29.  “There are a lot of tax exemptions that they give to a lot
of businesses that they don’t need,” he said. “Even on the
spending side you have non-priority spending, like refurbishing
buildings, it could postpone these and focus on the more
important development, the social side.”  Budget allocations could increase for “expanding and
strengthening social safety nets,” said Gemayel.  Recurring conflicts since Sudan gained independence in 1956
have  undermined  economic growth with almost half the country’s
37 million people living in  poverty , according to data from the
 United Nations  and the  World Bank .  Economic Contraction  Sudan’s economy shrank 3.3 percent in 2012, according to
the IMF, after newly independent South Sudan took three-quarters
of the formerly united country’s oil output of 490,000 barrels a
day. Sudan also lost revenue with the 15-month shutdown of oil
production in South Sudan from January 2012 over a dispute about
pipeline-export tariffs.  Sudan collects transportation and processing fees from
South Sudan, which exports its crude via pipelines to  Port Sudan 
on the  Red Sea .  Inflation  accelerated to an average 35.5 percent
last year and the rate is expected by the IMF to fall to 32.1
percent in 2013. The economy is  forecast  by the IMF to expand
3.9 percent this year and 2.5 percent in 2014.  Sudan ’s plan to phase out fuel subsidies, which also
sparked protests when introduced in June 2012, can occur over
three to five years while the government pursues more non-oil
income sources to ensure the economy grows rapidly over the long
term, Gemayel said. Gold exports are expanding from a low base
and agriculture is being reinvigorated, he said.  “It’s important to focus on the non-oil economy to ensure
a more sustainable and more inclusive growth,” he said. “The
focus should not be on the oil economy as it is temporary and
will disappear at some point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed Feteha in Khartoum at 
 afeteha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  