-- Minerva Rises to Six-Week High on BRF Beef Deal: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-11-04T15:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/minerva-rises-to-six-week-high-on-brf-beef-deal-sao-paulo-mover.html
Minerva SA climbed to a six-week high
after acquiring two plants in  Brazil ’s top beef-producing state
in a deal that gives  BRF SA (BRFS3) , the country’s biggest foodmaker, a
15 percent stake in the company and two seats on its board.  Minerva  gained  5.2 percent to 10.41 reais at 1:04 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. A close at that level would be the highest since
Sept. 19. Trading volume was 1.8 times the full-day average of
the past three months. BRF  rose  0.3 percent to 52.27 reais.  The plants Minerva acquired from BRF are in Mato Grosso,
which processes more cattle than any other state, according to
 data  compiled by the Brazilian meat exporters’ association,
Abiec. The location will help the company, the country’s third-largest beef producer by market value, increase its efficiency
and reduce costs, according to  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ’s brokerage
unit, which raised its recommendation on the stock to the
equivalent of hold from sell.  “With the two new plants, we believe Minerva will be
better positioned in terms of cattle supply and access to
cheaper feed costs,” Gabriel Lima and Rodrigo Coelho, analysts
at Bradesco, wrote in a research note to clients. BRF’s decision
to take a 15 percent equity stake and two board seats also
indicates that it “recognizes Minerva as a high-class
company,” the analysts wrote.  The new plants will increase Minerva’s slaughter capacity
by 23 percent, according to a regulatory filing after the market
closed Nov. 1. Before the deal, the company had eight plants in
Brazil, one in Uruguay and two in  Paraguay , according to a
 statement  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  