-- J&J Will Pay More Than $2.2 Billion to Settle U.S. Cases
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-11-04T19:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/j-j-settlement-over-risperdal-said-to-be-announced-today.html
Johnson & Johnson agreed to resolve
criminal and civil probes into the marketing of Risperdal, an
antipsychotic drug, and other medicines by paying more than
$2.2 billion, one of the largest U.S. health-fraud penalties.  J&J’s Janssen unit will plead guilty to a misdemeanor
criminal charge over misbranding Risperdal for uses not approved
by the  Food and Drug Administration , including treating elderly
patients with dementia. Under a plea agreement announced today,
Janssen will pay a $334 million fine and forfeit $66 million.  Janssen also settled civil claims that it marketed
Risperdal without approval for the elderly, children and the
mentally disabled, and that it paid kickbacks to physicians and
to Omnicare Inc., the largest pharmacy for nursing homes. The
civil accord covered off-label marketing of Risperdal; Invega,
another antipsychotic; and Natrecor, a heart drug.  “These companies lined their pockets at the expense of the
American taxpayers, patients and the private  insurance
industry ,” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said at a news
conference today in  Washington . J&J “recklessly put at risk the
health of some of the most vulnerable members of our society --
including young children, the elderly, and the disabled.”  Set Aside  J&J, the world’s largest seller of health-care products,
said it already accrued the settlement amount, and it won’t
record any other charge to earnings. The company had previously
acknowledged setting aside $600 million.  Based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, J&J signed a five-year
corporate integrity agreement with the inspector general of the
 Department of Health  and Human Services. It lets J&J recoup
bonuses and other long-term incentives from those engaged in
“significant misconduct.”  “Today we reached closure on complex legal matters
spanning almost a decade,” Michael Ullmann, J&J’s general
counsel, said in a statement. “This resolution allows us to
move forward and continue to focus on delivering innovative
solutions that improve and enhance the health and well-being of
patients around the world.”  While Janssen “accepts accountability” for the actions
described in the misdemeanor plea, the civil settlement “is not
an admission of any liability or wrongdoing, and the company
expressly denies the government’s civil allegations,” J&J said.  J&J fell 62 cents to $92.75 at 2:07 p.m. in  New York 
 trading .  Third-Biggest Agreement  The agreement is the government’s third-biggest with a
pharmaceutical company, behind a $3 billion settlement that
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  reached last year over the marketing of
medicines including Paxil, Avandia and Wellbutrin, and the $2.3
billion accord that  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  entered in 2009 over the
marketing of the painkiller Bextra and other drugs.  The civil settlement, which involves the U.S.  Justice
Department  and 45 states, resolves three lawsuits filed by
whistle-blowers under the  False Claims Act , which lets citizens
sue on behalf of the government and join in any settlement. The
Justice Department joined those cases.  One whistle-blower was Victoria Starr, a former Janssen
sales representative whose lawsuit challenged the company’s
orders to target doctors to prescribe Risperdal for children
with mental-health problems, an unapproved use at the time.  Starr will share in the reward set aside for whistle-blowers, according to her lawyer, Steven Sheller.  ‘Life-Shattering’  “This settlement finally holds  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
accountable for not telling the truth about this drug, which has
had life-shattering effects on patients ranging from the elderly
to children,” said Sheller, a lawyer in Philadelphia.  J&J’s settlement doesn’t end Risperdal claims brought by
U.S. states including  Louisiana  and  South Carolina .  Risperdal has been linked to excessive weight gain and
diabetes. The drug, once J&J’s biggest seller, generated
worldwide  sales  of $24.2 billion from 2003 to 2010, reaching
$4.5 billion in 2007. After that, J&J lost patent protection and
sales declined.  The U.S. government has been probing Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company marketed
the drug for unapproved uses. While doctors may prescribe an
approved drug for any reason, companies can market them only for
purposes authorized by the FDA.  The FDA approved Risperdal in 1993 for “the management of
the manifestations of psychotic disorders.” That market is
limited, and Janssen soon sought to sell Risperdal for bipolar
disorder, dementia, mood and anxiety disorders and other
unapproved uses, according to court filings by U.S. Attorney
Zane Memeger of the Eastern District of  Pennsylvania .  ElderCare Force  In 1998, J&J started an ElderCare  sales  force that promoted
Risperdal to nursing homes, according to plea documents filed
today. By the next year, the FDA said that J&J’s marketing
campaign was “false, misleading, and/or lacking in fair
balance.”  “This campaign, with a theme of ‘Hostile Outside, Fragile
Inside,’ used material which stated or implied that Risperdal
had been found to be safe and effective for the elderly and in
specifically treating hostility in the elderly, but in fact the
elderly had not been specifically studied in the clinical trials
for Risperdal,” according to government filings.  The drug was later approved for other uses, including for
children in 2006.  Omnicare Agreement  The  Omnicare (OCR)  part of the settlement is $149 million, said
attorney Linda Wyetzner, who represents whistle-blower Bernard
Lisitza. He’s a former pharmacist for Omnicare who said he was
fired after complaining about his employer’s switching patients’
prescriptions to J&J drugs.  “This case was about Johnson & Johnson using kickbacks to
drive sales of their atypical antipsychotic drug to people in
nursing homes,” she said. Wyetzner called the practice
“outrageous.”  The civil settlement includes: $1.39 billion for false
claims related to off-label marketing and kickbacks for
Risperdal and Invega; $149 million to resolve Omnicare claims;
and $184 million to resolve Natrecor claims.  In October 2011, J&J’s Scios unit pleaded guilty to a
misdemeanor violation over Natrecor and paid an $85 million
criminal fine.  Three States  The settlement won’t resolve suits brought by  attorneys
general  in  Arkansas , Louisiana and South Carolina, where the
company has appealed or has said it will appeal judgments over
Risperdal sales.  Judges or juries in those states have ordered J&J to pay a
total of about $1.8 billion in damages and fines over Risperdal
marketing campaigns that were found to have misled doctors and
patients about the drug’s health risks and effectiveness.  In 2012, a judge in Arkansas ordered the drugmaker to pay
$1.2 billion in fines over Risperdal marketing. That verdict
came three months after J&J decided to end a trial in  Texas  over
the drug’s sales with a $158 million settlement. The Arkansas
judge also awarded the state $180 million in attorney fees, J&J
said in an August regulatory filing. The company is appealing
the judgment.  In June 2011, a judge in South Carolina ordered J&J to pay
$327 million in penalties for deceptively marketing the
medicine. Ten months earlier, jurors in Louisiana ordered the
drugmaker to pay almost $258 million to state officials over
J&J’s Risperdal marketing campaign in the state. A Louisiana
judge later ordered the drugmaker to pay an additional
$73.3 million in attorney fees and costs.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Janssen Pharmaceuticals, 13-cr-605, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington
at   lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  