-- Jessie J in Swimsuit Plans U.S. Assault With Tomboy Pop
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-11-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/jessie-j-in-swimsuit-plans-u-s-assault-with-tomboy-pop.html
Jessie J is planning to conquer the
U.S. with family-friendly tomboy pop and vacuous platitudes.  The English singer is set on replicating her success in the
U.K., where she is  touring  endlessly and was considered popular
enough to sing with the band  Queen  at the closing ceremony of
the  London  Olympic Games.  Jessie J’s show highlights the reasons for her fame. It
also reveals significant weaknesses.  At London’s O2, she strides around with Amazonian
composure. She now has short blond hair after shaving it for
charity. Her adorned bikini costumes emphasize her legs while
being carefully conservative.  She can certainly sing. Unafraid to indulge in breathy
emoting or blast out seven shades of power-vibrato, she never
lets her warbly tendencies obscure a tune.  The songs are astute, if not first-rate.  “Price Tag” is one of her signature hits. Its hook, once
heard, is permanently stuck in your brain. For many, the
experience is akin to mental gangrene. The preposterous pomp-rock of “Thunder” is as big as  Bonnie Tyler’s  1980s hair. As
feel-good ballads and hip-hop beats tick the genre boxes, it all
starts to sound derivative.  “Laser Light” would be a pop masterpiece if it didn’t sound
like a facsimile of Katy Perry’s “Firework” with all the joy
sucked out.  Rockier numbers are like Pink without the naughtiness.  Stellar Ambition  The biggest difficulty is Jessie J herself. This girl-next-door makes no secret that her life has been guided by her
ambition to be a star. The result is a modern twist on the rock
bands that release deeply felt whinges about the trappings of
success. All she has to sing about is self-belief and ambition.  She doesn’t just sing about it. Video segments allow Jessie
to espouse a philosophy that makes New-Age guru  Deepak Chopra 
seem like Soren Kierkegaard. (To be fair, repeated exposure to
her mental exertions might lead to one to a Zen-like state of
intellectual void.)  Even “Do It Like A Dude,” her breakthrough track, is
infected. Originally dealing with Jessie’s bisexuality head-on,
it is now reduced to sexless self-help guff.  All of which might have a point: the audience was notable
for the number of children. Jessie J’s lack of raunch, her down-to-earth demeanor and vague message of self empowerment make her
a relatively safe family pop choice.  Safer than Rihanna, more normal than Lady Gaga and rockier
than Beyonce, Jessie J has the potential to crack a U.S. market.
With a little bit of real-life self-doubt and vulnerability, and
some better songs, she might even become an artist.  Rating: **.  Jessie J continues touring the U.K. until mid-November and
her U.S. tour follows.  http://www.jessiejofficial.com/   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Lance Esplund 
on U.S. art,  Katya Kazakina  on the art market,  Jeremy Gerard  on
U.S. theater and  Stephanie Green’s  Scene in D.C.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 