-- Kellogg to Cut 7% of Global Workforce in Cost-Saving Plan
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-11-04T21:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/kellogg-to-cut-7-of-global-workforce-in-new-cost-saving-plan.html
Kellogg Co. (K) , the maker of Corn Flakes
and Rice Krispies, will cut 7 percent of its global workforce,
or about 2,000 jobs, as part of a four-year cost-saving plan
amid a persistent slowdown in breakfast items and snacks.  The program, known as “Project K,” will result in pretax
charges of $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion, the Battle Creek,
Michigan-based company said today in a statement. Kellogg had
about 31,000 employees as of Dec. 29, according to regulatory
filings.  Kellogg and competitors such as JM Smucker Co.,  Kraft Foods
Inc. (KRFT)  and  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  have struggled to get U.S. families
to stock up their shopping carts as unemployment and declining
incomes make them spend less.  With store promotions failing to
spur sales growth, Kellogg has resorted to cost-cutting to boost
profitability.  “It’s not worth discounting if you’re not driving
volume,” Brian Yarbrough, an analyst for Edward Jones & Co. in
St. Louis, said today in an interview. “So you’ve got to
retrench, you’ve got to look for cost savings, you’ve got to
look for ways to be more productive, whether its through the
supply chain or manufacturing.”  Yarbrough, who recommends buying Kellogg, said barely
improving employment and uncertainty over the U.S. economy have
conspired to restrain shoppers. The challenge for manufacturers
is figuring out how to get them shopping again, he said.  Adult Cereal  The issue is hitting Kellogg particularly hard at the
breakfast table.  Sales growth  for morning foods have slowed amid
increased competition from growing options such as Greek yogurt
and oatmeal bars. Net  sales  were little changed in the third
quarter, hurt also by snacks, Kellogg also reported today.  More than 90 percent of U.S. households buy cereal, yet the
category’s unit volume has declined for three years, both
Kellogg and General Mills Inc. say.  Cereal sales have slid particularly among baby boomers and
higher income consumers as they try to eat healthier and reach
for a broadening array of breakfast choices, Kellogg Chief
Executive Officer John Bryant said. He plans to add more
healthful ingredients such as Omega-3 fatty acids to compete
with everything from eggs to yogurt, rather than focusing as
much on creating new flavors.  “There’s an opportunity to be more pioneering in some of
the innovations,” Bryant said. “If we innovate more around
nutrition, there’s an opportunity to bring people back into the
category.”  Yogurt Brands  General Mills has emphasized its Yoplait yogurt brands and
Cascadian Farm organic frozen fruits and snack bars in recent
years to pursue the demand for healthier breakfasts.  Kellogg  rose  0.7 percent to $62.72 at the close in New
York. They have gained 12 percent this year, compared with a 24
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The cost-cutting plan involves increasing growth in
 emerging markets , consolidating facilities and a global emphasis
on regional brands, according to the statement.  The program’s non-cash costs are expected to be $275
million to $325 million. Cash savings are projected to be $425
million to $475 million in 2018, Kellogg said.  North American net sales fell 1.3 percent to $2.4 billion
in the quarter, while the U.S. snacks business declined by 2.5
percent. Latin America net sales rose 3.4 percent while European
sales advanced 6.4 percent.  Kellogg also said full-year adjusted  earnings  per share
will be at the lower end of its $3.75 to $3.84 forecast. Sales
growth for the year will be 4 percent to 5 percent, after
previously projecting 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  