-- Kenya Airways Questions Buying Boeings Without U.S. Flights
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-11-04T11:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/kenya-airways-questions-boeing-purchases-without-flights-to-u-s-.html
Kenya Airways Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer Titus Naikuni said it’s pointless to acquire more
aircraft from  Boeing Co. (BA)  unless the U.S. government allows his
airline to begin direct flights to the country.  “I don’t see the point of buying aircraft from Boeing,
then you don’t allow us to get into the U.S.,” Naikuni said at
an event in the capital, Nairobi, to mark the arrival of a
Boeing 777-300ER aircraft, the biggest in the company’s fleet.  Four years ago, Delta Air Lines Inc. postponed indefinitely
a plan to start direct flights between Atlanta and Jomo Kenyatta
International Airport in Nairobi, after the U.S. government
refused permission over security concerns. Kenya borders
 Somalia , where the al-Qaeda-linked al-Shabaab Islamist group has
been fighting the government since at least 2006. The militants
attacked a Nairobi shopping mall in September, killing at least
67 civilians and security forces.  Kenya  Airways plans to more than double the number of
routes it flies and increase the size of its fleet to 107
aircraft as part of a decade-long expansion plan, it said last
year. The carrier currently has at least 26 Boeing passenger
aircraft, two Boeing freighters and 17  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  jets,
according to the company’s website, and it has ordered nine
Boeing 787-800 Dreamliner airplanes. Delivery of the first one
is expected in March, according to Naikuni.  Golden Moment  The Boeing 777-300ER aircraft will be used for non-stop
flights to Guangzhou, China, three times a week in line with the
country’s strategy to deepen commercial ties with the  Far East ,
Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said at today’s ceremony.  “This presents a golden chance to deepen our bilateral
partnership with  China , which is one of our leading cultural,
diplomatic and economic development partners,” Kenyatta said.  Kenya’s government owns 30 percent of the Kenya Airways and
Air France-KLM is its largest shareholder with a 27 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya is expediting construction of a fourth terminal at
Jomo Kenyatta airport to be ready by March after a fire gutted
the international arrivals hall in August, forcing authorities
to set up a temporary area to handle immigration and baggage
pick-up in tents in a parking lot outside the building.  Kenya’s more than $1 billion a year  tourism industry  is the
country’s largest source of foreign exchange after tea exports.
British Airways Plc,  Air France-KLM (AF)  and Emirates Airline are
among international airlines that fly directly to Nairobi.  Shares in Kenya Airways fell 0.5 percent to 10.45 shillings
by 2:33 p.m. in Nairobi, taking losses this year to 8.3 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  