-- Kerry’s Dangerous Message to Egypt’s Generals
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-04T19:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/kerry-s-dangerous-message-to-egypt-s-generals.html
Secretary of State John Kerry visited
Cairo yesterday to reassure the men who led the coup against
 Egypt ’s first democratically elected president that the U.S. is
content with their progress toward restoring democracy.  It was a confused and confusing message, to say the least.
Kerry’s  statement  that the regime’s plan to hold elections and a
referendum on a new constitution “is being carried out to the
best of our perception” runs counter to both the truth and U.S.
interests.  Kerry couldn’t have picked a worse day to show public
support for Egypt’s de facto leader, General Abdelfatah al-Seesi. The U.S.’s most senior diplomat was speaking on the eve
of the trial of Egypt’s deposed Muslim Brotherhood president,
Mohamed Mursi, and just days after security forces arrested
Essam El-Erian, one of the movement’s few leaders still at
large. Mursi was today duly flown to a courtroom at Cairo’s
police academy -- the first time he has been seen in public
since he was toppled on July 3 -- after being held for
interrogation in an unknown location, with minimal access to
lawyers, for four months. His legal team says they were given
the documents relating to the case one day before the trial
began. No wonder Mursi and his 14 co-defendants refused to
acknowledge the court and the trial was adjourned.  Mursi is charged with helping other Muslim Brotherhood
leaders to escape jail with him during the 2011 revolution and
inciting supporters to clash with anti-government protesters
outside his presidential palace last December, which led to at
least 10 deaths. Whatever the merits of this case, the purpose
is transparent: to legitimize the coup and divert attention from
orders the current leadership gave this summer to clear Mursi’s
supporters from the streets, killing more than 1,000 people.
This isn’t the kind of due process that the U.S. should support,
even tacitly.  Kerry reassured the generals in Cairo that the partial
suspension of the $1.3 billion annual U.S. aid package to Egypt
was an issue of U.S. law, not punishment. This statement is at
best misleading. The move came in response to the post-coup
bloodshed, not al-Seesi’s seizure of power. The Obama
administration has avoided describing the coup as a coup,
precisely because U.S. law would then require ending aid until
democracy is restored. Kerry was sugarcoating the facts in a way
that is unlikely to gain him the generals’ respect.  Meanwhile, al-Seesi is encouraging the development of a
cult of personality around him; for now, much of the country is
gripped by a fervor that sees any opposition to the regime as
treachery. Kerry has acquiesced, bending U.S. policy like a reed
in the wind. To date, the U.S. has lurched from support of
former President  Hosni Mubarak  (now being retried for complicity
in the deaths of more than 800 protesters in 2011) to support of
Mursi’s freely elected but deeply flawed government to support
of the military junta that deposed him.  There is no doubt that the U.S. has been put in a difficult
position, in which its short-term security interests and secular
values conflict with support for the democratic process. Yet
Kerry is now repeating the mistakes that were made while Mursi
was in power, when the U.S. soft-pedaled  its response  to the
Egyptian president’s illegitimate seizure of constitutional
powers in late 2012 because he had just helped to broker a
cease-fire between Hamas and  Israel .  Egypt’s long-term health depends on developing a more open
and tolerant society, and Egypt’s serial autocrats have utterly
failed to promote those goals. For proof, look no further than
the case of Bassem Youssef, the remarkable Egyptian comedian who
faced prosecution for his merciless satirizing of Mursi and the
Brotherhood while they were in power and is now being
investigated for lampooning al-Seesi’s dictatorial pretensions.
His television show was taken off the air last week -- an act of
censorship to which even Mursi and his Islamist government never
resorted.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 