-- KKR Said to Plan BIS Industries Initial Public Offer This Year
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-11-04T06:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/kkr-said-to-plan-bis-industries-initial-public-offer-this-year.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is preparing an initial
public offering of BIS Industries Ltd. in Australia, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The company’s advisers will begin meeting potential
investors this week to gauge demand for an IPO this year that
may raise as much as A$500 million ($474 million), said the
people, asking not to be identified as the details are private.
BIS, a provider of logistics services for the mining industry,
will use the money to repay debt and fund expansion, they said.  KKR, the most active acquirer globally during the buyout
boom from 2005 to 2007, joins private equity firms including
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and Pacific Equity Partners in
preparing IPOs for Australian holdings. About a dozen companies
plan to list on the nation’s exchange by year-end as business
confidence surges, Commonwealth Bank of  Australia ’s executive
director of capital markets Mike Neal said last month.  KKR plans to retain a stake in BIS, the people said. The
Australian Financial Review reported on the IPO earlier today.  New York-based KKR used debt to  buy  Brambles Industrial
Services and Cleanaway from Brambles Ltd. in June 2006,
according to the company’s website. The following year, KKR sold
the Cleanaway waste disposal business and the remaining assets,
including coal handling and haulage, steel processing and
storage, logistics and distribution services, were renamed BIS
Industries.  KKR in May sold its 12 percent stake in Australia’s largest
free-to-air broadcaster  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM)  for A$261 million,
ending an investment that began in 2006. UBS AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. are advising BIS on the
share sale, the people said.  Apollo and  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  are among funds
seeking as much as A$697.3 million in an IPO of Nine
Entertainment Co., Australia’s largest first-time share sale in
almost three years. Sydney-based Pacific Equity Partners’s Veda
credit reporting and data business is seeking to raise A$340
million in an IPO later this year, people familiar with the
matter said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  