-- Nadal Says ATP Should Vary Surface for World Tour Tennis Finals
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-11-04T19:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/nadal-says-atp-should-vary-surface-for-world-tour-tennis-finals.html
No. 1 tennis player  Rafael Nadal  says
the ATP World Tour Finals should use surfaces other than indoor
hard courts occasionally to give a range of players an
opportunity to win the season-ending tournament.  The Spaniard, whose game is best suited to slower clay
courts, has played in the ATP event five times, with his best
performance a loss in the 2010 final to six-time winner Roger Federer. Those competitions were all on indoor hard courts.  The tournament, which brings together the top eight ranked
men, started today in  London . It’s been held on indoor hard
courts since 2006, with the 2005 event held in  Shanghai  on an
indoor carpet. The 2003 and 2004 finals in Houston were the last
ones held outdoors, also on hard courts.  “That’s not the best for me,” the Spaniard, who’s
qualified for the ATP event each year since 2006 although he’s
missed three because of injury, said today at a press
conference.  “Probably I was a little bit unlucky in this,
because in the past the tournament was held outdoors.”  Nadal will play his first of three round-robin matches
tomorrow, against compatriot  David Ferrer , a 31-year-old who
beat him in the indoor Paris Masters semifinals two days ago.  “The stadium is one of the best stadiums that I ever
played,” Nadal, 27, said of London’s O2 Arena. “The atmosphere
has been great every time that I’ve been here, but that doesn’t
mean the ATP can’t be a little bit more fair. Something that
would be more fair for all the players would be to change the
surface every year.”  Defending champion Novak Djokovic, who lost his No. 1 spot
to Nadal this month, said tour administrators should vary the
location of the season finale to boost tennis’s popularity.  “This tournament should definitely be organized at
different places more often, and not be held in one city for
more than three years,” the 26-year-old Serb told reporters.
“It is in the ATP’s hands. I know that various players share
the same opinion.”  Djokovic will also play his first match tomorrow, against
 Switzerland ’s  Roger Federer , 32.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  