-- Natural Gas Falls for a Third Day on Mild U.S. Weather Outlook
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2013-11-04T12:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/natural-gas-falls-for-a-third-day-on-mild-u-s-weather-outlook.html
Natural gas fell for a third day in
 New York  as the outlook for a mild start to November signaled
reduced heating-fuel demand in the U.S.  Futures slid as much as 3.1 percent after capping a third
weekly loss last week. Weather forecasters including MDA Weather
Services in Gaithersburg, Maryland, predicted seasonal or above-normal temperatures in the eastern U.S. through Nov. 15. U.S.
gas inventories are “on pace” to climb to as much as 3.87
trillion cubic feet by winter, according to Schork Group Inc.  “That is a lot more gas in the ground than the market was
betting on back in the spring,”  Stephen Schork , president of
the consultant in Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said in an e-mailed
report today.  Natural gas for December delivery declined as much as 10.7
cents to $3.41 per million British thermal units in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , and was at $3.416
at 12:39 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures traded was
more than double the 100-day average. Prices dropped 5.2 percent
last week in the longest string of declines since the three
weeks ended Aug. 9.  “Forecasts show a slow start to the winter demand season
with periods of warm spells over the next 14 days, suggesting
scope for further price weakness in the short term,” analysts
at Deutsche Bank AG led by  Michael Lewis  in London, said today
in a research note.  Gas inventory  gains topped five-year averages in five of
the past six weekly government reports as mild weather curbed
demand. Supplies have expanded for 29 weeks to 3.78 trillion
cubic feet, the most since December, according to data from the
Energy Information Administration. About 49 percent of U.S.
households use the fuel for heating, said the Energy
Department’s statistical unit.  The low in Washington on Nov. 6 may be 56 degrees
Fahrenheit (13 Celsius), 12 above average, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Louisville ,
Kentucky, may be 5 degrees higher than the usual reading at 48.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  