-- Dirty Munich Home’s Nazi Loot Estimated at $1.35 Billion
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n ,   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-11-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/nazi-looted-art-trove-in-germany-yields-matisse-focus-reports.html
Cornelius Gurlitt rarely visited the
Munich apartment which German customs officials entered two
years ago in the hopes of nailing a suspected tax evader.  What they discovered was even rarer: a stash of 1,500
artworks that may be worth 1 billion euros ($1.35 billion) if
confirmed to be by artists such as Pablo Picasso, Max Beckmann
and Marc Chagall. The works originally may have been seized by
the Nazis from German museums and private collectors. They were
found amid piles of garbage and outdated food packets, according
to a report in  Focus  magazine.  Prosecutors in the city of Augsburg have scheduled a news
conference today to discuss the investigation. Representatives
of Jewish families, from whom hundreds of thousands of works
were stolen, called on the authorities to publish a list as soon
as possible to help them identify missing art.  “Without a list, we can’t do anything,” said David Rowland of Rowland & Petroff in New York, who represents the
heirs of Curt Glaser, an art critic and collector. “They should
put a list on the Internet with photos.”  The drab, beige apartment block at the center of the
investigation is about 250 meters (820 feet) from the English
Garden, in the affluent northern Munich neighborhood of
Schwabing favored by rich intellectuals. Gurlitt is not listed
in the Munich telephone directory and prosecutors declined to
give his contact details.  “If only we’d known sooner,” said Asma Omar, a 23-year-old student at the school for dietitians opposite the apartment
block. “It’s crazy that all this art was right there and we’re
here every day. I mean, a billion euros of art with all the
history that goes with it? Astonishing.”  ‘Degenerate’ Art  Meike Hoffmann, an art historian, is helping prosecutors
identify the works, according to  Berlin’s Free University , where
Hoffmann works at the “Degenerate Art” research unit.  The Nazis seized more than 20,000 modern artworks that they
saw as contrary to Aryan ideals from German museums. In 1937,
Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels staged the exhibition
“Degenerate Art,” which first opened in Munich, where it
attracted more than 2 million people.  Paintings were hung crowded together, some with no frames,
alongside slogans denigrating the artists for “insulting German
womanhood” and revealing “sick minds.”  Hard Currency  The Nazis auctioned the seized artworks from 1938. The
museums which owned the art before World War II have no legal
recourse to claim the works because a Nazi law allowing their
seizure without compensation has never been repealed.  The Munich apartment is where Gurlitt kept the artworks
handed down by his father, Hildebrand, according to Focus. Based
in Hamburg before World War II, Hildebrand Gurlitt (1895-1956),
was one of just four art dealers permitted by the Nazi
authorities to sell artworks seized as “degenerate” from
German museums from the end of 1938 to 1941.  Though they were instructed to sell them abroad for hard
currency, the four passed many on to fellow German dealers or
kept them for themselves, according to the Free University’s
“Degenerate Art” website.  Cornelius Gurlitt was held by officials investigating
possible money laundering during a random check on a train from
Switzerland to Munich. He was returning from Bern, where he had
sold an artwork to the Galerie Kornfeld auction house, Focus
said. The auction house denied the transaction.  “The last business and personal contact between Galerie
Kornfeld and Cornelius Gurlitt goes back to 1990,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Gurlitt sold works
confiscated during the Third Reich that his father had purchased
cheaply in Berlin in 1938, and “whose trade can’t be challenged
today,” the auction house said.  Overwhelming Art  “The number of works is overwhelming,” Monika Tatzkow, a
provenance researcher and author of several books on Nazi-looted
art, said in an interview from Berlin. If confirmed as genuine,
“it shows that a lot of time has to pass for some of this art
to emerge from shady sources.”  “The federal government is supporting the Augsburg
prosecutors with experts in the field of so-called degenerate
art,” German chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokesman Steffen Seibert said in a Berlin news conference. “Of course we can’t
comment on the investigation. The government has been kept
informed of this case for several months now.”  Hildebrand Gurlitt “is well known as a red-flag name,”
said Robert Edsel, whose book “The Monuments Men,” an account
of the taskforce assigned to rescue European cultural artifacts
during World War II, has been made into a film by George Clooney
to be released in February. Edsel spoke by telephone from  Dallas 
yesterday.  Degenerate Thefts  “If you see any work of art that he was involved with in
terms of provenance, if his name crops up, there’s a high
likelihood that it was stolen or that it has come out of one of
 Germany ’s museums as one of the degenerate art pieces,” Edsel
said.  Customs authorities in Munich declined to comment on the
report, citing confidentiality rules.  “As important a story as this is -- why have the Bavarian
authorities been sitting on them for two years?” said Anne
Webber, co-chair of the  Commission for Looted Art in Europe , a
London-based organization which helps families recover art
seized by the Nazis. “Bavaria needs to publish a list of these
works as soon as possible.”  Matisse Portrait  The works include a painting entitled “Portrait of a
Lady” by Henri Matisse that once belonged to Jewish art
collector Paul Rosenberg, Focus said.  Rosenberg -- whose granddaughter is Anne Sinclair, the
journalist and estranged wife of former International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  -- was forced to
leave his collection behind when he fled the Nazis, Focus said.
Gurlitt kept the artworks and sold some as a source of income
over the years, the magazine reported.  Works by Emil Nolde, Franz Marc, Paul Klee, Oskar Kokoschka, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Max Liebermann and Albrecht Duerer were also discovered in the raid, it said.  “This is not the end of it,” Edsel said. “As the World
War II generation passes over the next five years, we’re going
to see more of this stuff coming out: paintings on walls, in
attics from World War II veterans of all sides. We’re going to
find more of these. I don’t know necessarily of this sort of
scale, but we’re going to see more of it.”  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on European art,
 Greg Evans  on U.S. television,  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night
and  Philip Boroff  on U.S. theater.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Cullen in  Frankfurt  at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net :
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 