-- Nestle Plans to Reduce Salt in Foods to Meet WHO Targets
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-11-04T14:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/nestle-plans-to-reduce-salt-in-foods-to-meet-who-targets.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, plans to reduce salt levels in foods including Maggi-branded instant soups and Buitoni pasta to meet goals set by the
 World Health Organization .  Nestle will reduce the amount of salt in hundreds of
products, including ready meals, noodles, and recipe mixes, by
at least 10 percent over the next three years, the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company said on its  website  today. The
decision will also affect Stouffer’s frozen food and DiGiorno
pizzas, Nestle said.  The  World Health Organization  has a target of no more than
5 grams of salt per person per day by 2025 in order to reduce
the risk of heart attacks and strokes. Nestle has been working
on lowering the salt content of its foods since 2005, and has
cut levels in its Stouffer’s Mac & Cheese meal in the U.S. by
almost 15 percent during that period, the company said. Salt
levels in Buitoni frozen pizzas in  France  are down by almost 20
percent.  “We have made great strides in reducing the salt content
of our food products in recent years and we want to build on
that progress,” Henri-Pierre Lenoble, manager of nutrition,
health and wellness at Nestlé Food, said in the statement. “Our
goal is to offer consumers products that enable them to make
practical, healthy nutritional choices.”  A person with either elevated sodium levels or low
potassium could be at risk of raised blood pressure which
increases the risk of heart disease and stroke, according to a
January statement from Geneva, Switzerland-based WHO.  Nestle is working with U.S. life-sciences company
 Chromocell Corp  to find compounds that could replace salt, it
said. Nestlé recipes contained 14,043 fewer tons of salt in 2012
compared with 2005, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net  