-- NFL, Dr. Reddy’s, Thanksgivukkah: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-04T12:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/nfl-dr-reddy-s-thanksgivukkah-intellectual-property.html
A $50 million settlement of a lawsuit
against the National Football League over claims it made money
using players’ images in marketing without sharing it with them
was given final approval by a judge.  U.S. District Judge Paul A. Magnuson in St. Paul,
 Minnesota , approved the accord Nov. 1 over objections that it
won’t put money directly into players’ hands. Critics of the
deal were lured by their attorneys’ promise of lucrative
payouts, the judge said.  “Although the objectors have been especially vociferous in
this matter, only one-tenth of one percent of the class
objected,” Magnuson wrote. “More importantly, the objections
raised here are without merit. Nearly all of the objections boil
down to what is, in the court’s view, the objector’s very
mistaken belief that they could reap significant financial
benefits from continuing this case.”  Under the terms of the settlement, the NFL will pay $42
million into a fund administered by retirees for their peers,
plus $8 million to defray legal expenses. An agency will be
created to handle ex-player image licensing. The NFL can deduct
as much as $13.5 million from the fund for expenses related to
opt-out claims, Magnuson said.  The accord ends a lawsuit filed in 2009 by six players
including former Los Angeles Ram Fred Dryer and Minnesota Viking
Jim Marshall on behalf of all of their retired colleagues.  More than 2,000 requests for exclusion from the settlement
were filed by players including ex-Atlanta Falcons quarterback
Steve Bartkowski, onetime Baltimore Colts receiver Raymond Berry
and Kansas City Chiefs placekicker Jan Stenerud, according to
court filings. More than 150 withdrew their exclusion requests
after the deal won preliminary approval in April.  The chances of the lawsuit’s succeeding are “slim at
best,” Magnuson said, calling the settlement a remarkable
victory for the class as a whole.  The agreement “benefits all class members, not just those
who are well-known or whose publicity rights are the most
valuable,” Magnuson said.  The case is Dryer v. National Football League, 09-cv-02182,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  Dr. Reddy’s Gets Cancellation of ‘Reddy’ Trademark, Paper Says  Reddy Pharmaceutical of Delhi lost the right to its
“Reddy” trademark following a complaint from  Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD) ,  India ’s Financial Express  reported .  Dr. Reddy’s, a Hyderabad, India-based maker of generic
drugs, had sought cancellation of the Delhi company’s mark
within six months of its registration in 2005, according to the
Financial Express.  India’s Intellectual Property Appellate Board said it had
mistakenly assumed that Reddy Pharmaceutical was an affiliate or
subsidiary of Dr. Reddy’s, the newspaper reported.  The board said facts indicated that Reddy Pharmaceutical
chose the mark to deceive the public, according to the Express.  ‘Thanksgivukkah’ Trademark Holder Celebrates American Life  This year the eight-day Jewish festival of Hanukkah begins
at sunset the day before Thanksgiving Day is celebrated in the
U.S. on Nov. 28  A resident of Roslindale,  Massachusetts , registered
“Thanksgivukkah” -- a word that conflates the names of the two
holidays -- as a trademark. Dana Gittell registered the term in
July for use with greeting cards and party decorations, and in
August for clothing, including T-shirts, baby apparel and bibs.  Gittell registered an Internet domain name, and has also
set up “Thanksgivukkah” accounts on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Twitter
Inc. (TWTR) ’s social media sites. She is selling T-shirts, greeting
cards and posters  through her website .  One of the items is a gloss on Grant Wood’s “American
Gothic.” The  poster  has the two familiar figures, changed to
show the woman dressed as a pilgrim and the man wearing Hasidic
attire and holding a menorah instead of a pitchfork.  Gittell  told  an interviewer for JewishBoston.com that she’s
using her Thanksgivukkah trademark to “celebrate the Jewish-American experience and give thanks for America as a bastion of
religious freedom.”  According to  the Shop Thanksgivukkah Facebook page, the
last time Hanukkah and Thanksgiving coincided was in 1988 and it
“may not happen again for 79,043 years.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Patent  Rovi Loses Patent Case Against Netflix Over TV Program Guides  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  didn’t violate  Rovi Corp. (ROVI)  patent rights, the
U.S. International Trade Commission said in a  notice  posted on
its website Nov. 1.  The commission found that Los Gatos, California-based
Netflix’s software-development kit didn’t infringe four Rovi
patents. Netflix also won an argument that Rovi didn’t meet a
requirement that an infringing product be imported to merit a
violation finding.  In dispute were patents 6,898,762, 7,065,709, 7,103,906,
and 8,112,776. Earlier an administrative law judge found that
the first three patents weren’t infringed, and that the fourth
patent was invalid. In its Nov. 1 statement, the commission said
it affirmed the judge’s finding and that it will issue an
opinion shortly.  LG Electronics Inc., Mitsubishi Electric Corp. and Vizio
Inc., which were all also subjects of the investigation, settled
earlier, according to the commission statement.  For patent news, click here.  Copyright  Aereo Says Law Already Permits Its Online-TV Service  Aereo Inc., whose service relays network television shows
to online viewers, asked a New York judge in a copyright lawsuit
by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and other broadcasters to
rule that its business is legal.  The request, in a filing Oct. 31 in  Manhattan  federal
court, comes after the broadcasters, who failed to get courts to
halt Aereo’s service, asked the U.S. Supreme Court last month to
weigh in.  New York-based Aereo uses thousands of small antennas to
capture free over-the-air TV signals and transmit them to paying
subscribers on the Internet. The company gives members access to
remote equipment and functionality that they could otherwise
have and use at home, according to the filing.  Aereo, backed by Barry Diller, threatens $3 billion in fees
that broadcast station owners will receive this year from pay-TV
systems to provide signals to subscribers. The broadcasters say
Aereo violates their copyrights by capturing their signals and
sending them to customers without permission.  Federal judges in  Boston  and New York so far have permitted
Aereo to operate during legal challenges. U.S. District Judge
Nathaniel Gorton in Boston last month wrote that the
broadcasters hadn’t “demonstrated a sufficient likelihood of
success on the merits” to justify an injunction.  U.S. law already entitles consumers to pick up local TV
broadcasts on the public airwaves using individual antennas, to
copy those broadcasts for their own personal use and to play
back those recordings, according to Aereo’s filing. Aereo
technology does the same thing, the company said.  In October, 21st Century Fox Inc., Univision Communications
Inc., the Public Broadcasting Service and station WNET, and New
York’s Tribune Co.-owned WPIX petitioned the Supreme Court for a
ruling that Aereo is an illegal operation.  The cases in New York are American Broadcasting Cos. v.
Aereo Inc., 12-cv-01540, WNET v. Aereo Inc., 12-cv-01543, and
Aereo Inc. v. CBS Broadcasting Inc., 13-cv-03013, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The case in
Boston is Hearst Stations Inc. v. Aereo Inc., 13-cv-11649, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Antigua to Seek Bids for WTO-Mandated U.S. Content Exploitation  The island nation of Antigua and Barbuda is on the verge of
submitting a plan to that nation’s parliament for the
exploitation of U.S. intellectual property rights, according to
a government  statement .  Earlier this year the World Trade Organization authorized
Antigua and Barbuda to suspend treaty obligations it has with
the U.S. related to intellectual property rights. This was the
result of U.S. action to block access to online gambling
websites in Antigua. The WTO previously found that U.S. gambling
laws related to Internet gambling on horse racing weren’t in
compliance with treaty obligations.  At that time, the island nation’s government said the
blockage “resulted in the loss of thousands of good paying jobs
and seizure by the Americans of billions of dollars belonging to
gaming operators and their customers in financial institutions
across the world,” according to the statement.  The online gambling industry was at one point the second-largest employer in the country and worth “over $3.4 billion to
the Antiguan economy,” the government said.  In its newest statement, the Antiguan government said it
will soon announce the opening of bids from the private sector
to operate a website through which access to the U.S. content
can be obtained.  Prime Minister Baldwin Spencer said in the statement that
the website will give Antigua and Barbuda “a tangible benefit
for our years of perseverance in this matter.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  BBC Says Chinese-Made Consumer Products Could Be Trojan Horses  Some Chinese consumer goods have been found to contain
chips that could send data through unprotected Wi-Fi networks,
the  BBC   reported .  A technician on  Russia ’s state-owned Rossiya 24 channel was
shown opening up a Chinese-made iron containing what was called
a “spy chip” with a “tiny microphone,” according to the BBC.  Car dashboard cameras and mobile phones have allegedly also
been found to contain such modifications, the BBC reported.  The BBC said Russian news sources have reported that these
chips could be used to get inside company networks, spread
viruses or send out spam without company officials’ knowledge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at 
Or  vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  