-- Novartis Said to Mull Animal-Health Sale in Asset Review
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r ,   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-05T16:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/novartis-said-to-mull-animal-health-sale-in-asset-review.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  has identified its
animal-health business as a top candidate for a sale as Chairman
Joerg Reinhardt revamps the Swiss drugmaker, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  Novartis is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on a
portfolio review, which is at a relatively early stage, said two
of the people, all of whom asked not to be named because the
process is confidential. Novartis is also considering selling
its over-the-counter medicines unit and the vaccines operation,
they said. No final decision on asset sales has been made, the
people said.  A sale of some or all of those operations would reverse
some of the legacy of Reinhardt’s predecessor,  Daniel Vasella .
Reinhardt began a review of the portfolio after taking over in
August. Novartis wants its businesses to be among the industry
leaders or will otherwise consider divesting them, he said in an
August interview. The process is continuing, Chief Executive
Officer  Joe Jimenez  said last month on a call with journalists.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Novartis, declined to
comment. A Goldman Sachs representative declined to comment.  Novartis also must still decide the fate of a 33 percent
stake in crosstown rival  Roche Holding AG (RO) ’s voting shares.
Vasella amassed the stake more than a decade ago but was unable
to persuade Roche’s founding families -- who control 50.1
percent of the voting shares -- to agree to a merger. The stake
is valued at about 13.4 billion Swiss francs ($14.7 billion).  Citigroup Estimate  Novartis now has five units: the Alcon eye-care business;
pharmaceuticals; vaccines and diagnostics; the Sandoz generic-medicines division; and consumer health, which includes both
over-the-counter medicines and animal-health products. Consumer
health had revenue of $1 billion in the third quarter.  The veterinary business, which makes Sentinel flea control
tablets for dogs and the  Vira Shield  antiviral medicine for
cattle, is valued at about $4 billion including net debt,
Citigroup Inc. said Oct. 22.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH are among companies that may consider
an offer if Novartis proceeds with the animal health sale, one
of the people said.  Other pharmaceutical companies have spun off or considered
divesting veterinary units, in part in an attempt to boost the
valuation that investors award to those operations. Merck & Co.
said last week it’s still looking at whether its animal-health
and consumer businesses, as well as its drug projects, might be
divested or partnered outside the company. Pfizer Inc. in June
completed the spinoff of its Zoetis Inc. veterinary unit.  Analyst Calls  Novartis’s OTC business, which sells the Excedrin pain
reliever and the Theraflu cough and cold treatment, returned to
growth this year after manufacturing woes at a U.S. plant.  Novartis rose 0.3 percent to close at 70.30 francs in
Zurich. Novartis returned 28 percent in the past  year , compared
with a 25 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index.  Reinhardt, previously the CEO of Bayer Healthcare, is
facing calls from some investors and analysts to jettison some
businesses acquired by Vasella. The former chairman and CEO was
with Novartis for 17 years, overseeing the 1996 merger of Sandoz
AG and Ciba-Geigy AG that created the Swiss drugmaker.  A $10 billion acquisition is possible for Novartis as the
drugmaker reviews its businesses, including animal health and
vaccines, Reinhardt, 57, said in August.  Novartis should consider “all strategic options” for the
vaccines unit, which “has failed to deliver,”  Andrew Baum , a
Citigroup analyst wrote in an Aug. 9 note to investors. The OTC
business should be sold, and the animal-health division needs
“more aggressive management to compete with industry leaders,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  