-- Oaktree Buys Cheap Chinese Stocks as U.S. Fairly Valued
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-04T06:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/oaktree-s-marks-buys-cheap-chinese-stocks-as-u-s-fairly-valued.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, is buying Chinese
stocks after valuations tumbled, Chairman Howard Marks said.  The nation’s equities are “tremendous bargains,” Marks
said at a media briefing in  Shanghai  today, declining to name
the specific shares he’s purchasing. U.S. stocks are “fairly to
fully valued,” he said. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has
dropped 5.3 percent this year even as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index jumped 24 percent.  While  China ’s economy faces risks from being weaned off
stimulus, a burgeoning middle class and government plans for
urbanization will bolster the country’s long-term potential,
Marks said. The Shanghai Composite is valued at 1.4 times net
assets, a 44 percent discount versus the S&P 500. That compares
with an average premium of 6 percent for the Chinese gauge
during the past five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We are investing in Chinese equities along with  emerging
markets ,” Marks said. “Investors have lost all confidence in
China.”  While the country contributed most to the global economy’s
rebound from the 2008 financial crisis, growth is slowing as the
ruling Communist Party reins in an unprecedented $1.6 trillion
lending boom in 2009 that helped send home prices to all-time
highs and left local governments with record liabilities.  Party Summit  President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang are trying to
transform China into a consumer-led economy from an exporter
reliant on a managed currency. Li has championed urbanization as
a “huge engine” for growth as he encourages rural workers to
move to cities and boost spending. Communist Party leaders will
enter a policy-making summit this week to map out a blueprint
for reform.  The Shanghai gauge rose less than 0.1 percent as of 2:08
p.m. local time, paring its decline during the past three years
to 29 percent. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
companies traded in Hong Kong rose 0.3 percent, reducing its
three-year drop to 21 percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index
has slipped 8.8 percent since 2010, while the S&P 500 rose 48
percent.  The U.S. stock index’s price-to-earnings ratio has
increased 18 percent this year to 16.7, near the highest level
in more than three years, even as U.S. gross domestic product is
projected to expand 1.6 percent, almost half the rate of 2012,
data and estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The 15-year
average multiple is 19.3.  “U.S. stocks have moved from being cheap to fair,” Marks
said. “It’s not overpriced in the context of history.”  While investors were too optimistic about China’s prospects
three years ago, they may be too pessimistic now, Marks said.
The Shanghai Composite’s price-to-book  ratio  is about half the
level it reached in November 2010, while the measure’s price-to-earnings multiple is 42 percent lower.  “The swings of the pendulum were excessive,” he said.
“Perhaps this time too.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  