-- Obama Enlists Support to Counter Health Care Law Critics
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-11-04T23:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/obama-enlists-support-to-counter-health-care-law-critics.html
President  Barack Obama  urged his most
loyal supporters to promote the benefits of his health-care law,
as his White House works to stem the political damage caused by
weeks of technical failures and criticism.  “I’ve got one more campaign in me: The campaign to make
sure this law works for everyone in America,” Obama told a
crowd of several hundred people at an event in Washington hosted
by Organizing for Action, the former Obama campaign operation
that is now a non-profit group promoting the president’s agenda.
“I’m asking for your help. We’ve got to make sure all of us
stay on it.”  The website for the  Affordable Care Act’s  insurance
exchanges has been plagued by computer problems and delays since
it debuted on Oct. 1. The rocky rollout of the president’s
signature domestic achievement has complicated Obama’s second-term agenda and risks tarnishing his legacy.  The exchanges are designed to provide health plans for some
of the 48 million uninsured Americans and website outages and
software errors hindered sign-ups. The administration is seeking
to get about 7 million people to buy policies through the
exchanges in the open enrollment period that runs through March.  The president pledged that his administration would fix the
website, saying those issues have complicated efforts by his
volunteers to enroll Americans in the insurance plans.  Alternate Methods  He encouraged supporters to seek out other ways to sign up
new participants before the March 31 deadline, including by
mail, telephone or in-person.  “We’re going to fix things that aren’t working the way
they should be,” Obama said. “And we’re just going to keep on
going. We’ve got to make sure we stay on track to make this
work.”  Obama’s appearance in  Washington  tonight was the latest
stop in a campaign by his administration to defend the law.  Later this week, Obama travels to  Dallas  to meet with
volunteers working on enrollment. White House officials and
members of Obama’s cabinet, including Housing and Urban
Development Secretary Shaun Donovan and Secretary of Labor Tom Perez, are also being dispatched to the 10 cities with the
highest rates of uninsured residents to promote the insurance
plans.  Public Campaign  “There’s obviously a big effort under way to make sure
that Americans across the country get the information they need,
understand what benefits are available to them, including tax
credits that are available to them in order to purchase
affordable and quality health insurance,” White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters today.  Organizing for Action has started to promote the law with
an initiative urging parents to use holiday visits to encourage
their older offspring to sign up for coverage.  Today’s event, billed as an “Obamacare summit,” includes
the group’s top donors, staff, volunteers and participants from
labor unions and non-profits backing the law.  Some members of Congress have urged the administration to
take the website off line until it is fully functional.  “It’s pretty clear, I think, to those of us who have been
watching this rollout, that the technological base was not
sufficient,” Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a Democrat from
 California , said yesterday on CBS “Face the Nation. She said
that she told White House Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough  that
the administration should take the site down ‘‘until it was
right.’’  Last month, Obama drafted former health care executive
Jeffrey Zients to help repair the marketplaces. Zients, the
former acting director of the Office of Management and Budget,
was named by Obama in September to replace  Gene Sperling  as the
director of the National Economic Council starting in January.  Forty-eight percent of Americans said the federal
government is doing a ‘‘poor’’ job of implementing the health
law, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation poll released Nov.
1. The law maintained plurality support in the survey, with
about 47 percent saying it should be kept or expanded, compared
with 37 percent who said they want it repealed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  