-- Obesity Surgery Improves Women’s Sex Lives, Study Finds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-11-04T21:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/obesity-surgery-improves-women-s-sex-lives-study-finds.html
Women who undergo  weight loss surgery 
have healthier hormone levels and report marked improvement in
sexual function as they shed unwanted pounds, researchers said.  The first study to track sexual satisfaction following
bariatric surgery found the area often ignored by doctors can
cause unanticipated changes for couples, said  David Sarwer , the
lead researcher and a psychology professor at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Perelman  School of Medicine . Improvements in
sexual health, and perhaps fertility, may be an added benefit of
weight-loss surgery for women, the researchers said.  The women experienced significant gains in every quality-of-life measure, with the changes emerging soon after surgery
and before they reached their maximum weight loss, according to
the report released today in  JAMA Surgery . After two years, the
women reported improvements in arousal, lubrication, sexual
desire and satisfaction. They also lost about one-third of their
initial body weight. The greatest changes were seen among women
whose obesity had most affected their sexuality, Sarwer said.  “When we think about extreme obesity and sexual behavior,
it’s one of these ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ issues,” he said in a
telephone interview. “What this study really shows us is that
women experience clinically significant changes within the first
year, and sexual behavior is clearly one of these areas.”  Sexual behavior is driven by hormones as well as the
thoughts and feelings of both people, he said. There was a wide
range of interest in sex among the 106 women who participated in
the research, all of whom were in romantic relationships at the
start of the study. In general the women reported an increase in
the quality of the romantic relationship after the surgery.  Quality of Life  “This is an area we don’t spend a lot of time talking
about with our patients,” Sarwer said. “It’s something that is
on their minds. For many people, sex is an important part of
quality of life. We need to talk about their questions related
to sexual behavior.”  More than 500 million people worldwide are obese, according
to the World Health Organization. In the U.S., about one-third
of adults -- or 78 million people -- are affected by the
condition, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  Bariatric surgery is the most effective method of weight
loss, with studies showing procedures to reduce the size of the
stomach lower cholesterol and diabetes risk. In the study, 85
women had a gastric bypass, when part of the stomach is closed
off and the small remaining pouch is connected to the small
intestine. The other 21 had gastric banding, a reversible
procedure that shrinks the stomach with an adjustable band.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  