-- Hong Kong Stocks Drop as China Property Developers Slide
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-11-04T08:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/hong-kong-stocks-advance-after-china-non-manufacturing-report.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell, with the
benchmark index paring last week’s gain, as Chinese developers
declined amid concern the nation will introduce more measures to
curb  house prices .  China  Resources Land Ltd., the second-largest mainland
property company traded in Hong Kong, dropped 3.5 percent after
the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen said property buyers must
have at least a 70 percent down-payment for their second homes.
Tingyi ( Cayman Islands ) Holding Corp., a maker of instant
noodles and beverages, fell 3 percent after surging 11 percent
last week.  Shunfeng Photovoltaic International Ltd. (1165) , a maker of
solar cells, surged 19 percent after announcing an acquisition
plan.  The  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.3 percent to 23,189.62 on
trading volume that was 27 percent below the 30-day average. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland shares listed in
the city advanced 0.1 percent to 10,686.06 after a gauge of
China’s non-manufacturing industries rose.  “Chinese property shares are being dragged down by the
news of down-payment in Shenzhen, which is huge,” said Jackson Wong, vice president of Hong Kong-based brokerage Tanrich
Securities Co. “There might be more micro policies to fine-tune
the current property measures. China’s focus is more on the
quality of growth and not gross domestic product, and we really
can’t quantify that.”  Stock Rebound  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  jumped 17 percent from this year’s low
on June 24 as data from China signaled the world’s second-largest economy is stabilizing. The nation’s non-manufacturing
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed to 56.3 in October from 55.4
in September, a government report showed yesterday. The increase
follows better-than-estimated readings for two manufacturing
indexes last week.  The Hang Seng Index, on which gains this year have been led
by gaming shares and China’s biggest Internet company,  traded 
today at 11.1 times estimated earnings, compared with 15.9 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index on Nov. 1.  Shunfeng Photovoltaic jumped 19 percent to HK$6.36 after
saying its unit agreed to buy Wuxi Suntech Power Co. for 3
billion  yuan  ($492 million).  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , the
world’s biggest producer of polysilicon for solar panels, gained
4.3 percent after a Chinese-language industry website reported
the company’s business will improve this quarter, citing company
management.  China Meeting  China’s top party officials will meet in Beijing from Nov.
9-12 to map out a blueprint for reform. The nation’s current
economic policy aims for long-term and sustainable development,
instead of short-term effects, the China Securities Journal
reported, citing Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  as saying on Nov. 2
at a meeting.  “Investors are concerned about China’s economic reform as
the policy will focus on improving the quality of the economy
rather than the growth rate,” said Sam Chi Yung, a strategist
at Delta Asia Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “There will be more
rumors until the upcoming policy meeting.”  Property buyers in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen
are required to have at least a 70 percent down-payment for
their second homes, according to a statement posted on the
website of the central bank’s Shenzhen office last week. New
home prices in September rose 20 percent in Shenzhen and
Guangzhou, data showed last month.  Property Bubble  The nation’s real-estate bubble poses a “danger” to the
economy and the government should combine property controls with
economic reform of land and tax policies, according to a front-page editorial published today by the China Securities Journal.  China Resources Land sank 3.5 percent to HK$21.90.  China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest mainland developer
listed in Hong Kong by market value, slipped 1.3 percent to
HK$23.50.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.1 percent last week as positive
corporate results overshadowed concern that improving economic
data may prompt the  Federal Reserve  to trim stimulus as soon as
next month.  Of the index members that have reported quarterly  earnings 
this season, 75 percent posted higher profit than analysts
estimated, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Futures on the gauge
added 0.2 percent today. Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard
Fisher  said in Sydney today that the U.S. central bank should
end its record stimulus as soon as possible.  IPO Freeze  China may remove a freeze on new listings on its domestic
stock market after the leadership meeting later this week,
Boming Cheng, president of Citic Securities Co., said in an
interview. The nation suspended IPOs in October 2012 due to
volatility in the stock market and investor concern about the
financial reporting of newly-listed companies.  Jewelry retailer  Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd. (590) 
halted trading pending a possible acquisition announcement.  Tingyi (Cayman Islands) Holding Corp., a maker of instant
noodles and beverages, fell 3 percent to HK$22.60, the  second-biggest  drop on the Hang Seng Index.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index fell 0.4 percent to 23,170.
The Hang Seng Volatility Index climbed 1.3 percent to 14.49,
indicating traders expect the benchmark equity index to swing
4.2 percent in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  