-- Longview Power Seeks Loan to Support Exit From Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-11-04T17:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/longview-power-seeks-loan-to-support-exit-from-bankruptcy.html
Longview Power LLC, which spent
$2 billion to build a coal-fired plant in  West Virginia , is
seeking court approval of financing from a majority of its
lenders to help fund operations and lay the groundwork for a
reorganization plan to exit bankruptcy.  Lenders that hold about 60 percent of Longview’s
$1.2 billion secured credit facility have agreed to provide a
multidraw term loan of as much as $150 million, which includes a
letter of credit sub-facility for as much as $30 million,
according to documents filed Nov. 1 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  The financing “provides a comprehensive capital solution”
to support Longview’s restructuring while forming the
“framework for a plan of reorganization,” the company said in
the filing. The loan, negotiated as part of broader talks with
the lenders, would be convertible into financing to help support
an exit from bankruptcy.  The Maidsville, West Virginia-based power producer, an
indirect unit of investment firm First Reserve Corp., was forced
to seek  bankruptcy protection  after construction flaws at the
plant reduced its power output, hindering its ability to make
debt payments, according to court documents.  Longview said it expects to file a reorganization plan with
the court by Nov. 12. Under the proposed terms of the plan, the
lenders would share as much as 90 percent of the reorganized
company’s equity, court papers show. Lenders providing the
bankruptcy loan would get the rest of the equity.  Cash Collateral  Longview intended to fund its bankruptcy with cash
representing collateral for the lenders, including $59 million
in disputed letters of credit from a unit of Geneva-based  Foster
Wheeler AG (FWLT) , a contractor that helped build Longview’s 700-megawatt plant.  Longview listed more than $1 billion in both assets and
debt in Chapter 11 papers filed in August. Affiliate Mepco
Holdings LLC, which can produce about 4 million tons of coal a
year and provides half of its output to Longview, also sought
protection.  The contractors hired to build the plant, which also
include a  Siemens AG (SIE)  unit and Kvaerner North American
Construction Inc., dispute that they are at fault for the
plant’s flaws and are in arbitration with Longview over
ownership of the $59 million in letters of credit, according to
court documents.  Longview received a $1 billion equity investment from an
affiliate of Greenwich, Connecticut-based First Reserve and
borrowed about $1.2 billion on a secured credit facility to fund
construction of the West Virginia project, according to court
papers. The company has about $1 billion outstanding on the
credit agreement, with about $557 million due in February.  The case is In re Longview Power LLC, 13-bk-12211, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net  