-- TOP Oil Market News: BP to Restart Gas Production at Rhum Field
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-11-04T01:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/top-oil-market-news-bp-to-restart-gas-production-at-rhum-field.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  BP to Restart Rhum Gas Field Production This Month: Sunday Times  BP will restart production on the Rhum natural gas field in
 North Sea  this month, three years after it was halted, Sunday
Times reports, without saying where it got information.  WTI Crude Falls Below $95 First Time Since June on Supply Surge  West  Texas  Intermediate crude fell below $95 a barrel for
the first time since June on surging U.S. stockpiles and as the
dollar gained versus the euro, curbing commodity demand from
investors.  Tropical Storm Sonia Moving Toward Mexican Coast  Officials on  Mexico ’s storm-struck Pacific coast braced on
Sunday for the arrival of fast-moving Tropical Storm Sonia,
which was projected to hit the mainland by early Monday.  Alberta Says ‘Quid Pro Quo’ With U.S. Required on Carbon Rules  Alberta won’t raise its levy on greenhouse-gas emissions
unless the U.S. acts on the issue, Premier Alison Redford said.  U.S. Gulf Crude Sinks to Lowest Against Imports: Energy Markets  U.S. Gulf Coast crude prices are plunging to an all-time
low against foreign oil as a flood of domestic production offers
refiners a less-expensive alternative to cargoes from overseas.  CME Lowers Margins for Nymex Crude Oil Futures  CME Group Inc. reduces initial margin for speculators on
front-month futures by 9.8 percent to $4,070 per contract from
$4,510. • SOURCE: Notice to customers  Gasoline Sinks to Lowest Since December 2011 as Brent Declines  Gasoline sank to the lowest level in almost two years as
 Brent crude  tumbled at a time when U.S. refiners are poised to
return from maintenance and increase production.  Ethanol Futures Decline With Corn at Lowest Level Since 2010  Ethanol dropped as corn touched a three-year low, reducing
costs for distillers.  U.S. Says Japan Signing Liability Pact Would Aid Nuclear Cleanup  Japan  will receive international help with the cleanup at
the Fukushima atomic station once it joins an existing treaty
that defines liability for accidents at nuclear plants, U.S.
Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said.  OPEC  Iran Burning $7 Billion to Lead Gas OPEC as It Faces Sanctions  Iran  will lead a club of the world’s biggest natural gas
exporters as its own shipments abroad are hampered by U.S. and
European Union sanctions that force the country to burn off
billions of dollars worth of the fuel.  Iran Burning $7 Billion Seeks to Lead Gas OPEC Facing U.S. (1)  Iran is seeking to lead a club of the world’s biggest
natural gas exporters as its own shipments abroad are hampered
by U.S. and European Union sanctions that force it to burn of
billions of dollars worth of the fuel.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Motiva’s Convent, Louisiana, Refinery Releases Hydrogen Sulfide  The refinery released an unknown amount of hydrogen sulfide
after an equipment leak, according to National Response Center
filing.  Yansab Extends Plants Shutdown to Repair Water Cooling Network  Co. expects startup activities and production by the end of
next week, according to a statement posted on Saudi stock
exchange website.  http://bit.ly/HzQkHW   Phillips 66 Borger Refinery in Texas Reports FCC Startup  Refinery in Texas restarting No. 40 fluid catalytic
cracker, may release emissions, notice to state regulators
shows.  Tesoro Los Angeles Refinery Carrying Out Planned Maintenance  TSO refinery near  Los Angeles  is carrying out planned
unspecified maintenance, said Tina Barbee, a Co. spokeswoman  Philadelphia Refinery Changing Equipment, Brought Back Units  PES is changing out “mercaptan cyclinder” at Philadelphia
refinery, according to a notice filed with state regulators  Chicago Diesel Rises as Lemont Outage Cuts Output During Harvest  Chicago diesel fuel surged to the biggest premium relative
to futures in nearly six weeks as an area refinery cut
production during the peak of corn-harvesting across the
Midwest.  CVR Wynnewood Refinery to Perform Catalyst Changes in 2014  Work shouldn’t significantly affect next year’s numbers,
John Lipinski, CVR CEO, said in conference call with analysts
today  Essar Said to Begin Restarting Stanlow Oil Refinery Units Nov. 8  Essar Energy Plc will start operating units at its Stanlow
oil refinery in the U.K. on Nov. 8, following maintenance, a
person with direct knowledge of the plan said.  CVR CEO Says Gulf ‘Will Get Its Fill’ of Light Crudes in 2014  Light, sweet crudes to be backed up into U.S. Midcontinent
region by next year, John Lipinski, CVR CEO, said in conference
call with analysts today  CVR Says Wynnewood Refinery Lost Some Crude Advantage  Wynnewood refinery in Okla. receives 35,000-40,000 b/d of
crude from Permian Basin, John Lipinski, CVR CEO, said in
conference call with analysts today  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Chevron Says Some Parts of Australia LNG Project Need to Improve  Chevron Corp., operator of the A$52 billion ($49 billion)
Gorgon natural gas venture in  Australia , said some
“uncertainties” remain in the construction of the project
after its budget last year jumped 21 percent.  Iran’s Oil Minister Says ‘No Reason’ to Reduce Its Crude Price  There is no reason for Iran to reduce the price of its oil
to attract more buyers, Bijan Namdar Zanganeh said in an
interview at a meeting of the Gas Exporting Countries Forum in
Tehran.  U.K. Energy Minister to Renegotiate Qatar Gas Imports: Telegraph  U.K. is seeking to secure new long- term gas imports
agreements with Qatar and win as much as GBP10b of
infrastructure investment, Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  told
Sunday Telegraph in an interview.  Contributing Op-Ed Writer: Mexico’s Theology of Oil  MEXICO CITY — In almost every country, the availability and
exploitation of oil are essentially economic issues — every
country, that is, except Mexico, where it is a matter of secular
theology. For many Mexicans, the question of whether to open the
national oil industry to private investment is much more than a
practical decision: It is an existential dilemma, as if
permitting foreign investment were to bargain away the country’s
soul.  Japan Is Eager for International Help at Fukushima, Moniz Says  Japan’s prime minister and other government officials
expressed an “eagerness” for international help with cleanup
at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest
Moniz says in interview today.  RWE Npower May Cut Max. 2,500 U.K. Jobs, Sun Reports  RWE’s nPower may cut as many as 2,500 jobs from a total of
4,900, and may relocate part of its call centres in  India  to
reduce costs, Sun newspaper reports today without saying where
it got information.  German Grid Regulator Backs Closing of 12  Power Plants : Focus  Plants are located in northern  Germany  and shuttering them
won’t threaten grid stability, Focus cites Jochen Homann, head
of Bundesnetzagentur regulator, as saying in interview.  Energy Future Payment Risks Ire of Creditors as March Looms (1)  Energy Future Holdings Corp.’s decision to make a $270
million interest payment buys the Texas power producer as much
as five extra months out of bankruptcy while inciting the ire of
lenders who lose that money in a recovery.  Energy Future Holdings Had Profit in Third Quarter From Hedging  Energy Future Holdings Corp., the Texas power company
seeking to restructure almost $44 billion of debt, reported its
first quarterly profit in more than two years partly because of
a gain on commodities hedging.  OTHER MARKETS  Australian Index Futures Climb After U.S. Gains; Yen Holds Drop  Australian and Hong Kong index futures rose after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index snapped a two-day drop in the U.S.
The yen held last week’s decline while Australia’s dollar
rebounded versus the greenback.  Euro Near Two-Week Low on ECB Policy Outlook; Dollar Holds Gain  The euro was 0.1 percent from its lowest in two weeks
before European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg
Asmussen speaks in the run-up to a policy meeting amid signs
further stimulus may be needed.  Aussie Poses Obstacle to RBA Rate Rise Wagers: Australia Credit  The world-beating Australian dollar looks set to delay
central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  raising  interest rates  as
some economists predict an increase late next year to cool the
housing market.  Israeli Stocks Rise as Perrigo Jumps to Record; India Advances  Israel’s benchmark index rose to a two-week high after U.S.
equities last week had their longest rally since July and Tel
Aviv’s exchange chose a new chief executive officer. Indian
stocks gained in a special session.  S&P 500 Has Longest Weekly Gain Since July Amid Earnings, Fed  U.S. stocks rose for a fourth week, the longest rally since
July, as better-than-estimated corporate earnings offset concern
the Federal Reserve may reduce monetary stimulus in coming
months.  Cheaper Chickens Seen in Record Corn Cutting Costs: Commodities  The biggest-ever U.S. corn harvest is spurring poultry
farms to expand chicken production, sending domestic supplies of
the meat to a record and cutting costs for buyers from Costco
Wholesale Corp. to McDonald’s Corp.  Commodities Tumble to Four-Month Low as Crude, Gold Lead Losses  Commodities dropped to a four-month low, paced by declines
in crude oil and gold, on signs of climbing supplies of raw
materials at a time when the prospect of reduced  Federal Reserve 
stimulus may cut demand.  Xi Borrows From Mao Playbook in Power Play Ahead of China Plenum  The mission for the near-dozen Communists sitting round a
table at a Beijing ministry was explicit: criticize their boss,
who was present. Party cadres carefully recorded their comments
as they spoke, in an echo of sessions held decades ago under
Chairman  Mao Zedong ’s direction.  China Leaders to Start Reform Summit With Economy in Recovery  China ’s Communist Party leaders will enter a policy-making
summit this week with the economy on an upswing, services and
manufacturing surveys show.  SPORTS  Cardiff Beats Swansea 1-0 in Premier League; Everton, Spurs Draw  Cardiff City  beat Swansea City 1-0 today in the first-ever
top-flight meeting of the south Wales clubs. Everton and
Tottenham drew 0-0 in soccer’s other Premier League game.  Eriksson Says He Signed Deal to Coach Man. United, Mail Reports  Former England soccer manager Sven- Goran Eriksson said he
signed a contract to succeed  Alex Ferguson  at  Manchester United 
in 2002, the Mail on Sunday reported, citing the Swede’s new
autobiography.  Newcastle Beats Chelsea in Premier League; Manchester Teams Win  Newcastle beat Chelsea 2-0 to deny the Blues a chance to
take first place in English soccer’s Premier League.  ENERGY PRICES  Last     Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----    ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       94.61   -1.77  -1.8  Nymex     Dec.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    105.78   -0.13  -0.1    Ice     Dec.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         906.50  -17.50  -1.9    Ice     Dec.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       254.21   -0.33  -0.1  Nymex     Dec.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.46   -0.06  -1.6  Nymex     Dec.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    105.70   -3.19  -2.9    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            288.32   +0.10  +0.0  Nymex     Dec.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.72  +0.6
Gold ($/Oz)          1,313.20  -0.8
MSCI World Index     1,597.86  -0.3
Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  