-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Trades Near Four-Month Low on Supplies
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2013-11-04T13:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/top-oil-market-news-wti-trades-near-four-month-low-on-supplies.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Trades Near Four-Month Low on U.S. Crude Supply; Brent Gains  West Texas Intermediate oil traded near the lowest price in
more than four months amid speculation U.S. crude supplies will
be sufficient. London-traded Brent rebounded as an index of
China’s services industry advanced to the highest level this
year.  Merkel Facing Power Dilemma as Coal Plants Open: Energy Markets  Germany, Europe’s biggest power market, is poised to open
its first new coal-fired plants in eight years, just as prices
slump because of a glut of electricity.  Libyan Crude Production Was 250,000 B/d Ydy, NOC Spokesman Says  A tanker is scheduled to load crude from El Feel field at
Mellitah export terminal tomorrow, Mohamed Elharari, a spokesman
for state-run National Oil Corp. says in an interview in
Tripoli.  Libya’s Hariga Port Likely to Load Crude for Export Next Week  Hariga can use stored oil at port initially, Mohamed
Elharari, a spokesman for state-run National Oil Corp., says in
interview in Tripoli.  Libya Oil Ports, Terminals Status for Nov. 4 (Table)  The following table shows the status of Libya’s oil ports,
terminals and offshore loading platforms.  Crude ARA Supplies Fell 1.8% in Week to Oct. 25, Genscape Says  Crude inventories declined 1.8 percent in Amsterdam,
Rotterdam, Antwerp and Vlissingen in the week ended Oct. 25,
according to estimates from Genscape Inc. for northwest Europe’s
oil-storage hub.  European Naphtha Shipments to Asia Rise to Three in November  European naphtha shipments heading to Asia this month rose
to three cargoes from one, shipping data on Bloomberg show.  Korea Western Power Seeks to Buy 45,000 Mt of  Fuel Oil  for Dec.  Co. seeks to buy shipment for Dec. 2-6 delivery to Pyong
Taek power plant, according to statement on its website.  U.S. Says Japan Signing Liability Pact Would Aid Nuclear Cleanup  Japan  will receive international help with the cleanup at
the Fukushima atomic station once it joins an existing treaty
that defines liability for accidents at nuclear plants, U.S.
Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  KPIC, Formosa Restart Crackers After Maintenance: Asia Naphtha  KPIC, Formosa Petrochemical restart naphtha crackers last
week after maintenance. European naphtha shipments to Asia rise
this month.  Petron Seeks Fuel for Malaysia; Crack Narrows: Asia Distillates  Petron seeks to buy two combination cargoes of 500 ppm-sulfur gasoil and 95-RON gasoline for Dec. delivery to Malaysia,
according to tender document obtained by Bloomberg.  Korea Western Seeks Dec. Shipment, Crack Narrows: Asia Fuel Oil  Korea Western Power seeks to buy 45,000 mt of max. 2.59%
sulfur fuel oil for Dec. 2-6 delivery to Pyong Taek power plant.  NORTH AFRICA ENERGY:  South Sudan  Refineries to Help Independence  South Sudan is set to become almost self-sufficient in oil
products within a year as two refineries enter production,
saving Africa’s newest nation foreign exchange it now uses to
buy diesel from neighbors.  KPIC Restarts Onsan Naphtha Cracker on Oct. 28 After Maintenance  Kim Young Giy, co.’s section chief of strategic planning
team, says by phone today.  CPC Sets No Date for Concluding Trials at No. 6 Naphtha Cracker  Taipei-based co. has no timeframe for reaching commercial
production at its Kaohsiung plant, spokeswoman Jessica Tang says
by phone.  Formosa Restarts Mailiao No. 2 Naphtha Cracker After Maintenance  Taiwanese refiner resuming unit after shutting it on Sept.
15 for planned maintenance, spokesman Lin Keh-Yen says by phone
from Taipei today.  Motiva’s Convent, Louisiana, Refinery Releases Hydrogen Sulfide  The refinery released an unknown amount of hydrogen sulfide
after an equipment leak, according to National Response Center
filing.  Yansab Extends Plants Shutdown to Repair Water Cooling Network  Co. expects startup activities and production by the end of
next week, according to a statement posted on Saudi stock
exchange website.  http://bit.ly/HzQkHW   Phillips 66 Borger Refinery in Texas Reports FCC Startup  Refinery in Texas restarting No. 40 fluid catalytic
cracker, may release emissions, notice to state regulators
shows.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Coconut Crisis Looms as Postwar Palm Trees Age:  Southeast Asia   Asia’s coconut palms, which mark the landscape from the
Philippines to India, face a crisis as aging groves become less
productive, with harvests that are a source of food and income
for millions being outstripped by demand.  World Bank Sees Ways to Slow Arctic Melt in Kitchen, Coal Mines  Replacing cook stoves, curbing crop fires and capturing
methane when extracting fossil fuels would help slow ice melting
from the Arctic to the Himalayas and decrease risks of flooding,
the  World Bank  said.  Bumi Seeks to Complete $501 Million Bakrie Transaction This Year  Bumi Plc, the Indonesian coal producer at the center of an
ownership dispute, is seeking to complete a planned $501 million
separation from founding investors the Bakrie Group by the end
of the year.  German Grid Regulator Backs Closing of 12  Power Plants : Focus  Plants are located in northern Germany and shuttering them
won’t threaten grid stability, Focus cites Jochen Homann, head
of Bundesnetzagentur regulator, as saying in interview.  Iran Burning Gas Worth Billions Set to Lead Exporters Group (1)  Iran will lead a club of the world’s biggest natural gas
exporters as its own shipments abroad are hampered by U.S. and
European Union sanctions that force the country to burn off
billions of dollars worth of the fuel.  BP Oil-Spill Settlement Objectors Ask Court to Rescind Approval  Opponents of BP Plc’s $9.2 billion partial settlement of
private-party claims from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill are
set to ask a U.S. appeals court to reverse a judge’s approval of
the agreement.  Natural Gas Falls for a Third Day on Mild U.S. Weather Outlook  Natural gas fell for a third day in  New York  as the outlook
for a mild start to November signaled reduced heating-fuel
demand in the U.S.  Kyoto Veterans See Warming Goals Slipping Away: Carbon & Climate  The only three living diplomats who have led the United
Nations global warming talks said there’s little chance the next
climate treaty will prevent the world from overheating.  Atlantic Storms to Revisit Europe in Warmer-Than-Usual November  November is predicted to be warmer than usual across Europe
for a second month with storm winds from the Atlantic poised to
boost electricity generation in Denmark, Germany and the U.K.  OTHER MARKETS  European Stocks Advance With S&P 500 Futures as Metals Decline  European stocks and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures
gained before data that will provide evidence on the strength of
America’s economy. Industrial metals fell as Federal Reserve
Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the U.S. should
resume normal monetary policy as soon as possible.  Euro Climbs From 6-Week Low as Manufacturing Grows; Aussie Rises  The euro strengthened from a six-week low against the
dollar after a report showed manufacturing in the currency bloc
expanded for a fourth month in October.  Aussie Poses Obstacle to RBA Rate Rise Wagers: Australia Credit  The world-beating Australian dollar looks set to delay
central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  raising  interest rates  as
some economists predict an increase late next year to cool the
housing market.  Oaktree’s Marks Buys Cheap Chinese Stocks as U.S. Fairly Valued  Oaktree Capital Group LLC, the world’s largest distressed-debt investor, is buying Chinese stocks after valuations
tumbled, Chairman  Howard Marks  said.  Gold Bug Schiff Counters Goldman Sachs on First Drop Since 2000  Peter Schiff  lays an iPod-sized bar valued at about $40,000
on the sun room floor of his Connecticut mansion, and calculates
it would cost about $250,000 for each floor tile to pave the
room with gold.  Cheaper Chickens Seen in Record Corn Cutting Costs: Commodities  The biggest-ever U.S. corn harvest is spurring poultry
farms to expand chicken production, sending domestic supplies of
the meat to a record and cutting costs for buyers from Costco
Wholesale Corp. to McDonald’s Corp.  Mursi Insists He’s President While Refusing to Recognize Court  Ousted President Mohamed Mursi, who appeared in court today
to face criminal charges, decried the “military coup” that
pushed him from power and said the court had no authority over
him as Egypt’s legitimate leader.  Dallas Fed’s Fisher Says U.S. Economy Hog-Tied by Government (2)  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher
said fiscal discord has led to the U.S. government playing a
suppressive role in the economy’s recovery and the central bank
should transition back to interest-rate driven monetary policy
at the earliest possible time.  SPORTS  Seahawks’ Rally Keeps Bucs Winless; Jets Beat Saints: NFL Week 9  The  Seattle Seahawks  beat the Tampa Bay Buccaneers 27-24 in
overtime after the biggest comeback in franchise history, while
the  New York Jets  rebounded from a 40- point loss with a 26-20
upset of the  New Orleans Saints .  Dolphins Suspend Incognito, Ask NFL to Probe Alleged Misconduct  The  Miami Dolphins  indefinitely suspended Richie Incognito
for conduct detrimental to the team as they investigate an
incident of alleged harassment involving fellow offensive
lineman Jonathan Martin.  Florida State Regains No. 2 BCS Ranking After Rout of Miami  Florida State University  regained the No. 2 spot in college
football’s Bowl Championship Series standings behind top-ranked
Alabama after a 41-14 rout of previously-undefeated Miami.  Texans Coach Gary Kubiak Is Stable After NFL Halftime Collapse  Houston Texans coach  Gary Kubiak  is in stable condition
after collapsing as he left the field at halftime of last
night’s  National Football League  game against the  Indianapolis
Colts .  ENERGY PRICES  Energy Prices:  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- -------- WTI Crude ($/Bbl)
94.52  -0.09  -0.1  Nymex     Dec. Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    106.01
 +0.10  +0.1    ICE     Dec. Gasoil ($/Ton)         901.00
-5.50  -0.6    ICE     Dec. Gasoline (c/Gal)       253.80  -0.74
 -0.3  Nymex     Dec. Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.43  -0.09  -2.4
 Nymex     Dec. Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    105.44  -0.26  -0.3
OTC  21 Days Heating Oil            288.16  -0.06   0.0  Nymex
  Dec.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- ----- Dollar Index            80.59  -0.2 Gold ($/Oz)  1,313.20  -0.8 MSCI World Index     1,600.97  +0.2  Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  