-- Morgan Stanley Traders Lost Money on Seven Days in 3Q
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-05T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/morgan-stanley-traders-lost-money-on-seven-days-in-third-quarter.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the investment bank
that’s shrinking its fixed-income unit, lost money from trading
on seven days in the third quarter, down from eight a year
earlier.  Traders generated more than $100 million on one day, a
decrease from nine in the third quarter of 2012, the New York-based company said yesterday in a regulatory filing. None of the
daily losses exceeded the bank’s so-called value-at-risk, an
estimate of potential trading losses.  Morgan Stanley posted the highest equity-trading revenue
among the five biggest Wall Street banks, while also generating
the least fixed-income trading revenue. The firm already has
reached its 2014 goal of cutting capital used by the fixed-income unit as part of Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman ’s
plan to double  return on equity .  Those cuts in risk-weighted assets and expense reductions
mean Morgan Stanley can reach its ROE goals for fixed-income
trading even if annual revenue falls below $6 billion, the
average for the past three years, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said last month. The firm has generated $3.5 billion from
the business this year, excluding accounting charges, the lowest
revenue for the first nine months since the credit crisis.  Morgan Stanley produced $5.11 billion from equity trading
in the period, up 39 percent from a year earlier and the biggest
jump among the nine largest global investment banks.  The firm also said its holdings of physical commodities
fell to $3.41 billion, the lowest level in more than four years.
The  Federal Reserve  is reviewing banks’ ability to own physical-commodity businesses, and Gorman has said the firm could pursue
a deal related to the unit if he found one that worked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  