-- OTP Climbs as Forint Advances on Home-Loan Plan: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-11-04T15:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/otp-climbs-as-forint-advances-on-home-loan-plan-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, rose to the highest level in more than three months and
the forint rallied after the ruling Fidesz party proposed
expanding measures to help foreign-currency mortgage borrowers.  Shares of the lender jumped 4 percent to 4,700 forint, set
for the strongest close since July 17, by 4:15 p.m. in Budapest.
The stock, which accounts for a third of the benchmark BUX
 index , lead the gauge’s 1.9 percent gain. The forint
strengthened the most against the euro and the dollar among 24
emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  The Fidesz party proposed expanding a program to allow
borrowers to temporarily repay loans at fixed, below-market
exchange rates, Antal Rogan, the parliamentary leader, told
reporters in Budapest today. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
cabinet vowed in July to phase out all foreign-currency loans,
triggering bets banks would post losses and contributing to
OTP’s 4.7 percent drop that month. The shares climbed 3.9
percent in October.  “Investors are beginning to price out a worst-case
scenario,” David Sandor, a Budapest-based analyst at KBC
Securities, a unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , said by phone. “Most people
expect them to carry out the conversion of foreign-currency
loans over several years. This may only be a first step but the
market no longer expects something really radical.”  The  forint  appreciated 0.5 percent, the most since Sept. 18
on a closing basis, to 296.01 per euro, after losing 0.7 percent
on Nov. 1, which was a holiday in Hungary.  The measures proposed by Rogan offer a temporary solution
until courts clarify rulings on the validity of foreign-currency
home loans, Andras Giro-Szasz, a spokesman for the government,
told reporters today. “Contradictory” court rulings prompted
delays in the cabinet’s planned overhaul, Economy Minister
 Mihaly Varga  said last week.  “The market sees it as good news that the foreign-currency
loan rescue proposal outlined today doesn’t contain any details
which would be a threat for Hungary’s currency,” Gergely Palffy, a Budapest-based analyst at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt.,
said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  