-- Toyota Seen Earning Record Half-Year Profit on Abenomics Lift
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-11-04T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/toyota-seen-earning-record-half-year-profit-on-abenomics-lift.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest automaker, will probably deliver record semiannual
profit when it reports earnings tomorrow, as the weaker yen
bolsters the value of Japanese cars sold overseas.  Net income in the fiscal first half ended Sept. 30 climbed
74 percent to 955.3 billion yen ($9.7 billion), according to the
average of five analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. For the
quarter, profit probably jumped to 444.7 billion yen, more than
the combined earnings at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Behind Toyota’s earnings bonanza is the yen, which has
declined against all major currencies in the past year,
benefiting the country’s exporters and reviving an economy
that’s been through three recessions in five years. Japan’s
biggest company is on pace to outsell all other carmakers for
the second straight year.  “The weaker yen and cost-cutting efforts are the two major
factors explaining the surge in domestic profit,” said Yusuke Miura, an analyst at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. “Toyota will
probably continue to be good for the time being if the yen stays
at the current level and cost-cutting efforts are executed
continuously.”  Toyota’s shares have risen 58 percent this year,
outperforming Honda Motor Co. and  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average has gained 37 percent in 2013.  Yen Impact  Thanks to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s monetary-expansion
policies, the yen has fallen about 12 percent against the dollar
in 2013, trading at an average of 99 yen last quarter, down 20
percent from a year earlier.  The company now forecasts profit of 1.48 trillion yen for
the 12 months ending March 31, based on a level of 92 yen to the
dollar and 122 yen to the euro. That compared with the record
1.82 trillion yen expected based on the average of 22 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Eiji Hakomori, an analyst with Daiwa Securities Group Inc.
in  Tokyo , expects Toyota to raise its profit forecast depending
on the company’s currency predictions for the second half, given
the “favorable earnings” in the July-to-September quarter, he
wrote in a report dated Oct. 22.  Toyota’s results come amid waning optimism over Japanese
carmakers. Last week, Honda reported second-quarter earnings
that missed analysts’ estimates and Nissan cut its annual profit
forecast.  Global Sales  In North America, Toyota probably reaped 96 billion yen in
operating profit last quarter, an increase of 48 percent,
according to the average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  In the U.S., deliveries rose 12 percent in the period as
the weaker yen gave Toyota room to offer higher incentives for
its best-selling Camry model. The company outsold Ford Motor Co.
for the first time in 15 quarters.  Operating profit in Europe probably rose 9.8 percent to 9.5
billion yen, the analysts’ estimates show, amid mounting signs
that the region is recovering from its record six-quarter
recession. In September, European car sales rose the most in
more than two years.  Toyota’s operating profit in  Japan , including income from
exports, probably more than doubled to 363.3 billion yen the
last quarter as the weaker yen boosted the value of overseas
sales, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Japan Tax  The automaker is also getting a short-term boost in Japan
as consumers rush to buy cars before an increase in the
consumption tax in April, according to Koji Endo, an auto
analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo.  In the rest of Asia, operating profit probably fell 6.9
percent to 86.5 billion yen, dragged down by a slump in demand
Thailand and  India .  Toyota sales in  China  rose at the fastest pace in five
quarters as it rebounded from last year, when nationwide
protests erupted in opposition to Japan’s purchase of a group of
islands claimed by both countries.  “There’s some room for upward surprise in China, as long
as there’s no escalation of tensions,” said  Ashvin Chotai ,
managing director of Intelligence Automotive Asia in  London .
“The overall market is growing faster than people expected in
the beginning of the year so the pie is bigger. Still, for
Japanese carmakers there’s a long road ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  