-- Pacific Surges as New Oil License Boosts Output Prospects
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-11-04T14:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/pacific-surges-as-new-oil-license-boosts-output-prospects.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) ,
 Colombia ’s largest independent crude producer, rose the most in
three months after receiving licenses from the country’s
environmental agency for its CPE-6 block.  The agency known as Anla also granted permits for the Guama
block in northern Colombia’s Lower Magdalena Valley Basin, the
Bogota-based company said in a statement distributed today by
PRNewswire. Pacific has 50 percent of CPE-6 and is the block’s
operator, while a unit of  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  has the other 50
percent. Pacific owns 100 percent of Guama. Shares gained as
much as 5.3 percent in Toronto.  Pacific plans to start production at CPE-6, in Colombia’s
Llanos Basin, next year after the licensing process experienced
repeated delays. The block will allow the company to diversify
output away from the Rubiales field, which accounted for 65
percent of net production, according to an October presentation.
The Rubiales license is set to expire mid-2016.  “This block represents the first major step out for us
from the Rubiales/Quifa SW field area and illustrates the
repeatable and scalable nature of the company’s heavy oil
strategy in Colombia, while also supporting the company’s plans
to significantly increase its production over the next four
years,” the company said in today’s statement.  5,000 Barrels  The board of state-owned  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s largest
oil producer, has yet to decide on Pacific’s request for a new
or extended license at the Rubiales field.  In an Aug. 13 interview, Chief Executive Officer Ronald Pantin said he expected a blanket exploration and development
license for CPE-6 within three to six weeks. CPE-6 may be
producing at 5,000 barrels per day by year end, Pantin said
during an August conference call with investors.  The company “slightly improved upon the production of the
second quarter,” Pacific President Jose Arata said in an Oct.
30 interview in Bogota. The purchase of  Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) 
announced Sept. 30 is on running on schedule, he said.  Rubiales, listed in Toronto and Bogota, made at least 10
acquisitions of companies and oil block stakes over the past two
years. Petrominerales will give it access to low-density crude,
which is cheaper to transport than the heavy oil that makes up
the bulk of its reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  