-- Pakistan Petroleum Expects Record Profit This Year on Gas
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-11-05T06:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/pakistan-petroleum-expects-record-profit-this-year-on-gas.html
Pakistan  Petroleum Ltd., the nation’s
second-largest fuel explorer, expects profit to rise to a record
this fiscal year as natural gas from new fields bolsters
production, Chief Executive Officer Asim Murtaza Khan said.  “The bottom line for the year will be higher” than last
year’s 42 billion rupees ($392 million), Khan said in an
interview in Karachi. “How much higher, it is very difficult to
say right now.”  The increase in gas production will help meet growing
energy demand in Pakistan, where power shortages sliced 2
percentage points off growth last year, shutting factories and
spurring social unrest. With an 18 percent share of the
country’s total gas output, Pakistan Petroleum is the largest
supplier after Islamabad-based Oil & Gas Development Co.  The company will add as much as 100 million cubic feet of
gas a day by the end of June from blocks including Tal, Latif
and Nashpa, Khan said yesterday. It plans to spend a record $200
million this year on new and current fields.  “The latest expansions have been great and working well
for them,” Furqan Punjani, deputy head of research at BMA
Capital Management Ltd. in Karachi, said by telephone.  The stock rose 0.9 percent to 202.5 rupees as at 11:16 a.m.
in Karachi, extending this year’s gain to 37 percent this year.
Oil & Gas Development has risen 34 percent this year, tracking
the 33 percent advance in the benchmark  KSE100. (KSE100)   Stake Sale  Pakistan Petroleum produced 331.5 billion cubic feet of gas
and 2.9 million barrels of crude oil in the last fiscal year
ended June 30, according to its  annual report .  The explorer is one of the state-run companies Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif’s five-month old government plans to offer
for stake sale as it struggles to control the fiscal deficit and
revive the $231 billion economy.  “We have suggested to divest the company to a strategic
buyer rather than offloading in the capital market as it will
bring technology,” Khan said. The government holds  71 percent 
stake in Pakistan Petroleum, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In the quarter through September, sales totaled 28.2
billion rupees, a 15 percent increase from a year earlier. The
Karachi-based company will probably maintain a “similar
pattern” in the current quarter, Khan said.  Pakistan Petroleum isn’t only expanding at home. Last year
it acquired rights to explore a block in  Iraq  covering 6,000
square kilometers (2,320 square miles) across Wasit and Diyala
provinces. The company is making progress at the project and
plans to invite bids for seismic surveys in December, Khan said.
It’s also looking for further opportunities in Iraq and Yemen.  Pakistan produced about 4 billion cubic feet of gas a day
on average last year, falling short of demand that peaked at
almost 6 billion cubic feet. Khan said he’s due to travel to the
U.S. this month for a conference, where he hopes Pakistani
energy companies will attract small- and mid-sized partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween A. Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  