-- Philippine Peso Falls to One-Month Low; Bonds Drop on Inflation
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-11-04T09:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/philippine-peso-falls-to-one-month-low-bonds-drop-on-inflation.html
The Philippine peso dropped to the
lowest level in a month as comments by Federal Reserve officials
fueled speculation the U.S. will pare monetary stimulus. Bonds
fell before a report forecast to show inflation quickened.  Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher said in Sydney
that the authority should resume normal monetary policy as soon
as possible. St. Louis Fed chief James Bullard said Nov. 1 that
labor-market gains in the past year may warrant a cut in bond
purchases that have buoyed  emerging markets . Philippine consumer
prices rose 3.2 percent in October from a year earlier, the
fastest pace since March, according to the  median estimate  of
economists surveyed before a report due tomorrow.  “Recent comments suggests the Fed may start tapering as
early as the first quarter, which is limiting the strength of
the peso and local stocks during a period of strong
remittances,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
BDO Unibank Inc., the nation’s largest lender by assets.
“Inflation may have bottomed and, with the U.S. taper story,
yields may move sideways to higher.”  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 43.305 per dollar at the close
in Manila, the lowest since Oct. 2, according to prices from
Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, rose
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.53 percent.  Remittances typically rise during the fourth quarter when
Filipinos living abroad send more money home for the Christmas
holidays and to pay school fees, said Ravelas, who expects the
peso will trade between 43 and 43.50 until the end of the year.
 Cash transfers  exceeded $1.9 billion each month from October to
December last year, the highest levels in 2012.  Bill Sale  The yield on the 2.125 percent bond due May 2018 rose five
basis points to 2.7 percent, according to Tradition Financial
Services. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell 0.6 percent
at the close.  The Bureau of the Treasury sold 17.4 billion pesos ($402
million) of bills due in three months to a year, less than the
20 billion pesos offered. The rate on 182-day bill dropped to
0.001 percent today, matching that of the 91-day notes.  Overseas investors flocked to the shorter-dated bills on
expectations the peso will appreciate, Treasurer Rosalia de Leon
told reporters after the auction.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas in May gave individuals until
the end of November to withdraw from its special deposit
accounts. Funds in the accounts stood at 1.59 trillion pesos as
of Oct. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  