-- Planned Parenthood Takes Texas Abortion Fight to Supremes
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-11-04T20:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/planned-parenthood-takes-texas-abortion-fight-to-supremes.html
Planned Parenthood and other women’s
health activists are asking the U.S.  Supreme Court  to step into
their fight to block new restrictions on  Texas  abortion
providers.  The groups filed an emergency petition today to freeze the
law after a New Orleans-based federal appeals court last week
said the measure could take effect. The appellate court put on
hold a trial judge’s Oct. 28 ruling that the new limits and
requirements were unconstitutional.  “The evidence showed that, absent an injunction, the law
would have an unprecedented and devastating effect on women’s
abilities to obtain an abortion,” Janet Crepps, the activists’
attorney, said in the application to U.S. Supreme Court Justice
 Antonin Scalia , who oversees emergency requests for the appeals
court thats jurisdiction includes Texas.  Scalia told Texas to respond to the request by Nov. 12.  The high court today dismissed what would have been its
first abortion showdown since 2007, backing out of a clash over
an Oklahoma law that sought to restrict drug-induced procedures.  The court left intact an Oklahoma Supreme Court
decision that struck down a 2011 state law on the grounds it put
an unconstitutional burden on women seeking an abortion.  “In just the few short days since the injunction was
lifted, over one-third of the facilities providing abortions in
Texas have been forced to stop providing that care and others
have been forced to drastically reduce the number of patients to
whom they are able to provide care,” Crepps said.  Overcame Filibuster  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, signed sweeping
new restrictions on abortion into law this year, in spite of a
last-ditch effort by Democrats, led by State Senator Wendy Davis, to kill the law with a filibuster.  “We believe the Fifth Circuit panel’s unanimous decision
was correct and will continue to defend the law before the U.S.
Supreme Court,” Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for Texas Attorney
General  Greg Abbott , said in an e-mail statement.  Activists sued to block the new restrictions in federal
court in Austin. After a three-day nonjury trial last month,
U.S. District Judge Lee Yeakel granted an injunction permanently
preventing Texas from enforcing two measures, including a
requirement that doctors have admitting privileges at hospitals
within 30 miles (48 kilometers) of the clinics where they
perform abortions.  Admitting Privileges  Planned Parenthood presented evidence at trial that many
doctors who perform abortions lacked local hospital admitting
privileges in Texas and would have to stop performing them
immediately. This would leave women in wide swaths of the
second-largest state without ready access to the procedure, the
clinics said.  Texas appealed Yeakel’s ruling the following day and won an
emergency order from the  New Orleans  appellate court that
overturned his decision. The appellate judges said the activists
weren’t likely to succeed on appeal so Texas should be allowed
to begin enforcing its new abortion restrictions right away.  “This can’t be what the Supreme Court intended” in
establishing guidelines for what restrictions states can legally
impose on abortion, Nancy Northup, president of the Center for
Reproductive Rights, said on a conference call with reporters.  ‘Ban Abortion’  “They can’t have meant to give politicians and state
legislators license to do underhandedly what they can’t do
directly, which is to pass trumped-up regulations to shut down
clinics or ban abortion entirely,” she said.  Ken Lambrecht, president of  Planned Parenthood  of Greater
Texas, said his organization canceled appointments for 100 women
who had abortion procedures scheduled for Nov. 1. He said as
many as 20,000 women a year seeking abortions in Texas could be
turned away unless the court blocks the hospital-privileges law.  “These are women who’ve made a deeply personal and complex
decision, but because of politicians are losing access to their
constitutionally protected rights,” Lambrecht told reporters on
the conference call. “These women will continue to seek this
care if it’s safe and accessible or not.”  Other federal courts have reviewed other states’ abortion
restrictions, and the Fifth Circuit’s ruling in favor of Texas’s
limits is “an outlier among these opinions,” Crepps said.  ‘All Wrong’  “The majority of courts that have looked at this so far
have gotten it right,” she said. “The Fifth Circuit got it all
wrong.”  Scalia can temporarily reinstate the Austin judge’s
injunction and block Texas from enforcing the admitting-privileges rule by finding the law causes irreparable injury
during the time it is being debated in court, Crepps said.  Texas and the activist groups will argue the full merits of
the state’s restrictions to the New Orleans appellate court in
January, Crepps said. The loser could then attempt to bring the
case back to the high court for full review.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas Surgical
Health Services v. Abbott, 13-A-452, U.S. Supreme Court. The
lower-court case is Planned Parenthood v. Abbott, 13-cv-00862,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin). The
appellate case is Planned Parenthood vs. Abbott,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  