-- Poll Shows Sour Electorate With Republicans Faring Worse
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-11-04T20:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/poll-shows-sour-electorate-with-republicans-faring-worse.html
The adage that voters hate Congress
but love their own representatives no longer holds true,
according to a poll that shows Americans increasingly sour about
the country’s direction and spoiling for change in  Washington .  In the  George Washington University Battleground Poll , 73
percent of voters said the nation is on the wrong track,
compared with just 19 percent who say it’s headed in the right
direction, a grim political environment one year out from U.S.
House and Senate elections.  The news is worse for Republicans, who lag behind
Democrats, 41 percent to 44 percent, in the poll’s measure of
which party’s House candidate would be elected if the balloting
were held today.  The Republican brand is also tattered, with the party
facing a much larger gap between its positive and negative
ratings than Democrats. In the survey, 65 percent of voters held
an unfavorable view of Republicans in Congress, compared with 27
percent rating them positively. Democrats were viewed
unfavorably by 53 percent, compared with 41 percent giving them
positive marks.  The midterm campaign “really has the potential to be a
wave election” benefiting Democrats, Democratic pollster
Celinda Lake said in her analysis of the research, released at a
breakfast today in Washington.  The Oct. 27-31 survey of 1,000 registered likely voters,
which has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage
points, was conducted by her firm, Lake Research, and the
Republican public opinion company The Tarrance Group.  Bad Environment  “It is the worst political environment we have seen in a
long time,” the Alexandria, Virginia-based Tarrance’s  Ed Goeas 
said at the breakfast, hosted by the Christian Science Monitor.
While he said he doesn’t expect a wave that sweeps Republicans
from their House majority, Goeas conceded his own party is the
worse-off of the two.  For the first time in the poll’s 20-year history, more
voters disapproved of their own representative than approved --
50 percent compared with 39 percent -- with those respondents in
Republican-held territory more dissatisfied. And by a 2-to-1
ratio, they said they wanted a new member of Congress rather
than to re-elect the incumbent. That was also particularly true
in Republican-controlled U.S. House districts, where 65 percent
said so, compared with 50 percent in Democratic-held districts.  “All incumbents need to be wary, but the intensity of the
blame in Republican-controlled districts” among voters “is
really quite dramatic,” Lake said.  Fifty percent of voters faulted Republicans for last
month’s 16-day partial government shutdown, while 35 percent
blamed Democrats.  Cruz’s Fault  Goeas said that’s still “not nearly as bad” as what
Republicans faced after shutdowns in 1995 and 1996, and may
dissipate in the months between now and the 2014 voting. He
blamed Republican Senator Ted Cruz of  Texas  for obscuring the
shortcomings of the 2010 health-care law with his drive to
defund the measure.  “When Cruz took us off on a six-week jaunt in terms of
defunding, as opposed to talking about the specifics of what was
wrong with Obamacare, it basically got us off message,” Goeas
said.  The poll also highlights growing challenges for President
Barack Obama, who faces low job approval ratings -- 45 percent
approve while 52 percent disapprove -- and a sagging personal
image. Fifty percent of voters held an unfavorable view of
Obama, compared with 48 percent who had a positive impression.  Losing Trust  “Once a president loses the trust of the American people
in the second term, they never gain it back,” Goeas said.
“What is going on with health care right now has the potential
of  Barack Obama  losing the trust of the American people.”  The dynamic could undermine any edge Democrats may have
heading into next year’s congressional elections, Lake said.  “Is it possible for us to get the turnout we need if we
don’t have a stronger president? That’s really, in my mind, the
biggest question,” Lake said. “We would be helped enormously
by a president who is engaging voters to turn out to vote, and a
president who is laying out a clear economic message.”  The survey shows that Washington dysfunction has replaced
both the economy and jobs in the minds of voters as the most
important problem, with 26 percent ranking it as most pressing.
That’s more than the combined total that rated the economy -- at
13 percent -- and  jobs  -- at 8 percent -- as the most important
problem facing Congress.  “The wave is anti-Washington, and the advantage we have is
that we have fewer seats in Washington,” Lake said, referring
to Democrats.  The current House breakdown is 231 Republicans and 200
Democrats, with 4 seats vacant. In the Senate, the Democratic
caucus numbers 55 seats to Republicans’ 45.  Goeas, the Republican, said the poll shows a mentality
among voters of a “plague on both their houses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  