-- Powell Says Fed to Push on With Stimulus for ‘Some Time’
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-11-04T17:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/powell-says-fed-to-likely-push-on-with-stimulus-for-some-time-.html
Federal Reserve Governor Jerome Powell said the central bank will probably push on with highly
accommodative policy for some time, with the date unclear for
any tapering in $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  “ Monetary policy  in the  United States  is likely to remain
 highly accommodative  for some time,” Powell said today in a
speech in  San Francisco . “The timing of this moderation in the
pace of purchases is necessarily uncertain, as it depends on the
evolution of the economy.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR)  last week
pledged to press on with bond buying until seeing signs of
sustained gains in U.S. employment. The Labor Department plans
to release its jobs report for October on Nov. 8.  “What is reasonable to expect us to do is to be
transparent and to move gradually when it is time to withdraw
accommodation, or even to begin reducing the pace at which we
add accommodation,” Powell said in response to an audience
question after the speech.  Stocks rose today after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced for four straight weeks. The index gained 0.2 percent
to 1,764.30 at 12:34 p.m. in  New York .  Emerging-market economies may not suffer a blow when the
U.S. central bank begins dial back and withdraw its record
monetary stimulus, Powell said in his speech.  Not ‘Disruptive’  “While moderating the pace of purchases and the eventual
increase in the federal funds rate may well affect capital
flows,  interest rates  and asset prices in EMEs, the overall
macroeconomic effects need not be disruptive,” he said,
referring to emerging-market economies.  The FOMC in an Oct. 30 statement signaled diminishing
concern over higher borrowing costs, dropping a warning from the
previous meeting that “tightening” financial conditions could
impair the four-year expansion. The committee said fiscal policy
is restraining economic growth. An impasse in Congress last
month forced a 16-day partial government shutdown.  Minutes from the FOMC’s Sept. 17-18 meeting showed the
committee’s decision to unexpectedly refrain from tapering the
quantitative easing program was “a relatively close call.”  “Policy makers should communicate as clearly as possible
about their policy aims and intentions in order to limit the
odds of policy surprises and a consequent sharp adjustment in
financial markets in response,” Powell said.  Another Term  President  Barack Obama  plans to nominate Powell to serve
another term on the Federal Reserve Board, according to a
government official briefed on the matter. Powell has never
dissented from an FOMC decision even while voicing concern about
how bond purchases are expanding the Fed’s balance sheet toward
$4 trillion.  “Reducing vulnerabilities, improving policy frameworks,
and safeguarding the financial sector will go a long way toward
making EMEs more robust to a wide range of shocks, not just
those that may arise from changes in monetary policy in the
advanced economies,” Powell said at a conference held at the
San Francisco Fed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  