-- Puerto Rico Revenue $110 Million Over Budget, Official Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-04T18:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/puerto-rico-revenue-110-million-over-budget-official-says-1-.html
Puerto Rico , whose credit rating is
one step above junk, collected $110 million more revenue last
month than it budgeted, according to preliminary results from
the island’s Treasury Department.  The self-governing commonwealth of 3.7 million people took
in $856 million of revenue in October, about 15 percent more
than forecast, as corporate-tax receipts were better than
expected, Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta said in a statement.
Final results will be released this month.  The island had $120 million more revenue than projected for
the first four months of fiscal 2014, which began July 1,
according to initial revenue counts.  “The increase in revenues was mostly attributable to the
new measures that were approved earlier this year, such as the
revision of the corporate rate taxes and revenues generated by
the gross-profit tax,” Acosta said in a statement.  The fiscal health of Puerto Rico affects the $3.7 trillion
municipal  bond market  because more than three-quarters of U.S.
muni mutual funds hold the island’s obligations, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The securities are tax-exempt nationwide.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office in
January, boosted businesses taxes to help balance the fiscal
2014 budget. Preliminary corporate tax receipts in October total
about $239 million, $116.5 million more than estimated.  While revenue collections are above budgeted projections,
the island’s economy is projected to shrink by 0.8 percent in
fiscal 2014, a reversal from an earlier estimate calling for an
expansion, according to Puerto Rico’s Planning Board, which
calculates the commonwealth’s economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  