-- Rabobank Outlook Cut to Negative by S&P After Libor Fine
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-11-04T18:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/rabobank-outlook-changed-to-negative-by-s-p-after-libor-fine.html
Rabobank Nederland had its outlook
lowered by  Standard & Poor’s  after the biggest Dutch mortgage
lender was fined 774 million euros ($1 billion) for its
involvement in rigging benchmark  interest rates .  S&P revised its outlook on the long-term ratings of the
company, the debt-issuing entity of Rabobank Groep, to negative
from stable, while affirming the AA-/A-1+ counterparty credit
ratings, according to a statement today.  Rabobank, a co-operative formed in 1898 to lend to Dutch
farmers, on Oct. 29 received the second-highest fine from
regulators in the U.S., the U.K. and the Netherlands over
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate and Euribor.
The London-based Financial Conduct Authority said the
misbehavior was “serious, prolonged and widespread.” The
firm’s chairman, Piet Moerland, stepped down months earlier than
planned.  “The outlook revision reflects the possibility that we
could revise our favorable assessments of the bank’s business
and risk positions due to the findings of the interbank offered
rates investigations, and its exposure to the still-difficult
domestic credit environment,” the rating company said.  Lost Rating  The fines make Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank the
fifth firm penalized over manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate. Global investigations into banks’ attempts to
manipulate the benchmarks for profit have also led to $2.6
billion in fines and settlements for  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and ICAP Plc.  Rabobank Groep is formed of independent local lenders that
form its cooperative and an “ umbrella organization ” made up of
Rabobank Nederland and its subsidiaries and associates,
according to its annual report. The lender maintained a top
credit rating at S&P until November 2011, when the rating
company revised criteria for dozens of banks and Rabobank
Nederland was lowered to AA from AAA. A next cut, to AA-, took
place last November as the Dutch and euro-area economy slumped.  Moody’s Investors Service reduced Rabobank Nederland to Aa2
from Aaa in June 2012. Moody’s said last week the settlement
announcement had no impact on its ratings or outlook on Rabobank
Nederland, while noting “such shortcomings were unexpected at
Rabobank whose reputation as a bank with a strong risk and
control culture has been somewhat tarnished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  