-- Treasuries Snap 3-Day Decline as Fed Officials Back Bond-Buying
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-11-04T22:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/treasury-futures-hold-loss-after-biggest-weekly-drop-in-2-months.html
Treasuries halted a three-day decline
as two  Federal Reserve  officials said they support pressing on
with $85 billion of monthly bond-buying to bolster the economy.  U.S. debt  rose as Fed Governor Jerome Powell said the
central bank will probably sustain stimulative policy for some
time while Fed Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said more
needs to be done until the labor market gains strength. The U.S.
Treasury Department said it will borrow about 13 percent more
this quarter than it projected three months ago in order to
boost the nation’s cash balance on Dec. 31.  “We are clearly in still in a downward trending yield
market, as investors have been totally dominated by Federal
Reserve concerns,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist
in New York at broker-dealer BTIG LLC. “We have settled at
these levels as the hurdles for lower yields from here get
higher. The market will remain very data dependent until we get
more clarification from the Fed.”  The U.S.  10-year note yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.60 percent at 5:09 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.5 percent note
due August 2023 rose 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to
99 1/8. The yield climbed to 2.63 percent on Nov. 1, the highest
level since Oct. 17.  Borrowing Plans  Issuance of net marketable debt will be $266 billion in the
October-to-December period, compared with $235 billion initially
forecast on July 29, the department said today in  Washington . At
the end of December, the Treasury will have $140 billion in
cash, versus $80 billion projected before.  “The Treasury is being cautious as a large cash balance
gives them more flexibility, given the political risks with the
debt ceiling that are not too far away,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Credit Suisse Group AG,
one of the 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at
Treasury debt auctions. “They would rather have too much and
not need it then to have the opposite situation.”  On Nov. 6, the U.S. will announce the amount it will sell
in three-, 10-and 30-year debt on three consecutive days
starting Nov. 12.  The Treasury is planning to sell the first floating-rate
notes at the end of January to expand its investor base and
limit borrowing costs, according to a July 31 statement. The
sales would be the first added U.S. government debt security
since Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities were introduced in
1997.  Monetary Stimulus  The Fed bought $3.7 billion of Treasuries maturing from
August 2019 to June 2020 today.  “ Monetary policy  in the  United States  is likely to remain
highly accommodative for some time,” Powell said today in a
speech in  San Francisco . “The timing of this moderation in the
pace of purchases is necessarily uncertain, as it depends on the
evolution of the economy.”  The 10-year yield climbed 11 basis points last week, the
most since the period ended Sept. 6, as Fed Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the improvement in the labor market
could warrant a cut in the central bank’s stimulus program. Fed
Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank
should resume normal monetary policy as soon as possible.  “I am not a proponent of ever-increasing  government
spending ,” Fisher said in the partial text of a speech in
Sydney. “I mention this simply to illustrate a point: Unlike in
most recoveries, government has played a countercyclical,
suppressive role. The inability of our government to get its act
together has countered the pro-cyclical policy of the Federal
Reserve.”  Taper Outlook  A Bloomberg survey of analysts taken from Oct. 17-18
forecast the Fed will taper bond purchases in March, later than
previous surveys indicated, after the government’s 16-day
partial closure dented economic-growth estimates. The central
bank unexpectedly refrained from reducing stimulus in September.  “Prices are fairly neutral here as everyone will be
focusing on payrolls at the end of the week to get some
clarity,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe Generale SA in
New York, a primary dealer.  A report Nov. 8 is forecast to show the U.S. added 120,000
jobs in October, compared with 148,000 the previous month.  U.S.  factory orders  rose by 1.7 percent in September after
falling 0.1 percent the previous month. The forecast was for an
increase of 1.8 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Deutsche Bank AG was one of the few companies surveyed by
Bloomberg in January to correctly predict the worst rout in the
U.S. Treasury market since 2009. Now,  Germany ’s largest lender
says it’s time to buy.  “The economy isn’t growing as strongly as we’d hoped,”
Dominic Konstam, the New York-based global head of interest-rate
research at Deutsche Bank, said in a telephone interview on Oct.
28, one day before a measure of U.S. consumer  confidence  plunged
by the most in more than two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  