-- Three People Killed in Norway as Man Hijacks Passenger Bus
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2013-11-05T08:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/three-people-killed-in-norway-bus-hijacking-nrk-says.html
Two men in their 50s and a 19-year-old woman were killed yesterday in  Norway  after a man armed with
a knife hijacked a bus, police said.  Police have apprehended a man, born in 1982, who’s
originally from  South Sudan  and lives in Norway, according to a
statement. He’s being treated for cut injuries at Haukeland
hospital in Bergen. One of the male victims was a Swedish
citizen, while the other two were Norwegians.  Emergency services  received a call at 5:35 p.m. local time
after the Valdres Express bus was hijacked, police said. The man
was caught at 6:43 p.m.on the scene by fire fighters, while the
police arrived six minutes later.  The detained man, who was living at an asylum center, was
scheduled to be deported today, newspaper VG reported.  Norwegians are still struggling to come to terms with the
July 2011 hate killings carried out by Anders Behring Breivik,
who left 77 people dead in twin attacks that targeted the  Labor
Party  of former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. In elections
two years later, voters backed the Conservative-led coalition of
Erna Solberg, in part after she promised more police control to
protect citizens.  The hijacked bus, which wasn’t carrying any other
passengers, had been on its way to Oslo from Aardalstangen,
police said. The bus belongs to Jotunheimen and Valdres
bilselskap. A crisis center has been established at
Aardalstangen, police said.  A similar attack took place in Norway 10 years ago on the
same bus route, in which the driver and a passenger were also
stabbed to death.  “The fact that we have to go through this a second time in
10 years is terribly tragic,” Bjoern Ragnar Oestbye, a
representative of Nor-way bussekspress, the company that runs
the route, told Bergens Tidende.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  