-- Restrictions on NSA Spy Programs Studied by Privacy Board
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-11-04T19:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/restrictions-on-nsa-spy-programs-studied-by-privacy-board.html
The National Security Agency’s
ability to retain and mine bulk phone records may be limited
under recommendations from an independent privacy board created
by Congress, its chairman said.  The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board is
considering a proposal to reduce the length of time that records
can be kept to three years from five years, David Medine told
reporters in Washington today.  The board also may recommend that foreigners have more
privacy protections under an NSA program that intercepts e-mails
and other Internet communications, Medine said.  “There’s been concern both domestically and
internationally about these programs and that’s really why we’re
conducting this study,” Medine said. “We’re taking a very hard
look at it.”  The NSA is under mounting scrutiny in Congress and abroad
in response to revelations that it has spied on foreign leaders,
tapped fiber-optic cables abroad to obtain data from companies
including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Yahoo Inc., and gathered the e-mails
and bulk phone records of innocent Americans.  The board, established as an independent agency under a
2007 law, is reviewing court-authorized NSA programs that allow
it to collect phone records on millions of Americans and
intercept electronic communications of foreign terrorist
suspects. The programs were exposed in June by former NSA
contractor Edward Snowden, who remains in  Russia  under temporary
asylum.  Data Mining  The administration could support some changes to the phone-records collection program, such as reducing the length of time
records are held, limits on mining the data, and having the
Justice Department periodically review the legal determinations
NSA uses to conduct searches on the records, said Robert Litt,
general counsel to Director of National Intelligence James
Clapper.  “We’re open to consideration of a variety of possible
reforms of the program so long as they don’t eliminate its
utility,” he said at a privacy board hearing today.  While Clapper has said the Obama administration is open to
changes to spy programs, lawyers for intelligence agencies today
cautioned the privacy board against some proposals.  “Arbitrary limits really don’t take account of operational
realities,” Litt said.  Requiring telecommunications companies, rather than the
NSA, to retain bulk phone records could slow counterterrorism
investigations if court orders have to be served on multiple
carriers for different numbers, said Brad Wiegmann, deputy
assistant attorney general at the Department of Justice.  Independent Review  Raising the legal standard for searching bulk phone numbers
may limit the program’s usefulness, said Patrick Kelley, acting
general counsel for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Allowing  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Google and other technology companies
to publish statistics about government demands for customer data
might signal to adversaries which Internet services to avoid
using, Litt said.  The board hasn’t made any decisions, including whether the
NSA should be prohibited from collecting bulk phone records,
Medine said.  While the board can’t compel the NSA to alter spying
programs, Obama and top administration officials have cited its
review as critical to providing oversight of surveillance
programs.  “We’ve asked questions from ending the program to reforms
to the program to continuing as it is,” Medine said.  Along with reducing the length of time phone records can be
retained, the board is considering a proposal to limit the
agency’s ability to search the connections between phone
numbers, Medine said.  The board plans to issue a report with its recommendations,
although Medine didn’t know when that would occur.  “We are not required to clear our report with the White
House,” he said. “We will issue it directly to the president
and Congress and express our views.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  