-- Tri Pointe Climbs After $2.7 Billion Weyerhaeuser Deal
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-11-04T21:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/tri-pointe-climbs-after-2-7-billion-weyerhaeuser-deal.html
Tri Pointe Homes Inc. (TPH) , a developer
backed by investor  Barry Sternlicht , climbed after agreeing to
buy  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) ’s residential real estate unit in a $2.7
billion transaction.  The acquisition, structured as a tax-free Reverse Morris
Trust, calls for Weyerhaeuser to distribute ownership of the
business to shareholders, followed by a merger in which it will
become a unit of Tri Pointe, according to a statement today from
the  Irvine , California-based builder. Such a deal enables Tri
Pointe, with a market value of about $530 million, to buy a
larger company while Weyerhaeuser shareholders would own the
majority of the combined entity.  Tri Pointe will gain about 27,000 lots in states including
Texas,  Arizona ,  California  and Nevada at a time when developers
are racing to acquire land to take advantage of demand for  new
houses . The company will become one of the top 10 U.S.
homebuilders with the deal, according to the statement.  “We get to go there in one fell swoop,” Sternlicht, the
chairman of Tri Pointe, said on a conference call with analysts.
“We expect this to be accretive in year one and every year
after that.”  Tri Pointe gained 5 percent to $16.15 at the close in  New
York . It earlier rose as much as 16 percent, the most since the
shares began trading in January. Weyerhaeuser, based in Federal
Way, Washington, was little changed at $30.37.  Weyerhaeuser Holders  Weyerhaeuser shareholders will receive 130 million shares
in the deal and own 80.5 percent of the combined entity, while
Tri Pointe holders will hold 19.5 percent. Weyerhaeuser will
also receive about $700 million in cash.  Weyerhaeuser, a real estate investment trust that owns more
than 6 million acres of timberland, said in June it would
explore alternatives for the unit, which is called Weyerhaeuser
Real Estate Co.  “The combined company will be a strong standalone
homebuilder, and the separation of our homebuilding division
allows us to focus on driving performance in our forest products
businesses to deliver further value to our shareholders,”
Weyerhaeuser Chief Executive Officer Doyle Simons said in a
separate statement.  The deal gives Tri Pointe access to high-growth markets
such as Houston, Phoenix,  Las Vegas ,  Seattle  and  Washington , CEO
Doug Bauer said on the call. More than 16,000 of the lots it’s
acquiring are in the land-constrained market of California, the
company said.  ‘Paying Up’  “They’re getting a good homebuilder,” said Craig Sterling, global head of equity research at EVA Dimensions in
New York, who estimates Tri Pointe is paying about a 38 percent
premium to the current value of Weyerhaeuser’s real estate
operation. “They’re paying up a little bit for it.”  Sternlicht, whose Starwood Capital Group LLC owns about 38
percent of Tri Pointe, will remain  chairman , while Bauer will
continue as CEO. The deal is expected to be completed by the end
of June.  Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley advised Weyerhaeuser on
the deal and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP was legal counsel.
Deutsche Bank AG acted as financial adviser to Tri Pointe and
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP was its  law firm .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  