-- Roma’s Perfect Serie A Start Ends; Atletico Closes on Barcelona
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-11-04T00:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/roma-s-perfect-serie-a-start-ends-atletico-closes-on-barcelona.html
Roma surrendered its perfect start in
the Italian soccer league by drawing at Torino.  Atletico Madrid 
narrowed the gap to Spanish La Liga leader Barcelona to one
point with a 2-0 victory against Athletic Bilbao.  Torino stopped Roma’s record run of victories to start a
Serie A season at 10 last night as Alessio Cerci’s second-half
goal tied Kevin Strootman’s opener for the league leader.  Roma’s tally of 31 points after 11 games is still a Serie A
record. The capital club, which allowed its first league goal in
743 minutes last night, has a three-point lead atop the
standings over Napoli and Juventus, who both won two days ago.  “It’s OK to have a slight slip-up after a run like that,”
Roma midfielder  Daniele De Rossi  said in a televised interview.
“It’s a shame because we took the game to them. We’re still top
mind you.”  In Madrid,  David Villa  and Diego Costa scored for Atletico,
which moved to 33 points. Barcelona beat city rival Espanyol 1-0
on Nov. 1, while third-place Real Madrid has 28 points after a
3-2 win at Rayo Vallecano two days ago.  Bayern Munich  and  Borussia Dortmund  continue to set the
pace in Germany’s Bundesliga. Dortmund routed Stuttgart 6-1 on
Nov. 1 and Bayern won 2-1 at Hoffenheim the following day to tie
Hamburg’s record run of 36 Bundesliga games unbeaten.  Bayern leads with 29 points, one point ahead of Dortmund.
 Bayer Leverkusen  is another three points back after losing 1-0
at bottom club Eintracht Braunschweig.  In France’s Ligue 1, Lille beat Monaco 2-0 last night on
two Nolan Roux goals to move above its opponent into second
place. Leader Paris Saint-German routed Lorient 4-0 on Nov. 1 to
move to 28 points after 12 matches.  Monaco’s defeat leaves PSG, Roma, Barcelona and Bayern
Munich as the only unbeaten teams in the French, Italian,
Spanish and German leagues this season.  In the Netherlands, FC Twente lost the top spot after it
drew 2-2 with NEC Nijmegen and AZ Alkmaar beat Den Haag. AZ has
a one-point lead atop the standings over  Vitesse Arnhem , which
won 1-0 at Ajax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  