-- Rosengren Says Policy Should Be Stimulative for ‘Some Time’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-11-04T22:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/rosengren-says-fed-policy-should-be-stimulative-for-some-time-.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Boston 
President  Eric Rosengren , a consistent backer of bond buying by
the Fed, said the central bank should press on with the easing
program until the labor market gains strength.  “Monetary policy is likely to need to remain accommodative
for some time so that we can achieve full employment within a
reasonable forecast horizon,” Rosengren, who votes on monetary
policy this year, said today in a speech in Boston.  The Fed will still provide stimulus even after it starts
tapering $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, he said in the
text of prepared remarks. “We will not be restraining the
economy -- in fact, we will still be adding stimulus to the
economy but in smaller increments than before.”  Rosengren has supported Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s campaign
to return the economy to full employment by using bond buying to
bring down long-term  interest rates . So-called quantitative
easing has expanded Fed assets to a record $3.84 trillion.  The  unemployment rate  was 7.2 percent in September, nearly
2 percentage points above the 5.25 percent unemployment rate
that Rosengren said is achievable.  Improved Performance  “While there have been some areas of improved economic
performance, unfortunately the economy remains challenged,” he
said.  “On the plus side, firm and household balance sheets have
improved, recovery in stock and house prices have provided more
capacity to resume consumption patterns, the fiscal headwinds
are expected to diminish somewhat, and some of our trading
partners are showing signs of recovery,” he said.  Rosengren, 56, became president of the Boston Fed in 2007.
He has only dissented once from a  monetary policy  decision when,
in December 2007, he favored a more aggressive interest rate cut
to shore up a weakening economy.  The Fed’s  target interest rate  should remain low after the
end of bond purchases, Rosengren said today.  “Even when the Fed eventually removes some of its
accommodation, such as large-scale asset purchases, we will in
my view need to leave short-term interest rates at their very
low levels until there is much more progress reaching full
employment and the 2 percent inflation target,” he said.  Underlying the sluggish growth is probably weak demand and
“not so much a structural story,” Rosengren said in response
to questions from the audience after his speech.  At the same time, slow gains in employment mean “there
are a lot of puzzles we’re still trying to understand” about
how the financial crisis has affected the jobs market, including
changes in the labor force participation rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  