-- Ryanair Predicts Full-Year Profit Drop as Competition Grows
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-11-04T09:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/ryanair-predicts-full-year-profit-drop-on-increased-competition.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s
biggest discount airline, predicted its first profit drop in
five years as greater competition drove a decline in air fares.  Profit after tax for the year ending March 31 will be 500
million euros ($674 million) to 520 million euros, the Dublin-based carrier said in a statement today. The company previously
predicted net profit of as little as 570 million euros and had
cautioned that it might fall short of that number. Ryanair
slumped as much as 12 percent in Dublin trading.  Ryanair has slashed prices and said it will ground as many
as 70 aircraft for the winter season to take out capacity. Chief
Executive Officer Michael O’Leary, whose brash outspokenness has
come to define Ryanair’s business model, has said he may need to
moderate his approach to win over fliers. The company said today
it will offer fully allocated seating from February, a further
departure from its no-frills service.  “While the next six months look a good time to take a low-cost Ryanair flight, it is not shaping up as a good investment
outlook,” said James Hollins, an analyst at Investec Securities
in London. “Investors need to decide whether Ryanair can drive
sufficient traffic growth and yield increases in fiscal year
2015 and onwards.”  First Half  Ryanair declined as much as 71 cents to 5.39 euros, and the
report weighed on shares of smaller competitor  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,
whose stock dropped as much as 6.9 percent in London. Other
airlines in Europe, including  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , also fell.  Profit after tax last year was 569 million euros. Profit
for the first six months of the fiscal year gained 1 percent to
602 million euros, as the airline flew 49 million passengers.
Revenue rose 5 percent to 3.26 billion euros. Seeking to take
advantage of lower fuel prices, the carrier said it extended its
fiscal 2015 fuel hedge to 60 percent at $94 per barrel.  “We identified in September that we saw softer economic
conditions, we now see them throughout Europe,” Chief Financial
Officer Howard Millar said in a telephone interview. “We’re
impacted by weaker sterling-euro and generally there are a lot
of very low fares out there, so a softer economic environment
driving low fares.” The airline will continue “aggressively
filling” aircraft, he said.  Heatwave  Rivals across Europe including  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Aer
Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  have a slashed earnings targets as a stronger
euro and sluggish economic growth weigh on sales. While forward
bookings are ahead of last year, fares are set to drop by 10
percent in the fourth quarter, Ryanair said, adding that the
next 12 months will see a “brief pause” in traffic growth
following two decades of consecutive expansion.  Shares slumped 11 percent on Sept. 4, the day Ryanair first
warned that profits might fall below guidance. The stock has
gained 18 percent this year, valuing the carrier at 7.67 billion
euros.  The 2 percent decline in first-half fares was driven by the
timing of Easter, a summer heatwave, a weaker sterling and
strikes in  France , Ryanair said. While fares have retreated,
ancillary revenue, which includes sales on extra services, have
grown 22 percent to 713 million euros over the past six months.  The carrier said it plans to complete 150 million euros of
additional share buybacks by the end of fiscal year 2014 after
having repurchased 177 million euros-worth in the first half.
Plans to return as much as 600 million euros to shareholders via
buybacks and special dividends by the end of fiscal year 2015
are unchanged.  With an eye to the digital marketing success of rival
EasyJet, Ryanair has embraced Twitter, now offers its mobile-phone app for free and is planning a range of enhancements to
its website to make it more user-friendly.  The move to allocated seating is “a clear yield-enhancing
measure,” Barclays Capital analyst Oliver Sleath said in a note
to investors today. “We see signs that Ryanair recognizes a
greater focus on yield is necessary in the current
environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  