-- Ryanair Reserved Seating Extends Conversion to Customer Service
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-11-04T13:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/ryanair-reserved-seating-extends-conversion-to-customer-service.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  plans to move to
full seat reservations and may target more primary airports as
 Europe ’s largest discount carrier seeks to refine its offering
after trimming its earnings goal twice in as many months.  The airline will move to fully allocated seating from
February at a cost of 5 euros ($6.75) to select a seat, Dublin-based Ryanair said today. The company predicted its first profit
drop in five years today, causing the stock to slump as much as
12 percent, the most in two months.  The changes remove Ryanair further from the minimal-convenience model it pioneered under Chief Executive Officer
 Michael O’Leary , the mouthy face of the airline’s budget
approach that mixes low fares with brash marketing and the
notion that price always trumps a lack of service. Since
Ryanair’s first earnings revision in September, O’Leary has been
on an offensive to improve the flight experience.  “There are things that we can remove that don’t cost us a
lot of money that will significantly improve the customer
experience,” O’Leary said, speaking at a press conference in
London today. “Most of that revolves around the website, and
then me going around preaching a Damascene conversion to
customer service.”  Ryanair declined 74 cents, or 12 percent, to 5.36 euros,
and the report weighed on shares of smaller rival  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,
whose stock dropped as much as 6.9 percent in London. Other
airlines in Europe, including  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , also fell.  Lower Fares  The more traditional approach to customer service comes as
Ryanair faces greater competition and declining air fares.
Profit after tax for the year ending March 31 will be 500
million euros to 520 million euros, the carrier said today,
below its previously estimated earnings band.  Ryanair has cut prices and said it will ground as many as
70 aircraft for the winter season to trim capacity. The company
on Sept. 4 predicted net profit of as little as 570 million
euros and warned that results could fall short of that number.  “While the next six months look like a good time to take a
low-cost Ryanair flight, it is not shaping up as a good
investment outlook,” said James Hollins, an analyst at Investec
Securities in  London . “Investors need to decide whether Ryanair
can drive sufficient traffic growth and yield increases in
fiscal year 2015 and onwards.”  Profit Drop  Profit after tax last year was 569 million euros. Profit
for the first six months of the fiscal year gained 1 percent to
602 million euros, as the airline flew 49 million passengers.
Revenue rose 5 percent to 3.26 billion euros. Seeking to take
advantage of lower fuel prices, the carrier said it extended its
fiscal 2015 fuel hedge to 60 percent at $94 per barrel.  “We identified in September that we saw softer economic
conditions, we now see them throughout Europe,” Chief Financial
Officer Howard Millar said in a telephone interview. “We’re
impacted by weaker sterling-euro and generally there are a lot
of very low fares out there, so a softer economic environment
driving low fares.” The airline will continue “aggressively
filling” aircraft, he said.  Rivals across Europe including  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Aer
Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  have a slashed earnings targets as a stronger
euro and sluggish economic growth weigh on sales. While forward
bookings are ahead of last year, fares are set to drop by 10
percent in the fourth quarter, Ryanair said, adding that the
next 12 months will see a “brief pause” in traffic growth
following two decades of consecutive expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  