-- SAC to Plead Guilty to Securities Fraud, CNBC Reports
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-11-04T02:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/sac-to-plead-guilty-to-securities-fraud-cnbc-reports.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP will plead
guilty to  securities fraud , CNBC reported, resolving an
indictment filed earlier this year in  Manhattan  federal court
that was the culmination of a U.S.  insider trading  crackdown
spanning the past six years.  SAC Capital will be fined $1.8 billion as part of the plea
deal, which prosecutors and the hedge fund will probably sign
today, the network said citing people familiar with the
agreement whom it didn’t name.  The hedge fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen  and based in
Stamford, Connecticut, was indicted in July, accused of
operating a conspiracy that stretched as far back as 1999 and
reaping hundreds of millions of dollars in illicit profit. Cohen
wasn’t charged and the firm had denied any wrongdoing.  The plea agreement reached in the past week between lawyers
representing SAC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Manhattan
won’t include an admission by the hedge fund of promoting
insider trading within the firm, CNBC said, citing the people
familiar with the deal.  The $1.8 billion fine amounts to about $1.2 billion that
would be paid as a result of the criminal probe by Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and includes the more than $600
million that SAC had already agreed to pay the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission to settle a related suit.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for Bharara, declined to comment
on the CNBC report. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC and
Cohen, didn’t reply to an e-mail from  Bloomberg News  seeking
comment.  Trials Pending  Two of Cohen’s most senior lieutenants to face charges will
go on trial in the next three months.  Michael Steinberg, a  money manager  at SAC, is scheduled to
go on trial later this month, accused of trading on inside tips
on Dell Inc. and Nvidia Corp. The scheme generated $1.4 million
in illicit profits, prosecutors say.  Prosecutors also charged Mathew Martoma, a former SAC money
manager, with using illegal tips about an Alzheimer’s drug trial
to help the firm make profits or avoid losses totaling $276
million by trading  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC shares. Martoma
pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to go to trial in January.  The U.S. called the case the largest insider-trading scheme
in history.  Elan Corp. shareholders who sued SAC and Cohen for insider
trading asked the judge presiding over the hedge fund’s criminal
case to reject any accord SAC has reached with prosecutors
unless it pleads guilty to the conduct alleged in their case.  The case is: U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-CR-00541. U.S. District Court for the Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  