-- Nokia Extends Agreement to License Patents to Samsung
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-11-04T16:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/samsung-extends-licensing-pact-with-nokia-for-five-years.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  said  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , the world’s largest mobile-phone maker, agreed to license
its patents for five more years, a boon for the Finnish company
as it seeks to rebuild revenue after selling its handset unit.  Samsung agreed to pay Nokia additional compensation
starting Jan. 1, according to a statement from Espoo, Finland-based Nokia today. The amount will be settled in a binding
arbitration expected to be concluded in 2015. The previous
agreement was set to close at the end of this year.  Patents will be one area of focus for Nokia after the
former mobile-phone market leader agreed to sell its handset
division to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in September. Without phones, the
company’s largest business will be  network equipment , and it is
also retaining patents to generate licensing income.  “This deal demonstrates the opportunities for the new
Nokia in intellectual property rights,” said Sami Sarkamies, an
analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki. “It’s significant
because it relates to Samsung, the client with the biggest
potential in such rights. It’s good timing for Nokia and shows
they will be able to benefit from the device-unit divestment
from the first day.”  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , overtook Nokia as the
largest mobile-phone maker last year and has also become the
biggest producer of smartphones, the most lucrative and fastest-growing part of the handset market. Malin Roennmark, a Samsung
spokeswoman in  Stockholm , confirmed the agreement, declining to
comment further.  Patent Revenue  Nokia  rose  1.1 percent to close at 5.78 euros in Helsinki.
Samsung fell less than 0.1 percent to 1,499,000 won in Seoul
today.  Mark Durrant, a Nokia spokesman, declined to comment on the
terms of the deal. He said Nokia has average annual revenue of
about 500 million euros ($675 million) from agreements with more
than 50 licensees.  “This extension and agreement to arbitrate represent a
hallmark of constructive resolution of licensing disputes, and
are expected to save significant transaction costs for both
parties,” Paul Melin, Nokia’s chief intellectual property
officer, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  