-- HSBC Profit Rises 30% on Cost Cuts as Forex Trades Probed
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-11-04T17:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/hsbc-says-third-quarter-profit-rises-30-as-lender-reduces-costs.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank by value, said third-quarter pretax profit rose 30 percent
as the lender cut costs and focused on its most lucrative
markets.  Pretax profit climbed to $4.53 billion from $3.48 billion
in the year-earlier period, the London-based lender said in a
statement today. That missed the $5.54 billion median estimate
of 10 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg .  HSBC also said it’s being investigated by regulators, along
with other firms, with regard to trading in the foreign-exchange
market. Costs as a proportion of revenue, excluding gains and
losses in the value of the bank’s own debt, fell to 61 percent
from 64 percent, approaching the goal of about 55 percent set by
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver .  “In a subdued revenue environment, management continues to
take out costs,” Bernstein analysts including Chirantan Barua
said in an e-mailed note after the results.  Revenue, excluding sales from businesses the bank has sold
or bought and swings in currency valuations and the value of the
bank’s debt, slipped less than 1 percent to $15.59 billion.  HSBC shares  rose 15.7 pence, or 2.3 percent, to 703 pence
in  London . They have gained 8.7 percent this year, trailing the
18 percent advance for the 44-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index.  Taking Charges  Gulliver said in May that he will cut an additional $3
billion of expenses after beating an earlier target. He has
closed or sold 60 businesses and eliminated 46,000 jobs since
the start of 2011.  The bank has struggled to boost revenue crimped by the
sovereign-debt crisis in Europe, the winding down of its U.S.
consumer-finance arm and slower growth in  China . Pretax profit
in  Hong Kong  rose 16 percent to $2.07 billion in the quarter,
boosted by a “stabilizing” Chinese economy, HSBC said today.  The lender booked a $428 million charge to repay customers
wrongly sold loan insurance, hedging products and wealth advice,
as well as a $575 million revaluation of the bank’s debt. That
contributed to the company missing analysts’ estimates, and the
earnings were positive otherwise,  Ian Gordon , an analyst at
Investec in London, wrote in a note to clients today.  Hong Kong  Hong Kong was “a stand-out performer” in the quarter,
Gordon wrote.  British lenders have been taking charges over the payment-protection insurance mis-selling and other scandals for the past
year. HSBC set aside $147 million in the quarter for consumers
sold loan insurance they either didn’t want, need or understand,
$132 million for businesses wrongly sold interest-rate hedging
products and $149 million to investigate sales practices in its
U.K. wealth business.  HSBC hasn’t suspended anyone over probes into foreign-exchange manipulation, Gulliver said on a conference call today.
Foreign exchange accounts for the most revenue in the bank’s
global markets business, generating $660 million in the quarter.  U.K. and Swiss regulators are probing the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market after  Bloomberg News  reported in
June that dealers in the industry said they had been front-running client orders and attempting to rig benchmark rates.
Banks including  Barclays (BARC)  Plc and Citigroup Inc. have put staff
on leave amid the probes.  “We are cooperating with the investigations, which are at
an early stage,” HSBC said today.  Investment Bank  Pretax profit at HSBC’s investment-bank, led by Samir Assaf, fell to $1.85 billion from $2.25 billion, hurt by its
corporate fixed-income business.  Weaker bond trading has hurt banks including Barclays,
which said last week that that revenue from fixed income,
currencies and commodities dropped 44 percent to 940 million
pounds, the lowest since 2011. The five biggest U.S. investment
banks’ combined revenue from FICC trading slid 25 percent from a
year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the other U.K. bank that gets most
of its profit in  Asia , last week posted lower revenue as growth
slowed in its corporate banking business.  Gulliver said today that HSBC has consulted with
shareholders on the European Union’s bonus cap, which has
prompted banks including Barclays to plan changes to their
compensation structure.  The bank will decide how it will respond to the proposed
rules in “the next few months,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  