-- HSBC Says It’s Being Investigated in Foreign-Exchange Rate Probe
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-11-04T10:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/hsbc-says-it-s-being-investigated-in-foreign-exchange-rate-probe.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest
bank by market value, is under investigation by regulators
probing the potential manipulation of foreign-exchange rates.  The lender is among firms from which the U.K.’s Financial
Conduct Authority and regulators around world have requested
information, London-based HSBC said in a statement today. The
bank, which posted a 30 percent jump in third-quarter pretax
profit, is cooperating with the inquiries.  “It’s at a very early stage and the names we have been
given so far don’t work for us anymore,” Chief Executive
Officer  Stuart Gulliver , 54, told reporters on a call. No
current employees have been suspended, he added.  HSBC joins the list of at least seven banks that have said
they are cooperating with authorities probing the $5.3 trillion-a-day currency market.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  have all suspended or put on leave some of their
most senior currency traders amid the investigation. No one has
been accused of wrongdoing.  Four banks account for more than half of the market,
according to a May survey by Euromoney Institutional Investor
Plc.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is No. 1 with a 15 percent share, followed
by Citigroup with almost 15 percent and Barclays and
Switzerland’s UBS AG, which both have 10 percent. Foreign
exchange accounts for about a third of revenue at HSBC’s markets
operation, the largest single source.  Benchmark Rates  Bloomberg News  reported in June that dealers in the
industry said they shared information about their positions
through instant messages, executed their own trades before
client orders and sought to manipulate the benchmark WM/Reuters
rates by pushing through trades before and during the 60-second
windows when the benchmarks are set.  The WM/Reuters rates determine what many pension funds and
money managers pay for their foreign exchange and are used by
index providers such as FTSE Group and MSCI Inc. to calculate
daily valuations of indexes that span multiple currencies. Even
small movements could affect the value of what  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
estimates is $3.6 trillion in funds including pension and
savings accounts that track global indexes.  The rates are published hourly for 160 currencies and half-hourly for the 21 most-traded. They are the median of all trades
in a minute-long period starting 30 seconds before the beginning
of each half-hour. Rates for less-widely traded currencies are
based on quotes during a two-minute window.  The data are collected and distributed by World Markets
Co., a unit of Boston-based State Street Corp., and  Thomson
Reuters  Corp. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News, competes with Thomson Reuters in providing news and
information as well as currency-trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  