-- HSBC Shares Jump to Six-Week High After Profit Rises 30%
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-11-05T01:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/hsbc-profit-jumps-on-hong-kong-as-currency-trades-probed.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest
bank by market value, rose to a six-week high in  Hong Kong  stock
trading, after saying third-quarter pretax profit jumped 30
percent, boosted by earnings in that city and cost cuts.  Pretax profit climbed to $4.53 billion from $3.48 billion
in the year-earlier period, the London-based lender said in a
statement yesterday. That missed the $5.54 billion median
estimate of 10 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Pretax profit in
Hong Kong rose 16 percent to $2.07 billion from a year ago.  HSBC also said it’s being investigated by regulators, along
with other firms, with regard to trading in the foreign-exchange
market. Costs as a proportion of revenue, excluding gains and
losses in the value of the bank’s own debt, fell to 61 percent
from 64 percent, approaching the goal of about 55 percent set by
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver .  “In a subdued revenue environment, management continues to
take out costs,” Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. analysts including
Chirantan Barua wrote in a note after the results.  Revenue, excluding sales from businesses the bank has sold
or bought and swings in currency valuations and the value of the
bank’s debt, slipped to $15.59 billion in the third quarter from
$15.66 billion a year earlier.  HSBC shares  increased 1.4 percent in Hong Kong to HK$86.30,
the highest intraday level since Sept. 23, as of 9:41 a.m. local
time.  The stock  rose 2.3 percent to 703 pence in  London 
yesterday, taking its gain this year to 8.7 percent. The 44-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index
advanced 18 percent in that period.  Job Cuts  Gulliver plans to cut an additional $3 billion of expenses
after beating an earlier target. He has closed or sold 60
businesses and eliminated 46,000 jobs since the start of 2011.  The bank has struggled to boost revenue crimped by the
sovereign-debt crisis in Europe, the winding down of its U.S.
consumer-finance operation and slower growth in  China  this year.
Pretax profit in Hong Kong was boosted by a “stabilizing”
economy in China, HSBC said yesterday.  The lender booked a $428 million charge to repay customers
wrongly sold loan insurance, hedging products and wealth advice,
as well as a $575 million revaluation of the bank’s debt. That
contributed to the company missing estimates, while earnings
were positive otherwise, said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at  Investec
Plc (INVP)  in London with a buy recommendation on shares.  British lenders have been taking charges over the payment-protection insurance mis-selling and other scandals for the past
year. HSBC set aside $147 million in the quarter for consumers
sold loan insurance they either didn’t want, need or understand,
$132 million for businesses wrongly sold interest-rate hedging
products and $149 million to investigate sales practices in its
U.K. wealth business.  Currency Probe  HSBC hasn’t suspended anyone over probes into foreign-exchange manipulation, Gulliver said on a conference call.
Foreign exchange accounts for the most revenue in the bank’s
global markets business, generating $660 million in the quarter.  U.K. and Swiss regulators are probing the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market after  Bloomberg News  reported in
June that dealers in the industry said they had been front-running client orders and attempting to rig benchmark rates.
Banks including  Barclays (BARC)  Plc and Citigroup Inc. have put staff
on leave amid the probes.  “We are cooperating with the investigations, which are at
an early stage,” HSBC said in the statement.  Investment Bank  Pretax profit at HSBC’s investment bank, led by Samir Assaf, fell to $1.85 billion in the third quarter from $2.25
billion a year ago, hurt by its corporate fixed-income business.  Weaker bond trading has hurt banks including Barclays,
which said last week that that revenue from fixed income,
currencies and commodities dropped 44 percent to 940 million
pounds, the lowest since 2011. The five biggest U.S. investment
banks’ combined revenue from FICC trading slid 25 percent from a
year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the other U.K. bank that gets most
of its profit in  Asia , last week posted a drop in third-quarter
revenue, hurt by its corporate-banking units.  Gulliver said that HSBC has consulted with shareholders on
the European Union’s bonus cap, which has prompted banks
including Barclays to plan changes to their compensation
structure. The bank will decide how it will respond to the
proposed rules in “the next few months,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  