-- Scene in D.C.: Football Gala Before Vote on Redskins Name
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-11-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/scene-in-d-c-football-gala-before-vote-on-redskins-name.html
Football stars turned out for a
charity gala as debate heated up before a decision is reached on
the name of the  Washington  Redskins.  DeMaurice Smith, the executive director of the National
Football League’s Players Association, said the issue was
personal for him.  “I grew up here; you come out of the womb a Redskin fan,”
he said. “But I don’t think anyone should inflict pain on
another person, especially since the Oneida Indian Nation has
been vocal about what the term ‘Redskin’ meant. It was a slur.
The beautiful thing about that team is that it will always be a
part of this community, regardless what the name is.”  Tomorrow, the D.C. Council, the chief policy-making body
for the District of Columbia, will vote on a motion calling for
a change of the Redskin name, after a decades-long debate.  Smith was joined by other major names in football such as
Cris Carter and Paul Tagliabue on Saturday night for the 27th
annual Lombardi Gala. The event raised an estimated $700,000 for
the Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center in the name
of Vince Lombardi, the late  coach  of the Green Bay Packers. He
was treated for the disease at Georgetown University Hospital.  Carter, a former wide receiver for the Philadelphia Eagles
and Minnesota Vikings, accepted the NFL Players Association
Georgetown Lombardi Award for Larry Fitzgerald. The wide
receiver for the  Arizona  Cardinals established the Carol
Fitzgerald Memorial Fund. It’s named for his mother who died of
breast cancer.  Carter said that Fitzgerald’s charity “sets the standard”
for athletes on and off the football field.  Difficult Choice  “I don’t know what’s going to happen,” he said of the
debate over the Redskins name. “I can see both sides of it.
It’s very, very difficult.”  Tagliabue, a former commissioner of the NFL, deferred to
the leaders involved. “That’s for commissioner Goodell and Mr.
Snyder,” he said, referring to Roger Goodell and Dan Snyder,
the owner of the Washington team.  Even President  Barack Obama  has weighed in on the
controversy, saying if he were Snyder, he would consider
changing the name. Snyder has said repeatedly he won’t change
the name, and that it honors Native Americans.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Lance Esplund 
on U.S. art,  Katya Kazakina  on the art market,  Jeremy Gerard  on
U.S. theater and  Robert Heller  on pop music.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 