-- LSE Said in Talks With Singapore Exchange on Clearing Platform
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-11-04T12:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/lse-said-in-talks-with-singapore-exchange-on-clearing-platform.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  is in
talks with  Singapore Exchange  Ltd. to provide technology to
clear cash equities for  Southeast Asia ’s biggest bourse
operator, three people familiar with the matter said.  A deal would see LSE’s  MillenniumIT  unit implement a
securities-processing platform for SGX, according to the people,
who asked not to be identified as the talks are private. SGX
isn’t planning to use MillenniumIT for derivatives clearing and
the companies aren’t discussing a merger or a stake purchase,
the people said.  An agreement would mark another link between the exchanges
after they introduced trading in the largest and most active
stocks on each others’ markets. LSE, which bought Colombo-based
MillenniumIT in 2009, is seeking to increase revenue from
technology and clearing to offset declining volumes.  An e-mail from LSE’s press office said the London-based
exchange wouldn’t comment on speculation. Joan Lew and Carolyn Lim, spokeswomen at SGX, didn’t immediately return calls and an
e-mail seeking comment.  MillenniumIT already provides clearing technology for the
Argentina Central Securities Depositary and trading systems for
Norway’s Oslo Bors, according to statements on its website. LSE
is the majority owner of LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the world’s
largest swap clearinghouse.  SGX Chief Executive Magnus Bocker is trying to boost equity
trading volumes that  averaged  about S$1.5 billion ($1.2 billion)
a day this year, a 37 percent decline from 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  SGX earned S$54.4 million in revenue from securities
clearing in the three months ended Sept. 30, a 17 percent
increase from the same period a year earlier, according to a
regulatory filing. Derivatives revenue climbed 16 percent to
S$51.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  