-- Seabiscuit’s Jockey Denies the Euros Again: David Papadopoulos
-- B y   D a v i d   P a p a d o p o u l o s
-- 2013-11-04T03:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/seabiscuit-s-jockey-denies-the-euros-again-david-papadopoulos.html
The Ballydoyle boys surely must have
thought their two-decade quest to capture America’s richest
horse race was finally to be completed this past weekend.  The racing arm of  Coolmore Stud , Europe’s top thoroughbred
breeding operation, had known heartbreak of many kinds in its 12
tries to win the Breeders’ Cup Classic since Aidan O’Brien took
over as the Master of Ballydoyle in 1996.  Giant’s Causeway was beaten by a neck in 2000. The colt
George Washington suffered a fatal breakdown on a muddy,
windswept day along the New Jersey shore in 2007. The following
year produced another second-place check for O’Brien to take
back to County Tipperary, Ireland.  This time felt different, though.  As the field of 11 horses galloped past  California ’s San
Gabriel Mountains in the early stages of the $5 million Classic
on Nov. 2, Ballydoyle’s colt  Declaration of War  couldn’t have
looked any better. He had taken a strong hold of the bit and was
gliding effortlessly behind the leaders.  And in so doing, he was answering the three biggest
questions that hound European turf champions when they try
American dirt for the first time: Can they get their footing on
a foreign surface? Can they withstand the sting of the sand and
clay that’s kicked in their face by the frontrunners? And can
they keep up with the quicker pace set in American races?  As they rounded the turn and braced for the stretch run at
 Santa Anita Park , Declaration of War loomed menacingly. The
rider, O’Brien’s son, Joseph, is going to switch him to the
outside and storm to the lead, I said to myself. Ballydoyle, so
dominant for so long across Europe and in Breeders’ Cup races on
the turf, is finally going to get its Classic win.  The Iceman  Yet, in the end, two fateful developments conspired to deny
the Ballydoyle boys again, leaving them a head short in a gut-wrenching, three-way scramble for the finish line.  The first was the move that 50-year-old Hall of Fame jockey
 Gary Stevens  made around the turn on the winner Mucho Macho Man.  Stevens, better known to many Americans as the actor who
played jockey George “Iceman” Woolf in the 2003 movie
“Seabiscuit,” has amazingly emerged from retirement to ride as
well as ever. Having studied his mount’s tendencies well, he
knew he had to let the horse roll early and take the lead
heading into the stretch to maximize his chances of winning.  O’Brien waited for Stevens to clear the tiring frontrunners
before moving Declaration of War up to the right flank of  Mucho
Macho Man  while the three-year-old  Will Take Charge  pursued them
a couple lengths behind. The race was on.  Wrong Leg  Watching the European colt run with his left leg out in
front as the horses swung off the turn, I waited for him to
switch over to his right front leg down the straightaway. It’s a
move that U.S. trainers constantly teach horses on the oval
tracks of America -- run the turns on the left leg and the
straightaways on the right. The technique spreads the physical
exertion of racing throughout the body, and a timely lead change
will often give a horse a boost of energy.  But as Declaration of War lunged at Mucho Macho Man, it
became clear he lacked the polish to jump over onto his right
lead. Stuck on the wrong leg and tiring, he ran courageously yet
inconsistently down the lane, finishing a head behind Will Take
Charge, who in turn was a nose behind Mucho Macho Man. A proper
lead change probably would have propelled Declaration of War
past both in the finale of his two-year racing career.  It was perhaps the cruelest of all of O’Brien’s  Classic 
setbacks, harsher even than the neck defeat suffered by Giant’s
Causeway over a decade ago.  So it’s back to County Tipperary, back to  Ballydoyle yard 
and back to the search for that one big horse to conquer
America’s richest race.  (David Papadopoulos, the team leader for Latin America
markets coverage at Bloomberg News, has been following
thoroughbred racing for more than two decades and was runner-up
in 2008 Eclipse Award voting for feature writing on the sport.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  