-- Seattle Burger Flippers May Get $31,200 in Wage Vote
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2013-11-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/seattle-burger-flippers-may-get-31-200-to-wage-vote.html
In  Seattle , supporting a $15-an-hour
 minimum wage  could be suicide for politicians. It’s too low.  Ed Murray, who’s running for mayor, vows to phase in that
minimum for many jobs if he’s elected tomorrow. Incumbent Mike McGinn has declared he may not necessarily stop at $15.  Much of the U.S. would scoff at mandating a full-time pay
equivalent of $31,200 a year, but in the biggest metropolitan
area in the Pacific Northwest it’s an idea taken very seriously.
A suburb is voting on a proposal to require $15 for airport
workers. Backers of the minimum -- more than double the federal
$7.25 and 42 percent higher than San Francisco’s  $10.55  --
include two of the region’s representatives in the U.S. House of
Representatives and business leaders, among them an early
investor in  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “I hope they do it, because we’d love to study the
results,” said Barry Hirsch, an economics professor at  Georgia
State University  in Atlanta, who documented that some consumer
prices went up after the last rise in the federal minimum wage.  More than 120 cities across the country have enacted so-called living wage  laws  for certain workers, often those
receiving municipal contracts, according to the National
Employment Law Project. Los Angeles airport employees, for
instance, are guaranteed $15.67 an hour. Seattle, which has a
population of 630,000, would be the first big city to embrace
$15. The  Washington  state minimum of $9.19 is already the
highest in the U.S.  ‘Monopoly Game’  Supporters of efforts in the Seattle area, who are opposed
by  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  and other major employers, cite
evidence of slowing middle-class job creation and rising income
inequality. “This is a discussion that’s going to spread across
the nation,” said Murray, 58, a Democrat in the state senate.
His  proposal  would extend the wage first to city workers, then
to employees of national fast-food chains and retailers.  The average family earns less today than in 1989 after
adjusting for inflation, Census Bureau data show. The top 10
percent of U.S. earners collected more than half the nation’s
total income in 2012, the highest proportion since at least
1917, according to  research  published in September by economist
Emmanuel Saez at the  University of California  at Berkeley.  “The more money workers make, the more opportunities
people like me have,” said Nick Hanauer, a Seattle-based
venture capitalist who has started 30 companies and was the
first non-family investor in online retailer Amazon. “A real
economy is just like the game of Monopoly: When one person has
all the money, the game is over.”  National Issue  The mayoral candidates have seized on an issue raised
nationally by fast-food workers, who’ve been striking for $15
hourly pay, to distinguish themselves from each other in a
traditionally liberal city. Murray first said in July he’d back
$15. McGinn, 53, also a Democrat, later told reporters he’d
support even more if the city council passed it.  “They may go to $13, or $14 -- they may go to $16,” he
 said  in an Oct. 9 televised debate. “I’ll be there.”  Seattle’s median household income was $65,677 last year,
trailing only Washington, D.C.,  San Francisco ,  Boston , Baltimore
and Minneapolis-St. Paul among the 25 most-populous metropolitan
areas, according to Census statistics.  The measure in SeaTac, a suburb of 27,000 south of Seattle
where the major employer is Seattle-Tacoma International
Airport, would raise the minimum to $15 for 6,300 people who
work at the airport, hotels and rental-car agencies.  ‘Razor-Thin Margin’  Passage of the SeaTac measure could generate momentum for
similar pay in its larger neighbor, and money has poured in from
both sides. Backers, mainly unions, have raised $1.4 million and
opponents $660,000 -- a total of about $160 for each of the
city’s 12,500 registered voters, according to public  filings .  Roger McCracken, managing partner of MasterPark LLC, which
operates parking lots near the airport, said the company may
have to automate some jobs if the measure passes.  “We’re on a razor-thin margin as it is,” he said.  Alaska Air, based in SeaTac, has contributed $156,000 to
defeat the proposal, saying in a statement it would “hinder our
ability to remain competitive.” Higher wages will cost jobs,
drive businesses away and raise prices, according to opponents.  “It’s not reasonable to assume that employers are going to
absorb all of this cost increase,” said Erin Shannon, director
of the Center for Small Business at the Washington Policy
Center, a Seattle research group that supports “free-market”
solutions. “Ultimately, those costs will be passed on to
consumers in the form of higher prices.”  How Much?  There’s evidence for that in economic studies. Hirsch at
Georgia State found that 81 fast-food restaurants in Georgia and
 Alabama  boosted prices for “combo meals” -- a sandwich, fries
and a drink -- by an average 10.9 percent after the 41 percent
increase in the federal minimum wage from 2007 to 2009.  Under one rule of thumb developed by Daniel Aaronson, an
economist at the  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago , every 10
percent increase in the minimum wage adds about 1 percent to
prices. “One of the cleanest results I’ve ever found in my
research career is that prices definitely go up,” Aaronson
said. Increases often happened within the first three months
after higher wages took effect, he said.  In Seattle, that might mean a 12-ounce brewed coffee at
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s store in Pike Place Market would rise to $1.85
from $1.75, assuming every worker there made the minimum wage
and prices rose 6 percent as predicted by Aaronson’s model.  At Dick’s Drive-In, the Seattle hamburger joint featured in
Sir Mix-a-Lot’s “Posse on Broadway” rap, the Dick’s Deluxe
might go to $2.86 from $2.70, using the same assumption.  Salmon Love  Restaurateur Tom Douglas, known in Seattle for his
signature “Rub with Love” salmon, already has an idea what
higher wages will cost. The owner of more than a dozen
restaurants and bakeries, he raised the starting wage for cooks
to $15 from $12 on Aug. 1, and for dishwashers to $12 from $10.
If he passed that on, it might add $1 to each dish, he said. The
Neah Bay king salmon at his Etta’s  restaurant  near the Seattle
waterfront now costs $28.50.  Douglas, 55, said he isn’t increasing prices for now,
absorbing the $1.3 million a year in extra costs through reduced
profits instead. While he doesn’t support a government-mandated
minimum wage, he said he raised wages in part because of concern
about  income inequality .  “The disparity,” he said, “is just too great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCorry at 
 jmccorry@bloomberg.net  