-- Senate Advances Legislation to Protect LGBT Employees
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-11-05T00:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/senate-advances-legislation-to-protect-lgbt-employees.html
The  U.S. Senate  took a step closer
today to passing legislation that would prohibit employment
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender
identity.  The vote was 61-30, with seven Republicans joining
Democrats to secure the 60 votes needed on a procedural vote to
advance the legislation, S. 815. The bill, known as the
Employment Non-Discrimination Act, or ENDA, would extend
protections to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender workers.  Gay-rights advocates have made ENDA their top priority on
 Capitol Hill  since the  Supreme Court ’s June 26 ruling that
struck down the Defense of Marriage Act, which prohibited the
federal government from recognizing  same-sex marriages .  President  Barack Obama , most congressional Democrats and
almost 70 Fortune 500 companies, such as  Bank of America Corp. 
and  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , support the measure.  “In 33 states lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender
people can be fired and harassed just for being who they are,”
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said on the
Senate floor today. “It’s time for Congress to pass a federal
law that ensures all Americans, regardless of where they live,
can go to work unafraid to be who they are.”  The Senate’s vote on final passage is expected later this
week. Only a simple majority will be needed to send the measure
to the House, where Republican opposition could keep the measure
from reaching the floor.  Boehner’s Opposition  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Speaker  John Boehner , said
today in an e-mail that the Ohio Republican “believes this
legislation will increase frivolous litigation and cost American
jobs, especially small business jobs.”  Among the Republican senators voting to advance the measure
was Ohio’s  Rob Portman , who made headlines in March when he
announced his support for same-sex marriage. Portman disclosed
that one of his sons, Will, is gay.  The legislation would prohibit most employers from firing
or refusing to hire someone based on his or her actual or
perceived sexual orientation or gender identity. It would apply
to businesses with at least 15 employees, as well as to federal,
state and local governments.  It wouldn’t affect uncompensated volunteers, nor would it
apply to religious organizations already exempt from certain
discrimination provisions under existing civil rights laws.  Entities that aren’t primarily religious in purpose and
character would have to comply with the measure’s provisions.
That means discrimination would be prohibited at a non-religious
business where a boss may have a deeply held belief against
homosexuality or against other individuals covered by the
legislation.  Forthcoming Amendments  Democratic leaders promised votes on two amendments dealing
with the religious exemptions in the legislation to win the
support of three Republicans who voted to advance the
legislation, according to a Senate Democratic aide who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the agreement on amendments
wasn’t public.  Senator  Pat Toomey  of  Pennsylvania  would propose a change
to the definition of religious groups to provide for a broader
exemption, the aide said. Portman and  Kelly Ayotte  of  New
Hampshire  would offer an amendment to ensure that state and
federal governments can’t take action against entities covered
by the religious exemption.  “I am pleased that the bill’s authors have decided to
allow a vote on my amendment to prevent retaliation against
religious organizations,” Portman said in a statement after the
vote.  Gender Identity  The term “gender identity” is defined in the bill as
“the gender-related identity, appearance, or mannerisms or
other gender-related characteristics of an individual, with or
without regard to the individual’s designated sex at birth.”
“Sexual orientation” would refer to homosexuality,
heterosexuality and bisexuality.  Twenty-one states and the  District of Columbia  have passed
laws banning employment discrimination based on sexual
orientation, and 17 states and D.C. also prohibit gender-identity discrimination, according to the Human Rights Campaign,
a Washington-based organization that supports the rights of
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals.  The advocacy group  lists  more than 100 businesses,
including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA) 
and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , as members of the Business Coalition for
Workplace Fairness, which backs the legislation. Dan Rafter, a
spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign, said 69 of those were
Fortune 500 companies. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said it is
neutral on the legislation.  ‘Long Overdue’  The White House Office of Management and Budget said in a
 statement of administration policy  that the Obama administration
“strongly supports” the bill’s passage, adding: “Workers
should not fear being fired from their jobs, harassed at their
workplaces, or otherwise denied the chance to earn a living for
themselves and their families, simply because of sexual
orientation or gender identity.”  OMB said the bill’s provisions “are consistent with
America’s core values of fairness and equality” and called
passage of the legislation “long overdue.”  The legislation is opposed by groups that advocate for what
they describe as traditional values. “ENDA not only adds more
costs to businesses but tells them how they can and cannot
practice the faith of their owners and managers,” Tony Perkins,
the president of the Family Research Council, said in a
statement.  Lawmakers have considered extending civil rights
protections to gay and lesbian workers since 1994 and to
transgender employees since 2007. In 1996, a version of the bill
that didn’t include a gender-identity provision fell one vote
short of Senate passage. In 2007, the House passed a version
with only the sexual-orientation component; it died in the
Senate.  Workers could file claims with the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission under the Senate bill and a related
measure in the House and could sue if they believe that an
employer discriminated against them for being, or appearing to
be, lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  