-- Shiller’s Bubble Warning Dismissed in Loan Surge: Brazil Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-11-04T14:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/shiller-s-bubble-warning-dismissed-in-loan-surge-brazil-credit.html
Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff is
disregarding warnings about a housing bubble and is stoking
demand instead by helping people buy more homes as prices surge.  The government increased the price limit of houses people
can buy using the unemployment insurance fund on Sept. 30 after
public lending for homes increased more than four times as much
as private banks in the two years through June, to 202  billion 
reais ($90 billion), according to central bank data.  Rousseff’s homebuilding program has propelled demand as she
seeks to stimulate the economy before next year’s presidential
election.  Robert Shiller , six weeks before winning the  Nobel
Prize  for economics, cautioned that such demand may be fueling a
bubble as  home prices  grow twice as fast as rent. Mortgage debt
as a percentage of disposable  household income  has climbed to a
record 15 percent, almost double the level at the start of
Rousseff’s term.  “That’s where there’s something happening in the credit
market and, for a government very worried about growth, they’re
not going to stop that party,”  Tony Volpon , director of
 emerging-markets  research at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by
telephone from New York. “If there’s a bubble or not, that’s a
future problem to deal with. I see no political incentive” to
wind down mortgage lending.  Biggest Cities  Brazil’s real estate credit remains a relatively small part
of gross domestic product and overall credit compared with other
emerging markets, and growth has been rapid because of a small
base, Tulio Maciel, the head of the central bank’s economic
research department, told reporters in Brasilia on Oct. 29.  Home prices in Brazil’s biggest cities,  Sao Paulo  and  Rio
de Janeiro , have surged 188 percent and 230 percent since
January 2008 -- about double the pace of rent, according to the
 FIPE Zap index  of Brazilian housing prices published by the
Economic Research Institute Foundation.  “A doubling of home prices in five years virtually never
happened in the U.S.,” Shiller, a professor at  Yale University 
in  New Haven , Connecticut, who forecast the U.S. housing crisis
and helped create the  S&P/Case-Shiller Index (SPCS20)  of home prices,
said at an event in Campos do Jordao, Brazil, on Aug. 31. “I
actually don’t know it’s a bubble in Brazil, but I suspect it is
and, maybe if I can just say that, it would help cool the
fervor.”  Brazil’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
increased three basis points to 182 basis points at 12:49 p.m.
local time, its highest level since Sept. 10.  Mortgage Loans  Bank lending for real estate rose 24.2 percent in the first
nine months of the year, more than all other areas of the
private sector, according to the central bank.  Mortgage loans  have almost tripled from 2.3 of GDP to 6.8
percent of GDP after the global financial crisis, with state-owned Caixa Economica Federal accounting for 70 percent of the
total, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “A correction in property prices, although not systemic,
could worsen asset quality in public banks due to the rapid
expansion of mortgage loans in recent years,” the Washington-based lender said in a report Oct. 22.  Caixa’s real-estate lending in the first nine months of
this year hit 100 billion reais, with one-third of resources
coming from the unemployment fund known as FGTS, according to an
Oct. 3 statement by the bank.  Brazil’s National Monetary Council, made up of central bank
and government officials, on Sept. 30 increased the maximum home
value workers can purchase using the FGTS by 50 percent to
750,000 reais for states accounting for 42 percent of the
country’s population. The limit for other states increased 30
percent to 650,000 reais.  Cancellation  Increased cancellation of mortgage contracts is a sign
companies must tighten credit standards for middle and lower-income buyers, according to Cristiane Spercel, an analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service.  Brazilian homebuilders now have the highest leverage of
peers in the Americas as consumers with less disposable income
increasingly have their home contracts canceled, Moody’s
estimates.  The cancellations prompted Moody’s to push back its
forecast for when rated homebuilders in Brazil will become free
cash flow positive to a range of 2014 to 2015 from an original
estimate of 2012.  “Cancellations are a red flag and it shows that there are
some limitations in the growth model,” Spercel said by phone.
“But in our opinion the demand for home acquisition remains
robust.”  Builders’ Leverage  Mortgage lending remains under control, Marcio Holland, the
 Finance Ministry ’s economic policy secretary, said the day of
the IMF report’s publication.  “We started to increase mortgage lending in comparison to
lending for durable goods,” Holland told reporters in
Washington. “Households are borrowing in the banking system to
get a house. It’s much better collateral than durable goods.”  The median ratio of gross debt to book capitalization for
Brazil’s rated homebuilders was 60.7 percent in the second
quarter compared with 54.7 percent in the U.S. and 48.1 percent
in Mexico, where at least three builders defaulted on debt this
year, according to a Moody’s report published Oct. 7.  Brazilian homebuilders  PDG Realty (PDGR3) ,  Brookfield Incorporacoes (BISA3) 
and  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  have local bonds and are under pressure to
generate cash to reduce debt, according to the report.  “The current trend for housing prices is clearly
unsustainable,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco
Mizuho do Brasil SA, said by phone. “Households already are
highly indebted and the pace of credit growth, especially for
the housing market, is very high. It would be prudent to slow
down the pace of loans to the housing market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ; 