-- Simple Tech Fix Could Allow Millions to Hear
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B o u t o n
-- 2013-11-04T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/simple-tech-fix-could-allow-millions-to-hear.html
A few weeks ago, I had an amazing
experience, one that most people take for granted but that for
more and more of us in the  baby-boom demographic  is becoming
impossible. I sat in a large auditorium and listened to -- and
heard -- a speaker on a podium. In fact, I listened to many
speakers over the course of a two-day weekend, and I heard every
word.  About 48 million Americans have  hearing loss , and more than
half of them are younger than 55. Most don’t wear hearing aids -
- not because they don’t need them but because they buy into the
stigma that hearing loss is for the elderly. Even with hearing
aids -- and this is one of the best-kept secrets of the hearing-aid industry -- you may need even more help to hear a lecture, a
sermon or a play.  There’s an easy solution, but it has been little embraced
in the U.S.:  hearing loops .  Looping, for those who don’t know, is a technology that
involves installing a wire around the periphery of a room or
between rows of seats. The speaker uses an ordinary microphone
that amplifies his or her voice for the hearing audience and
transmits it directly to a listener’s hearing aid, specially
equipped headphones or cochlear implant. All extraneous sound is
cut out. Hearing aids are ordinarily effective only up to six
feet away. But with the hearing loop the voice is as clear as if
the speaker were four feet in front of you -- clearer, perhaps,
because of the elimination of background noise.  Small Step  In the past few years, as my hearing declined, I stopped
going to lectures, to the theater, to movies and to readings. I
couldn’t hear them. But in Eastbourne, U.K., last month, all
that changed. The event was the third  International Hearing Loop
Conference . I had been invited to attend as an observer.  I knew about the technology. The  New York  Times ran a
 celebratory article  explaining it in 2011. But I had only rare
experiences with it, mostly at hearing-loss conferences. For the
most part, I -- and others like me -- rely on a live-captioning
system called Communication Access Real-Time Translation, or
CART, in order to follow a speaker at public events. CART, alas,
is rarely offered. And looping -- at least in New York -- has
until now been largely nonexistent.  A small but determined group of New Yorkers has been
successful in getting looping installed in various places of
worship, at information booths in museums, in some stores (such
as Apple Inc.’s SoHo store) and in the ordering line at Shake
Shack. You can access a list of looped venues by  searching 
“audio loops in the New York metropolitan area.”  Looping is planned for New York taxis, as part of the  Taxi
of Tomorrow  initiative, but I’ll believe it when I see it. A
judge recently blocked a plan for an exclusive contract with
Nissan Motor Co. for a uniform fleet, putting the program in
jeopardy.  In other words, hearing loops are few and far between in
our city, and they’re geared mostly to tourists. There are no
loops at the  Celeste Bartos Forum , a major lecture hall. Until
now (more about this later) there have been no loops at Broadway
and off-Broadway theaters. There is no looping at the many
readings that are held every night in New York in bookstores and
at places such as the 92nd Street Y. Loops in movie theaters or
in university lecture halls are rare.  Once you mic the performers -- standard practice on
Broadway, at lectures, at readings -- it’s a small step to
looping the space, making the experience available to the many
thousands of  New Yorkers  who would be able to hear the
performance simply by flicking a switch on their hearing aids.  Vicious Circle  One piece of good news is that the Richard Rodgers Theatre
on Broadway recently installed a hearing loop. The minute I
heard this, I bought tickets for “ Romeo and Juliet ” starring
Orlando Bloom and Condola Rashad. The bad news is that there’s
no way the average consumer would know this. There’s no
indication that the show is looped on the theater’s website, on
Ticketmaster, on Broadway.com or at the Times’ website. The
Times listings indicate which theaters have “hearing
assistance,” but this generally refers to infrared headphones
that don’t work for people who need their hearing aids or for
people with cochlear implants. They often don’t work, period --
the batteries run out, the equipment is old.  If people don’t know the loops exist, they won’t go to the
theater or other venues that offer them. If they don’t go, the
loop won’t be taken advantage of. The theater will say that the
loop isn’t being used, and this will deter other theaters from
installing them. It’s a vicious circle. A friend of mine went to
a performance of “Romeo and Juliet” last week and asked about
looping. The usher’s response: “What’s looping?”  Looping isn’t the answer for everyone. The deaf, for
instance, can’t take advantage of hearing loops unless they wear
hearing aids. But it is the answer for thousands of us who want
to participate in the cultural life of our city. Just when we’re
old enough to have the free time and income to take advantage of
the huge array of offerings in New York, we’re likely no longer
able to hear them.  Looping is also beneficial for our endangered art
institutions. For certain kinds of culture -- lectures,
readings, classical music concerts, theater -- the audiences
tend to be made up of  baby boomers  and older. Think how arts
programs would profit if those millions with hearing loss had
access to programs now denied them.  (Katherine Bouton, a former senior editor at the New York
Times, is the author of “Shouting Won’t Help: Why I -- and 50
Million Other Americans -- Can’t Hear You.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Katherine Bouton at  katherinebouton@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 