-- Solvay Extends Hybrid Bond Sale Record in Europe as Yields Drop
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-11-04T15:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/solvay-extends-hybrid-bond-sale-record-in-europe-as-yields-drop.html
Solvay SA (SOLB)  is selling euro-denominated
hybrid bonds, extending record issuance of the securities as
European borrowing costs fall.  The Belgian manufacturer of chemicals and plastic is
marketing a total 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of undated
notes that can be bought back by the company after 5 1/2 years
and 10 years according to a person familiar with the matter. The
average yield on bonds combining elements of debt and equity
fell 18 basis points last month to a three-month low of 4.2
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Hybrid Corporate Index.  French supermarket group  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s biggest phone company, are among non-financial companies selling a record 26 billion euros of hybrid
bonds in  Europe  this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
notes allow companies to reduce the risk of being downgraded
after issuing debt because ratings companies typically count 50
percent of the securities as equity.  “It’s surprising how much the trend has taken off this
year,” said Tatjana Greil Castro, a London-based portfolio
manager at Muzinich & Co. Ltd., which manages about $27 billion
in credit. “From a historical perspective, companies are not
paying much more to issue hybrid bonds now than they did in the
past to do senior bonds, because yields have fallen so much.”  Solvay is selling 500 million euros of notes it can redeem
after 10 years to yield 345 basis points more than the mid-swap
rate, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
they’re not authorized to speak about it. The Brussels-based
company is also issuing 700 million euros of securities callable
after 5 1/2 years at a spread of 300 basis points.  Hybrid bonds yield an average 293 basis points more than
the swap rate, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  3M Bond Sale  Solvay said last month it planned to issue hybrid debt to
strengthen its balance sheet after agreeing to acquire U.S.
producer Chemlogics for $1.3 billion. The company will use the
proceeds from the bond sale to repay maturing debt, said
Caroline Jacobs, a spokeswoman for Solvay in Brussels.  Also in the new issue market today,  3M Co. (MMM) , the U.S. maker
of products from dental braces to auto parts, sold 600 million
euros of eight-year notes yielding 30 basis points more than the
mid-swap rate. It was the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company’s
first bond sale in the currency since 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Univeg Holding BV, a Belgian fruit and vegetable supplier,
is meeting investors from today to market 265 million euros of
seven-year notes that can be bought back after three years,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Proceeds from
the sale will be used to repay existing debt and for general
corporate purposes. It would be the Antwerp-based company’s
first bond sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  