-- Southeast Asian Sites Hacked Before Global Anonymous Protest
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-11-05T02:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/southeast-asian-sites-hacked-by-anonymous-before-global-protest.html
The Anonymous hacker group stepped up
cyber attacks across  Southeast Asia , targeting websites in the
 Philippines  and Singapore before a global protest today against
censorship and government corruption.  Anonymous Philippines said it infiltrated 115 government
websites before a demonstration outside congress in Quezon City
as part of a global “ Million Mask March ,” coinciding with Guy
Fawkes Day in the U.K. The mask of Fawkes, who tried to blow up
the English Parliament in the 17th century, has become a symbol
of the movement. Seventy riot police were on hand at the start
of the protest, outnumbering demonstrators more than 3-to-1.  Anonymous Philippines has called on the public to join the
“revolution” today. “The government, in many ways, has failed
its citizens,” the group said on its  Facebook page . “Fairness,
justice and freedom are more than just words.”  In  Singapore , a website owned by the city’s biggest
newspaper publisher was temporarily shut yesterday after being
hacked on Nov. 1. A video uploaded on the YouTube website last
week showed a person in a Guy Fawkes mask threatening to bring
down Singapore’s infrastructure to protest Internet regulations.  Anonymous  Indonesia  said on its  Twitter page  that it had
infiltrated more than 100 Australian sites in response to
reports of spying by  Australia .  ‘Misreporting Rumors’  “I do not see this as a people’s power but more of a few
people going after those with power in the system through
clandestine means,” said  Bridget Welsh , an associate professor
of political science at the  Singapore Management University .
“Cyber issues reflect a major arena of political contestation
that will only intensify in the years ahead.”  The threats in the Philippines have prompted President
 Benigno Aquino ’s government to say that it will take action
against those who hack websites to protest corruption. The
Singapore police said government websites are down for
“maintenance” and warned against “misreporting” of
“rumors.”  Anonymous has stepped up its criticism in the Philippines
as Aquino’s government remains embroiled in a scandal over the
misuse of public funds. Prosecutors have recommended corruption-related charges against a group of lawmakers and a businesswoman
related to the alleged improper use of funds that lawmakers
doled out at their discretion on infrastructure and development
projects.  Newspaper Hacked  “There is sufficient democratic space, so there’s no need
to resort to illegal acts,” Philippines’ Communications
Secretary Sonny Coloma told reporters in  Manila  yesterday.  Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH)  said it was investigating
after some users had difficulty accessing the Straits Times
online yesterday. The website was infiltrated last week by a
hacker who said the newspaper distorted Anonymous’s position by
saying the group is at war with Singapore instead of with its
government. Singapore Press confirmed that infiltration.  Singapore from June 1 required websites that regularly
publish news on the city state to be licensed and pay a S$50,000
($40,200) bond, to be forfeited on the publication of
“prohibited content” that “undermines racial or religious
harmony.” The new laws has prompted criticism from Anonymous.  On Alert  Singapore government agencies were put on alert for
possible attacks, the  Straits Times  reported on Nov. 1. The
Messiah, a hacker with Anonymous, claimed responsibility for
infiltrating the website of the Ang Mo Kio Town Council last
week, the municipal branch of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s
constituency.  The city’s Infocomm Development Authority said in a
statement yesterday that maintenance on Nov. 2 uncovered a fault
involving “a routing issue and a hardware failure” that
affected some government websites and was later fixed.
Government agencies have been on “heightened vigilance”
because of the threats, according to the statement.  Guy Fawkes Night is held annually in the U.K on Nov. 5 to
mark the anniversary of the discovery of a plot organized by
conspirators including Fawkes to blow up the Houses of
Parliament in  London  in 1605.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  