-- Starboard Urges Calgon Carbon to Boost Share Buyback Program
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-11-04T16:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/starboard-urges-calgon-carbon-to-boost-share-buyback-program.html
Calgon Carbon Corp. (CCC) , a water-purification company, was urged by activist investor Starboard
Value LP to buy back as much as $200 million of stock and
refinance debt.  “Calgon should use available funds and borrowings to
repurchase $150 million to $200 million of its currently
undervalued stock as soon as possible,” Starboard, which holds
9.7 percent of the company, wrote today in a letter to Chief
Executive Officer Randall S. Dearth. Calgon could also improve
tax efficiency by listing some carbon assets in a master limited
partnership, Starboard said.  Calgon has increased 28 percent since Starboard disclosed a
7.7 percent stake in the company in January. In March, the
company agreed to add two independent directors to its board,
including Louis S. Massimo, a former chief operating officer of
Arch Chemicals Inc., who was backed by Starboard.  Gail Gerono, a spokeswoman for Calgon, didn’t immediately
return a message seeking comment on the Starboard letter.  Although Pittsburgh-based Calgon is cutting costs and began
a $50 million share buyback, profit has trailed peers, Starboard
Managing Director Jeffrey C. Smith said in the letter. Starboard
this year has advocated the breakup of Smithfield Foods Inc.,
called for buybacks at  Wausau Paper Corp. (WPP)  and sought new board
members at chipmaker  Emulex Corp. (ELX)   Calgon rose 1.7 percent to $20.29 as of 10:50 a.m. in  New
York  after earlier climbing as much as 2.6 percent. The shares
have surged 42 percent this year compared with a 9.2 percent
gain by the 20-member Bloomberg World Water Index.  The company is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  