-- SunPower Buys Greenbotics for Solar Panel Washing Robots
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-11-04T05:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/sunpower-buys-greenbotics-for-solar-panel-washing-robots.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the second-largest
U.S. solar manufacturer, bought Greenbotics Inc., maker of
robots that clean panels to increase the amount of power they
can generate.  The robots clean dirt and dust off of photovoltaic and
solar thermal arrays and cut water use by 90 percent,  San Jose ,
California-based SunPower said today in a statement. Terms of
the deal, the seventh acquisition SunPower has done since it 
was formed, weren’t disclosed.  SunPower plans to use the systems at projects it develops,
especially in the western U.S., the  Middle East  and Chile, as an
alternative to pressure washers and sprayer trucks. The robots
will cut water use, save money and boost annual energy yield in
dry, dusty regions by as much as 15 percent, according to the
release.  “It’s half the cost of normal cleaning,” SunPower Chief
Executive Officer Tom Werner said in an Nov. 1 interview. The
technology, which he likened to a Roomba vacuum cleaner, “is
one we can scale.”  Robots like ones made by Davis, California-based
Greenbotics are becoming more common in the solar industry as a
way to reduce installation and maintenance costs and make the
power more competitive with fossil fuel. Panel prices have
 dropped  more than 60 percent in the past three years.  Closely held Alion Inc., which makes robotic systems that
install solar power plants, said in June it was seeking to raise
$15 million on top of $10 million already raised.  Qbotix Inc. , which makes robot systems to adjust solar
panels to keep them facing the sun, has raised $12.5 million
from investors like New Enterprise Associates Inc., Firelake
Capital Management LLC and Draper Fisher Jurvetson.  SunPower, whose  shares  have gained more than fivefold since
the start of the year, last week reported its second consecutive
quarterly profit.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  is the largest U.S. solar manufacturer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  