-- SunTrust to Hire as Many as 60 in Mid-Market Banking Push
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-11-04T17:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/suntrust-to-hire-as-many-as-60-in-mid-market-banking-push.html
SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , Georgia’s
biggest lender, said its  investment-banking  unit will establish
three new offices and hire as many as 60 employees as it seeks
to expand services for mid-market clients.  SunTrust Robinson Humphrey will set up offices in  Dallas ,
San Francisco and Chicago and expects to add 10 to 20 employees
in each location by the end of next year, some of whom will work
in corporate banking, Mark Chancy, head of the Atlanta-based
firm’s wholesale unit, said today in a phone interview.  SunTrust is focused on increasing market share in
investment banking and continuing to expand its presence beyond
the U.S. Southeast, Chancy said. Wholesale banking generates
about 40 percent of the firm’s revenue, with a substantial
portion coming from corporate banking, he said.  “There are a number of firms that have historically served
the middle-market client that are no longer part of the
financial-services landscape,” Chancy said. “Things that we
have been a beneficiary of over the last five years are being
able to add substantial talent in each one of our product areas,
in our investment-banking areas and in our industry expertise.”  Clint Bryant, who previously worked at Fifth Third Bancorp
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , was hired for the Dallas team, while Jim
Deichen joined SunTrust as head of  San Francisco  corporate
banking from  Bank of America Corp. , according to a statement
today from the lender. Ted Heldring, previously head of debt
capital markets for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Chicago office, will
lead SunTrust’s Midwest team, according to the statement.  Earlier this year, SunTrust hired six analysts from firms
including UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. to increase its equity
coverage. While the company continues to boost its investment-banking division, it has reduced headcount in its mortgage
business. SunTrust expects to eliminate 800 positions over the
next several months, Sue Mallino, a spokeswoman for the bank,
said in a statement last month.  SunTrust gained 0.2 percent to $33.82 at 12:34 p.m. in New
York. The stock has gained 19 percent this year, trailing the 25
percent  advance  of the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  