-- Superior Energy Equipment Seized by PDVSA in Venezuela
-- B y   P i e t r o   D .   P i t t s
-- 2013-11-04T19:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/superior-energy-equipment-seized-by-pdvsa-in-venezuela.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the state
oil company, seized about $1 million worth of equipment from
 Superior Energy Services Inc. (SPN) , the Houston-based company said.  PDVSA expropriated two hydraulic units that were idled
after the Caracas-based company missed payments, Greg Rosenstein, head of corporate development, said by phone from
New Orleans. The units operated in eastern Venezuela’s
Anzoategui state,  Associated Press  reported Nov. 1.  The move follows comments by Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  on
Sept. 11 that private companies unwilling to work with PDVSA on
increasing production capacity should leave the country.
Superior has operated in Venezuela for 15 years.  “We were surprised by the takeover as we have had a
cordial relationship with PDVSA,” Rosenstein says. “We
continue to work with PDVSA and the Venezuelan authorities and
look to resolve this issue soon.”  The so-called snubbing units have a combined value of about
$1 million and Superior’s total assets in Venezuela have a
combined book value of about $2 million, Rosenstein said. A
PDVSA official, who isn’t an authorized spokesperson, didn’t
respond to phone calls seeking comment on the rigs.  Superior’s shares rose 2.8 percent to $27.84 at 2:40 p.m.
in New York.  Schlumberger Accord  Venezuela’s oil industry generates 95 percent of the
country’s foreign currency earnings, said Ramirez, who also
serves as PDVSA’s chairman.  Under President  Hugo Chavez , who died of cancer in March,
Venezuela initiated a nationalization process, seizing assets
from companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oil-services
company, said in March it would reduce work in Venezuela because
of mounting overdue payments from PDVSA. Schlumberger
subsequently reached an agreement and announced on May 24 that
it would provide a $1 billion rolling credit for a joint venture
in Venezuela.  Venezuela’s Orinoco heavy-oil belt is home to the world’s
largest accumulation of heavy and extra-heavy oil. Venezuela,
which is producing about 3 million barrels a day, according to
Ramirez, expects to reach 4 million barrels by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pietro D. Pitts in Caracas at 
 ppitts2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  