-- Swiss Stocks Erase Advance as UBS, Credit Suisse Retreat
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-11-04T09:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/swiss-stocks-erase-advance-as-ubs-credit-suisse-retreat.html
(Corrects spelling of Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf in second
paragraph.)  Swiss stocks erased their advance as
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  extended losses, while
investors awaited a report that may confirm  Germany ’s
manufacturing industries expanded at a faster pace last month.  UBS and Credit Suisse each declined more than 2.5 percent
as Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said lenders
may have to pull out of investment banking if their leverage
ratios increase.  Dufry AG (DUFN)  climbed 1.7 percent after the operator
of duty-free shops reported increased revenue. Addex
Therapeutics Ltd. advanced 1.9 percent.  The SMI slipped 0.1 percent to 8,216.89 at 9:51 a.m. in
Zurich, erasing a gain of as much as 0.5 percent. The gauge
rallied 2.6 percent in October, completing its biggest  two-month
advance  since the beginning of the year, as U.S. lawmakers
agreed on a new budget to avoid a sovereign default and end a
partial government shutdown. The broader Swiss Performance Index
also climbed 0.3 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the  SMI (SMI)  was more than double the average of the past 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In Germany, a report from Markit Economics at 9:55 a.m.
Frankfurt time may confirm that manufacturing in Europe’s
largest economy expanded last month. The  purchasing managers’
index  rose to 51.5 from 51.1 in September, according to the
median economist estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report at 10 a.m. in
 Washington  may show that factory orders rose 1.8 percent in
September, according to the  median forecast  of 45 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  