-- U.K. Construction Unexpectedly Strengthens on Homebuilding
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-11-04T09:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/u-k-construction-unexpectedly-strengthens-on-homebuilding.html
U.K. construction  unexpectedly
accelerated in October to the fastest pace in six years, led by
homebuilding.  An index of construction activity rose to 59.4 in October
from 58.9 in September, Markit Economics said today in  London .
The median forecast of 15 economists was for a decline to 58.7.
The gauge has been above the 50 level that divides expansion
from contraction since May.  U.K economic growth  accelerated to the fastest in more than
three years in the third quarter as the recovery continued
across all main industries. The  Confederation of British
Industry  raised its forecasts for the economy yesterday and now
sees expansion of 1.4 percent this year and 2.4 percent in 2014.  “The future is looking bright for the U.K. construction
industry,” said  David Noble , chief executive officer of the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply, which sponsors the
report. “Housing remains the key driver of the ever-strengthening rebound.”  The pound extended its advance against the dollar after the
report and was at $1.5955 as of 9:42 a.m. London time, up 0.2
percent from Nov. 1.  The improvement in construction activity boosted hiring in
October, with payrolls rising at the fastest pace in six years,
Markit said. While housing growth cooled from its fastest in
almost 10 years, it remained the strongest sector. Civil
engineering and commercial activity were “robust.”  Demand ‘Catalyst’  Homebuilder  Bellway Plc (BWY)  said on Oct. 15 that its annual
profit rose 37 percent as it benefited from a government
initiative to help people with small deposits buy homes and that
demand “remains strong in most areas of the country.”  “Help to Buy acted as a catalyst for underlying consumer
demand,” Chief Executive Officer Ted Ayres said.  The government program is also boosting  house prices .
 Nationwide Building Society  said on Oct. 31 that values rose 1
percent in October from the previous month and were up 5.8
percent from a year earlier.  “Of critical importance to the construction sector going
forward is that the economy holds up well over the coming months
and that housing market activity sees sustained healthy, but not
excessive, growth,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS
Global Insight in London.  U.K. manufacturing  expanded for a seventh month in October
as overseas demand grew, Markit said last week. A gauge of
factory activity slipped to 56 from a revised 56.3 in September.  Britain’s services sector also expanded last month,
economists said before a report tomorrow. An index of activity
slipped to 60 from 60.3 in September, according to the median of
30 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The  Bank of England  will probably keep policy unchanged
this week as Governor  Mark Carney  prepares to present new
forecasts on Nov. 13. It will keep the  benchmark rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent, while the bond-purchase plan will stay
at 375 billion pounds ($598 billion), according to Bloomberg
surveys. The bank will announce the decisions on Nov. 7.  In the euro area today, a  manufacturing index  rose to 51.3
in October from 51.1 in September. That matched an initial
estimate published on Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  