-- U.S. Banks Ease Business-Loan Standards, Fed Survey Shows
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-04T23:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/u-s-banks-ease-standards-on-business-loans-fed-survey-shows.html
Domestic banks are making loans more
readily available, easing lending policies to businesses as
competition stiffens and relaxing standards on mortgages as
demand for home loans cools, a Federal Reserve survey shows.  “Banks eased their lending policies for commercial and
industrial loans” as well as standards on prime residential
 mortgage loans  in the third quarter, the  central bank  said in
its survey of senior loan officers released today in Washington.
The share of banks relaxing mortgage standards was described as
“modest.”  The survey shows banks are more willing to extend credit as
the central bank keeps  interest rates  near zero and maintains
the pace of asset purchases intended to stoke growth. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  last week said it will press on
with $85 billion in monthly purchases while awaiting “more
evidence that progress will be sustained.”  Banks reported “on net, weaker demand for prime and
nontraditional mortgage loans” while demand for business loans
“experienced little change,” according to the report. For
other types of lending to consumers, banks “did not
substantially change standards or terms.”  The survey also asked a series of questions about how banks
have responded to the increase in  mortgage costs , which climbed
from as low as 3.35 percent in May for a 30-year fixed-rate
mortgage to as high as 4.58 percent in late August, according to
a Freddie Mac index.  Processing Time  Rates on home loans rose on speculation that the Fed would
start curbing purchases of Treasuries and mortgage debt. The
central bank unexpectedly kept the pace unchanged in September,
helping to push borrowing costs lower and fueling gains in the
stock market.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent
to 1,767.93 at the close of trading in  New York . The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.60 percent at 5:09 p.m. in New York.  Mortgage refinancing dropped at almost all banks, and
“large fractions of banks indicated that they had reduced the
processing time for home-purchase loan applications and had
increased their marketing of home-purchase loans to potential
borrowers,” according to the survey. Very few banks reduced
origination and processing fees, or minimum down-payment
standards in response.  Closely Watched  The mortgage market is closely watched by the Fed, as the
central bank’s low interest-rate  policies  are designed to spur
borrowing, especially for houses and automobiles that many
consumers finance with loans.  “ Monetary policy  in the  United States  is likely to remain
highly accommodative for some time,” Fed Governor Jerome Powell
said today in a speech in  San Francisco . “The timing of this
moderation in the pace of purchases is necessarily uncertain, as
it depends on the evolution of the economy.”  Banks are seeing increased demand for loans for
construction and land development, multifamily residential
structures and nonresidential structures, according to the Fed
report. The share seeing increased demand was described as
“moderate.” Banks were more likely to ease their standards for
these types of loans than tighten them, the report said.  Kelly King, chairman and chief executive officer of BB&T
Corp., described competition in the market for commercial real
estate lending as “intense” in an Oct. 17 earnings call.  “Everybody’s going after loans wherever they can find
them,” said King, whose bank is based in Winston-Salem,  North
Carolina . “We have an appetite to increase our CRE, but we do
not have an appetite strong enough to take on too much risk at
the extraordinarily low prices.”  Loan Value  The total  value of loans  at U.S. banks climbed 2.5 percent
during the past year to $7.33 trillion in September, according
to a Fed report last week. Lending to businesses has been
particularly strong, with commercial and industrial loans
climbing to $1.58 trillion in September, an 8.2 percent increase
from a year earlier.  The gains in lending haven’t translated into broad-based
growth. Economists in a Bloomberg survey estimate the economy
expanded 2 percent in the third quarter, down from 2.5 percent
the previous quarter. The Commerce Department plans to release
its initial estimate of third quarter growth at 8:30 a.m. on
Nov. 7.  Payroll Growth  Employers added 148,000 jobs in September, down from
193,000 the month before, and economists estimate the pace will
slow further in October to 120,000. The  unemployment rate 
probably rose to 7.3 percent in October from 7.2 percent in
September, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists, a sign
of the harm to the economy from a 16-day government shutdown
last month.  The Fed survey of loan officers, conducted from Oct. 1 to
Oct. 15, is based on responses from 73 domestic banks and 22
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks. The Fed doesn’t
identify the banks.  The central bank last week announced its latest steps to
strengthen the banking system through a new annual round of
stress tests. The largest 30 banks will have to show they can
weather a recession in which  house prices  plunge 25 percent,
stocks fall 50 percent and unemployment climbs to 11.3 percent.  The banks will also have to demonstrate their ability to
continue lending in a scenario where the 10-year Treasury note
yield jumps to 5.75 percent by the end of 2014, and corporate
borrowing and mortgage rates also rise.  The central bank has also tried to improve the flow of
credit by holding its target interest rate near zero since 2008,
undertaking three rounds of bond purchases and increasing its
surveillance to ensure banks could lend during a severe
downturn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  