-- U.S. Boosts Borrowing Needs as Dec. 31 Cash Balance Seen Larger
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-11-04T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/u-s-boosts-borrowing-needs-as-dec-31-cash-balance-seen-larger.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said it
will borrow about 13 percent more this quarter than it projected
three months ago because of a higher estimate for the country’s
cash balance on Dec. 31.  Issuance of net marketable debt will be $266 billion in the
October-to-December period, compared with $235 billion initially
forecast on July 29, the department said today in  Washington . At
the end of December, the Treasury will have $140 billion in
cash, versus $80 billion expected before.  Disagreements in Congress over the nation’s fiscal
direction are clouding the Treasury’s outlook for debt
management this quarter and next. A House-Senate conference
committee, created in an Oct. 16 measure that ended a partial
government shutdown and suspended the nation’s debt ceiling,
faces a Dec. 13 deadline to reach a  budget  agreement to avoid a
second round of automatic spending cuts in January.  “While the economy is poised for stronger growth over the
coming year, the political process poses some risk,” Treasury
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy Seth Carpenter
said in a statement accompanying borrowing needs. “A number of
economic headwinds -- many of them out of our direct control --
have held our economy back since the recovery began four years
ago.”  In the January-March quarter, borrowing needs were
estimated to be $265 billion, the Treasury also said.  Nov. 6 Refunding  Today’s estimates are made as part of the department’s
quarterly refunding announcement set for Nov. 6, when the
Treasury will announce the size of auctions of three-, 10- and
30-year securities.  The yield of 10-year Treasuries was 2.60 percent at 2:54
p.m. in  New York , compared with 2.58 percent when the department
released its last refunding announcement on July 31.  Treasury is planning to sell the first floating-rate notes
at the end of January to expand its investor base and limit
borrowing costs, according to a July 31 statement.  The budget shortfall narrowed to the smallest in five years
in the 12 months ended Sept. 30 on record revenue and largest
spending decline since the Eisenhower administration, the
Treasury said Oct. 30.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew last month urged lawmakers
to “replace the corrosive across-the-board cuts known as
sequestration with fair and balanced deficit reduction
policies.”  “It is now time for Congress to make a pro-growth, pro-jobs agenda the focal point,” Lew said on Oct. 31. “This will
strengthen our economy at home and further cement the  United
States  as the best place to invest, hire and grow businesses."   The 16-day government shutdown that resulted from the
October budget gridlock led economists to lower their estimates
for U.S. fourth-quarter economic growth to 2 percent from 2.4
percent before, according to a Bloomberg survey released Nov. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  