-- U.S. Steelmakers Rise as Goldman Predicts Recovery
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-11-04T15:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/u-s-steelmakers-rise-as-goldman-predicts-recovery.html
U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  and  AK Steel Holding
Corp. (AKS)  gained after after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
rating on the unprofitable companies to buy from sell and said
the outlook for the domestic steel industry is improving because
of higher demand.  AK rose 11 percent to $5.11 at 10:31 a.m. in New York after
climbing as much as 13 percent, the biggest intraday increase
since June 27. U.S. Steel Corp., the country’s largest producer
of the metal by volume, rose as much as 5.7 percent.  “We see the sector heading to a sustainable recovery over
the coming years,” Sal Tharani, a New York-based analyst at
Goldman, said in a note today. He revised his view of the U.S.
 steel industry  to “neutral” from “cautious.”  “The supply-demand fundamentals for steel are starting to
look more appealing, particularly for flat steel, as some supply
has been taken out and demand drivers are firmly in place,” he
said.  The U.S. steel industry has suffered from global
overcapacity since the financial crisis. Pittsburgh-based U.S.
Steel, the country’s largest producer of the metal by volume,
said Oct. 30 it will permanently close parts of plants in the
U.S. and Canada as it tries to reduce costs after four
unprofitable quarters.  Domestic steel prices are recovering. Hot-rolled steel
coil, a benchmark product used in manufacturing, are at $660 a
short ton, the highest since September last year, according to
data from The Steel Index, a trade publication.  U.S. Steel and West Chester, Ohio-based AK use blast
furnaces to process  iron ore  and then combine the iron with
other raw materials in basic-oxygen furnaces to make steel. U.S.
competitors  Nucor Corp. (NUE)  and  Steel Dynamics Inc. (STLD) , which remelt
scrap, have cheaper operating costs. Tharani today raised Fort
Wayne, Indiana-based Steel Dynamics to buy from hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  