-- Hungary to Use Temporary Measures to Aid FX Borrowers
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-11-04T13:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/hungary-s-fidesz-seeks-to-expand-fx-loan-cap-system-rogan-says.html
Hungary’s ruling party proposed
aiding foreign-currency mortgage borrowers using existing tools
after legal obstacles delayed new assistance measures.  Fidesz suggested opening a plan allowing temporary
repayment of loans at fixed, below-market exchange rates to all
borrowers, parliamentary leader Antal Rogan told reporters today
in Budapest. Fidesz, which controls a two-thirds majority in the
legislature, wants the bill approved tomorrow, he said.  Hungarians have struggled with billions of dollars of
foreign-currency mortgages as the forint plunged during the
economic crisis. While Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who faces
elections in 2014, has vowed to phase them out and trim monthly
payments, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said last week that a
cabinet plan to address the issue would be delayed because of
“contradictory” court rulings on housing loans.  “Investors are beginning to price out a worst-case
scenario” about a government plan to help foreign-currency
borrowers, David Sandor, Budapest-based analyst at KBC
Securities, said by phone. “This may only be a first step but
the market no longer expects something really radical.”  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, rose 0.7 percent
to 4,550 forint by 12:27 p.m. in Budapest. It’s dropped 9.5
percent since the government said July 16 that it’s considering
a new debt-relief plan. Banks lost $1.7 billion during a 2011
program and reacted by pulling out capital equal to 23 percent
of  Hungary ’s gross domestic product and cutting new lending.  Wider Access  Fidesz’s move would let an additional 150,000 borrowers
with debts more than 90 days overdue join a plan that fixes
Swiss franc-mortgage repayments at 180 forint per franc, less
than today’s 239.9 rate, Rogan said. The balance between the two
rates accumulates in a separate account, with banks and the
government splitting interest costs on the difference.  So far, 40 percent of eligible borrowers have signed up.
Lenders want to make the program obligatory for five years, with
the government, banks and borrowers splitting the cost, OTP’s
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Laszlo Wolf said Oct. 31 in a
Gazdasagi Radio interview. While the ruling party wants to keep
participation optional, it’s prepared to present banks’
suggestion for public debate, Rogan said.  The government supports Fidesz’s proposal as a
“temporary” solution until the legal uncertainties are
cleared, cabinet spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz told reporters
today in Budapest.  Hungarians hold 1.81 trillion forint ($8.2 billion) in
foreign-currency mortgages and another 1.68 trillion forint in
foreign-currency home-equity loans, which can be used for
purchases other than homes. The loans account for 13 percent of
the country’s economic output, according to data compiled by the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. About two-thirds of Hungarian mortgages are denominated in Swiss francs.  OTP competes with mostly foreign-owned banks including
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Intesa
SanPaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG. (RBI)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  