-- Mursi Insists He’s President While Refusing to Enter Plea
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-11-04T22:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/mursi-insists-he-s-president-while-refusing-to-enter-plea.html
As  Egypt  put a deposed president on
trial for the second time in three years, Mohamed Mursi’s
defiance of his judges and the lack of live television coverage
reflected the tensions that have spread since proceedings began
against  Hosni Mubarak .  “The coup is treason,” Mursi told the court in Cairo
yesterday on the trial’s first day, referring to his overthrow
by the army on July 3. It was his first public appearance since
then. “I’m the president of the republic and I’m here against
my will,” Mursi said, refusing to enter a plea and challenging
the court’s jurisdiction to try him. The trial was adjourned
until Jan. 8.  By contrast, Mubarak, who was forced from power in 2011,
was wheeled into his first hearing at the same court on a
hospital bed and spoke little, answering questions politely.
That trial was shown live on state television, while only edited
highlights of yesterday’s hearing were broadcast.  Violence has escalated since the ouster of Mursi, Egypt’s
first freely elected civilian leader. A crackdown by security
forces on his Muslim Brotherhood backers has left hundreds dead
and hundreds more in jail, amid continued protests against the
army intervention and regular attacks by militants.  ‘Double Standards’  Mursi’s trial on charges of inciting violence that led to
the killing of protesters last year “sends a negative message
across the world,” said Yasser el-Shimy, a Cairo-based analyst
at the  International Crisis Group .  Prosecuting Mursi and other Muslim Brotherhood figures “on
accusations of inciting violence, while thousands are getting
killed without investigation, this may send the message that
there are double standards in the justice system,” he said.  Egyptian markets have rallied since Mursi’s overthrow. The
benchmark  stock index  rose 0.6 percent yesterday, extending
gains since July 3 to 25 percent. Aid of at least $7 billion
from Gulf Arab states supportive of the army intervention has
shored up foreign reserves and helped the pound pare losses.  The interim government has said it will make it a priority
to revive an economy that stalled as investors and tourists fled
after the 2011 uprising. Gross domestic product grew 1.5 percent
in the last quarter of the fiscal year that ended in June,
barely keeping pace with  population growth  and down from more
than 2 percent in the previous three quarters.  Mursi’s Health  Mursi was flown by helicopter from an undisclosed location
to the heavily secured court in a police academy on Cairo’s
outskirts. Inside, he stood at the front of the defendants’
cage, while many of his co-defendants turned their backs to the
court.  Mohamed el-Damaty, a spokesman for the legal team
representing defendants, told reporters that he met Mursi
yesterday and found his health as good as when he was president.  The charges against him date back to violence that erupted
during protests outside the Ittihadiya palace in Cairo last
year. Some of the defendants are accused of torturing
demonstrators. If convicted, Mursi could face the death penalty,
according to state-run newspaper Al-Ahram.  Lawyer and human rights activist Ragia Omran, who is
representing victims in that case, said the incident was “the
beginning of the end for Mursi.”  “The Muslim Brotherhood made a grave mistake,” she told
reporters in court. “They’re paying the price for that now.”  The interim government has pledged to hold elections next
year. U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , who visited Cairo over
the weekend, urged the country’s leaders to fulfill that
promise. The U.S., a longtime ally and financial backer of
Egypt’s army, has cut some aid since it toppled Mursi.  ‘Due Process’  “We believe that Egyptians must be afforded due process
with fair and transparent trials,” Bernadette Meehan, a
spokeswoman for the White House, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This includes former President Mursi.”  Mursi’s supporters have questioned whether he’ll get a fair
trial from a judicial system with which he was frequently at
loggerheads during his year in office. They also criticized the
lack of live coverage as evidence of potential bias.  The army says its toppling of the elected president was an
expression of the people’s will after days of protests against
him. The government said Mursi is being tried on criminal
charges not political ones, and enjoys full legal rights.  The army and government are “counting on Mursi’s trial to
seem more legitimate” and to further demonize his one-year
administration, said Ziad Akl, a researcher at the Ahram Center
for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  