-- Vale Delivering More Profits on Reduced Costs: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-04T20:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/vale-delivering-more-profits-on-reduced-costs-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE5)  is poised to deliver its
first quarterly profit increase in more than two years after
costs declined and  iron-ore  prices beat analysts’ forecasts.  The world’s largest iron-ore producer on Nov. 6 will post
third-quarter net income of $2.8 billion,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. That would be 70 percent more than a year
earlier and the first increase since the second quarter of 2011.
Vale’s 96 percent estimated increase in year-on-year earnings
per share is the most among 14 global peers, according to
Bloomberg Industries.  Vale, a supplier of iron-ore for steelmakers from
ArcelorMittal to  China  Steel Corp., cut $1.65 billion of costs
in the first half and is benefiting from rising demand from
steel mills in  Asia . Iron-ore prices  averaged  $132.5 a ton in
the third quarter, 18 percent more than last year and above the
$121 a ton forecast expected by analysts when 2013 started.  “There are better realized prices and an improved
performance in terms of costs,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analyst  Marcelo Aguiar  said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “We
expect an increase in the production of the company’s three main
businesses: iron-ore, nickel and copper.”  Shares in Vale, the world’s third-largest mining company,
have lost 18 percent in Sao Paulo trading this year before
today, underperforming its biggest rivals BHP Billiton Ltd. and
 Rio Tinto  Group. While Melbourne-based BHP gained 1.2 percent,
Rio Tinto lost 9.3 percent in  London .  Vale  advanced  2.3 percent to 34.22 reais in Sao Paulo today
to close at its highest level since March 12.  Dividends, Buybacks  Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, probably will report that
third-quarter earnings per share excluding extraordinary items
increased to 61.8 cents from 31.5 cents a year earlier,
according to the  average  estimate of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Vale will release earnings after the close of regular
trading hours.  For the full year, Vale’s net income will total $11
billion, according to the average of 15 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That would be double last year’s profit.
 Rio Tinto (RIO)  is forecast to post $7.51 billion net income in 2013
while BHP’s fiscal-year profit is estimated at $14.4 billion,
according to the analysts.  Vale paid $4.5 billion in dividends this year, 13 percent
more than initially planned, as prices for the steelmaking
ingredient remain above analysts’ consensus on higher-than-expected Chinese consumption. The company paid $6 billion in
dividends last year, half the record $12 billion returned to
shareholders during 2011, which included share buybacks.  China Outlook  “A powerful combination of higher iron-ore sales volumes,
higher iron-ore prices, weaker Brazilian real, and controlled
costs should propel Vale’s operating performance,” Banco
Santander SA analysts Felipe Reis and Alex Sciacio said in a
note to clients Oct. 10.  The outlook in China, the biggest buyer of iron ore and
source of 32 percent of Vale’s operating revenue, improved more
than expected, Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira told
reporters on Sept. 24. Imports of the raw material by Chinese
 steel mills  rose to 75 million tons in September, a record,
driving prices to the highest in almost two months.  Vale has been delivering iron-ore to China for 40 years and
the conditions for the incoming months are improving, Ferreira,
who was in the Asian country last week, told reporters in
Brasilia on Nov. 1.  “We may have a favorable trend in the next few quarters”
he said, declining to comment on Vale’s earnings. “I see a very
positive political environment in China.”  The company’s press office in Rio didn’t answer an e-mail
seeking comments on earnings ahead of the quarterly release.  Bull Market  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, raised its full-year iron-ore production forecast on Oct. 22 after first-quarter
output of its biggest earning unit jumped 23 percent. Rio Tinto,
the biggest iron-ore shipper after Vale, on Oct. 15 reported
record ore production at its mines in  Australia ’s Pilbara
region.  Iron ore entered a  bull market  in July as users in China
replenished stockpiles that shrank in March to the lowest level
since 2009. Prices at Tianjin measured by The Steel Index Ltd.
have rallied 23 percent from this year’s low on May 31 to
$135.30 a ton on Nov. 1, the highest level since Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  