-- Valve Lines Up Console Partners in Challenge to Microsoft, Sony
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-11-04T16:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/valve-lines-up-console-partners-in-challenge-to-microsoft-sony.html
Valve Corp. , the largest online
retailer of games downloaded to PCs, is working with “more than
a dozen” partners, including computer makers, to begin selling
consoles that take on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Sony Corp.  The closely held company, maker of the “Half-Life”
titles, will introduce the companies in early January at the
 Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas , said  Greg Coomer , one of
the lead designers. They plan to produce and sell the consoles
next year using variations of Valve’s prototype design,
controller and Steam operating system.  “There’s different categories of partner,” Coomer said in
an interview. “Some of them will be able to serve millions of
Steam customers, some of them are boutique shops.”  Valve is taking the offensive as its own market is invaded
by Microsoft, Sony and others, banking on global base of
personal-computer gamers to seize some of the $15 billion market
for home consoles. Microsoft and  Sony (6758) , which are introducing new
machines for the holidays, have started their own Internet
portals to duplicate Steam’s success selling games, as have Wii
U maker  Nintendo (7974)  and  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)   The SteamOS machines will sell for different prices and
configurations, the Bellevue, Washington-based company said.
Depending on those, some Steam games may not play on each
device. This month, the company plans to test the devices with
300 users to polish features before next year.  Valve also is working with music and movie services to
deliver streamed entertainment to the machines, Coomer said.
With  Internet access , game consoles have evolved into
entertainment hubs, providing movies, TV shows and music from
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Pandora Media Inc. (P)   Market Share  Valve captures 75 percent of the global market for digital
PC games through its Steam store, researcher IHS Screen Digest
has estimated. While the company doesn’t disclose sales, digital
distribution of PC games this year will comprise $5.5 billion of
the $21.4 billion computer games market, according to DFC
Intelligence, another researcher. IHS estimates Valve generated
$1.1 billion in 2012 from full-game downloads.  To get developers to go along, Valve is passing up the
licensing fees that competitors charge for access to their
systems. Valve plans to hold a developers conference in January,
according to company officials.  “The main goal of Steam has always been to increase the
quality of the user’s experience by reducing the distance
between content creators and their audience,” Gabe Newell,
Valve’s co-founder, said in an Oct. 30 statement. “In the
coming year, we plan to make perhaps our most significant
collaborations with both communities through the Steam Dev Days
and the Steam Machines beta.”  Wooing Developers  Steam’s business is also threatened by the console makers’
plans to include games compatible with  Unity Technologies , which
offers a game-development engine to create products for
different platforms. Valve is trying to woo the same developers
by promising they can post updates and fixes immediately,
without waiting for the usual approvals required by big brands.  SteamOS adds features to the Steam service across all
platforms, including family sharing, and in-home streaming.
Because it’s based on the  Linux operating system , developers
must create games using that software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  