-- Vietnam’s REE Bets on Market-Based Energy Pricing Future
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-05T04:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/vietnam-s-ree-bets-on-market-based-energy-pricing-future.html
Refrigeration Electrical Engineering
Corp. plans to buy more stakes in Vietnamese state-run power
companies, anticipating the government will gradually deregulate
electricity pricing.  “I hope that in the near future, this energy market will
change,” General Director Nguyen Thi Mai Thanh said in an
interview. Power prices should “free over time, some percentage
every year,” she said.  REE, as the company is known, said last week profit surged
71 percent in the nine months ended Sept. 30, buoyed by
investment income. The company will seek opportunities to add
more utility assets and may consider separately listing the
power and water holdings eventually, she said.  Vietnam  is moving the power sector toward competitive
market-based arrangements, the World Bank said in  a report  this
year. As the country struggles with slower  economic growth , the
government is seeking ways to save money. The government raised
the average retail power price in August by 5 percent to 1,509
dong (7 cents) per kilowatt hour, according to state utility
Vietnam Electricity Group.  “The government, if they keep the price like now, it means
they have to pay extra, to subsidize,” Thanh said last week in
 Ho Chi Minh City , where the company is based. “They don’t have
money to do it. They need the money to do many things,”
including building infrastructure, she said.  REE owns stakes in companies including Pha Lai Thermal
Power Joint-Stock Co., Thac Mo Hydropower Joint-Stock Co. and
Thac Ba Hydropower Joint-Stock Co. All three are controlled by
Vietnam Electricity.  Separate Listing  REE, among the first state companies in Vietnam to sell
shares in 1993, will set up a holding company to include energy
and water units alongside its engineering, property and air-conditioning businesses, Thanh said. The company is now less
than 6 percent owned by the state, she said.  “REE is a transparent company with well-run business
lines, great assets and solid revenue, and is seen as a safe
investment in a risky environment,” said  Attila Vajda , head of
institutional clients at ACB Securities Co. in Ho Chi Minh City.
“The question is how they can wrap all their businesses in a
way that investors can understand the value creation in the
different business lines moving forward, how they can connect
the dots and show where they will add value.”  REE, one of the first two companies to trade on the Ho Chi
Minh City  stock exchange  when it opened in 2000, has jumped 57
percent this year, compared with a 20 percent gain in the  VN
Index. (VNINDEX)   The stock  rose 0.4 percent as of 11:07 a.m. local time in
Ho Chi Minh City. REE is ranked 19th by market value among the
exchange’s 301 members.  ‘Interesting Opportunities’  A unit of  Singapore ’s  Jardine Cycle & Carriage Ltd. (JCNC)  said
last year it bought a 10 percent stake in REE, citing the
company’s mechanical and engineering business as offering
“stable returns” and its property and infrastructure
operations as “interesting opportunities.”  “They’ve got good governance, understand finance and
understand construction,” said Dominic Scriven, chief executive
of Dragon Capital Group Ltd., which manages funds that hold REE
shares. “If you take all three of those factors together, it
gives you three very good reasons to go into infrastructure.”  REE reported nine-month  net income  of 839 billion dong.
Investments in associate companies contributed 382 billion dong
to earnings. Power and water investments may make up 60 percent
of profit by next year, Thanh said. Full-year profit this year
will probably reach 1 trillion dong for the first time,
exceeding a target of 650 billion dong, she said.  Opening Market  Vietnam is phasing in the development of a wholesale power
market, with a first stage where multiple generators compete to
sell to one wholesaler, which then sells power to distribution
companies and large consumers at regulated prices, according to
the  World Bank . A final stage, scheduled for 2022, would be a
competitive retail market, the bank said in its report.  “The goal is to introduce incentives and regulations to
bring about improvements in the quality of service, the
efficiency with which energy is used, and to enable existing and
new investors to finance sufficient generation,” the
Washington-based World Bank said.  REE has a 42 percent stake in Thu Duc Water B.O.O. Corp.;
35 percent of Thac Mo Hydropower; 29 percent of Ninh Binh
Thermal Power Corp.; 24 percent of Thac Ba; and 22 percent of
Pha Lai, according to last week’s earnings report. The Pha Lai
stake was listed as its most valuable at 1.16 trillion dong.  REE’s background is “mechanical and electrical, so we can
understand the water system easily, we can understand the power
system easily,” Thanh said. “We know the technology, the
technical issues, and we have our own idea about investment.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  