-- Viva Industrial Falls in IPO on Rate Concerns: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-11-04T09:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/viva-industrial-falls-in-ipo-on-rate-concerns-singapore-mover.html
Viva Industrial Trust, a  Singapore 
business and real estate trust, opened lower on its first day of
trading in the island-state, amid concerns  interest rates  will
rise and make it difficult for REITs to raise funds.  The shares opened at 76.5 Singapore cents at 2 p.m. local
time, 1.9 percent lower than the initial stock offering price of
78 Singapore cents apiece. They closed unchanged after swinging
between gains and losses. Viva Industrial raised S$365 million
($294 million) through a share sale to Chinese property tycoon
Tong Jinquan and the public.  The U.S. housing market is robust and policy makers should
resume normal policy as soon as possible, Federal Reserve Bank
of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said in an answer to a
question after a speech in Sydney today. Singapore property
trusts face refinancing risks when borrowing costs rise, which
may force them to sell assets or shares to boost funding,  Fitch
Ratings  has said.  “REITs are not in favor now,” said Vikrant Pandey, an
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Pte in Singapore. “There was the U.S.
news that the Fed tapering is not off the cards yet so in such
an environment where interest rates are expected to rise, REITs
will be out of favor.”  REITs and business trusts were the biggest fundraisers in
Singapore’s IPO market in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The FTSE Strait Times Real Estate
Investment Trust Index, comprising 32 trusts, has  declined  5
percent this year after gaining 37 percent in 2012.  Dividend Yield  Viva Industrial forecast a dividend yield of 8.8 percent
for 2014, according to an October filing.  In July, Viva bought a mixed-used development, UE BizHub
East, in Changi Business Park from United Engineers Ltd. for
S$518 million. This property in eastern Singapore, together with
two other developments in the Tuas and Chai Chee areas in the
city-state, are the assets backing the trust.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services today assigned its BB+
rating to Viva, with a stable outlook, citing the quality and
attractive prospects for the REIT’s key asset, the UE Bizhub
EAST business park. S&P said the property should help offset
lower occupancy rates and a lack of a diverse portfolio.  Singapore’s industrial property values rose to a  record  in
the third quarter, climbing 2.8 percent in the three months
ended September, according to government data going back to
1993. Rents for the buildings rose 4.4 percent in the third
quarter, according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  