-- Volcano Corp. Targeted by Activist Investor Engaged Capital
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-11-04T21:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/volcano-corp-targeted-by-activist-investor-engaged-capital.html
Engaged Capital LLC, the activist
investor founded by Glenn Welling, has amassed a 5.1 percent
stake in  Volcano Corp. (VOLC) , a maker of intravascular ultrasound
medical devices.  Engaged has held talks with management and directors of the
San Diego-based company since June, Welling said today in a
phone interview. The activist  fund manager  sees Volcano as
undervalued and a potential takeover target, regulatory filings
today show.  The investor said it wants Volcano to invest in growing its
own businesses; has urged changes to management’s compensation
structure, and recommended the company spend at least $200
million buying back shares. A convertible debt sale from
December left the company with about $500 million cash, fueling
investor concerns management would pursue growth via
acquisitions, Welling said.  “It would be very hard to find an acquisition or inorganic
growth opportunity that delivered” returns close to a sizeable
stock repurchase and investing in existing strong product lines,
Welling said. Those steps would boost the shares and may draw
the attention of potential bidders for Volcano.  Pursue Sale  “Volcano is a very attractive acquisition candidate for
the large medical device players within the cardiac space,”
Welling said. “We don’t believe they should sell themselves
today. Once the stock is more fairly valued, and once they’ve
achieved some of the targets,” it should pursue a sale.  Volcano rose 7.1 percent to $20.29 at the close in  New
York . The shares have declined 14 percent this year.  Volcano spokesmen didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls
seeking comment. The company’s leadership is “committed to
taking substantive actions to improve its share price,”  Newport
Beach , California-based Engaged said today in the filing.  “Constructive talks continue,” Welling said.  Activist funds generally acquire equity stakes in companies
and try to force corporate management and directors to make
changes that boost share values and investor returns.  Welling, a former partner at Ralph Whitworth’s Relational
Investors LLC, formed Engaged with other Relational managers
last year, backed by Grosvenor Capital Management LP. Engaged
pursues “constructive” activism, working with management to
make changes that boost  shareholder value , according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  