-- Vuitton Names Ghesquiere Artistic Director, Replacing Jacobs
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-11-04T18:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/vuitton-appoints-ghesquiere-to-succeed-jacobs-as-artistic-head.html
Louis Vuitton  appointed former
Balenciaga designer Nicholas Ghesquiere as artistic director of
womenswear, succeeding Marc Jacobs, and said he will “infuse”
the world’s largest luxury brand with modernity.  Ghesquiere, who left Balenciaga in November 2012 after 15
years with the Kering SA-owned brand, starts immediately, a
spokesman for Paris-based parent company  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  said today by phone. The Frenchman will present
his first collection in March, according to the company.  Ghesquiere, 42, joins Vuitton at a time when the brand’s
growth is slowing. In April, LVMH posted its weakest increase in
fashion and leather-goods sales since 2009. The designer’s
appointment comes two months after Delphine Arnault, the
daughter of LVMH Chairman  Bernard Arnault , joined Vuitton as
executive vice president, assigned to oversee all product-related activities and help restore Vuitton’s appeal.  “This is a promising appointment,” said  Luca Solca , an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  London , citing Ghesquiere’s
ability to introduce innovative ideas while respecting the
“DNA” of a brand. “I also believe he may be very motivated to
prove himself” at Vuitton.  LVMH  rose  0.5 percent to 141.85 euros at the close in
Paris. The stock has gained 2.2 percent this year, valuing the
company at 72.1 billion euros ($97.4 billion).  Avant-Garde Designs  At Balenciaga, which Ghesquiere joined in 1997, the
designer won critical acclaim for his avant-garde designs such
as scuba-diving inspired dresses, slim-line pants and Lariat
bags, which helped restore the 99-year-old brand’s luster and
spur sales. He was succeeded there by Alexander Wang.  Ghesquiere “will infuse the women’s collections with the
modernity of his creative vision,” while relying on Vuitton’s
values of refinement, savoir faire and extreme quality, the LVMH
division said in a statement.  “I’m eager to join the teams,” Ghesquiere said in the
statement. “We will build together the future of the brand
while maintaining its prestigious heritage.”  Jacobs stepped down from Vuitton in September after 16
years as artistic director to focus on an initial public
offering of his own brand, a person familiar with the matter
said at the time. LVMH, which controls the  Marc Jacobs  label,
wants to accelerate the development of the business, which has
annual sales of about $1 billion, and may pursue an IPO in about
three years, according to the person.  The  management  reshuffle is a double boost for LVMH,
allowing Jacobs to focus solely on the growth of his label while
letting Ghesquiere work to inspire a revival at Vuitton,
according to Solca. Vuitton accounts for more than half of
LVMH’s earnings and has sales exceeding 7 billion euros, Solca
estimates.  “Being the LV creative director is like being the pilot of
a Ferrari,” Solca said. “Things can still go wrong, but you
start from a very good place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  