-- Wages for Donning Safety Gear Debated at U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-04T19:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/wages-for-donning-safety-gear-debated-at-u-s-high-court.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices
questioned whether federal law guarantees that unionized factory
workers receive compensation for time spent putting on and
taking off safety equipment.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, the justices
contemplated how to classify suits of armor and scuba tanks as
they scrutinized a statute that lets employers avoid paying some
workers for time spent changing clothes. Under federal law, that
time need not be compensated if the union agrees to the
exclusion through a collective-bargaining agreement.  The hour-long session suggested that the justices might be
inclined to rule in favor of  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  in a lawsuit by
800 workers. Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  pointed to a photograph
depicting the gear worn by some U.S. Steel workers -- items that
include special jackets, pants, gloves, boots and helmets.  “From the picture, that looks like clothes to me,”
Ginsburg said.  Corporate trade groups say a ruling in the workers’ favor
could be costly. The Grocery Manufacturers Association, whose
300-plus members include  Coca Cola Co. (KO)  and  Kraft Foods Group
Inc. (KRFT) , said in court papers that new litigation “could be
devastating to many employers in the industry.”  The Washington-based trade group raised the prospect that
companies might have to pay millions of employees more than
$1,500 each. The case against U.S. Steel might grow as well,
potentially drawing in hundreds or even thousands of other
workers.  Armored Jousting  U.S. Steel’s lawyer, Lawrence DiNardo, said employers and
unions should be able to agree that workers won’t be compensated
for time spent in locker rooms. He argued that “changing
clothes” covers the entire activity of putting on and taking
off gear needed for the workday.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  questioned whether that assertion
could be squared with the statute’s wording. She asked whether
workers would be changing clothes if they were required to don
scuba tanks for their jobs.  “Your definition would include somebody spending an hour
of putting on a suit of armor if he’s going to be a jouster,”
she told DiNardo.  Pittsburgh-based U.S. Steel is being sued by workers at its
Gary, Indiana, facility. The workers say they spend as much as
an hour before and after their shifts donning protective gear,
including flame-retardant clothing and steel-toed boots, and
then traveling to their work stations.  Union Contracts  The union that represents 4,500 workers at the Gary
facility, the  United Steelworkers  of America, isn’t involved in
the case. Since 1947, the union’s contracts with U.S. Steel have
said workers don’t get paid for changing time.  The workers’ lawyer, Eric Schnapper, today contended that
“clothing” typically refers to items that provide comfort or
decency, and not to things that primarily protect against
workplace hazards.  Several justices questioned whether that distinction was a
workable one. Ginsburg asked how Schnapper could distinguish
factory workers from bakers and doormen who wear special
clothing either for sanitation or for appearances. Justice
 Samuel Alito  asked about workers who spend time in the sun.  “So you are wearing clothing so that you don’t get burned
by the sun,” Alito said. “What if you are working out in the
cold and you wear a parka so that you don’t freeze while you’re
working? Are those workplace hazards?”  The employees also contend they aren’t “changing” clothes
unless they are substituting one article for another, and not if
they are simply adding or subtracting items.  The company has the Obama administration’s support in the
case, which the court will resolve by July.  A federal appeals court ruled against the workers, barring
them from claiming compensation for the time they spend in the
dressing rooms and in transit to their work stations.  The case is Sandifer v. United States Steel, 12-417.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net  