-- Del Potro Beats Gasquet at ATP Tennis Finals, Wawrinka Gets Win
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-11-04T23:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/wawrinka-defeats-berdych-to-start-men-s-tennis-finals-in-london.html
Juan Martin del Potro fought back
from a set down to defeat Richard Gasquet in their opening match
at the ATP World Tour Finals in London.  Del Potro, the No. 4 seed from Argentina, beat the eighth
seed 6-7 (4-7), 6-3, 7-5 in Group B at the O2 arena. It’s the
sixth straight time he’s beaten the Frenchman in their seven
career meetings.  The season-ending event, which brings together the top
eight men’s tennis players, began earlier today with Stanislas Wawrinka defeating Tomas Berdych. Tournament favorite  Novak Djokovic  of  Serbia  and Switzerland’s Roger Federer meet tomorrow
in the other Group B opener.  The field is split into  two groups of four , with the two
players with the best results from each progressing to the
semifinals. World No. 4 Andy Murray isn’t playing while he
recovers from back surgery.  Del Potro failed to serve out the match in 10th game of the
third set, though promptly broke Gasquet’s service before
securing the victory on his own serve. The Argentine only
converted four of his 11 break points in the match.  Wawrinka, the No. 7 seed from Switzerland, earlier overcame
fifth-seeded Berdych of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-7 (0-7), 6-3.
It was the fourth time they’ve played this year, and the third
straight win for Wawrinka.  “I’m really happy the way I’m playing against him, but it
doesn’t mean I’m a better tennis player than him,” Wawrinka
said in a press conference.  The win put Wawrinka atop Group A. Spaniards Rafael Nadal
and David Ferrer, who meet tomorrow, make up the four-man pool.  In the doubles, David Marrero and Fernando Verdasco, the
No. 6 seeds, took 60 minutes to beat defending champions Marcel Granollers and Marc Lopez 6-1, 6-4 in an all-Spanish matchup.  Polish pair Mariusz Fyrstenberg and Marcin Matkowski, the
eighth seeds, beat fifth seeds Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi and Jean-Julien Rojer 6-3, 7-6 (10-8).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  