-- Weir Plummets After Pump Manufacturer Lowers 2013 Sales Forecast
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-04T09:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/weir-plummets-after-pump-manufacturer-lowers-2013-sales-forecast.html
Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  dropped the most in
21 months after the U.K.’s biggest supplier of pressure pumps
reduced its 2013 sales forecast, citing mining industry delays
and a slower than anticipated recovery in its energy business.  The  shares  fell as much as 8.5 percent, the biggest decline
since January 2012, and were down 7.6 percent at 2,085 pence at
9:07 a.m. in London, the lowest price in three months. The
Glasgow, Scotland-based company’s stock was the biggest decliner
today on the  FTSE 100 index  of Britain’s biggest companies.  “In terms of revenues, our previous guidance was for a
modest single-digit increase and the reality is there were some
caveats in that guidance,” Chief Executive Officer Keith Cochrane said today on a conference call. “The result of that
is a flat revenue performance for the full year”  Third-quarter revenue and earnings were “slightly below”
the company’s expectations due to delays in mining projects and
a slow recovery in upstream oil and gas markets, Weir said today
in a statement. Industrial unrest in South Africa will also
crimp 2013 revenue, it said.  Full-year earnings before taxes, amortization and
exceptional items will probably be 425 million pounds ($677
million) to 435 million pounds, on a constant currency basis,
the Scottish manufacturer said. Weakness in the U.S. and
Australian dollars, and most emerging market currencies, may
reduce earnings by as much as 12 million pounds, it said.  In the oil industry, “upstream markets expanded more
gradually than anticipated, with U.S. rig count actually
declining over the third quarter and the number of wells drilled
and completed in line with the second quarter despite oil
prices remaining supportive of high activity levels,” Weir
said. Low U.S. gas prices are restraining pressure pumping
orders, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in  London  at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  