-- Tri Pointe to Acquire Weyerhaeuser Unit in $2.7 Billion Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-11-04T12:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/weyerhaeuser-to-merge-unit-with-tri-pointe-in-2-7-billion-deal.html
Tri Pointe Homes Inc. (TPH) , a developer
backed by investor  Barry Sternlicht , agreed to buy  Weyerhaeuser
Co. (WY) ’s residential real estate unit in a transaction valued at
about $2.7 billion.  The deal will be structured as a tax-free Reverse Morris
Trust, Weyerhaeuser said today in a statement. Weyerhaeuser
shareholders will receive 130 million shares, which is 80.5
percent of the combined company, while Irvine, California-based
Tri Pointe, a residential-property developer, will get 19.5
percent. Weyerhaeuser, a Federal Way, Washington-based owner of
U.S. timberlands, will also receive about $700 million in cash.  “The combined company will be a strong standalone
homebuilder, and the separation of our homebuilding division
allows us to focus on driving performance in our forest products
businesses to deliver further value to our shareholders,”
Weyerhaeuser Chief Executive Officer Doyle Simons said in the
statement.  Weyerhaeuser, a real estate investment trust that owns more
than 6 million acres of timberland, said in June it would
explore alternatives for the unit, which is called Weyerhaeuser
Real Estate Co. Weyerhaeuser agreed that month to acquire
Longview Timber LLC for $2.65 billion to add woodlands in Oregon
and  Washington .  January IPO  Tri Pointe, 38 percent owned by Sternlicht’s Starwood
Capital Group LLC, in January became the first U.S. homebuilder
to go public since 2004. Sternlicht will remain Tri Pointe’s
chairman, according to today’s statement.  The Weyerhaeuser deal will add about 27,000 lots in Texas,
Arizona, California,  Nevada  and other states to Tri Pointe’s
assets and make it one of the 10 largest homebuilders in the
U.S., according to a separate statement from Tri Pointe. The
transaction is expected to close by the end of June.  Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley advised Weyerhaeuser on
the deal and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP was legal counsel.
Deutsche Bank AG acted as financial adviser to Tri Pointe and
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP was its  law firm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  