-- Wisconsin Voter-ID Law Tested in Milwaukee Federal Trial
-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-04T19:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/wisconsin-voter-id-law-tested-in-milwaukee-federal-trial.html
A  Wisconsin  law requiring voters to
present photo identification isn’t needed to prevent election
fraud and imposes an illegal burden on minority-group members, a
lawyer in a suit attacking the statute said as a trial began.  Karyn Rotker , an attorney with the  American Civil Liberties
Union , said the statute disproportionately affects black and
Latino voters, “denying and diluting their voting rights.”  The state has acknowledged in depositions “that there has
not been a single case of voter fraud based on a person
impersonating another at the polls in state history,” she told
U.S. District Judge Lynn S. Adelman today in Milwaukee. And the
law will do nothing to prevent the fraud that does occur --
“voting twice or voting for a deceased spouse.”  The measure was signed into law by Governor Scott Walker, a
Republican, in 2011. Lawyers for  the state  say it’s needed to
detect and deter voter fraud. Opponents argue it’s an
unconstitutional burden and in effect a poll tax. The ACLU seeks
an order blocking the measure. Adelman is hearing the trial
without a jury. It’s to last two weeks, the judge said.  Daniel Lennington, a lawyer for the state, said in his
opening statements that that “just because a person currently
is not in possession of a valid form of identification does not
mean that they will never ever be able to get a qualified ID.”  Lennington said that 170,000 free identification cards have
been issued since the law was adopted. All but two of the 23
named plaintiffs in the case obtained valid IDs since the
lawsuits were filed, he said.  Written Arguments  Both sides filed written arguments before the trial.  “Obtaining one of the limited forms of photo ID deemed
acceptable -- even a purportedly ‘free’ ID -- is a complex,
burdensome and costly process for members of the plaintiff
classes,” ACLU lawyers said last month in court papers.  It also puts an undue burden on municipal clerks overseeing
elections “many of whom do not understand the law,” the ACLU
said.  Birth certificates, the plaintiffs’ lawyers said, can cost
money to obtain. Getting the proper identification may also
entail first getting a Social Security card for which a photo ID
might also be required, they said.  Attorneys for the state maintain the measure, known as Act
23, is constitutional.  “Act 23 advances compelling state interests in deterring
and detecting voter fraud, promoting the orderly election
administration and record-keeping and safeguarding public
confidence in the integrity of the election process,” lawyers
for the state said in a court filing.  The case is Frank v. Walker, 11-cv-01128, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Wisconsin ( Milwaukee ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in federal court in Milwaukee
at   fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 