-- Twitter Boosts IPO Price for Valuation Up to $13.6 Billion
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-11-04T16:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/twitter-boosts-ipo-price-for-valuation-as-high-as-13-6-billion.html
Twitter Inc. increased the price of
shares in its initial public offering by as much as 25 percent,
putting it on track to raise $1.75 billion amid brisk demand.  The microblogging site is offering 70 million shares for
$23 to $25 each, a regulatory filing today shows, indicating a
market value of as much as $13.6 billion. Twitter had earlier
proposed selling shares for $17 to $20 apiece.  “This number is still a reasonable and doable valuation,
and I don’t think it’s going to turn people off,” said Santosh Rao, an analyst at Greencrest Capital Management LLC. “We’ve
seen this before, where companies start off with a low number to
get people interested, and then work higher. The demand is there
as this is the last of the big three social networks to go
public.”  Twitter attracted more than enough interest to sell all
shares in its IPO before bankers started officially taking
orders for them, people with knowledge of the matter have said.
Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  has been traveling to major
U.S. cities to make the case that the unprofitable company needs
to spend to improve its advertising products, grow its user base
and enhance its infrastructure.  New Valuation  At the top of the range, San Francisco-based Twitter would
be valued at 11.8 times estimated sales in 2014 of $1.15
billion, up from about 9.5 times in the initial terms, according
to analyst projections compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s 11.5 times sales and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ’s 12.2
times, the data show.  Twitter will have 544.7 million shares of common stock
outstanding after the IPO, the filing shows. Including
restricted stock and options, Twitter will have about 694.8
million shares outstanding. By that measure, at the top end of
the range Twitter would be valued at $17.4 billion.  The company has so far been conservative in its pricing and
in its IPO process, choosing to file confidentially with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission before making its
prospectus public. By raising the price, Twitter is giving in to
demand while seeking to avoid a market debut like that of
Facebook, owner of the world’s largest social network, last
year.  As analysts, investors and reporters pored over the
company’s prospectus, Facebook raised the price of its offering
and ended up in a range that exceeded market demand, causing the
stock to drop below the initial price and take more than a year
to recover.  IBM Patents  Twitter also disclosed in the filing today that
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  sent a letter “alleging
that we infringe on at least three U.S. patents held by IBM, and
inviting us to negotiate a business resolution of the
allegations,” according to the filing. The patents relate to a
networking technique based on common contacts, a way to show
advertisements without interfering with an interactive site, and
using interconnected computers to reduce Web traffic.  Armonk, New York-based IBM, which has been the biggest
recipient of U.S. patents for the past two decades, gets about
$1 billion a year in licensing revenue. The company rarely  files 
infringement lawsuits. It spent four years talking with
Amazon.com Inc. before suing over Internet-commerce related
patents in October 2006. The companies settled seven months
later with Amazon.com paying an undisclosed amount.  Twitter had just nine patents and 95 pending applications
as of Sept. 30, far fewer than its competitors or other
companies in the industry. The company said that could make it a
target for litigation, and it would be limited in its ability to
fight back by asserting its own patents.  Twitter is set to price its shares on Nov. 6 and begin
trading under the symbol TWTR on the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  the
next day. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is leading the offering,
working with  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  