-- Workers Crossing State Lines Mean More Employer Audits: Taxes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a e r
-- 2013-11-04T05:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/workers-crossing-state-lines-mean-more-employer-audits-taxes.html
Workers who perform their tasks in
different states may expose their employers to additional tax
liabilities as states seek to collect levies from nonresidents
by increasing enforcement actions.  Payroll systems that aren’t configured to track employee
earnings for multiple work locations can expose employers to tax
audits from numerous states, said Mary Hevener, a partner at
 Morgan, Lewis & Bockius  LLP in Washington.  Employers that fail to collect and pay taxes to appropriate
jurisdictions for traveling workers generally are liable for the
taxes, Hevener said at a conference on payrolls in  Newport News ,
 Virginia  last month, Bloomberg BNA reported. States audit
employers because it is easier and more efficient than
scrutinizing employees, especially those who haven’t been in a
state for long.  The exposure occurs because “a lot of businesses don’t try
to track the travelers,” she said.  Employers with mechanisms that track multistate work
sometimes can receive complaints after mobile employees see
wages and taxes for more than one state reported on their W-2
forms, Hevener said. Employers that report wages and taxes to
more than one state essentially obligate the employee to file
individual returns in those states. Hevener said she files tax
returns in nine states.  Nineteen states with income taxes have certain thresholds
of time spent and money earned while working in their state,
according to a map that Hevener displayed. Twenty-two states
technically subject workers to tax on the first day of travel in
the state.  New York  Of those states with thresholds,  New York  generally doesn’t
apply state tax for certain work activities performed inside its
borders for 14 days or fewer in a year, Hevener said.  Georgia 
allows out-of-state workers to work in the state up to 23 days
in a quarter without applying state taxes, or up to 5 percent of
total compensation derived from in-state work. Other states have
poorly explained rules on income allocations, she said.  To add to the issue’s complexity, states can tax  stock
options  and restricted stock after employees move elsewhere,
Hevener said. The taxing states also have tracking mechanisms
for stock option income and stock appreciation rights, though
there are no set rules among states for how these amounts are to
be taxed.  Four general methods are used to identify when stock
compensation is earned for tax purposes: grant to vest, grant to
exercise, year of exercise and degree of appreciation. Some
states, Hevener said, haven’t adopted any option-sourcing rules.  Federal law bans states from taxing certain types of
deferred compensation earned in one state for those now living
in other states.  Standardization Proposals  Several attempts have been made to standardize how
multistate workers are treated for state tax purposes, said
Patrick Rehfield, a lawyer at  Morgan Lewis  who spoke with
Hevener at the conference.  Under  the Mobile Workforce  State Income Tax Simplification
 Act , proposed in the past several congressional sessions,
nonresidents would have to work at least 30 days in a state
before becoming subject to out-of-state taxes, Rehfield said.
The legislation, which would exclude professional athletes,
professional entertainers and some public figures from the time
frame, has encountered strong state opposition, he said.  Another proposal, the Multistate Tax Commission’s mobile
workforce withholding and individual income tax model  statute ,
would establish a 20-day threshold, Rehfield said.  Some states with income thresholds instead of day-counting
thresholds are critical of the model statute. Under it, high-earner nonresidents working fewer than 20 days would be exempt
from filing returns, while lower-paid nonresidents working more
than 20 days in a state would have to file, Rehfield said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Baer in  Washington  at  mbaer@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Trimarchi at  mtrimarchi@bna.com  