-- WTI Oil Slips to 4-Month Low as U.S. Crude Supply Rises
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-11-04T13:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/wti-crude-trades-near-lowest-level-since-june-on-supply-gains.html
West Texas Intermediate oil fell to
the lowest in more than four months amid speculation U.S. crude
supplies will be sufficient.  Futures in  New York  sank as much as 0.6 percent, extending
last week’s 3.3 percent decline.  Crude stockpiles  in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest oil consumer, rose for the past six weeks,
according to government data.  Libya  is preparing to resume
exports from two terminals, a spokesman for the state oil
company said.  “The oil market has been oversupplied for some time now
and that hasn’t changed,” Myrto Sokou, senior research analyst
at Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London , said by phone. “It is now
reacting more to macro-financial news than fundamental data, so
the main focus of the day will be the release of key U.S.
economic data.”  WTI for December delivery fell as much as 55 cents to
$94.06 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest intraday price since June 26. The contract
was at $94.17 at 1:38 p.m. London time. The volume of oil
futures traded in New York was about 36 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for December settlement was down 70 cents at $105.21
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It
last traded as low as $105 on July 4. The European benchmark
crude was at a premium of $11.04 to WTI, compared with $11.30 on
Nov. 1.  Crude Supplies  WTI slid the past four weeks, the longest losing streak in
17 months, amid expanding U.S. crude supplies. Stockpiles
increased to 383.9 million barrels in the seven days through
Oct. 25, the highest level since June, data from the Energy
Information Administration showed last week. Inventories at
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York-traded
futures, rose to 35.5 million, the most in two months, according
to the Energy Department’s statistical unit.  “The big risk is to the downside, even though prices have
come off quite a bit,” said Ric Spooner, chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney. “For the supply side, the market
isn’t so concerned about the  risk premium  in the  Middle East . If
we just look at the basic demand and supply figures, we could
expect prices to go below $90 a barrel.”  Crude prices may decrease as the “intensity” of supply
disruptions, which tightened the market in the third quarter,
eases, Barclays Plc said in a report on Nov. 1. The bank
maintained its fourth-quarter forecast for  Brent crude  at $105 a
barrel.  Libyan Production  Libya is scheduled to load crude from the Mellitah export
terminal tomorrow, with exports likely to follow from Hariga
port next week, according to Mohamed Elharari, a spokesman for
the state-run National Oil Corp.  Output in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest proven oil
reserves, was about 250,000 barrels a day yesterday, Elharari
said. It averaged 450,000 barrels a day in October, according to
a monthly Bloomberg survey of production across the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  WTI’s decline may stall as a technical indicator signals
further losses may not be sustainable. The 14-day relative
strength index is below 30 for a second day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Crude rebounded in April from about $86 a
barrel when the RSI was last below that level. Investors
typically buy contracts when the market is oversold.  China ’s  non-manufacturing   Purchasing Managers ’ Index gained
to 56.3 in October from 55.4 in September, the National Bureau
of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics said in Beijing
yesterday.  The Asian nation, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer,
will account for about 11 percent of global demand this year,
compared with 21 percent for the U.S., according to forecasts
from the  International Energy Agency .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  