-- Zurich Probe Finds No ‘Undue Pressure’ Put on Late CFO
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-11-04T08:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-04/zurich-probe-shows-no-undue-pressure-put-on-late-cfo.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest insurer, said a probe into the suicide of
Pierre Wauthier showed that no “undue pressure” was exerted on
the chief financial officer before his suicide in August.  “The investigations found no indication that Pierre
Wauthier was subjected to any undue or inappropriate pressure,”
the Zurich-based insurer said in a statement today, citing the
review overseen by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority, or Finma, the country’s regulator.  Wauthier, 52, was found dead on Aug. 26 at his home near
Zug, Switzerland, less than two weeks after the company missed
analysts’ profit estimates and said it was “more challenging”
to reach its three-year targets by the end of 2013. Josef Ackermann, 65, announced his resignation as chairman three days
later after he was mentioned in a suicide note.  “We are still deeply saddened by the loss of Pierre
Wauthier and we are unable to explain the motivation behind his
tragic decision,” Chairman Tom de Swaan said in a statement.  Wauthier was the second senior Swiss executive in five
weeks to take his life after Carsten Schloter, 49, chief
executive officer of  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , Switzerland’s biggest phone
company, was found dead at his home in July.  ‘Too Ambitious’  Wauthier’s suicide sparked fresh doubts about Zurich
Insurance’s financial health, prompting the insurer to
commission an investigation into the relationship between its
executives and the supervisory board. The report involved
evaluating “numerous documents and correspondence,” while
questioning individuals who worked with the CFO, the firm said.  A separate review showed that the “presentation of the
financial figures was confirmed as appropriate,” Zurich said.
Both probes were conducted under the direction of the Finma.  “Zurich Insurance is going to provide an update on its
progress toward the, partially too ambitious, three-year targets
at the investor day on Dec. 5,” said Dominik Studer, a Zurich-based analyst with J. Safra Sarasin who has a neutral rating on
the stock. “We expect Zurich also to communicate a new set of
goals for the 2014-2016 period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  