-- 
‘Civil War’ Director Burns, Wife Give Poor Infants Room to Grow

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-04-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/-civil-war-director-burns-wife-give-impoverished-families-room-to-grow.html
Filmmaker Ken Burns got a hands-on
introduction to philanthropy during a date on a humid August
night in  New York .  After a romantic dinner in 2002 with Julie Brown at the
Gramercy Tavern, the conversation shifted to  Room to Grow , the
nonprofit Brown founded to help poor mothers raise their
infants. After dinner, they took a stroll to the company’s
offices in  Manhattan ’s Flatiron district. By the time they
married a year later, Room to Grow had become part of both their
lives.  “She had seen a need and felt emotionally and
intellectually that the need wasn’t being met,” Burns said in a
phone interview.  Since launching in 1998, Room to Grow has helped train low-
income parents in New York and  Boston  to become confident, able
caregivers who can prepare their children for pre-school.  Burns, whose epic documentaries have taken on subjects as
diverse as the U.S.  National Parks Service ,  the Civil War  and
 jazz , now devotes part of his time to the nonprofit. Room to
Grow has an annual budget of about $1.6 million and a board
whose members include actor Uma Thurman and Princess Alexandra
of  Greece .  “It’s tough being a parent even if you have the means, but
when you’re a single mom living in poverty, it’s a daunting
task,” Burns said. “What’s so clear in watching this for 10
years is that it takes an extraordinary amount of energy.”  Pre-Natal Care  Parents are referred to the group by prenatal programs in
low-income neighborhoods. Room to Grow’s social workers meet
with parents three months before the child’s birth and meetings
usually continue until the age of 3.  The nonprofit distributed about 90,000 items last year,
including books, clothing and accessories, to the 700 families
it now serves.  “We also teach the parents about loving, engaging and
responsive care giving,” said Julie Burns, who was an  Old
Master paintings specialist at Christie’s  from 1988 to 1993
before switching to social work.  “The goal is to provide the children the things they need
over the first three years,” she added.  The couple would like to see the charity expand beyond New
York and Boston. In February, the consulting firm McKinsey & Co.
began providing pro bono advice to Room to Grow to develop a
strategic plan.  With April marking the 150th anniversary of the outbreak of
the U.S. Civil War, Burns has been speaking around the country
about the importance of the war. This month PBS re-broadcast his
1990  Emmy Award-winning series .  Burns now works both sides of the charity equation as
benefactor and fundraiser. Being an independent filmmaker and
seeking funding for his work, he said, is similar to the
challenges faced by nonprofits like Room to Grow.  “The reason why we’re in rural  New Hampshire  is that we
assumed that focusing on American history was taking a vow of
anonymity and poverty,” said Burns who lives with his wife in
Walpole. “We still raise money from philanthropists.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 