-- 
L’Oreal CEO Agon Sees No Synergies With Nestle, Damping Talk of Takeover

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-04-26T08:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/l-oreal-chairman-agon-says-he-sees-no-synergies-with-nestle.html
L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, doesn’t see “any possible synergies” with
 Nestle SA (NESN) , damping speculation the Swiss foodmaker may increase
its 30 percent stake in the company in 2014.  “There is no cooperation on the ground in the field
between the two companies,” L’Oreal Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said in an April 20 interview
at his office in Paris.  Nestle, the world’s largest food company, said this month
that it will decide what to do with the L’Oreal stake in 2014,
when restrictions on selling the holding to a third party are
lifted. Chairman Peter Brabeck-Letmathe said April 14 that
taking three years to decide will give the Vevey, Switzerland-
based company time to reflect on its strategy.  L’Oreal, which makes Garnier shampoo and Maybelline makeup,
distributes only a third of its products in food stores, and in
countries where the company faces the same challenges as Nestle,
“we find our own solutions,” Agon said. “I don’t see any
possible synergies.”  L’Oreal fell as much as 91 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 84.77
euros in Paris trading and was down 0.7 percent as of 9:56 a.m.
Nestle shares were little changed at 53.80 Swiss Francs in
Zurich trading.  Disagreement  Analysts are split on what Nestle will do.  Andrew Wood ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said that the Swiss
company’s intention to wait three years makes him “slightly
more wary” that Nestle may bid for the rest of L’Oreal. The
food company is probably considering selling the stake or
holding it,  David Hayes , an analyst at Nomura, wrote in an
April 15 note to clients.  Nestle bought a stake in Paris-based L’Oreal in 1974 from
the Bettencourt family, which still owns about 31 percent. The
maker of KitKat bars has agreed with L’Oreal’s 88-year-old main
shareholder, Liliane Bettencourt, not to raise the holding until
six months after her death. L’Oreal has a market value of about
51 billion euros ($74.5 billion), compared with 186 billion
Swiss francs ($211 billion) for Nestle.  “The only thing I can say is that the situation as it has
been for the last 37 years has been very positive, for Nestle,
the Bettencourt family, all the other shareholders and the
company,” Agon said. “Nestle is our loyal shareholder.”  Bettencourt Accord  Nestle and the Bettencourt family gave each other a right
of first refusal over their stakes that runs through April 29,
2014, according to their accord. After that, Nestle would be
able to sell its stake to a third party without offering it
to the Bettencourt family.  “I don’t think Nestle has a position contrary to L’Oreal’s
interests and independence,” Bettencourt said in an April 20
interview with Le Figaro. She plans to remain on the company’s
board to show L’Oreal’s independence and has discussed the
cosmetics maker with Brabeck, she said, according to the French
newspaper.  Separately, Agon said L’Oreal will sell its stake in
 Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  “if we need the cash to make big
acquisitions.” He declined to say if that would be this year.
L’Oreal owns 9.02 percent of  France ’s biggest drugmaker,
according to Bloomberg data. Sanofi has a market value of about
69 billion euros.  L’Oreal plans to use its 1.55 billion-euro cash pile to
make acquisitions and Agon has said he would like to have a
Brazilian brand and an Indian brand in his portfolio. The French
company has the capacity to spend as much as 20 billion euros on
acquisitions, analysts at Exane BNP Paribas have said.  L’Oreal is “studying permanently all possible
acquisitions,” Agon said in the interview.  Door-to-Door  What the company bids for, and when and where, will depend
on a target’s availability and strategic fit, Agon said, adding
that opportunities in emerging markets are limited. He ruled out
making acquisitions to defend market share in  Europe .  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , whose sales reached $10.9 billion last
year, has been touted as a possible takeover target for L’Oreal
by beauty industry specialists including Strategic Resource
Group’s Burt Flickinger.  Avon gets more than 40 percent of its sales from  Latin
America , where consumers are accustomed to buying cosmetics,
skincare and fragrances from door-to-door vendors.  While getting into direct selling “is not on the agenda,
never say never,” Agon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 