-- 
Mad Horse Dealer Spurs Stella, Calatrava to Make Art Lampshade

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-04-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/mad-horse-dealer-spurs-stella-calatrava-to-make-art-lampshade.html
Drivers passing Berlin’s Neue
Nationalgalerie may be forgiven for thinking that a vast new
lampshade is hanging in the glass-walled foyer of Ludwig Mies van der Rohe’s museum.  In fact it’s the first collaboration between two titans of
the art world -- the U.S. artist Frank Stella and the Spanish
architect  Santiago Calatrava . Called  “Michael Kohlhaas
Curtain,”  Stella’s painting was inspired by a short story by
Heinrich von Kleist, who died 200 years ago and is the subject
of numerous events and exhibitions this year.  Kleist shot his sick friend Henriette Vogel and turned the
gun on himself in a suicide pact on the banks of the Kleiner
Wannsee in Berlin. “Michael Kohlhaas,” one of his best-known
works, is the hair-raising tale of an honest 16th-century horse-
dealer who resorts to terrorism in his quest for justice after a
corrupt nobleman abuses two of his steeds.  “Kleist exerts a force it is hard to get away from,”
Stella said at the opening. “His stories have the
characteristics of cinematography, they are easily translated
into action.”  Stella’s 30-meter-long painting is abstract with no direct
reference to the story, yet the vivid colors and bold,
interlocking shapes suggest drama and action. Calatrava mounted
it on a circular frame, securing the canvas like a tarpaulin in
a cylindrical shape and suspending it a couple of meters above
the ground. Painted on two sides, the structure allows the
viewer to enter and see both sides of the canvas.  Stella, 74, said he’s “not worried about it being more or
less of a painting than it was in my studio.”  Prison Grid  I’m not convinced. It would have more force stretched out
so the whole painting is visible at once, or at least one side
of the canvas.  Calatrava’s curving metal grid around it distances the
viewer from the art, parceling it into sections and imprisoning
it. The frame is beautiful in its own right, but it doesn’t do
much for the painting.  Stella fans should head down to the underground part of the
museum and look at his joint show with El Lissitzky, “Chad
Gadya.” The Jewish nursery rhyme, “One Little Goat” in
English, recounts a series of disasters -- first a goat is eaten
by a cat, then a dog comes and bites the cat, and so on until
God finally intervenes to smite the Angel of Death.  Lissitzky’s charming 1919 color lithographs illustrating
the rhyme are displayed alongside Stella’s vibrant abstract
graphics, dating from 1982 to 1984.  “The Michael Kohlhaas Curtain” is on show at the  Neue
Nationalgalerie  in Berlin through Aug. 14. For more information,
go to  http://www.stella-calatrava.org .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 