-- 
Afghanistan Police Payroll System Could Pay Ghosts, Audit Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-25T19:11:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/afghanistan-police-payroll-system-could-pay-ghosts-audit-says.html
Afghanistan ’s system for paying its
police force has a “significant risk of fraud, waste and
abuse” and may be paying non-existent personnel, according to a
new audit.  About $1.2 billion has been disbursed since 2002 to the
Afghanistan Interior Ministry from a United Nations-managed  Law
and Order Trust Fund . The money for the police comes from
Canadian, Japanese and European donations.  The Afghan payroll system, not yet automated, “currently
provides little assurance that only police personnel who work
are paid,” said the audit by the acting inspector general for
Afghanistan reconstruction,  Herbert Richardson .  The audit is a snapshot of the mundane challenges inherent
in setting up a viable Afghan police force capable of protecting
the population and enforcing the law as the U.S. plans a gradual
withdrawal of forces starting in July. The current coalition
plan calls for increasing the Afghan police force to 134,000 by
October, up from 81,509 in May 2009.  “The risk we are finding is that there is no centralized
automated system to identify the Afghan national police who are
actually on the rolls and who are being paid,” Richardson told
the congressionally mandated  Commission on Wartime Contracting 
today.  Lacking an automated system, “they have not specifically
been able to tell us where the money is actually going,” he
said. “That means you can have ghost employees. It means you
can have individuals who are under multiple names collecting
paychecks and there’s no way to account for it.”  For the Afghan Ministry of Interior “to say that we will
have X number of thousands of personnel on the ground at a
certain date, until we can specifically identify these
individuals are actually on the payroll and being paid, then
those numbers for all practical purposes become somewhat
fictitious,” Richardson said, referring to lists of police.  Richardson, in the audit, said the State Department and the
U.S. military command overseeing Afghan training have indicated
that they are improving the system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  