-- 
Akamai, Yankees, Time Warner, Toshiba: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/akamai-yankees-time-warner-toshiba-intellectual-property-1-.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  persuaded
a U.S. appeals court to reconsider whether Limelight Networks
Inc. infringed a patent over software that speeds delivery of
Web videos.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit said in December Limelight didn’t infringe the
patent. In an order posted on the court’s website April 21, the
Federal Circuit said the dispute will be considered by all of
the court’s active judges.  Akamai’s lawsuit in 2006 accused Tempe, Arizona-based
Limelight of building its business on technology developed by
Akamai’s founders at the  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology
in Cambridge.  The case was filed as Akamai faces increased competition
from Limelight,  Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT)  and Cotendo Inc.
over CDNs, which are content delivery networks that distribute
movies, music and software to computers on behalf of services
such as Hulu LLC and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   The Federal Circuit in  Washington , which specializes in
U.S. patent law, will consider whether a company should be found
liable for infringing a patent if separate entities perform
different steps in an invention.  A federal jury in  Boston  in 2008 sided with Akamai before
the judge reversed the $45.5 million verdict. The judge ruled
that Limelight’s actions alone didn’t use the Akamai technology,
meaning it couldn’t be held liable. Three judges of the Federal
Circuit  affirmed  that decision in December.  The appeals court tossed out the panel’s decision April 21
and ordered lawyers in the case to submit new written legal
arguments. It gave no date for when the case would be heard.
Limelight said April 21 it didn’t infringe the Akamai patent.  “Limelight believes the decision of the panel was correct
and should be affirmed,” the company said in a statement.
“This was not an issue of first impression for the panel -- its
ruling affirmed the court’s precedent from earlier decisions.
Limelight Networks welcomes the opportunity to assist the Court
in addressing this area of the law.”  The case is Akamai Technologies v. Limelight Networks,
2009-1372, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Akamai Technologies v.
 Limelight Networks Inc. (LLNW) , 06cv11109, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  New York  Yankees Team Sued Over Top Hat, Baseball Bat Logo  The New York Yankees Major League Baseball team was sued
for copyright infringement by Tanit Buday, a descendant of the
man she claims designed the team’s  top hat and baseball bat
logo .  According to the complaint filed April 18 in federal court
in  Manhattan , the logo was designed by the late Kenneth Timur in
1936 at the request of Jacob Ruppert, who owned the team at that
time.  In 1952, Del Webb, then owner of the Yankees, commissioned
Timur to update the design to celebrate the team’s 50-year
anniversary of playing in New York City, according to court
papers.  Timur is characterized in the complaint as a “modern day
herald” who was never compensated for his work. According to
the complaint, he signed his work by using a letter “p,” and
in the 50th anniversary Yankees logo, signed it by substituting
a “p” for the number “9” in the logo so that the date is
written as “1p03-1952,” Buday said in her pleadings.  She said the team management “understood the value of
including Timur’s distinctive ‘P’ signature on their Yankees
logo and uniform patch. It could not have been accidental,” she
claimed.  Buday, of Yonkers, New York, said she consulted with the
New York-based packaging design firm  Wallace Church Inc.  She
claims an expert she retained from that firm to analyze the logo
concluded that the logo now used by the team is “clearly
derived” from Timur’s original design. The opinion, by Wallace
Church’s Rob Wallace, is appended to the complaint.  She asked the court for awards of money damages, including
extra damages to punish the Yankees for their alleged
infringement, and attorney fees and litigation costs.  Alice McGillion, a spokeswoman for the Yankees,  told Ad
Week  that there was “no proof” of Buday’s claim.  Buday is represented by Kevin T. Mulhearn of Orangeburg,
New York.  The case is Tanit Buday v. New York Yankees Partnership,
1:11-cv-02628-DAB, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Time Warner’s  CNN  Objects to Haitian News Network’s Name  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Cable News Network sued a company that
broadcasts radio and television programming to the Haitian
community worldwide.  Haiti Live Networks LLC is accused of infringing CNN’s
“HLN” marks, which the cable news network uses for its
headline news programming.  CNN, which began using “Headline News” in 1982, has
offered the service under its HLN marks since 2008, according to
the complaint filed April 14 in federal court in Atlanta. Haiti
Live Network used “HLN” and “HLNTV” for its broadcast
services and goods, and on its website, CNN said.  Lodi, New Jersey-based Haiti Live Networks is using HLN
“willfully, intentionally and maliciously” in efforts to cause
confusion and trick the public into believing there’s an
affiliation to CNN, according to court papers.  CNN asked the court to bar Haiti Live Networks’ use of
“HLN” and “HLNTV,” and to be transferred the company’s
hlntv.com domain name. Additionally, Cable News Network asked
for money damages, and awards of attorney fees and litigation
costs.  Claiming the alleged infringement is deliberate, CNN
requested that the money damages be tripled to punish Haiti Live
Networks for its actions.  Haiti Live Networks  “has rejected any allegations of
intentional wrongdoing” and calls the case “a typical bullying
tactic from a big corporate company trying to run us out of
business,” Executive Vice President Stephan Jean said in an
e-mailed statement. “Our message to CNN would be to pick a
fight with someone their own size and to leave us be.”  He said his company provides a service that CNN doesn’t
offer “to a community that craves it.” Haiti Live Networks
wants to “work something out with CNN if they are willing to
talk,” Jean said. He acknowledged his company is “too small to
challenge CNN and will most likely lose in court.”  CNN contacted Haiti Live Networks right after the Haitian
earthquake in January 2010 to see feed for their broadcasting,
Jean said. “Now they claim the acronym to our name is confusing
to our Haitian community,” he said.  CNN is represented by Alicia Grahn Jones, Allison Michelle
Scott and James A. Trigg of Atlanta’s Kilpatrick Townsend &
Stockton LLP.  The case is Cable News Network v. Haiti Live Networks LLC,
1:11-cv-01247-RLV, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Georgia (Atlanta).  Toshiba Tells USPTO It Wants to Call Tablet PC Device ‘Thrive’  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  plans to call its tablet PC device
“Thrive,” according to a filing with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  Toshiba filed an application April 7 to register the term
for use with a tablet computer.  Other pending applications for the term include one filed
April 11 by Minerva Organics LLC of Seattle, to use the term in
connection with restaurant services. Freedom Innovations LLLC of
Irvine,  California , filed an application in January to register
the term for use with prosthetic feet. Whole Foods Market IP of
Austin,  Texas  applied April 11 to use “Thrive” with computer
application software for mobile phones and mobile devices.
Venture Inc., of Appleton, Wisconsin filed an application
Jan. 12 to use the term for gear and motor oils.  Avanoo Inc. of Palo Alto, California, successfully
registered “Thrive” as a trademark April 19, for use with
computer services related to an on-line community.  Tokyo-based Toshiba’s tablet device is set for release in
June, at a price competitive to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad,  Associated
Press  reported Jan. 4.  Rovio Adds Product Placement Ads to ‘Angry Birds’ Application  Rovio Mobile Ltd., maker of the popular mobile phone
application “Angry Birds,” has begun inserting product-
placement ads within the game, the Kotaku electronic-game news
website  reported .  The game, which featured animated birds launched from
slingshots to destroy animated pigs, now contains ads for the
Internet communications program developed by Skype S.a.r.l., and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing service, according to
Kotaku.  The ads were found in a paid version of the game that is an
application for Apple Inc.’s iPhone, Kotaku reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  MGA Wins $88.4 Million Award Against Mattel in Bratz Trial  MGA Entertainment Inc. won an $88.4 million award against
 Mattel Inc. (MAT)  from a jury that ruled MGA didn’t steal the idea for
Bratz dolls from the rival toymaker or infringe its copyright.  The federal court jury in Santa Ana, California, found
Mattel, the maker of the Barbie doll, liable for stealing
closely held MGA’s trade secrets when its representatives used
fake identities to gain access to MGA’s showrooms at toy fairs.  Jennifer Keller, a lawyer for  Van Nuys , California-based
MGA, said the company can seek punitive damages that may triple
the award because the jury found Mattel’s conduct was “willful
and malicious,” as well as attorney fees.  The jury rejected Mattel’s claim that MGA stole its trade
secrets in 2000, when MGA made an agreement with  Carter Bryant ,
the designer who Mattel says worked for it when he came up with
the idea for Bratz and made the first sketches. It also rejected
claims that the dolls MGA started selling in 2001 violated
Mattel’s copyright.  Michael T. Zeller , a lawyer for Mattel, said the company
will ask the judge to set aside the jurors’ findings and rule in
favor of the Mattel claims they rejected.     .  The jury awarded Mattel $10,000 in damages on its claims
that MGA interfered with the contract of Mattel’s former
employee. The jury also found that that Mattel should have known
as early as 2002 about the contract interference.  The judge will have to determine whether the damages are
barred by the statute of limitations, Thomas McConville, another
lawyer for MGA, said after the verdict was read.  A federal appeals court last year overturned a 2008 verdict
in Mattel’s favor. A jury in Riverside, California, awarded
Mattel $100 million in damages after agreeing that Bryant made
most of the initial sketches for the dolls while he worked for
El Segundo, California-based Mattel. Mattel had sought as much
as $1 billion in damages.  In the current trial, Mattel claimed lost profit of $314
million to $544 million.  “We are disappointed by the verdict, but we remain
committed to protecting the intellectual property that is at the
heart of business success,” Mattel Chief Executive Officer
Robert Eckert said in an e-mailed statement. “Mattel’s first
priority is, and always has been, to make and sell the best toys
in the world.”  The jury calculated a total of $88.5 million on MGA’s
trade-secret claims. U.S. District Judge David O. Carter said he
may revise that amount because the total, based on 26 instances
of trade-secret theft for which the jury awarded $3.4 million
each, was $88.4 million.  Carter also said that one of the $3.4 million trade-secret
theft findings appeared to be duplicative and that he probably
will strike it.  Bryant has always maintained he came up with the Bratz idea
and made the first drawings in 1998, while he was living in
Missouri with his parents between two periods of working for
Mattel, MGA’s lawyers told the jurors.  The appeals court, in ordering a second trial, said the
lower-court judge erred in ruling that Bryant’s employment
agreement entitled Mattel to the designer’s drawings as a matter
of law. The appeals court also found that the judge, Stephen Larson, who has since returned to private law practice,
incorrectly awarded Mattel the rights to most of MGA’s Bratz
products.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  IP Moves  Mayer Brown Expands Silicon Valley IP Group, Hires Molano  Mayer Brown LLP hired Michael A. Molano for its Silicon
Valley IP practice, the Chicago-based firm said in a  statement.   Molano, a patent specialist, joins from Los Angeles-based
 Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP . He had also previously
practiced at Mayer Brown.  He has done both patent acquisition work and litigation in
federal courts and before the International Trade Commission.  Molano has an undergraduate degree in electrical
engineering from Northwestern University and a law degree from
St. Louis University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 