-- 
Taliban Helps 500 Prisoners Break Out of Afghanistan Jail

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-04-25T08:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/taliban-helps-500-prisoners-break-out-of-afghanistan-jail-1-.html
Taliban guerrillas tunneled into
the main jail in Kandahar, the southern Afghan city at the
center of their fight with U.S. forces, releasing about 500
prisoners including insurgent commanders.  The militants dug a 360-meter (394-yard) tunnel from a safe
house into the prison before evacuating 541 jailed fighters last
night, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said in a phone
interview. Kandahar prison director Ghulam Dastir Mayar said by
phone that about 470 men escaped, “including those higher-
ranking Taliban officials” who were in custody.  About 115 of the men who escaped were commanders or mid-
level officials of the  Taliban movement  in Afghanistan’s
southern provinces, notably Kandahar, Uruzgan and Helmand,
Mujahid said, a number not confirmed by Mayar.  Since the Obama administration sent 30,000 additional
troops to Afghanistan last year, U.S.-led forces have sought to
cripple the Taliban through raids that have killed “hundreds of
low- and mid-level commanders,” according to an April 11 report
by Bill Roggio, a U.S. analyst who runs the  Long War Journal 
website that monitors the conflict.  U.S. officials have cited the elimination of such
commanders as a key victory that has disrupted and demoralized
rebel fighters.  ‘Hard-Won Progress’  The intensified battle in the south contributed to a 15-
percent increase in civilian deaths, which reached 2,777 during
2010, the United Nations mission in  Afghanistan  says. In the
first three months of this year, deaths among U.S.-led coalition
forces fell to 108 from 135 in the same period a year ago,
according to the monitoring group iCasualties.org.  “The Taliban dug the tunnel about five or six meters deep
into the earth, from the west of the jail,” passing under the
area’s main road, Mujahid said. “The operation to free the
jihad fighters began in the middle of the night and lasted until
early morning.”  In a Jan. 25 letter to U.S. troops, the top American
commander in Afghanistan, General David Petraeus, credited
“hard-won progress” in Kandahar and Helmand to focused
special-operations raids that “inflicted enormous losses on
mid-level Taliban” leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  