-- 
Tata Consultancy to Keep Employee Costs Stable With New Ventures

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-04-25T12:33:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/tata-consultancy-to-keep-employee-costs-stable-with-new-ventures.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
which plans to add 30 percent more technology workers this year,
aims to keep costs stable by hiring fresh graduates and luring
clients with services such as cloud computing.  Asia ’s largest employer of information technology workers
may be able to keep wage cost at about 55 percent of revenue in
the year that began on April 1, Chief Financial Officer
Seturaman Mahalingam said in an interview today at the company’s
Mumbai office. Tata Consultancy plans to add as many as 60,000
people this year to its 200,000 workforce, said Ajoyendra Mukherjee, head of human resources.  India’s biggest computer-services company is betting that
its plan to target 10 percent of additional sales from new
services will help boost revenue while keeping salary costs
steady, said Chief Executive Officer Natarajan Chandrasekaran.
The company expects about 60 percent of its hiring to be new
graduates helping it control costs as it prepares to give its
biggest salary increase in three years.  Hiring of entry-level employees “should help manage wage
costs,” Nimish Joshi, an analyst at CLSA  India  Ltd., wrote in a
note to clients today. “Investors have been concerned about
TCS’ ability to sustain current margin levels.”  Tata Consultancy rose 0.5 percent to 1,197.85 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The shares have risen 3 percent this
year compared with a 4.5 percent drop in the benchmark Sensex
index.  Narrow Margins  Hiring and wage costs may narrow margins by 2 to 3
percentage points in this fiscal year, Mahalingam said. The
company will give its employees in India a 12 percent to 14
percent increase in salaries.  “We need to give these wages for multiple reasons, first
is that there’s general inflation,” Chandrasekaran said.
“Second one is that the demand environment is strong, and
there’s a lot of demand for talent in India, and that plays
out.”  Tata Consultancy in February started offering cloud
computing for  small businesses  in India in a bid to boost sales.
Cloud computing services, where a shared pool of computing
resources including servers and data storage is operated by
contractors, are estimated to be 10.2 percent of the spending on
external IT services, according to a worldwide survey by
Gartner, Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  