-- 
Axis Bank Drops Most in Two Months After JPMorgan Downgrade

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-04-25T11:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/axis-bank-drops-most-in-two-months-after-jpmorgan-downgrade-1-.html
Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) ,  India ’s top-ranked
underwriter of debt sales, tumbled the most in two months after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded the stock and as concerns rose
over a contraction in the lender’s interest margins.  The stock dropped 4.9 percent to 1,377.30 rupees as of the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, the steepest decline since Feb. 24.
The shares were the worst performers on the 14-member Bombay
Stock Exchange Bankex index.  JPMorgan analyst Seshadri Sen cut the lender’s stock to
“neutral” from “overweight” and lowered the 12-month price
estimate to 1,525 rupees per share from 1,600 rupees earlier.
The “upside potential is about 5 percent” and the “risk-
reward is unfavorable,” Sen wrote in a note dated today.  “Re-pricing of a large proportion of bulk deposits and
growth funded through high cost deposits led to the margin
disappointment,” Sen said.  Net interest margin narrowed to 3.44 percent in the March
quarter from 3.81 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31,
Mumbai-based brokerage K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.
said in a note today.  The “higher-than-expected margin contraction is a key
concern to us,” Manish Ostwal and Palak Shah, analysts at K.R.
Choksey, wrote in the note. They rate the stock “hold,” with a
price estimate of 1,601 rupees.  Axis Bank’s shares gained 4 percent in the quarter ended
March 31, compared with a 1 percent drop in the Bankex in the
period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We believe the recent rally in the stock factors in
positive quarterly earnings surprise and leaves limited upside
from the current level,” K.R. Choksey’s Ostwal and Shah wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 