-- 
Bangladesh Benchmark Stock Index Drops to Lowest in Seven Weeks

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-04-25T09:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/bangladesh-benchmark-stock-index-drops-to-lowest-in-seven-weeks.html
Bangladesh  stocks declined to a
seven-week low after a report cited the market regulator saying
it won’t be easy to take legal action against anyone based on a
government panel’s findings into the stock-market decline.  The Dhaka Stock Exchange’s benchmark General Index dropped
3.5 percent to 5,863.97 at the 3 p.m. close, its lowest close
since March 7. The measure has slumped 29 percent this year,
leading to investor protests and at least two trading halts,
after the central bank raised lenders’ cash reserve ratio to
limit stock investments. The index had rallied 83 percent in
2010 and 62 percent in 2009.  The government panel’s probe report was “generally based
on perception,” the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
said in a statement to Bangladesh’s finance minister, the Daily
Star newspaper reported on its  website  today.  Bangladesh’s SEC “was responsible for the market crash as
it did not do adequate due diligence,” Chairman of the Capital
Market Investigation Committee Khondkar Ibrahim Khaled said in a
phone interview on April 7. The panel, in a report submitted to
the finance minister, held 50 brokerages responsible for the
plunge in stock prices and recommended action, Bdnews24.com, a
Bangladeshi news website, said on April 11.  The panel also asked the nation’s central bank to punish
commercial banks, which had violated norms to benefit from the
market decline, the Bdnews24.com news report had said.  SEC Chairman Ziaul Khondker didn’t answer a call made to
his mobile phone today. The SEC made these comments after the
finance minister sought its reaction to the panel’s probe
report, the  Daily Star  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  