-- 
Barrick Gold to Buy Equinox for $7.66 Billion, Topping Offer by Minmetals

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-04-26T00:55:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/barrick-gold-agrees-to-buy-equinox-for-7-7-billion-trumping-minmetals.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
biggest gold company, agreed to buy copper producer  Equinox
Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  for C$7.32 billion ($7.66 billion) in cash,
topping a hostile offer from China’s  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208)   Investors in Equinox will get C$8.15 for each share,
Toronto-based Barrick said in a statement. The offer is 17
percent more than Perth, Australia-based Equinox’s average share
price over the past 20 days of trading. Equinox agreed to drop
its bid for Canadian copper and zinc producer  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)   Buying Equinox would give Barrick control of the Lumwana
mine in Zambia and  Saudi Arabia ’s biggest copper deposit,
broadening its metal output as gold rose to a record yesterday.
The offer may spur a bidding contest with state-controlled
Minmetals Resources as a dearth of new projects and demand from
 China  drove copper prices up 22 percent in the past year.  “For Equinox shareholders, this is a great deal,” said
John Goldsmith, a Toronto-based  fund manager  at Montrusco Bolton
Investments Inc., which oversees about C$4.9 billion. “It more
than fully values Equinox.”  Equinox rose 86 cents, or 11 percent, to C$8.37 as of 4 p.m.
in Toronto Stock Exchange trading yesterday. The shares have
gained 37 percent this year. Equinox, which won’t trade in
Sydney today because it’s a public holiday, closed 2.7 percent
higher than Barrick’s bid price, indicating investors expect a
sweeter bid.  Barrick dropped C$3.57, or 6.7 percent, to close at C$49.50
in Toronto, the biggest decline since Dec. 4, 2009.  ‘Fair Offer’  Barrick has put a “fair offer on the table,” Chief
Executive Officer Aaron Regent said today on a conference call.
“If there’s another bid coming, we’ll have to wait and see.”  The bid takes the value of pending or announced offers
involving copper companies to $14.1 billion this quarter, the
most since the last quarter of 2006, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It comes after Equinox on Feb. 28 made an
unsolicited offer for Lundin. Toronto-based Lundin agreed Jan.
12 to be acquired for C$4.1 billion by Inmet Mining Corp.,
another Canadian copper producer. That deal expired on March 29.  The deal would be the second-largest acquisition by Barrick,
after its $10.2 billion purchase of Placer Dome Inc. in 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s proposing to pay
1.39 times Equinox’s enterprise value, compared with the 1.36
median multiple of 10 comparable deals in the past four years,
according to Bloomberg data.  Few Targets  “It really shows how few junior companies are available
for acquisition by the major gold companies,” said  John Stephenson , a senior portfolio manager at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$2.5 billion.  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange traded at a record $10,190 a ton on Feb. 15. The metal,
which is used in electric cables and plumbing, will average
$9,750 this year and $10,150 in 2012, according to the median of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Gold for immediate
delivery climbed to a record $1,518.32 an ounce yesterday. It
traded at $1,505.45 at 10:33 a.m. in Sydney.  Barrick was advised on the takeover by Morgan Stanley and
Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets , while Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s  CIBC World Markets , Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities advised
Equinox.  Deal Financing  Equinox will pay a so-called break fee of C$250 million to
Barrick if it accepts a better offer.  Barrick has credit facilities of at least $6.5 billion and
$4 billion of cash as of Dec. 31, indicating it has sufficient
financing for the deal. Moody’s Investors Service put Barrick’s
Baa1 rating on review for a possible downgrade after the
takeover, saying it will examine the costs of expanding
Equinox’s projects and Barrick’s own planned investments.  “Moody’s review will focus on the earnings and cash flow
to be generated from the acquisition and include an analysis of
production levels and costs, the Zambian mine being relatively
high cost; the potential to increase the reserve life and any
cost efficiencies that can be achieved,” Moody’s said in a
statement yesterday.  Barrick would gain access to Equinox’s Lumwana project in
 Zambia , which processes about 20 million metric tons of ore per
year into a copper concentrate. Equinox is aiming to produce
145,000 tons of copper this year, according to its  website .
Equinox also bought the biggest copper deposit in Saudi Arabia
in January, and its first production is expected in 2012.  Gold accounted 86.9 percent of Barrick’s revenue in 2010
and copper produced 12 percent. The balance came from oil and
gas.  To contact the reporters on this story: Christopher Donville in
 Vancouver  at   cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ; 