-- 
Blackstone Finances Project to Spur Jobs in North Carolina

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-04-25T17:08:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/blackstone-finances-new-project-to-spur-jobs-in-north-carolina.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, will donate $3.63 million to start
a project with universities in  North Carolina  to spur job growth
around Research Triangle Park.  The Blackstone Charitable Foundation will fund the five-
year program aimed at helping the area better compete with high-
technology hubs in Silicon Valley and  Boston , the New York-based
company said today in a release. The Blackstone Entrepreneurs
Network will work with  Duke University , North Carolina Central
University, North Carolina State University and the University
of North Carolina at  Chapel Hill .  Blackstone Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  in 2009 changed the
focus of the then two-year-old foundation to  job creation , in
the wake of the global financial crisis that triggered an
increase in unemployment. North Carolina had a jobless rate of
9.7 percent in March, almost a full point higher than the 8.8
percent national rate, according to the state’s Employment
Security Commission.  “The aspirational goal is to make a real impact in an area
and do it at low cost and with high efficiency,” Schwarzman
said in a telephone interview. “The concept of entrepreneurship
is a good thing in virtually any economic environment. This
would be a natural to help unlock opportunity in North
Carolina.”  ‘ Seed Capital  Missing’  Blackstone will work with the universities and the Durham,
North Carolina-based  Council for Entrepreneurial Development  to
identify 30 university or corporate startup teams each year and
link them with entrepreneurs to nurture their growing
businesses.  Schwarzman announced the new project today at an event in
downtown Durham, North Carolina, at the American Tobacco Campus,
a hub for start-ups that houses the CED among other groups. The
complex, a series of renovated tobacco factories, sits next to
the stadium where the Durham Bulls baseball team plays.  Attending the event were college chancellors and
presidents, as well as North Carolina Governor Beverly Perdue,
who said the Blackstone project would bring jobs, as well as
money to the region.  “For the most part, that start-up seed capital is missing
here,” Perdue, a Democrat, said in an interview after the
event.  Michigan  Program  The North Carolina project aims to create 17,000 jobs
during the next 10 years, attract more than $800 million in
investment capital and generate more than $4 billion in revenue.  Blackstone last year started the Blackstone LaunchPad
project in Michigan with $2 million. It is working with Wayne
State University and Walsh College, two Detroit area schools, on
the program, which was created in collaboration with the
 University of Miami .  Blackstone last week posted its best quarterly profit since
going public in 2007. The firm said gains tied to its real
estate and private-equity holdings drove profit up 58 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates.  Schwarzman said the foundation’s efforts are geared toward
taking what the firm does for companies it owns, where it aims
to fix broken companies and boost employment. He told investors
last week that job growth at its U.S. companies was 7 percent
from 2009 to 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  