-- 
Boston Properties to Sell Carnegie Center in New Jersey for $486 Million

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-04-25T23:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/boston-properties-to-sell-carnegie-center-in-new-jersey-for-486-million.html
Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  agreed to
sell its buildings at the Carnegie Center office park near
Princeton, New Jersey, to Normandy Real Estate Partners and the
Landis Group for about $468 million.  The 560-acre (227-hectare) campus in West Windsor, along
central New Jersey’s Route 1 corridor, has more than 2 million
square feet (185,000 square meters) of office space, the Boston-
based real estate investment trust said today in a statement.
The company acquired the property in 1998, and completed about
300,000 square feet of new development there.  As part of the agreement, the parties have the right to
terminate the deal without cost. Boston Properties must complete
the sale by June 21 to earn benefits under Section 1031 of the
U.S. tax code, the company said in the statement. According to
the code, sellers can protect themselves from paying taxes on
real estate gains if they use those gains to acquire another
investment property.  Normandy, based in Morristown,  New Jersey , was the seller
when Boston Properties bought Boston’s John Hancock Tower,  New
England ’s tallest building, for $903 million in December.  Landis is the original developer of Carnegie Center and the
firm that sold the buildings to Boston Properties in 1998. Alan Landis, an ownership partner in the  National Football League ’s
Minnesota Vikings, is principal of the company, said Arista Joyner, a Boston Properties spokeswoman.  His brother Mitchell Landis, who joined Boston Properties
in 1998 following the sale, is regional manager of its
Princeton-area office, where he oversees management of Carnegie
Center and Tower Center, an office complex in East Brunswick,
New Jersey.  Tony Herrling, a Normandy spokesman, said he had no
immediate comment.  The sale, if completed, would leave Tower Center as  Boston 
Properties’ last holding in New Jersey, Joyner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  