-- 
Californians Back Capping Public-Employee Pensions, Poll Says

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-04-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/californians-back-capping-public-employee-pensions-poll-says.html
A majority of California voters
support capping the pensions of current and future public
employees to balance the state’s budget, a poll shows.  Voters support the idea 70 percent to 22 percent, according
to the poll released yesterday by the University of  Southern
California  and the Los Angeles Times.  “The support for everything we tested suggests that
pensions and public-employee benefits are going to be an
important part of the state’s political dialogue for years to
come,” Dan Schnur, the poll director, said in a statement.  Rising pension costs are straining the budgets of U.S.
states and cities that are already grappling with income- and
sales-tax revenue that hasn’t fully recovered from the longest
recession since the Great Depression. Governor  Jerry Brown , a
73-year-old Democrat, and lawmakers in  Sacramento  have passed
some budget cuts, reducing the fiscal 2012 deficit to about
$15.4 billion.  San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed and San Francisco Mayor Edwin Lee
said last week that they expect proposals overhauling municipal
pension programs to go before voters in their cities in November.
Both cited the escalating costs of current retirement systems.  Of those surveyed for the poll released yesterday, 68
percent supported increasing the share that future and current
public employees contribute to their pension and retirement
benefits, while 22 percent opposed that idea, according to the
results. The respondents were split on whether to cut pension
and retirement benefits for future and current public workers,
with 50 percent supporting the step and 41 percent opposing it.  More than half, 52 percent, backed raising the age when
public employees can retire and begin collecting pension
benefits, while 38 percent opposed that idea.  The survey of 1,503 registered California voters was
conducted April 7-17 and has a margin for error of plus or minus
2.5 percentage points. The pension questions were posed to about
half of the respondents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 