-- 
California Same-Sex Marriage Opponents Say Gay Judge Erred in Taking Case

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 
2011-04-26T00:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/california-gay-marriage-opponents-say-ban-wrongly-overturned-by-gay-judge.html
Backers of California’s Proposition
8 ban on gay marriage are seeking to throw out a federal judge’s
decision to strike down the voter-backed initiative, saying the
judge, who recently disclosed that he’s gay, should have
disqualified himself from the case.  Former U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker’s failure to
recuse himself from a 2009 lawsuit challenging the
constitutionality of California’s gay marriage ban was a
violation of federal law requiring judges to remove themselves
whenever they have an interest that could be substantially
affected by the outcome of a case,  Charles Cooper , an attorney
for a group supporting Proposition 8, said in a filing today in
federal court in  San Francisco .  Walker, who announced his retirement from the bench last
year and is now in private practice, said April 6 that he has
been in a 10-year relationship with another man. He said he
never considered his sexual orientation as a reason to remove
himself from the Proposition 8 case.  “I didn’t think it was relevant and no party asked me
to,” Walker said in a meeting that day with reporters. “It
would not be a positive development if a judge’s sexuality,
national origin or gender was pertinent to handling a case. That
would be a slippery slope.”  Walker ruled Aug. 4 that Proposition 8, the constitutional
amendment passed by 52 percent of voters in 2008, violated equal
protection rights and “does nothing more than enshrine in the
 California  constitution the notion that opposite-sex couples are
superior to same-sex couples.”  Raises Questions  Cooper said Walker never disclosed his sexual orientation
during the case or whether he and his partner had an interest in
marrying. That raises questions about his impartiality and
requires his ruling in the Proposition 8 case be set aside,
according to the filing. A challenge to Walker’s ruling is
pending in an appeals court in San Francisco.  “The pall cast by the palpable appearance of judicial
partiality upon one of the most prominent and widely publicized
constitutional cases in this country’s history threatens deep
and lasting harm to the public’s confidence in our nation’s
judicial system,” Cooper said in the filing.  The request to vacate Walker’s ruling was made to U.S.
District Judge James Ware, who now presides over the case.  Walker declined today to comment on the filing.  Walker joined the federal bench in 1990 after he was
nominated by president  George H.W. Bush , a Republican, and
served as chief judge of the Northern California district court
starting in 2004.  The case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 3:09-cv-02292, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean in federal court in Oakland at
 pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  