-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls as Mild Weather in U.S. Pares Demand

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-04-25T19:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/canadian-natural-gas-falls-as-mild-weather-in-u-s-pares-demand.html
Canadian natural gas prices for May
delivery fell as mild U.S. weather tempered demand for the
heating and power-plant fuel.  Chicago  will have a high of 64 degrees Fahrenheit (18
Celsius) tomorrow, about 1 degree above normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania. The weather
won’t tax electricity supplies even though several nuclear power
plants are being serviced, said Stephen Smith, president of
Natchez, Mississippi-based Stephen Smith Energy Associates.  “The much-lower-than-seasonally normal nuclear
availability is largely offset by strong Pacific Northwest and
other hydro,” Smith said.  Alberta gas for May delivery fell 2.5 cents to C$3.55 per
gigajoule ($3.53 per million British thermal units) as of 2:20
p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange goes to users in Canada and
the U.S. and is priced on TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta  system.  Natural gas for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 3.1 cents to $4.381 per million Btu at 2:21 p.m.  Gas for prompt delivery at U.S. hubs served by Canadian
pipelines rose amid speculation that warm weather in the
Northeast and severe weather in producing regions could crimp
short-term supplies. New York will reach a high of 79 degrees
tomorrow, about 15 above normal, AccuWeather said. Tornadoes and
severe thunderstorms are forecast tomorrow in Texas and
Oklahoma.  Alliance Pipeline  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
rose 6.84 cents to $4.5027 per million Btu on the
 Intercontinental Exchange . Alliance is an express line that can
carry about 1.5 billion cubic feet a day to the Midwest from
western  Canada .  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas rose 5.37 cents to $4.1236, according to ICE. At
Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded for California
markets, gas was up 7.86 cents to $4.2353.  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.1 billion cubic
feet as of 1 p.m. in New York, about 272 million below its
target level.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.66 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.92 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 855 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.66 billion cubic feet today, about 66 percent of its
capacity of 2.51 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3
billion cubic feet at 1:20 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 