-- 
Chavez Windfall Tax Hike on Oil Borders on ‘Confiscation,’ Nomura Says

-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-04-25T18:31:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/chavez-s-rising-oil-windfall-tax-will-have-chilling-effect-nomura-says.html
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez’s
oil-tax increase last week may curtail private investment as
South America’s largest OPEC producer looks to reverse falling
output, according to Nomura Securities International Inc.  Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA, the state oil company known as
PDVSA, may transfer $20 billion to an off-budget fund called
 Fonden  this year after Chavez boosted an oil windfall tax, said
Nomura Latin American economist  Boris Segura . The tax was raised
to 80 cents on each dollar of revenue that tops $70 a barrel, up
from a prior rate of 50 cents.  "This tax change is likely to have a chilling effect on
private sector investment," Segura said today in a report to
clients. "This new tax regime borders on confiscation whenever
 oil prices  surpass $70."  PDVSA’s minority partners may be unwilling to allocate
additional resources for new investments, he said. France’s
largest oil company,  Total SA (FP) , declined to bid on blocks in the
Carabobo section of the Orinoco belt last year because of the
existing windfall tax in Venezuela, which has also threatened to
alter contracts if joint-venture partners don’t boost output.  The  tax rate  will rise to 95 percent when prices rise $100
a barrel, up from 60 percent previously. Chavez, who introduced
the windfall law in 2008, announced the change on April 21.  ‘Break-Even’ Point  Venezuela, where crude output declined 3.9 percent last
year to 2.89 million barrels a day, aims to produce more than 4
million barrels a day with new projects planned in the Orinoco
heavy crude belt.  “Increases in windfall taxes tend to slow projects,”
 Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory and Research, a
Chicago-based risk management adviser to oil producers, said
today in an e-mailed response to questions. “This could
potentially increase break-even hurdles for some producers and
could slow Orinoco development.”  Eni SpA (ENI) , the Italian company developing the Junin-5 oil
field in the Orinoco, declined to comment on the change, a
company spokesman, who can’t be named because of company policy,
said today in an e-mail. A press officer for  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
which also has projects in the Orinoco region, did not
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Oil for June delivery rose 84 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$112.29 a barrel at 2:08 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures have gained 32 percent in the past year.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 rose six basis points to 13.49 percent in New
York today at 1:13 p.m., according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The
price fell 0.3 cents on the dollar to 72.2 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  