-- 
China Said to Raise Biggest Banks’ Capital Adequacy Targets

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-26T05:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/china-said-to-raise-capital-adequacy-ratios-for-biggest-banks-to-curb-risk.html
China’s  banking regulator  set
capital targets for the nation’s five biggest lenders above the
minimum 11.5 percent ratio amid concern that credit risks may
rise, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
largest lender, and three rivals were told last month to
maintain capital adequacy ratios of at least 11.8 percent in
2011, one of the people said, declining to be identified as the
plan isn’t public.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288) , the nation’s
fourth biggest, should target 11.7 percent, two of them said.  The move may help China’s policy makers curb loan growth
after inflation accelerated and real estate prices rose
following a $2.7 trillion two-year credit boom. The central bank
this month raised the amount of deposits lenders must set aside
to the highest in at least two decades, while the banking
regulator ordered a new round of stress tests on property loans.  “The regulator doesn’t seem comfortable any longer with
Chinese banks’ capital levels after their overseas rivals raised
money,” said May Yan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays
Capital . “If the target stays at the current level, the banks
probably won’t need to worry too much in the next two years as
credit growth is already slowing down. But the market will be
concerned if the target is pushed higher and higher.”  Capital Triggers  The regulator also set differentiated targets last month
including loan-to-deposit ratios for the five banks, which
include  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and
Bank of Communications Co., following discussions with the
lenders, the people said. The watchdog plans to amend those
requirements every year, they said.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission “has set
differentiated targets and ‘triggers’ on the five banks’ capital
levels, with the target for all the banks’ capital adequacy
ratios being no lower than the 11.5 percent minimum,” the
watchdog said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  The five banks, controlling about half of the nation’s
banking assets, raised $56 billion selling shares and
convertible bonds last year, giving ICBC a capital adequacy
ratio of 12.27 percent and Construction Bank 12.68 percent at
the end of December. The level stood at 12.58 percent for Bank
of  China , 11.59 percent for Agricultural Bank and 12.36 percent
at BoCom, according to the companies’ filings to exchanges.  That’s lower than the 14.87 percent average capital
adequacy ratio for the world’s 100 largest banks by market
capitalization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Significant Deterioration’  The banking regulator has stepped up measures to limit
systemic risks since last year, including requiring banks to
move off-balance sheet assets onto their books and curtailing
credit to local governments and the property sector. The
government has also raised down payments on second mortgages and
ordered local authorities to cap new-home prices in some areas.  There’s a “high likelihood of a significant
deterioration” in banks’ asset quality after the two-year
credit boom,  Fitch Ratings  said April 12. Fitch lowered its
outlook on China’s long-term, local-currency rating to negative
because of the risk that the government would have to bail out
its banks. A downgrade would be the first on China’s debt since
July 1999.  Wang Zhenning, a press officer at ICBC, and Yu Baoyue of
Construction Bank declined to comment. Media officials at the
other three lenders also declined to comment, and said the
companies’ policies don’t allow them to be identified.  Stocks Outperform  Shares of China banks fell in  Hong Kong . ICBC dropped 0.8
percent to HK$6.65 at the 1:00 p.m. break, and Construction Bank
lost 0.5 percent. Agricultural Bank fell 1.7 percent while BoCom
declined 1.5 percent.  Still the Hong Kong-listed shares of the five biggest banks,
which are scheduled to report first-quarter earnings later this
week, have outperformed the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  this year.
Agricultural Bank is the best performer with a 19 percent
advance, followed by ICBC’s 15 percent return.  The central bank has raised benchmark rates four times
since October and lifted the reserve ratio requirement for the
biggest banks to 20.5 percent to curtail credit growth and
inflation. Still, consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in March, the
fastest pace since July 2008, and lenders increased new loans
last month by a third more than the amount offered a year ago.  China, which holds the most banking assets in the world
after the U.S. and  Japan , faces economic uncertainties and
lenders need to strengthen risk management, CBRC Chairman  Liu Mingkang  said on April 19. The watchdog that day said it ordered
banks to gauge the impact of a drop in housing prices on
borrowers’ ability to repay debt.  Stricter Rules  Construction Bank,  Bank of China  and BoCom last month were
also given a capital adequacy ratio target of 11.8 percent for
2011, one of the people said.  If the capital level drops below the target, the lenders
may need to raise capital, slow loan growth or suspend new
branch openings and acquisitions to bring the ratio to above the
target in 120 days, the person said. If the ratio falls below
the minimum 11.5 percent, the banks will have 90 days to bring
the level to above the target, the person said.  ICBC, Bank of China and Construction Bank last month said
they have no plans to sell stock for as long as three years.
Agricultural Bank in March won shareholders’ approval to sell as
much as 50 billion yuan ($7.7 billion) of subordinated bonds
over the next two years to boost its supplementary capital.  The nation’s banks may have to raise about 860 billion yuan
from share sales over six years to meet stricter capital rules,
a person with knowledge of the matter said this month, citing
estimates from the regulator.  Cut Loan Targets  The five biggest banks had a combined 26.8 trillion yuan of
risk-weighted assets by the end of last year, according to the
companies’ annual statements. A 10 basis point increase in the
target capital ratio would require an additional 26.8 billion
yuan in capital, according to Sheng Nan, a Shanghai-based
analyst at UOB Kayhian Investment Co.  The biggest banks have already cut their 2011 loan growth
targets to the slowest in three years to avoid triggering
differentiated reserve ratio requirements. China’s central bank
adopted the system this year to align the lenders’ credit growth
rates with their capital levels and systemic importance, as well
as the nation’s targets for inflation and economic growth.  --Luo Jun. Editors: Chitra Somayaji, Russell Ward  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  