-- 
China Stocks Drop to 3-Week Low as Rising Oil Prices Boost Inflation Risk

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-25T07:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/china-stocks-fall-to-three-week-low-as-oil-s-gain-stokes-inflation-concern.html
China ’s stocks fell, driving the
benchmark index to the lowest level this month, as higher  oil
prices  boosted concerns inflation will accelerate and spur more
policy tightening measures.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. led declines for steelmakers as
oil rose to the highest in two weeks. Anhui Conch Cement Co.,
the biggest cement maker, and Sany Heavy Industry Co., the
largest maker of machinery for handling concrete, retreated at
least 2.8 percent on concern higher fuel prices may slow
economic growth. A gauge of property stocks slid the most in two
months after a state researcher said a property tax is needed to
reverse imbalances in China’s wealth distribution.  “Inflation is still the major concern and there’s no sign
that the government will relax its tightening,” said Wu Kan, a
fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285
million. “The tightening will hold back stocks’ valuations.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 45.57 points, or 1.5 percent,
to 2,964.95 at the 3 p.m. close, the lowest since March 31. It
declined 1.3 percent last week, the most in three months. The
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell 1.5 percent to 3,249.57. Global financial
markets including those in the U.S. and  Europe  were closed for a
holiday on April 22.  Hong Kong  is shut today.  The Shanghai Composite has climbed 5.6 percent this year on
speculation the government will cool inflation without
triggering a slump in economic growth. The central bank has
raised the reserve-requirement ratio 10 times since the start of
2010 and boosted  interest rates  four times to cool inflation as
consumer prices rose at the fastest pace since 2008 in March.  Inflation Outlook  Baoshan Steel, the listed unit of China’s second-biggest
steelmaker, fell 2.7 percent to 7.12 yuan. Hebei Iron & Steel
Co., the listed unit of the nation’s biggest steelmaker, slumped
7.5 percent to 4.71 yuan. Anhui Conch dropped 2.8 percent to
38.88 yuan, trimming its gain to 31 percent this year. Sany
Heavy slid 4.1 percent to 18.52 yuan.  Consumer prices may rise between 5.2 percent and 5.5
percent in April, according to China International Capital Corp.
Non-food prices may gain between 0.2 percent and 0.4 percent
from the previous month while food prices may drop, analysts led
by Peng Wensheng wrote in a report dated yesterday. The
government’s full-year inflation target is 4 percent.  Crude futures gained for a fourth day after Syrian security
forces detained at least 200 people following the killing of
anti-government protesters and U.S. Senator John McCain said
rebels in  Libya  need more assistance in the fight against
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces.  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s
largest crude reserves, has no plans to raise production
capacity, an oil official said.  Oil Prices  The contract for June delivery rose as much as 78 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $113.07 a barrel in  New York  today. Futures
advanced 84 cents to $112.29 a barrel on April 21, the highest
settlement since April 8. Prices are up 34 percent in the past
year. The market was shut April 22 for holiday.  Shanghai container-truck drivers were reported to have won
cuts in port fees after a sometimes violent protest against
rising costs highlighted the risk of inflation triggering unrest
in the world’s most populous nation.  The local government will lower or remove some fees after
drivers stopped work on April 20 because of the levies and
increased fuel costs, Xinhua News Agency reported, citing an
unidentified spokesman. The city’s ports are operating normally,
the report said.  A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai Composite slid
2.2 percent, the most since Feb. 22. Poly Real Estate Group Co.,
China’s second-largest developer by market value, dropped 2
percent to 13.44 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  lost 0.3 percent to 6.62
yuan.  Property Tax  The nation needs to improve its property reporting system
and to levy taxes on various personal holdings, including on
real estate, capital earnings, inheritances and donations, Zhang
Monan, a researcher with the State Information Center, wrote in
a commentary published in today’s  China Daily  newspaper. The
State Information Center is a research agency under the National
Development and Reform Commission.  China imposed a property tax in Shanghai and Chongqing in
January to curb rising home prices.  Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development Co., China’s
biggest listed meat processer, slumped 7 percent to 58.52 yuan,
the lowest since Nov. 29. The company and its parent refunded
112 tons of meat products, accounting for 4 percent of sales
from March 24 to April 20, Shuanghui said in a statement.  The company on April 18 confirmed a China Central
Television report that an affiliate purchased pigs fed with a
banned additive that induces the growth of lean meat.  Consumer Staples  A measure of consumer staple producers added 0.6 percent,
the most among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300.  Kweichow Moutai Co., the biggest producer of baijiu liquor
by market value, surged 3.9 percent to 183.06 yuan. First-
quarter net income rose 49 percent from the same period a year
earlier to 1.88 billion yuan ($288.6 million), the company said
in a statement over the weekend. Profit beat the 1.81 billion
yuan average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Wuliangye Yibin Co., China’s second-biggest maker of white
liquor by market value, gained 1.2 percent to 32.32 yuan. Luzhou
Laojiao Co., a sprits producer in the southwest province of
Sichuan, added 4.2 percent to 46.91 yuan.  China’s rising wages will bolster domestic consumption,
making travel and hotel stocks attractive investments, according
to Hugh Simon, Chief Executive Officer of Hamon Investment
Group.  The Chinese government’s efforts to double salaries over
the next five years will boost spending, said Simon, whose
Dreyfus Greater China Fund has beaten 90 percent of rival funds
in the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wage inflation “is not a bad thing when you are moving
your economy away from an export-led economy and gives you a lot
of opportunities as an investor,” Simon said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television today. The Hong Kong-based  fund
manager  said he’s also “looking at” airlines and information
technology service companies.  --Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  