-- 
China’s Sohu Climbs to Record After Earnings Exceed Estimates

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-04-25T20:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/china-s-sohu-climbs-to-record-in-new-york-after-earnings-exceed-estimates.html
Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , the owner of China’s
fourth-most visited website, rose to a record in U.S. trading
after reporting a 48 percent increase in first-quarter profit,
beating analysts’ estimates.  The shares surged 8.8 percent to $104.14 at 4 p.m. in New
York, and earlier climbed as much as 12 percent. The Beijing-
based company reported first-quarter net income of $44.8
million, or $1.01 a share, compared with $30.2 million, or 73
cents, last year. Profit exceeded the $41.8 million average
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 35 percent to $174.4 million as online
advertising revenue increased 45 percent from a year ago. Sohu
also said its online games unit  Changyou.com Ltd. (CYOU)  will unveil a
new game, Duke of Mount Deer. The unit will pay as much as $101
million to buy a majority stake in Shenzhen 7Road Technology
Co., a website game developer, according to Sohu’s release.  “Shares are likely benefiting from continued market share
gains within the online video segment, where investors are
willing to speculate on accelerated growth potential,” said
 Mike Hickey , an equity analyst at Janco Partners Inc. in
 Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , in an e-mailed reply to questions.
“Near-term performance shows considerable strength from their
legacy portal advertising segment and online games.”  Changyou’s first-quarter profit rose 33 percent to $52.8
million, according to a separate statement today. The American
depositary receipts of Changyou jumped 9 percent to $43.36, the
highest since July 2009. It rose as much as 11 percent earlier
in the day.  Looking Forward  “Changyou’s revenue and earnings are consolidated into
Sohu’s financial statement,” said Andy Yeung, an equity analyst
at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York . “So whatever benefits
Changyou would benefit Sohu as well.”  Sohu forecast second-quarter revenue between $188 million
and $193 million, compared with the $183.2 million average of 11
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares have risen
64 percent this year.  Profit margin is likely to narrow in the second quarter
because of marketing costs for the new game, according to Yeung.
“Investors are looking beyond the second-quarter performance,
more into the third and fourth quarter on potential upsides
coming from the new game launch,” he said.  Sohu ranks behind Baidu, China’s biggest search-engine,
Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s QQ.com, Sina Corp., and Alibaba’s
Taobao.com in user traffic in China, according to  China  Websites
Ranking, a site run by the Internet Society of China, which
compiles Web traffic information.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  