-- 
Clement Quits King & Spalding Over Marriage Act Decision

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-25T18:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/clement-quits-king-spalding-over-marriage-act-decision-2-.html
Paul D. Clement, former top
litigator for the  Bush administration , resigned as head of King
& Spalding LLP’s national appellate practice after the firm
withdrew as counsel for the U.S. House of Representatives in
arguing for the Defense of Marriage Act.  The firm shouldn’t abandon its representation simply
because a client’s legal position is unpopular, Clement said
today in a letter to firm Chairman  Robert D. Hays  announcing his
decision to join  Bancroft PLLC .  “Defending unpopular positions is what lawyers do,”
Clement said. “The adversary system of justice depends on it,
especially in cases where the passions run high. When it comes
to the lawyers, the surest way to be on the wrong side of
history is to abandon a client in the face of hostile
criticism.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  said last month that Republicans
would defend the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act after the Obama
administration said it won’t defend the constitutionality of the
law. The act bars same-sex married couples from collecting
federal benefits when eligibility is determined by marital
status.  Democrats seeking to repeal the federal ban said King &
Spalding’s withdrawal is another blow to Republican efforts
to defend DOMA.  ‘Patently Wrong’  “Their withdrawal confirms what is increasingly obvious:
it is patently wrong to defend this harmful law,”
Representatives Jerrold Nadler of  New York , Tammy Baldwin of
Wisconsin, Jared Polis of  Colorado , and John Conyers of
 Michigan , who are sponsoring the House bill, said in a joint e-
mailed statement.  The move to hire King & Spalding sparked backlash from the
gay and lesbian community and criticism from House Democratic
Leader  Nancy Pelosi , who called the Republicans’ decision a
“distraction.”  Hays said in a statement today that the firm’s vetting
process for the case was “inadequate.”  “Ultimately I am responsible for any mistakes that
occurred and apologize for the challenges this may have
created,” Hays said in the statement.  Clement, who was to serve as lead attorney for the Atlanta-
based firm, said he wouldn’t have undertaken the matter unless
he believed he had the firm’s full backing.  ‘Honorable Course’  “But having undertaken the representation, I believe there
is no honorable course for me but to complete it,” Clement said
in his letter to Hays. “If there were problems with the firm’s
vetting process, we should fix the vetting process, not drop the
representation.”  Clement, a native of Cedarburg,  Wisconsin , served as the
U.S. solicitor general, arguing the government’s side in cases
before the U.S. Supreme Court, from June 2005 to June 2008,
during the presidency of  George W. Bush . He rejoined King &
Spalding in November 2008.  “We’re sorry to see Paul Clement leave. He’s been a good
partner and we wish him the best,” Les Zuke, a spokesman for
the firm, said today in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  