-- 
Climate Change Poses Rising Threat to Western Water Resources, U.S. Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-25T20:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/climate-change-poses-rising-threat-to-western-water-resources-u-s-says.html
Climate change is posing an
increased risk to water resources in the U.S. West and “ringing
alarm bells” for farmers, towns and hydropower companies,
according to Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar .  The dangers include a decline of as much as 20 percent in
the average annual flow in river basins such as the  Colorado  and
the  Rio Grande , which help generate hydroelectric power,
according to the Interior Department study today on the impacts
of climate change on U.S. Western water resources.  A changing climate will affect rain and snowfalls this
century, putting farms and communities in the U.S. West at
higher risk of economic and environmental disruptions, Salazar
told reporters on a conference call.  The threat of diminished water supplies is “ringing alarm
bells in many, many places and the alarm bells are being rung
across the political spectrum,” he said.  The Interior Department’s report to Congress projects
temperatures will climb 5 degrees to 7 degrees Fahrenheit (2.9
degrees to 3.9 degrees Celsius) this century, with increasing
precipitation in the northwestern and north-central parts of the
western U.S. and a drop in the southwestern and south-central
areas.  The changes may affect water available to agriculture,
cities, fish and wildlife and other uses such as recreation,
according to the study.  Challenge, Risk  “Impacts to water are on the leading edge of global
 climate change , and these changes pose a significant challenge
and risk to adequate water supplies,” Mike Connor, commissioner
of Interior’s  Bureau of Reclamation , said in a statement.  President  Barack Obama  has pledged to fight climate change
linked to greenhouse-gas emissions from smokestacks and
tailpipes. His efforts to get global-warming legislation through
Congress failed last year.  Obama’s interagency task force on adapting to climate
change has urged U.S. agencies to prepare for the “inevitable”
effects of global warming. Strategies should be considered in
every decision, and scientific data on rising temperatures and
sea levels should be easily accessible to officials, according
to the group’s October report.  Scientists say climate change will lead to more frequent
and severe storms, droughts and heat waves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  