-- 
Colombia Faces Higher Food Prices as Rains Harm Crops, Transport

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-04-25T20:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/colombia-faces-higher-food-prices-as-rains-harm-crops-transport.html
Torrential rains and flooding in
 Colombia  will boost food prices as farmers struggle to harvest
crops and transport their produce, Agriculture Minister Juan Camilo Restrepo said today.  “The prices of some products are strongly affected by the
situation,” Restrepo said in a statement. “The roads are
causing difficulty transporting goods to market.”  More than 400 people have been killed and thousands made
homeless by rains, caused by the La Nina weather pattern, that
have battered the Andean nation over the past year. More than
3 million people have been affected by landslides and flooding,
the  government  said.  Higher vegetable and fruit prices in coming weeks may make
it harder for central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe to fight
inflation, which is being fueled by robust domestic demand, said
 Rupert Stebbings , head of brokerage Celfin Colombia SA.  “For as long as Colombian trucks laden with food are axle
deep in avalanches, the government is going to struggle to keep
inflation under control,” Stebbings, who is based in the city
of Medellin, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “If the
mountain passes are blocked, then agricultural products rot in
the fields as prices in the cities climb.”  The agriculture ministry has earmarked 400 billion pesos
($224 million) to help cattle ranchers and farmers, Restrepo
said in today’s statement.  Flooding in the fourth quarter of 2010 cost an estimated 10
trillion pesos in repairs and aid for victims.  Reconstruction Finance  The government last month sent a bill to congress seeking
an additional 5.7 trillion pesos for this year’s budget to
finance reconstruction. President  Juan Manuel Santos  has already
raised taxes on high-income wage earners and accelerated plans
to sell a stake in state-owned oil company Ecopetrol to help pay
for rain damage.  “This is without doubt the worst tragedy in history, but
the country is still functioning,” Santos said in a statement
last night. “We can’t underestimate these kind of tragedies but
neither can we overestimate them.”  The La Nina weather phenomenon is caused by cooling
equatorial waters in the  Pacific Ocean .  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry has said he expects
2011 economic growth of as much as 6 percent, buoyed in part by
spending to repair washed-out roads and buildings.  Gross domestic product rose 4.6 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier and expanded 4.3 percent in the
whole of 2010, the biggest gain since 2007.  Inflation Accelerating  As Colombia’s economic expansion gains momentum, inflation
has been accelerating. Annual inflation was 3.19 percent in
March, up from a five-decade low of 1.84 percent a year earlier.  The central bank forecasts inflation near the 3 percent
midpoint of its target range at the end of 2011 and in 2012,
Uribe said. Central bank policy makers raised the benchmark
interest rate a quarter-point for a second straight month in
March to 3.5 percent, noting increases in  consumer confidence ,
bank lending and retail sales. The bank’s board will hold its
next monetary policy meeting on April 29.  Economists cut their  forecasts  for year-end inflation to
3.31 percent in a central bank survey published this month, from
3.48 percent in the March survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 