-- 
Colombian Peso Holds at 3-Year High on Currency Measure Bets

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-04-25T18:16:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/colombian-peso-holds-at-3-year-high-on-currency-measure-bets.html
Colombia ’s peso held at a three-
year high on bets policy makers this week will take further
measures to ease the local currency’s rally.  The peso was little changed at 1,782.50 per  U.S. dollar  at
2:07 p.m. New York time. Earlier today it touched 1,774.01, the
strongest level since August 2008. The peso has jumped 5 percent
this month, the best performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Colombian markets were closed
April 21-22 for a holiday.  “People are expecting stronger measures” to be announced
after the central bank’s April 29 monetary policy meeting, said
Juan Camilo Santana, an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Cia.
de Profesionales de Bolsa SA. “The peso has had strong gains in
the past week and exporters are beginning to cry out.”  Colombia may seek to impose limits on short-term portfolio
investments, Santana predicts.  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said in an April 16
interview that he would prefer to avoid controls on capital
while not ruling them out.  The South American country should “closely monitor”
short-term inflows including overseas borrowing and consider
imposing limits on these in a bid to ease the peso’s rally,
Javier Diaz, head of the National Exporters Association, known
as Analdex, said in an interview today with RCN Radio.  Daily Dollar Purchases  The central bank would consider imposing  capital controls 
should it see “excessive” short-term borrowing from abroad,
bank co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano said earlier this month.
That isn’t currently the case, he said.  Investors are speculating policy makers will announce
larger daily dollar purchases after the April 29 monetary policy
meeting, according to Wilson Tovar, head of research at
brokerage Acciones y Valores SA in Bogota.  The central bank in February extended a plan to buy a
minimum of $20 million daily in the local market until “at
least” June 17.  Increased foreign direct investment into oil and mining is
driving gains in the peso, according to Tovar.  “FDI figures are showing strong flows into Colombia and
added to the current scenario for a weak dollar, the peso’s
strengthening trend will remain,” said Tovar.  Foreign Direct Investment  Foreign direct investment rose to $3.69 billion in the year
through April 8, with 86 percent going into oil and mining,
according to trade balance figures from the  central bank . That
compares to $2.17 billion in the first three months of 2010.  Tovar forecasts the peso will climb to 1,750 in the “next
few weeks.”  The yield on the nation’s 10 percent bonds due July 2024
rose 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 8.38 percent,
according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s price
declined 1.139 centavo to 112.599 centavos per peso.  Concern heavier-than-average rainfall will stoke inflation
is pushing declines in peso bonds, known as TES, Paula Oliveros,
a fixed-income analyst at Bancolombia SA, the country’s biggest
lender, wrote in a report today.  Colombia will have above-average rainfall through early
June because of the La Nina weather pattern, state-run Institute
of Hydrology, Meteorology and Environmental Studies has said.
Floods last year left at least 300 dead, damaged crops and
choked off farmers’ supply routes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  