-- 
Commodity Inflation to Ebb, Gluskin’s Rosenberg Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-25T18:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/commodity-inflation-to-ebb-gluskin-s-rosenberg-says-tom-keene.html
Inflation will be contained to
commodity prices, which won’t be a “lasting source” of price
increases, according to  David Rosenberg , chief economist at
Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc.  “I’m looking at this as one of those more temporary
phenomena as opposed to a lasting source of inflation,” said
Rosenberg in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “Once commodities settle down,
we’ll see headline inflation come right back down again.”  Consumer prices rose in March for a ninth consecutive
month, led by increases in food and fuel costs that didn’t
filter down to other goods and services. The  consumer price
index  gained 0.5 percent last month, matching February’s
increase, the Labor Department reported April 15. The core
index, excluding food and energy, advanced 0.1 percent after
rising 0.2 percent in the prior month.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reiterated after a
speech in Stone Mountain,  Georgia , on April 4 that the
acceleration in inflation will be “transitory” and said that
the central bank would act if he’s proven incorrect.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
has increased 10 percent this year, with crude oil rising 23
percent as unrest in the Middle East and North Africa spurred
concern supply will be disrupted. Gold rallied to a record high
today as investors sought an inflation hedge.  Inflation will stay contained to the commodity sector as
8.8 percent unemployment discourages  consumer spending ,
according to Rosenberg.  Weaker Dollar  The U.S. currency is slumping as monetary policy at global
central banks diverges, according to Rosenberg. The Dollar
Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the
greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, has dropped 6.3 percent this year.  “The dollar is responding to what’s happening globally,”
said Rosenberg, whose firm in Toronto requires a minimum
investment of $3 million. “Other central banks are raising
 interest rates  to combat inflation, and in the U.S. interest
rates are kept to the floor.”  The  European Central Bank  increased its main refinancing
rate on April 7 for the first time since the financial crisis,
boosting it by a quarter-percentage point to 1.25 percent. The
Fed is expected to keep its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent until next year, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Policy makers may announce on April 27 at the conclusion of
their two-day meeting that they plan to complete the purchase of
$600 billion of Treasuries through June to support the economy
under the second round of quantitative easing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  