-- 
Cool, Wet Weather to Delay Planting in U.S., Planalytics Says

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-04-25T02:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/cool-wet-weather-to-delay-planting-in-u-s-planalytics-says.html
Cool, wet weather will delay the
planting of crops this year from  North Dakota  to  Arkansas ,
including parts of the Ohio River Valley and  Tennessee  River
Valley, according to forecaster  Planalytics Inc .  Remnants of last year’s strong La Nina weather pattern and
cool water in the Gulf of  Alaska  will produce more rain than
usual over the next two weeks and cooler-than-normal
temperatures, Fred Gesser, the senior forecaster for Berwyn,
Pennsylvania-based Planalytics, said today in a phone interview.  U.S. farmers typically plant  corn  and  spring wheat  in April
and May, and  soybeans  in May and June. The U.S. is the world’s
largest exporter of corn, soybeans and wheat. Corn has more than
doubled in  Chicago  over the past year on increased demand, while
wheat futures have surged 75 percent.  “I just don’t see any changes in this wet, cold weather
pattern,” said Gesser who accurately forecast wet, cold weather
for April. Planting this season will be delayed by storms every
three or four days through May 10, Gesser said.  About 7 percent of the corn crop was planted as of April 17,
down from 16 percent a year earlier, while up from 3 percent a
week earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said last week.
The average for the previous five years is 8 percent. About 5
percent of the spring-wheat crop was sown, compared with 18
percent last year and the prior five-year average of 12 percent.  Flooding will be a problem for farmers from Canada all the
way south to northern  Mississippi  and east through the Ohio
River Valley after some fields received as much as 9 inches of
rain the past seven days, Gesser said.  Major flooding is already reported at 47 locations and 78
stations reported moderate flooding from North Dakota to
Tennessee, data from the  National Weather Service  showed.  “The flood reports are a simple surrogate for what is
happening in fields across the U.S.,” Gesser said. “It’s going
to be a very slow planting season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 