-- 
Copper Can Endure Slower China, Chile Bank Official Says

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-04-25T19:49:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/copper-can-endure-slower-china-chile-bank-official-says-1-.html
Copper prices, which have climbed
21 percent in the past year, may remain high even if  China ’s
economy decelerates, a Chilean central banker said.  A slowdown in  China’s economy  in coming years to 7 percent
from a current growth rate of almost 10 percent is a possibility
that has occurred in other economies, Sebastian Claro said in an
interview last week from his office. Copper prices may reflect
estimates that China’s economy will slow as Chinese officials
tighten monetary policy to contain growing price pressures.  “This would be a natural part of the convergence that we
have seen in similar experiences,” he said about a Chinese
slowdown. “I don’t know if it’d have a direct impact on the
price of copper because I don’t think global economy forecasts
are based on 10 percent growth in China forever.”  Chile  is the world’s largest producer of copper, whose
price on the futures market increased 21 percent in the past 12
months to today’s $4.318 a pound. China, the world’s leading
consumer of the metal, has helped drive global demand as its
economy grew a faster-than-estimated 9.7 percent last quarter.  Chile’s central bank estimates copper will average $4.20 a
pound this year and $4 in 2012, up from last year’s average
$3.42 a pound.  Long-Term Prices  Experts convened by Chile’s government last year estimated
a long-term copper price of $2.59 a pound, up from previous
forecasts of $2.13 a pound. The long-term copper price, which
was used to help create forecasts for Chile’s 2011 budget, is an
estimate of the average price of copper through 2020.  A slowdown in China’s economy may cause copper and other
commodity prices to align with long-term prices at a faster-
than-anticipated pace, Claro said April 20, before the Easter
weekend.  “It’s also certain that long-term  price levels  probably
will be higher than prices we confronted 10 years ago,” he
said. “China faces significant challenges in the short- and
medium-term, but it also has conditions to make adjustments and
has growth potential to remain vigorous in coming years.”  China was Chile’s leading export market last year,
accounting for 24 percent of the South American country’s sales
abroad, followed by  Japan  with almost 11 percent of the total,
according to central bank data.  Japan’s Earthquake  Chile is likely to see a “limited” effect from last
month’s 9.0-magnitude earthquake in Japan and ensuing nuclear
radiation leaks, Claro said.  “The elements that we look at don’t suggest that the
impact of Japan’s earthquake and nuclear problem will create a
global problem of greater dimensions that would significantly
impact Chile,” he said. “There always will be impacts on
certain sectors, but for now it seems limited when one evaluates
the macroeconomic dimensions.”  Claro, who received his doctorate in economics from the
University of  California ,  Los Angeles , was appointed to the
central bank board in 2007 for a 10-year term.  Claro in 2003 performed a study for the  Inter-American
Development Bank  on the effect of China’s economy on Latin
America and the Caribbean.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 