-- 
Corn, Soybean Premiums Rise as Flooding Slows Barge Shipments

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-04-25T21:42:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/corn-soybean-premiums-rise-as-flooding-slows-barge-shipments.html
Cash premiums for corn and soybeans
shipped in April to terminals near  New Orleans  rose relative to
Chicago futures as flooding slowed shipments of grain, boosting
demand for immediate supplies.  The spot-basis bid, or premium, for corn delivered this
month rose to 58 cents to 61 cents a bushel above May futures,
compared with 55 cents to 60 cents on April 21, U.S. Department
of Agriculture  data  show. The basis for soybeans delivered in
April was 64 cents to 73 cents a bushel, up from 64 cents to 68
cents.  “We are getting bigger shipping problems along the river
system because of increased flooding,” said Troy Lust, a
commercial grain analyst for INTL FCStone Inc. in  West Des
Moines , Iowa. “A number of locations are at or will soon be at
flood stage” along the  Mississippi , Illinois and Ohio rivers,
he said.  Corn futures for May delivery rose 25.25 cents, or 3.4
percent, to $7.625 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Soybean futures for May delivery rose 9 cents to $13.895 a
bushel, the third straight gain.  Flooding will be a problem for farmers from  Canada  to
northern Mississippi and east through the Ohio River Valley
after some fields received as much as 9 inches (23 centimeters)
of rain the past seven days, Fred Gesser, a senior agricultural
meteorologist for Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, said
in an interview.  Major flooding is already reported at 54 locations, and 98
stations, which include grain terminals and locks and dams,
reported moderate flooding from  North Dakota  to Tennessee,  data 
from the  National Weather Service  showed.  “Barge loadings have ceased or slowed considerably in the
last week,” Lust said. “It looks like it’s going to stay wet
for the next two weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 