-- 
Corn Seen Topping Wheat, Raising Tyson Costs, Helping Syngenta

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-04-25T07:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/corn-seen-topping-wheat-raising-tyson-costs-boosting-sales-at-syngenta.html
Corn may become costlier than wheat
for the first time since 1984 as demand for livestock feed and
ethanol grows, increasing expenses for  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and
boosting sales at  Syngenta AG. (SYNN)   Futures will average a record $8 a bushel in the three
months ending Sept. 30, more than the $7.70 a bushel estimated
for wheat, said  Abah Ofon , an agricultural commodity analyst at
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  in Singapore. Corn will be 11 percent
more expensive than wheat in three months, according to  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Corn in Chicago traded at $7.60, up 2.1
percent, at 3:21 p.m. Singapore time.  Surging costs of corn, an ingredient in livestock and
poultry feed, may spur global food prices to rebound to a
record, prompting central banks from Beijing to Brasilia to
increase  interest rates . While the gains may raise feed costs
for Tyson, the largest U.S. meat processor, they would benefit
Syngenta, the world’s biggest agricultural-chemical maker, as
farmers seek to protect their crops from pests and diseases.  “There’s only a limited amount of wheat that you can
switch into feed at any given time,” according to Ofon, who
correctly predicted in January that wheat would trail corn. That
will limit wheat’s capacity to benefit from surging corn prices,
he said. Wheat was 49 percent costlier than corn on average in
the past five years, and last traded at $8.545.  Wheat will decline to $7.75 a bushel in three months while
corn may advance to $8.60 a bushel, Goldman Sachs predicted in a
report April 21.  Syngenta, Tyson  Sales  by Syngenta expanded 14 percent to $4.02 billion in
the first quarter from a year ago as farmers in  Europe  and the
U.S. advanced purchases of chemicals aimed at protecting crops
against pests and diseases, John Ramsay, chief financial
officer, said in a teleconference on April 15.  “We’re already seeing indications that the crop
enhancement market for corn and soybeans in the U.S. will be up
strongly this year,” Ramsay said.  Tyson and other meat processors have faced higher feed
costs as corn and soybean prices advanced to their highest
levels since 2008. Corn and soybean meal represent 42 percent of
Tyson’s cost of raising chicken, which made up 34 percent of its
sales in 2010, according to the company.  Corn may advance to $8 a bushel, said  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , while
Alex Bos, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said futures may
climb as high as $10 a bushel if U.S. farmers plant less than
the government estimates.  Corn, Ethanol  Global stockpiles will  drop for a third year  to 111 million
metric tons in 2011-2012, or about 13 percent of consumption,
the International Grains Council said on April 20. That would be
the smallest ratio of inventory to consumption since 1974,
according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  Increasing demand for corn in China, the world’s second-
largest user, may force the nation to end exports of the grain
and rely on overseas suppliers, Jay O’Neil, an adviser at the
U.S. Grains Council, said in  Singapore  today.  “As we go into 2012, there’ll be no more exports from
China and very possibly imports,” O’Neil said at a conference.  China was estimated by the USDA to ship 100,000 tons in the
2010-2011 marketing year, down from 151,000 tons a year earlier.
The Asian nation’s annual corn exports have plunged six times
since the marketing year ended 2003, when shipments were at a
record 15.2 million tons, according to USDA data.  Food Prices  An estimate of 2 million tons of corn imports by China “is
rational,” as the country’s production struggles to keep pace
with demand, John Baize, who runs international agricultural
trade and policy consulting company John Baize and Associates
said at a conference in Singapore.  Baize’s estimate for  China ’s corn imports compares with the
USDA forecast of 1.5 million tons.  While the United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization’s
Food Price Index dropped from its record in March, harvests may
not increase enough to rebuild global stockpiles to “safe
levels” as demand for food, livestock feed and biofuel
increase, said  Concepcion Calpe , an economist at the FAO, on
April 7.  About 7 percent of the U.S. corn crop was planted as of
April 17, down from 16 percent a year earlier, according to the
USDA. At least a third of the crop should be planted by May 1 or
yield potential may be diminished, said Greg Grow, the director
of agribusiness for Archer Financial Services Inc. in  Chicago .  Expanding Acreage  Acreage in the U.S., the world’s largest grower and
exporter, will expand 4.5 percent to 92.178 million acres (37.3
million hectares) this year, the second-largest since 1944, the
USDA estimates.  Corn use in ethanol production will jump 35 percent to 5
billion bushels this season from two years ago, the USDA  said 
April 8. A by-product of processing is dried distillers’ grain
with solubles, a competitor of feed wheat.  Increasing supplies of so-called DDGS will provide poultry
and livestock farmers with a cheaper alternative, discouraging
them from switching to wheat, according to Simon Clancy, manager
for export brokerage at FCStone  Australia  Pty.  The last time the most-active corn futures contract in
Chicago closed at a premium to wheat was on June 18, 1984,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  