-- 
Katie Couric Said to Weigh Move to ABC or NBC as CBS Anchor Job Winds Down

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-25T20:50:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/couric-said-to-weigh-move-to-abc-as-cbs-news-anchor-job-winds-up.html
Katie Couric is contemplating a
move to ABC as she prepares to end her five-year run as the
“CBS Evening News” anchor, according to people with knowledge
of the situation.  Couric, 54, is expected to announce this week that she will
leave the show and hasn’t made a final decision about her
future, said the people, who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly. Her contract with CBS ends June 4.  Both NBC and ABC are said to be discussing talk shows with
Couric that would start in 2012, according to one executive with
knowledge of the talks. ABC, part of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , has made a
late run at Couric, said two of the people. The anchor and ABC
News President Ben Sherwood met at least once for lunch to
discuss the move, one person said.  Scott Pelley, a correspondent on “60 Minutes,” will take
over for Couric as CBS anchor, one of the people said. Prior to
joining “60 Minutes,” he was  CBS News ’ chief White House
correspondent.  Couric is being advised by  Jeff Zucker , former chief
executive officer of  NBC Universal  and previously her producer
at NBC’s “Today” show.  Neither ABC nor NBC would offer her the evening anchor
position, one of the people said. She would likely work on
specials, including the upcoming presidential elections.  David Ford, an ABC spokesman, declined to comment. Zucker
didn’t respond to e-mails. Lauren Kapp, a spokeswoman for NBC,
declined to comment.  The  New York  Times reported today that CBS would announce
Couric’s departure this week. The newspaper said on April 5 that
NBC had offered her a syndicated talk show.  ‘60 Minutes’  CBS could still strike a deal to keep Couric in a role
other than news anchor, said two people with knowledge of the
situation. That may include reporting for “60 Minutes” and
anchoring a syndicated talk show, according to one person
familiar with the matter. CBS executives are interviewing
candidates to be the executive producer of Pelley’s newscast,
one person said.  Couric, the former “Today” show host, receives $13
million to $15 million a year under a five-year deal with CBS
that started in 2006, people familiar with the matter said at
the time.  Ratings at “CBS Evening News” have declined during
Couric’s tenure.  “NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams” averaged 8.8
million viewers per day over the past five weeks, according to
Nielsen Co. data provided by  Brad Adgate , director of research
at Horizon Media Inc. in New York. ABC’s “World News with  Diane
Sawyer ” averaged 7.9 million. Couric’s “Evening News”
averaged 5.6 million.  CBS fell 11 cents to $24.69 at 4:04 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 30 percent
this year. Disney fell 34 cents to $41.93 and have climbed 12
percent this year.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , which controls NBC, fell 5 cents to $25.29
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 