-- 
Cricketer Tendulkar Joins 200,000 Paying Homage to Indian Guru

-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-04-25T07:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/cricketer-tendulkar-joins-200-000-paying-homage-to-indian-guru.html
Cricketers  Sachin Tendulkar  and
Sunil Gavaskar joined tens of thousands of devotees to pay
homage to Sathya Sai Baba, the Indian spiritual guru whose
charities and claimed miracles won him both devotion and scorn.  “He is going to live in our hearts permanently,” former
Indian cricket captain Gavaskar told reporters in the southern
town of Puttaparthi in Andhra Pradesh state where Sai Baba, who
died yesterday aged 84, built his  ashram . “He will still
continue to inspire us,” Gavaskar said in a televised address.  Politicians and film stars were also among followers who
queued for a last glimpse of the preacher, taking turns to kneel
besides his saffron-robed body placed in a glass casket at the
town’s Sai Kulwant Hall. A state funeral is scheduled for
Tuesday.  “At least 200,000 devotees have paid their respects.
Schools and other establishments are closed,” senior police
official B. Narasimhalu said in a phone interview.  Hard Rock Café founder Isaac Tigrett sold his stake in the
 restaurant chain  and donated the entire proceeds of $108 million
to Sai Baba for a specialty hospital in Puttaparthi to provide
free health care to the rural poor, the Open magazine reported
in April.  Sai Baba, who sported afro-style hair reminiscent of rock
musician  Jimi Hendrix , died after his heart and respiratory
organs failed, A.N. Safaya, director at the Sri Sathya Sai Baba
Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, said in a  statement  on the
hospital’s website.  Charity Work  Sai Baba “endeared himself to the people through various
institutions,” Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in a
statement yesterday. “He believed that it is the duty of every
person to ensure that all people have access to the basic
requirements for sustenance of life.”  Sai Baba’s trust has set up schools, universities and
hospitals, with various Indian political leaders providing
support for his charities. Former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao and ex-president Shankar Dayal Sharma were present during
the opening of a water project in 1995 in Andhra Pradesh state,
while former premier Atal Bihari Vajpayee inaugurated a hospital
in Bangalore.  At the age of 14, the guru told his family that he would be
known as “Sai Baba,” the title of a past  Indian  ascetic of
whom he claimed to be a reincarnation, according to a  statement 
on his website. In 1960, he told his followers he would “leave
his body” in 2019.  ‘Miracles’ Dismissed  While devotees believe in his miracles, including acts of
producing holy ash, rings and necklaces, fruits, sugar candy and
watches out of thin air, critics have dismissed them as tricks.  They “remained controversial to others and he shied away
from scientific tests that would have settled forever the issue
of their genuineness,” said Erlendur Haraldsso, professor
emeritus, faculty of social sciences at the  University of
Iceland , who did research on Indian “miracle-makers.”  Allegations by some former devotees that Sathya Sai Baba
had sexually abused them tarnished his image. K. Chakravarty,
secretary of the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust didn’t answer
calls made to his office yesterday.  “We don’t regard him as a genuine miracle worker,” said
David C. Lane, a professor of sociology and philosophy at San
Antonio College in  Texas . “I have a number of reports from
former disciples that they were molested under the guise of
spiritual unfoldment.”  Sai Baba denied all charges against him and has not been
charged with any offenses in  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jay Shankar in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  