-- 
Oil Trades Near 31-Month High in New York, Paring Loss as Equities Advance

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-04-26T12:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/crude-oil-extends-decline-after-reaching-31-month-high-as-equities-slide.html
Crude rebounded in  New York  to
trade near a 31-month high, reversing an earlier decline as U.S.
equity-index futures advanced following company earnings reports
that exceeded analyst estimates.  Oil recovered from a 1 percent decline as June futures on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained as much as 0.5 percent,
after companies including United Parcel Service Inc. and Ford
Motor Co. reported higher-than-estimated earnings.  Federal
Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is due to hold his first press
conference following a policy meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  that begins today.  “This will add some complexity to trading around the FOMC
statement,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Geneva-based
consultant Petromatrix said in a report.  Crude for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was up 16 cents at $112.44 a barrel at 1:35 p.m. London time
after falling as low as $111.12. Yesterday, it traded at
$113.48, the highest since Sept. 22, 2008. Brent crude for June
settlement on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange was
up 49 cents at $124.15 a barrel, reversing yesterday’s 0.3
percent decline.  Futures slid earlier after Saudi Aramco Chief Executive
Officer Khalid al-Falih said the world’s biggest crude exporter
is concerned about the impact of prices on economic growth. Oil
also declined with other commodities amid speculation that the
Federal Reserve may end its bond-buying program. A government
report tomorrow may show crude supplies in the U.S. increased
last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Economic Impact  Saudi Arabia  is committed to maintaining 3 million to 4
million barrels a day of idle capacity, al-Falih said in  Seoul .  “We are not comfortable with  oil prices  where they are
today,” al-Falih said. “We’re concerned about the impact it
could have on global economic growth.”  In Nigeria, voters will cast ballots in state governorship
elections today amid sectarian tensions triggered in Africa’s
top oil producer by the re-election of President Goodluck
Jonathan on April 16. Voting will take place in 26 of 36 states
to elect legislatures and governors, with the number of states
under the control of the ruling People’s Democratic Party likely
to shrink. Nigeria is the fourth-biggest source of U.S. crude
imports so far this year, according to the Energy Department.  Brent Premium  “Nigeria’s production of sweet crude oil is definitely an
exponential price factor now that Libya’s sweet crude oil
production is out,” Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodities
analyst at Stockholm-based SEB AB, said in a note. “With a
governorship election today in Nigeria we see little downside in
 Brent crude  today.”  Brent traded at a premium of $11.71 a barrel to New York
futures settling in the same month. The difference has shrunk
from $13.05 a week earlier after supplies fell at Cushing,
 Oklahoma , the delivery point for U.S. contracts.  Stockpiles at Cushing dropped 770,000 barrels to 41.1
million in the week ended April 15, according to the Energy
Department. Crude stockpiles nationwide fell 2.32 million
barrels to 357 million, the first drop since February.  U.S. crude inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels last
week, the seventh time in eight weeks, according to the median
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before a
government report tomorrow. The industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  will publish its own data today.  U.S. gasoline supplies probably dropped 1 million barrels
in the period ended April 21, the survey showed. Distillate fuel
supplies, including diesel and heating oil, were estimated to
have increased by 600,000 barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at   lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  