-- 
Carry Trade Makes Comeback as Kiwi Drives High Yielder Gains

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-26T15:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/currency-carry-trade-makes-comeback-as-kiwi-drives-gains-in-high-yielders.html
Currency carry traders who borrow
in countries with low interest costs to fund purchases in
markets with higher yields are seeing returns rebound from two-
year lows as the  Federal Reserve  and  Bank of Japan  show no
urgency to raise interest rates.  Investing the proceeds of yen loans in New Zealand dollar-
denominated assets has earned 305 percent in annual terms since
March 17, the day before the Group of Seven sold yen to help
Japan stem currency appreciation, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Borrowing in U.S. dollars to invest in Brazil reais has
earned 104 percent. The UBS V24 Carry Index rose as high as 510
this month from 486.5 on March 18, the lowest level since 2009.  The carry trade is reviving as traders step up bets that
the Fed and BOJ will keep their target interest rates at record
lows for longer than was anticipated earlier this year. While
stronger currencies may help emerging economies damp inflation,
they also risk curbing exports they rely on to bolster growth.  “The dollar and the yen are good funding currencies as
their rates are so low now,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and
currency dealer at Okasan Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “The yen is
especially ideal as  Japan  won’t be able to raise rates for a
very long period of time due to the earthquake and the
intervention may prevent the yen from rising.”  Rate Differences  The Bank of Japan’s overnight lending rate of between zero
and 0.1 percent and the federal funds target rate of zero to
0.25 percent mean investors can borrow at rates far below what
they can earn in  Australia , where the central bank cash rate is
4.75 percent, or in Brazil, whose benchmark Selic rate is 12
percent. The Australian dollar has appreciated 13 percent
against the yen since the G-7 move and the real has strengthened
by 11 percent.  Carry-trade returns soared after March 2009, as the Fed
slashed  interest rates  to revive the  U.S. economy  following the
financial crisis. The UBS V24 Carry Index soared to 538.6 in
April 2010 from about 480 a year earlier.  Returns then diminished, with the UBS index falling to
486.5 on March 18, on speculation the global economic recovery
was gaining strength. Japan’s earthquake and tsunami and a
slowdown in the U.S. quashed optimism that rates would soon rise
in the U.S, sparking more demand for carry trades. A government
report this week may show that the U.S. economy’s growth rate
likely slowed to 2 percent in the first quarter from 3.1 percent
in the final three months of 2010, according to the median of 75
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Yen, Kiwi  Investors piled into currencies including the New Zealand
dollar as the world’s major central banks pushed down the yen.
The so-called kiwi jumped 3.9 percent against the Japanese
currency on March 18. The G-7 acted after speculators betting
that Japanese insurance companies would repatriate funds to pay
for rebuilding work had sent the yen up as much as 4.7 percent
against the dollar on March 17.  The revival of the carry trade coincided with a surge in
other risky assets, with the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index rising 5.5 percent
since March 18.  Investors need to be vigilant against a sudden snap-back in
the value of funding currencies, said Minori Uchida, senior
analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. The
Australian dollar sank as much as 2.1 percent against the yen on
April 18 after  Standard & Poor’s  said it was lowering the
outlook on the U.S.’s AAA credit rating to “negative.”  “Such uncertain factors as the European sovereign problem,
geopolitical risks in Libya and Middle East and Japan’s
radiation problem need to be cleared,” Uchida said in telephone
interview. “That may take some more time.”  Reduced Estimates  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its estimate of Japan’s
growth this year on April 11 to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent.
 Brazil ’s economy may expand by 4.5 percent and Turkey’s by 4.6
percent, according to the Washington-based institution.  South
Africa ’s gross domestic product is set to expand by 3.5 percent.  The Japanese central bank has increased the supply of cheap
money since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, doubling an
asset purchase program on March 14 to 10 trillion yen and
injecting 40 trillion yen in successive one-day emergency cash
injections through March 22.  The Fed is also pumping cash into financial markets by
acquiring Treasury securities, and is due to conclude $600
billion in asset purchases in June.  “The real carry trade is in the dollar,” said  Bhanu Baweja , global head of emerging-market fixed income and foreign
exchange strategy at UBS AG in  London , “It’s not just the yen
carry trade.”  Brazil’s Defenses  Brazil will soon adopt more measures to contain the
appreciation of the real, Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said
on April 20. He accused the U.S. of “deliberately” devaluing
the dollar to boost the economy.  Since October, the government has increased taxes on
foreign capital inflows, stepped up dollar purchases in the spot
and futures market and imposed reserve requirements for banks
betting against the dollar to contain the rally of the real.  Currency strength for commodity producers and emerging
markets coincides with a slower pace of monetary tightening.  Brazil’s central bank raised the Selic rate by 0.25
percentage point on April 20, less than the 0.5 percentage point
increases at the January and March meetings. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia has held the benchmark borrowing cost unchanged for
four meetings at 4.75 percent after raising the overnight cash
rate target seven times from October 2009 to November last year.  Currency Positions  Net short positions in the Japanese yen were at the highest
level since May, 2010, according to April 5 data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission compiled by Bloomberg. A
net short position means investors have bought more contracts to
sell the yen than to buy it, and implies that overall they are
betting on a decline in the currency.  Investors’ positioning in the  New Zealand  dollar flipped
from net short before the G-7 intervention to net long
afterwards. New Zealand’s consumer price inflation accelerated
to 4.5 percent in the first quarter of the year, from 2 percent
in the same period of 2010. Brazil’s inflation was 6.3 percent
in March and South African prices rose 3.7 percent in February.  “More funds will move to higher yielding countries,” said
Kenichiro Ikezawa, a  fund manager  at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.
in Tokyo, which oversees about $54 billion in assets. “People
are probably shifting from the dollar carry to the yen carry as
it is possible the U.S. may raise rates while Japan will
probably have to keep rates low for a much longer period.”  Structural Decline  Ikezawa’s fund invests in the debt of eight countries
including  Indonesia , Brazil,  Hungary  and South Africa, Ikezawa
said. He said he expects the yen to weaken beyond 100 against
the dollar by the end of this year, he said. The yen traded at
about 81.82 per dollar yesterday in  New York .  Japan’s aging population will be compelled to send money
abroad for better returns, providing a “structural” reason for
long-term yen depreciation, Neil Jones, head of European hedge-
fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London, said in a
telephone interview on April 12.  “The BOJ has stepped up liquidity provision to the market,
and a proportion of that finds its way overseas into higher
yield,” he said.  Jones said he expects the yen to depreciate to 95 per
dollar within 12 months, and for it to lose even more value
relative to emerging currencies including the rand and the real.  Yen depreciation is positive for investors in the carry
trade because it reduces the value of the money to be repaid.  Even before the flood of cheap money, authorities in many
countries said that the strength of their currencies was eroding
export competitiveness, with Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaking of the “burdens” of a strong currency on
March 4 and Brazil’s Finance Minister Guido Mantega warning of a
“currency war” last year. Brazil announced further measures
aimed at limiting inflows of funds from abroad on April 6, when
it announced a 6 percent tax on foreign loans.  The real gained as much as 1.3 percent against the yen the
day after the move, which had been accompanied by a comment by
Mantega that Brazil’s growing economy meant more strengthening
of the real was “inevitable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  