-- 
Daughter of Singh Ally Charged as Phone-License Probe Deepens

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-04-25T13:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/daughter-of-singh-ally-charged-as-phone-license-probe-deepens.html
Investigators probing a sale of
permits to run phone services charged an Indian lawmaker who is
also the daughter of a key ally of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
in a move that may further fray coalition ties.  Kanimozhi, whose father M. Karunanidhi is the chief
minister of the southern state of  Tamil Nadu , conspired to
receive kickbacks from the 2008 sale of second-generation
airwaves, A.K. Singh, a lawyer for the  Central Bureau of
Investigation , told reporters in New Delhi today.  Karunanidhi’s  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam  is the second-
biggest partner of Singh’s Congress party in the coalition
government. The DMK has 18 lawmakers in the 545-member lower
house of parliament and six ministers in the cabinet. Kanimozhi
didn’t answer calls made to her three different mobile phone
numbers today.  Former telecommunications minister and DMK member Andimuthu Raja, two ministry officials and half a dozen company executives
are on trial in New Delhi after the CBI found they had “entered
into a conspiracy” to award the phone permits to ineligible
companies. Their acts lowered government income from the sale by
220 billion rupees ($4.9 billion), the CBI said. India’s chief
auditor put the potential loss at about $31 billion.  Three of the company executives on trial are employed by
billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance ADA Group, while two others
work for  DB Realty Ltd. (DBRL)  and one for  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  All those
charged so far deny the charges against them.  The Reliance ADA Group said April 2 that its three
employees deny the charges and have a legal presumption of
innocence pending the completion of a trial. Unitech said the
same day that it complied with applicable rules in obtaining its
licenses and that none of its employees have done anything
“inappropriate or illegal.”  Bribe Charge  India’s chief auditor reported in November that the
airwaves were sold for an “unbelievably low” price when they
may have been worth 10 times as much. Raja, who has denied any
wrongdoing, resigned Nov. 14 from Singh’s government two days
before the Comptroller and Auditor General of  India  gave its
report in parliament. Charges against Raja were today updated to
include receiving a bribe.  Raja and the two other former government officials were
charged under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The executives,
who deny the charges, are accused of “lesser offenses” under
statutes relating to conspiracy, cheating and forgery.  Singh’s Congress party and the DMK fought April 13
elections in Tamil Nadu together after at first disagreeing over
the number of seats each party would contest.  Money Trail  Today’s charges are likely to strain further relations
between the two parties ahead of the announcement of results on
May 13. Opposition protests over the phone-license sale
paralyzed parliament for an entire session late last year,
stalling legislation.  The CBI today also filed charges against Asif Yusuf Balwa,
the chief financial officer of DB Realty and the company’s
operating officer, Rajiv Agarwal, who have been held in custody
since March 29.  In today’s charges, the CBI gave details of the money trail
it says it has uncovered. Payoffs linked to the permit sale were
illegally routed to a television venture promoted by
Karunanidhi’s family, the bureau said in court documents. Sharad
Kumar, the managing director of the venture, known as  Kalaignar
Television , and Karim Morani of Cineyug Entertainment were also
charged today for their role in the scandal. Kanimozhi, Kumar
and Morani have not been arrested.  Singh’s government has been beset by corruption allegations
for months, including over  New Delhi ’s October  Commonwealth
Games . The CBI today arrested Suresh Kalmadi, the chief
organizer of the Delhi games, on charges of conspiring to
benefit a Swiss company that provided the event’s timings and
results system. Kalmadi, who has denied any wrongdoing, will
appear in court tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
P.S. Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  