-- 
Delaware Judge Who Ruled on Disney, HP to Leave Bench

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-04-25T20:12:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/delaware-chancellor-william-b-chandler-announces-retirement-from-bench.html
Delaware Chancery Court Chief Judge
William B. Chandler III, who oversaw challenges to the  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  boards as head of one of the
most important U.S. business litigation courts, is stepping
down.  Chandler, 60, a former law professor, has led the
influential five-member court since 1997 and most recently ruled
on  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) ’s hostile $5 billion bid for
 Airgas Inc. (ARG)   “I’ve served for 25 years and it’s the right time for me
to take on new opportunities and new challenges -- and it’s the
right moment for someone else to lead and steer this court,”
Chandler said in a phone interview today. Governor Jack Markell’s office said he is retiring effective June 17.  The  Delaware Chancery Court , founded in 1792, has become a
top forum for litigating business disputes because more than 60
percent of Fortune 500 companies are incorporated in the state,
according to legal experts such as  University of Pennsylvania 
law professor Jill Fisch. Companies incorporate in Delaware to
take advantage of laws that give their directors wide latitude
and to gain access to the chancery court, which provides fast-
track trials that are heard strictly by sophisticated judges.  No replacement has yet been announced for Chandler, a
resident of rural Sussex County in southern Delaware.  Chandler’s Seat  With Chandler’s departure, Judge Leo Strine becomes the
favorite to take over as chief judge, said  Charles Elson ,
director of the  University of Delaware ’s Weinberg Center for
Corporate Governance. Strine, appointed in 1998, now is the
court’s most senior judge, Elson said in an interview. He must
be nominated by Markell, a Democrat, to fill Chandler’s post and
be approved by state legislators.  Strine served as counsel to Tom Carper, a Democrat who
served as  Delaware ’s governor from 1992 until 2001. Carper is
now one of Delaware’s two senators.  Three Delaware lawyers already have expressed an interest
in filling Chandler’s seat, according to two people familiar
with the matter. The judgeship is based in Georgetown, Delaware,
located about 30 miles from the state capital in Dover.  Glasscock, Johnston  Sam Glasscock III, the current chancery court master based
in Georgetown, has shown an interest in Chandler’s seat, the
people familiar said. Glasscock said in an interview today it
was “flattering” to hear people had suggested him as a
candidate for Chandler’s seat and he’d “seriously consider”
applying for the judgeship.  Superior Court Judge Mary M. Johnston, based in Wilmington,
also has expressed an interest in succeeding Chandler as the
Chancery Court judge in Georgetown, the people said. Johnston,
who owns a home in Sussex County, applied for a 2009 vacancy on
the court filled by J. Travis Laster. Johnston didn’t return a
call seeking comment today.  Kevin Brady, a Wilmington-based litigator who handles
chancery court cases, also has expressed an interest in the
opening, the people said. Brady, who owns a home in the Sussex
County vacation community of Lewes, declined to comment on
whether he’ll apply for Chandler’s seat.  ‘Tremendous Legacy’  Before joining the court, Chandler taught for two years at
the  University of Alabama law school , was an associate with the
Wilmington, Delaware, firm Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell, and
was legal counsel to former Delaware Governor Pete du Pont.  Chandler was a Delaware Superior Court judge from 1985 to
1989, when he was appointed to the chancery court. He was named
chief judge eight years later.  “It’s going to be nearly impossible to replace him,”
Elson said. “He leaves behind a tremendous legacy. He was well-
respected across the spectrum in the financial community.”  Chandler’s leadership has burnished the chancery court’s
reputation and “made it the envy of court systems around the
country and around the world,” said Francis Pileggi, a
Wilmington-based lawyer who writes a blog about Delaware
corporate and commercial litigation.  “His tenure has made it the standard by which other
business courts are measured,” Pileggi said in an e-mailed
statement.  Besides Chandler, Strine and Laster, the court’s other
judges include Donald F. Parsons Jr. who, with Laster, sits in
Wilmington, and John W. Noble, who is stationed in Dover, the
state’s capital.  Closely Watched Cases  Chandler has handled cases closely watched by investors who
frequently have millions riding on his decision. In the Hewlett-
Packard case, ousted director Walter Hewlett claimed information
about the Compaq deal was withheld from shareholders. In 2002,
Chandler concluded that the company didn’t mislead investors,
clearing the way for the $18.5 billion merger.  In the Disney case, shareholders contended the board
violated its duties by approving severance for Michael Ovitz.
Chandler ruled in 2006 that directors properly oversaw the
firing and that Ovitz’s $140 million package wasn’t a waste of
corporate assets.  Air Products sued in Delaware after Airgas used a so-called
poison pill defense to block a hostile takeover. In February,
Chandler ruled that the pill, designed to make the acquisition
prohibitively expensive, was properly employed against Air
Products’ “low-ball bid.”  “I’ve had a great run,” Chandler said. “I’m really
excited about the possibilities in the private sector with
corporate law and  corporate governance  issues.”  Chandler and his wife, Gayle, have two children, Will and
Melody, both graduates of the  University of Delaware . Chandler
also studied there as an undergraduate and earned law degrees
from the  University of South Carolina  and  Yale Law School ,
according to his official biography.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  