-- 
Delhi’s Commonwealth Games Chief Kalmadi Arrested Over Swiss Company Order

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-04-25T12:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/delhi-s-commonwealth-games-chief-kalmadi-arrested-over-swiss-company-order.html
India  arrested the chief organizer
of October’s  Commonwealth Games  on charges of conspiring to
benefit a Swiss company that provided the event’s timings and
results system.  Suresh Kalmadi, who was removed as chairman of the
competition’s local organizing committee in January, will appear
in court tomorrow, Dharini Mishra, a spokeswoman for the  Central
Bureau of Investigation , said in  New Delhi  today.  “It is alleged that officials of the organizing committee
had conspired with representatives of the private firm in
 Switzerland , and the contract for timing, scoring and results
was awarded by wrongfully restricting and eliminating
competition from other suppliers in a premeditated and planned
manner,” Mishra said, adding the deal was agreed at an
“inflated cost” of 1.41 billion ($31.7 million).  The federal investigative agency did not name the
Switzerland-based company Mishra referred to today. Swiss
Timing, a unit of the Swatch Group, was responsible for timing
and scoring during the Oct. 3-14 Delhi Games. Swiss Timing in
December said it had not influenced the award of contract.  The 2010 Commonwealth Games, which cost the government $4.6
billion to host, attracted attention worldwide after newspaper
headlines described filthy accommodation for athletes, missed
construction deadlines, the collapse of arena footbridge and
inflated bills for event equipment.  Kalmadi, who was called in for questioning by the CBI
today, is a federal lawmaker from the ruling Congress party of
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and has denied any wrongdoing.  Phone Corruption  Besides the federal investigating agency, the Comptroller &
Auditor General of India, Central Vigilance Commission,
Enforcement Directorate and other agencies are investigating the
alleged irregularities in hosting the games.  Singh’s government has been beset by corruption allegations
for months, the most serious of which revolve around the 2008
sale of mobile-phone permits. The country’s former
telecommunications minister and company executives are now on
trial at a court in the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  