-- 
Medicare, Medicaid Must Be Part of U.S. Budget Debate, Senator Coburn Says

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-04-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/medicare-medicaid-must-be-part-of-u-s-budget-debate-senator-coburn-says.html
The effort to shrink the  U.S.
budget deficit  must include changes to the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, said Senator  Tom Coburn , one of a group of six
senators trying to strike a compromise on federal spending cuts.  “You can’t have Medicare out of the equation,” Coburn, an
Oklahoma Republican and one of the so-called Gang of Six
senators seeking a deal, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program broadcast yesterday. “You can’t have Medicaid out of
the equation. To lead on this issue and create a false predicate
that says we can solve our problems without addressing our
entitlements hurts the country.”  As part of the debate on  government spending , which
includes completing a 2012 budget, President Barack Obama has
offered the outlines of a plan to reduce the debt by $4 trillion
over 12 years through a combination of spending cuts and tax
increases.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, has proposed cutting spending by $6 trillion over a
decade in part by privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid
spending. Republicans reject Obama’s push for tax increases on
the wealthiest Americans to help reduce debt.  Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat and chairman
of the budget committee, said on “Meet the Press” that the
U.S. is “headed for a fiscal cliff” if it doesn’t address the
deficit. Conrad and Coburn, who is also on the budget committee,
are both in the bipartisan Gang of Six.  Debt Limit  Conrad said he wouldn’t support raising the government’s
$14.3 trillion debt limit for more than a year “without a plan
or a proposal or process in place to deal with the debt.” He
said he would vote for a short-term extension.  Congress is facing a vote as early as next month on raising
the debt ceiling. The Treasury Department projects that it will
hit the cap on May 16, though it could use emergency measures to
avoid default until about July 8.  Obama and members of his economic team have said that
failure to approve an increase could have dire consequences for
the  U.S. economy  and financial markets.  Mark Kirk , an Illinois Republican on the Appropriations
Committee, said yesterday on CBS’ “Face the Nation” program
that the “best play here” is to attach raising the limit to
whatever emerges from the Gang of Six. “That would be huge cuts
in the future spending of the United States that may be a good
deal,” he said.  Unless he sees “comprehensive, dramatic, effective and
broad-based cuts to federal spending, including the reform of
entitlement spending,” Kirk said he would vote no. “We should
not send a blank check to the administration.”  ‘Catastrophic’ for Economy  Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat who also
appeared on the program, said “unequivocally yes” that the
limit should be raised. Failure to do so “would be catastrophic
for our economy.”  Representative Joe Walsh, a freshman  Illinois  Republican,
told CBS that unless Washington agrees to “cut up this  credit
card ,” he can’t support extending the ceiling.  “Three or four times over the course of the last 20 years,
Congress has voted not to raise the debt ceiling, and it’s taken
a few months and then they’ve come together and they’ve raised
it,” Walsh said. “When the debt ceiling wasn’t raised,
Armageddon didn’t hit. The government paid its bills.”  The Gang of Six -- three Republicans and three Democrats --
also includes Democratic senators  Mark Warner  of Virginia and
Dick Durbin of Illinois as well as Republican senators Saxby Chambliss of Georgia and Mike Crapo of Idaho.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  