-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall on Commodities Drop, Higher Rate Speculation

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-25T21:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/emerging-market-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-acer-slumps-kia-gains.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
cutting into four days of gains for the benchmark index, on
concern central banks will raise interest rates and as
commodities prices dropped, dimming the outlook for producers.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,203.75.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.5 percent as
higher  oil prices  fanned concern inflation will accelerate and
spur further monetary tightening. Russia’s Micex Index dropped
1.3 percent and Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 0.1 percent.  “Interest rate uncertainty in Asia,  Singapore ’s inflation
and a weak  U.S. dollar  equal higher imported inflation for Asia
and stronger currencies,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director
of Parry International Trading Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  Singapore’s inflation held at 5 percent in March as housing
and transportation costs surged, supporting the central bank’s
decision this month to allow further currency appreciation.
Asian central banks from China to Thailand and India are raising
interest rates or allowing their currencies to gain to curb
price pressures as oil and food costs rise. Brazil’s central
bank raised its benchmark interest rate less than forecast last
week, prompting speculation that the bank hasn’t finished its
tightening cycle.  Asian stocks fell as  Acer Inc. (2353)  lost 3.1 percent in Taipei
after first-quarter net income tumbled 64 percent to NT$1.2
billion ($41 million), lower than the NT$1.74 billion average of
nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Information
technology shares were the biggest drag on the MSCI index. Kia
Motors Corp. rose 3.2 percent in Seoul. The company sold a
record 565,355 vehicles in the first quarter, a 20.2 percent
increase from a year earlier, Yonhap News reported, citing a
company investor relations document.  Dubai Decline  In the Middle East, Dubai’s benchmark index dropped for a
second day, declining 1.6 percent after Emaar Properties PJSC
said first-quarter profit tumbled 45 percent, trailing analysts’
estimates. Emaar, the builder of the world’s tallest skyscraper,
retreated 2.9 percent.  Crude futures tumbled as much as 1.1 percent to $111.08 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after reaching
$113.48 a barrel, the highest price since Sept. 2, 2008, on
concern Middle East unrest will disrupt supplies. Syrian
security forces detained at least 200 people following the
killing of anti-government protesters and U.S. Senator John McCain said rebels in Libya need more assistance in the fight
against Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.  OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, dropped 1.2
percent in Moscow. Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-
controlled oil producer, fell 0.4 percent.  Brazil Rate  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has advanced 16 percent in
the past 12 months on speculation earnings growth will withstand
monetary policy tightening among developing nations. Companies
in the index are valued at an average 11.7 times estimated
earnings.  Brazilian policy makers, led by central bank President
Alexandre Tombini, voted 5-2 to raise the Selic rate by a
quarter point to 12 percent from 11.75 percent on April 20,
surprising the majority of 58 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
most of whom forecast a 0.5 percentage point increase.  Among other technology shares,  Coretronic Corp. (5371)  fell 2.5
percent in Taipei after first-quarter net income slumped 39
percent to NT$593 million.  Mando Corp. (060980) , a maker of automotive parts, surged 11 percent
in Seoul after Kayaba Industry Co. said the two companies will
start a venture in Brazil to make shock absorbers. Hyundai
Engineering Plastics Co., a maker of polypropylene compounds to
produce automobile parts, jumped 15 percent.  South Korean automakers also gained on speculation they
will win sales lost by Japanese rivals.  Japan ’s Mazda Motor
Corp. said domestic production fell by 54 percent in March after
a record earthquake and tsunami disrupted supply chains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 