-- 
Tepco Pumps Tainted Water From Reactor Trenches, Adds Backup Power Cables

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-04-25T07:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/tepco-pumps-14-percent-of-contaminated-water-from-trenches-1-.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. pumped
highly radioactive water from trenches at its crippled nuclear
plant, and said it expects to complete installing additional
cables to supply backup power to the station’s six reactors.  The company known as Tepco moved 1.41 million liters
(372,000 gallons) of the water from the reactor No. 2 building,
about 14 percent of the total, to a storage unit by 7 a.m. local
time today, spokesman Takashi Kurita said at a media briefing in
Tokyo. About 10 million liters is expected to be transferred
over 26 days, the company said on April 19.  Tepco is battling radiation leaks from its Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant after a magnitude-9 earthquake on March 11 unleashed
a tsunami that flooded the station, triggering the worst nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl in 1986. The water that was poured to
cool the reactors must be removed to repair the pumps and backup
generators knocked out by the tsunami.  “While not stable yet, things are generally moving in the
right direction,” Penn Bowers, a Tokyo-based analyst for CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets, said by telephone today. “I’m not sure
we’re going to see any major corner being turned at this point.
There’s going to be a slow grind, probably for months.”  Tepco plans to connect power cables linking the plant’s six
reactors today, Teruaki Kobayashi, the company’s head of nuclear
maintenance, said at today’s briefing. The reactors are
currently connected in pairs to external power sources.  The company’s shares rose 8.4 percent to 438 yen in Tokyo,
their first gain in eight days. The stock has declined almost 80
percent since the quake and tsunami, which left about 26,000
people dead or missing.  Resignation Undecided  Tepco President Masataka Shimizu told Japanese lawmakers he
hasn’t decided when to resign to take responsibility for the
crisis. Shimizu was asked by lawmaker Teruhiko Mashiko when he
will submit his resignation while appearing today before a
budget committee of the Japanese parliament.  Board members will have their pay cut by 50 percent after
the accident, the Nikkei newspaper reported today, without
saying where it got the information.  The company has been criticized by the government for
responding too slowly to the crisis that unfolded at the
Fukushima plant after the tsunami washed ashore.  Tepco poured millions of liters of water to cool the
reactors and spent fuel after the accident, causing flooding in
the basements and trenches near the buildings that house them.
Some highly contaminated water leaked into the sea and the
utility has dumped less-toxic fluids into the ocean.  Contaminated Water  “We will continue pouring water until stable cooling
conditions for the reactors have been achieved,” Shimizu told
lawmakers in parliament today.  About 50 million liters of other contaminated water is
estimated to be lying around reactors No. 1, 2 and 3, the
company said on April 5.  About 520,000 liters of water with a level of radioactivity
that was 20,000 times the legal limit leaked into the ocean
between April 1 and 6, Junichi Matsumoto, a Tepco general
manager, said last week.  The central government last week started enforcing a no-
entry zone within 20 kilometers (12 miles) of the Fukushima
plant as a public health measure after residents returned to the
area to check their homes.  The station, where three of the reactors are damaged, is
located about 220 kilometers north of Tokyo.  An earlier directive asking about 80,000 residents living
within the 20-kilometer radius to evacuate wasn’t legally
binding. One person per household will be allowed to return to
their homes for two-hour periods to retrieve possessions.  Japan ’s government on April 12 raised the severity rating
of the Fukushima crisis to the highest on an international
scale, the same level as the Chernobyl disaster 25 years ago.
Tepco officials have said the station, which has withstood
hundreds of aftershocks, may release more radiation than
Chernobyl before the crisis is contained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
-0- Apr/25/ :19 GMT 