-- 
Merck’s Hepatitis C Drug Increases Cure Rates in Clinical Trial, FDA Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-25T20:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/merck-s-hepatitis-c-drug-boosts-cure-rates-fda-reviewers-say.html
Merck & Co.’s experimental
hepatitis C drug cures more patients than current therapies,
according to U.S. regulators considering whether to clear the
first treatment for the liver disease in more than a decade.  Boceprevir, combined with standard treatments, worked
better than those drugs alone in clinical trials, Food and Drug
Administration staff said today in a  preliminary review  on the
agency’s website. Outside advisers to the FDA will meet April 27
to evaluate the findings.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , is among
about a dozen companies seeking to offer hepatitis C drugs with
better results and fewer side effects than current treatments.
FDA advisers will meet April 28 to review a similar drug from
 Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)   “In general, we agreed with the applicant’s analysis of
the primary efficacy endpoint” of boceprevir in patients for
whom prior treatments had failed, FDA staff said in today’s
report. The drug also worked in patients who hadn’t previously
been treated for the disease.  The drug’s side effects in clinical studies included
increased frequency and severity of anemia, according to the FDA
staff report. The agency asked its advisory panel to weigh the
drug’s benefits against those risks.  Sales of boceprevir may surpass $604 million in 2013,
according to the average estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Merck rose 29 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $34.33 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Vertex
fell $1.33, or 2.7 percent, to $48.04 in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading.  No Vaccine  About  170 million  people worldwide have hepatitis C, a
bloodborne disease that can lead to liver cirrhosis and cancer,
according to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in
Atlanta. No vaccine exists for the virus, which is commonly
spread through needle-sharing and can be transmitted sexually in
rare cases.  The current standard therapy for hepatitis C requires
almost a year of treatment and cures less than half of patients,
said  Donald Jensen , director of the Center for Liver Diseases at
the  University of Chicago Medical Center .  That treatment combines the antiviral drug ribavirin with
peginterferon, an immune-boosting protein sold by Merck as
PegIntron and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  as Pegasys. The FDA approved
PegIntron in 2001 and Pegasys in 2002.  Merck’s drug, and a competing treatment from Vertex called
telaprevir, “clearly have the ability to revolutionize the
therapy for hepatitis C,” Jensen said April 19 in an interview.  Protease Inhibitors  Separate clinical trials showed both drugs, so-called
protease inhibitors, cured more patients in less time when used
in combination with standard therapy. Both medicines are likely
to win FDA approval and may reach the market in May or June,
said  Geoffrey Porges , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York.  A Merck-funded study found that almost half of patients on
boceprevir were able to shorten their treatment duration by 12
to 20 weeks, Merck said March 30 in a statement. Merck’s
research also concluded that boceprevir combined with standard
therapy cured 64 percent of chronic hepatitis-C patients for
whom previous treatments had failed, compared with 21 percent of
those who took peginterferon and ribavirin alone.  Among hepatitis C patients who were new to treatment, 65
percent of those who took boceprevir, and 38 percent on standard
therapy alone, were cured.  Vertex’s Drug  FDA staff plan to release a separate evaluation tomorrow of
Vertex’s telaprevir. Vertex said March 31 that its drug cured 86
percent of patients in a  trial  who had previously relapsed after
standard therapy, compared with 24 percent who only took
peginterferon and ribavirin.  Another company-funded study found that the drug cured 75
percent of patients who were new to treatment and took it for 12
weeks, compared with 44 percent of those on standard therapy
alone, Vertex said March 31 in a statement.  Merck’s drug, unlike Vertex’s, requires patients to first
take peginterferon and ribavirin alone for four weeks. The
protocol will help doctors gauge how well the new drug is likely
to work in each patient and personalize treatment, said Eliav Barr, vice president of infectious diseases at Merck Research
Laboratories.  “We were interested in making sure no patient gets
boceprevir before we have the opportunity to know whether the
patient can actually tolerate” the standard therapy, Barr said
April 20 in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  