-- 
Tetangco Says Philippines ‘Studying’ Yuan for Diversification

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-04-25T02:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/tetangco-says-philippines-studying-yuan-for-diversification.html
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
Governor Amando Tetangco said Philippine policy makers are
“carefully studying” yuan bonds to diversify reserves. He gave
the comments in an email reply on April 21. A Philippine
government statement on April 12 quoted Tetangco as saying that
Asian central banks have agreed to look for new avenues for
diversification. Gross international reserves climbed to almost
$66 billion in March, an all-time high.  On the composition of reserves:  “More than half of BSP’s international reserves is in U.S.
dollars. The next biggest allocations are to the Japanese yen
and gold. We also have euros and recently added Australian
dollars.”  “BSP determines the allocation of its reserves by
evaluating the composition of the country’s external debt and
import requirements, as well as liabilities. We also take into
account the currency that is most actively used in the local
market, and the holdings of gold of other central banks in the
world, as a percentage of reserves.”  “The BSP continues to review the composition to explore
ways to diversify our holdings, with due consideration to the
fundamental structure of our economy, while at the same time
adhering to our investment guidelines of achieving liquidity,
security and yield, in that order.”  On possible investment in emerging-markets, including  China :  “Generally, investors continue to favor investments in
emerging markets such as the BRICS given the situation in the
developed markets. Just like other central banks, the BSP
continues to review its reserve management framework to
determine if it can expand the investment universe to further
diversify its reserve holdings.”  “Investment in yuan-denominated bonds is a possible option
for diversification that we want to study. We will review if
such is consistent with our mandate. If it is allowed under the
Charter, the BSP will need the Monetary Board’s approval. We
also have to comply with related requirements of the Chinese
government.”  Yuan bonds are being considered “given the importance of
China as a growth driver in the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  