-- 
Electronic Cigarettes to be Regulated as Tobacco Products, U.S. FDA Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-25T22:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/fda-to-regulate-electronic-cigarettes-as-tobacco-products-1-.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  plans to oversee electronic cigarettes marketed
for non-therapeutic use as tobacco products after a court ruled
the products can’t be regulated as drugs or medical devices.  The FDA will propose subjecting e-cigarette companies to
rules that already cover the makers of regular cigarettes, such
as providing the government with lists of product ingredients,
the agency said today in a  letter  on its website.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  said in December
the FDA can regulate e-cigarettes only as tobacco products if
they aren’t marketed for therapeutic purposes. The ruling meant
that while the agency can review new e-cigarette products before
they go on sale, it can’t require manufacturers to conduct the
types of animal and human studies mandated for FDA approval of
drugs or medical devices.  “The government has decided not to seek further review of
this decision, and FDA will comply with the jurisdictional lines
established” by the ruling,  Lawrence Deyton , director of the
agency’s Center for Tobacco Products, and  Janet Woodcock ,
director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in
today’s letter.  Defining ‘Therapeutic’  The agency is considering whether to issue rules or
industry guidance on what types of marketing would qualify as a
“therapeutic” claim, Deyton and Woodcock said.  E-cigarettes the FDA determines are marketed for
therapeutic purposes “will continue to be regulated as drugs
and/or devices,” the FDA said in a separate summary of today’s
letter on its  website .  The agency last year warned five e-cigarette companies that
they were illegally marketing their products as smoking-
cessation aids without obtaining prior approval from the FDA as
drug-delivery devices.  Deyton and Woodcock didn’t say in their letter whether any
e-cigarette companies are still making therapeutic claims.
 Jeffrey Ventura , an agency spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Sottera Inc., a closely held e-cigarette maker doing
business as  Njoy  and based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , argued in the
federal lawsuit that its products -- battery-powered devices
that generate a nicotine vapor instead of smoke -- are tobacco
products and not drugs. E-cigarettes are marketed as a tobacco
alternative for “smoking pleasure,” rather than for
therapeutic uses, the company said.  Sottera’s Response  “We look forward to working with the FDA toward the
creation of a regulatory framework that we can all work under
together,” Sottera President Craig Weiss said today in a
telephone interview. The company doesn’t make any health or
therapeutic claims and will “flourish in a regulatory
environment,” Weiss said.  The e-cigarette consists of a battery, a heating element
and a cartridge that contains a liquid suspension with nicotine.
When a user inhales from the cartridge, the liquid is heated and
a vapor is emitted. The nicotine is obtained from tobacco
plants.  Smokers spend $1.2 billion on smoking-cessation products
and $80 billion on cigarettes a year, according to the  U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  The FDA had said in court filings that e-cigarettes may
work with smokers the way methadone clinics wean heroin addicts
by giving them a less harmful form of an addictive substance.  Alternative to Smoking  Proponents of e-cigarettes say they provide an alternative
to traditional cigarettes that may be less harmful because they
don’t produce smoke.  Anti-smoking groups including the  American Lung Association 
had urged the FDA to suspend sales of e-cigarettes unless
manufacturers proved their safety and effectiveness in clinical
trials.  Smoking-cessation products approved as drugs by the FDA
include prescription nasal sprays and over-the-counter gums,
patches and lozenges.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Nicorette gum was the top-selling
brand-name nicotine replacement drug for the year ended in June,
with $144.6 million in sales, or 12 percent of the $1.2 billion
smoking-cessation market, according to IMS Health Inc., a
research company in Norwalk,  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Walsh at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  