-- 
Ford to Post Highest Earnings Since 1998 on Sales of Fuel-Efficient Autos

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-04-25T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/ford-quarterly-profit-may-climb-as-fuel-efficient-models-gain.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, may report its largest first-quarter profit
since 1998 tomorrow as fuel-efficient new models helped sales
gain amid surging U.S. gasoline prices.  Profit excluding some items may have climbed to 50 cents a
share, according to the average of 14 analysts’ estimates, from
46 cents a year earlier. Net income may have risen to $2.1
billion, the average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, and the most since a $17.6 billion profit in the
first quarter of 1998.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has worked to boost
fuel economy, and sales of more efficient new models such as the
Fiesta subcompact and Explorer sport-utility vehicle have risen
as gas prices gained this year. Investors remain concerned that
surging fuel costs may hurt  consumer confidence  and car sales,
said Gary Bradshaw, a  fund manager  at Hodges Capital Management.  “I don’t feel as good as I would if I was filling up at
the pump for $2.89 instead of $3.89 a gallon,” said Bradshaw,
whose Dallas-based firm owns about 200,000 Ford shares. “I
still think Ford’s lineup will weather the storm. They’re better
prepared this time.”  The rising gas prices have contributed to an 8.1 percent
decline in Ford’s shares this year that was worsened by the
automaker’s fourth-quarter profit trailing analysts’ average
estimate by 38 percent, said  Brian Johnson , a Chicago-based
analyst with  Barclays Capital .  ‘Level of Worry’  “There’s a healthy level of worry out there,” said
Johnson, who rates Ford “overweight” and predicts first-
quarter profit of 57 cents a share. “It would be good for them
to actually come in with a good number. It would be helpful in
putting to rest fears” about fuel prices and the March 11
earthquake in  Japan .  While the quake has prompted Ford to sporadically shut down
some factories to conserve components that are in short supply,
Mulally has said the disaster won’t affect earnings.  “Even though we might slow down or even stop temporarily
some of these specific operations, it would have no material
impact,” he told reporters in  Detroit  on April 13. “We have
not said anything about any of this affecting our earnings.”  Mulally said Ford is better able to cope with rising fuel
prices than in 2008, when an overdependence on trucks and sport-
utility vehicles hurt the automaker’s sales as U.S. gasoline
peaked at $4.11 a gallon. Regular unleaded gasoline averaged
$3.84 a gallon in the U.S. on April 20, a 34 percent gain from a
year earlier, according to AAA.  Profits Rebound  Ford, which had $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through
2008, earned $6.56 billion last year as Mulally expanded the
lineup with a focus on fuel economy. The Fiesta gets as much as
40 miles per gallon in highway driving, and the redesign of the
Explorer sport-utility vehicle boosted its fuel efficiency about
30 percent, Mulally said.  Explorer sales more than doubled in the first quarter, and
Fiesta deliveries in March were more than twice its sales in
January.  “With the fuel prices moving up, we now have the vehicles
that people want,” Mulally said. “The largest vehicles are
slowing down a little bit, but all these smaller ones from Ford
are now available.”  Ford rose 34 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $15.43 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading on April 21. The shares gained
68 percent in 2010.  Ford may benefit from the earthquake because it is having a
greater impact on the production of Japanese automakers such as
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Johnson said. That will give Ford an
opportunity to sell more of its new small models and command
higher prices because fuel-efficient cars are in short supply.  ‘Better Cars’  “We estimate Toyota’s production will be cut by more than
50 percent, which creates a share gain and pricing opportunity
for Ford,” Johnson said. “Ford has better cars and better
price points on their product line” than during the last fuel
price surge in 2008.  The average price consumers paid for Ford’s models rose 2.6
percent in the first quarter,  George Pipas , the automaker’s
sales analyst, said on an April 1 conference call. Consumers
paid an average of $31,508 for Ford models in the first quarter,
a 3.9 percent gain from $30,319 last year, according to  Santa
Monica , California-based researcher Edmunds.com.  “We’re fairly comfortable that their earnings power will
be turning around,” said Johnson, who estimates share gains and
higher prices may add $1.6 billion to Ford earnings this year.  Market Share  Ford fell short of its U.S. retail market share goal in the
first quarter, according to the automaker’s federal filings.
Ford had 13.6 percent of the U.S. retail auto market in the
quarter, which excludes sales to fleet buyers, trailing the 14.1
percent target set by the company’s board.  Ford’s total U.S. market share fell to 16.2 percent from
16.8 percent, according to Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New
Jersey . Ford’s U.S. sales rose 16 percent in the first quarter,
excluding the Volvo Cars unit it sold last year, and trailed the
industrywide gain of 20 percent, Autodata said.  Ford, which surpassed  General Motors Co. (GM)  in sales in March
for the second time in 13 years, won’t resort to heavy discounts
to reverse its share losses, Mulally said. GM increased sales
incentives 11 percent in the first quarter, while Ford reduced
them 9.1 percent, according to Autodata.  “The most important thing about our plan is profitable
growth,” Mulally said. “We will always be very disciplined
about our production and our pricing and have the pricing
reflect the real demand and inherent value of the product.”  Ford’s pretax profit may rise to $2.24 billion in the first
quarter, from $2.14 billion last year, according to the average
of five analysts’ estimates. Revenue may fall to $30.8 billion,
the average of eight analysts’ estimates, from $31.6 billion
last year.  Ford Borrowing  Ford avoided the government bailouts and bankruptcies that
befell the predecessors of GM and Chrysler Group LLC in 2009.
Ford borrowed $23 billion in late 2006, after Mulally arrived
from Boeing Co. and before credit markets froze. The automaker
put up all major assets as collateral, including the Ford logo,
and used the funds to develop the more fuel-efficient lineup.  “I’m betting with Ford management, that they’ve made the
right calls for the long term and have good products,” Bradshaw
said. “These higher prices for oil may be here forever and
we’re just going to have to deal with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 