-- 
General Mills Shares, Options Climb on Takeover Speculation

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-04-25T20:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/general-mills-shares-options-climb-on-takeover-speculation-1-.html
General Mills Inc. (GIS)  climbed to the
highest level since June and options traders boosted bullish
wagers on speculation that the maker of Cheerios cereal and
Progresso soup may be acquired by  Nestle SA. (NESN)   The shares climbed 0.8 percent to $38.21 as of 4 p.m. in
New York, while the most-active bullish options were May $39
calls, which accounted for almost half of all bullish trades.
The shares have climbed 7.4 percent this year.  “The call volume isn’t massive, but it’s piqued some
interest,” said Jamie Lissette, founder of the Hammerstone
Group, a Westport, Connecticut-based operator of online
discussion  forums  for investors. “There’s been a lot
consolidation in the food names recently, and people are
thinking Nestle may come in and buy a large U.S. food company.”  There is increased options volume today amid
“unsubstantiated takeover rumors,” according to a report from
options strategists at Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP in  Bala
Cynwyd ,  Pennsylvania .  Tom Forsythe, a spokesman for Minneapolis-based General
Mills, and Robin Tickle, a spokesman for Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle, both declined to comment.  “The Nestle-for-General Mills chatter won’t fade away,”
said Alec Levine, a strategist at Wallachbeth Capital LLC in New
York. “It’s been previously speculated that Nestle may be
interested, and these options are a cheap way to play that
possibility.”  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 