-- 
Give Me Life, Liberty and a Tank of Cheap Gas: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-04-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/give-me-life-liberty-and-a-tank-of-cheap-gas-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
When President  Barack Obama  took
his deficit-reduction show on the road last week, he found
audiences had more on their minds than spending cuts and tax
increases.  “What are you doing about gas prices?” someone at a town-
hall-style meeting at North Virginia Community College in
Annandale wanted to know.  The reaction of town-hall attendees to soaring gas prices,
which hit a nation-wide average of $3.84 last week, probably
isn’t much different than that of ordinary Americans, who are
devoting a bigger chunk of the household budget to filling the
tank.  What exactly do folks have in mind when they ask the
president what he’s doing about  oil prices , which are set by the
market? Do they want him to respond with, “Drill baby drill”?  I doubt it. Environmentalists haven’t warmed up to oil
exploration and drilling since last year’s Deepwater Horizon
explosion in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Maybe the public wants more hydraulic fracturing to extract
the vast supplies of natural gas from the Marcellus Shale
formation in the Appalachian Basin, which would reduce demand
for oil-based products? Not in my backyard, thank you.  Or, was the question about gas prices a sign of support for
the administration’s clean energy initiatives? Not unless
windmills can power autos.  I’ve got it! Along with life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness, Americans want a guarantee of cheap gas prices. All
that stuff about us wanting less government in our lives, the
take-away from the 2010 mid-term election, is just a bunch of
hooey.  Presidential Staple  With his  approval rating  heading in the opposite direction
of gas prices, Obama devoted his Saturday  radio address  to the
issue. After accusing politicians of being disingenuous when
they create the appearance of doing something about high gas
prices, the president leveled with us:  “There’s no silver bullet that can bring down gas prices
right away,” he said.  Just two days earlier, he had announced the formation of a
 task force  to root out “cases of fraud and manipulation in the
oil markets” -- a favorite presidential tactic that creates the
appearance of doing something about high gas prices.  If the current situation adheres to the standard script,
the Senate will invite executives of Big Oil to testify about
Big Profits at a time when ordinary Americans are hurting.  Grassroots Effort  None of it is likely to alleviate high gas prices, which
aren’t the root of the problem anyway. Americans have a
fundamental philosophical dilemma over what we want from our
government. In good times, we want an arms-length relationship.
In bad times, we want a nanny looking out for us. We can’t have
it both ways. This mind-set needs to change.  Last week, after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook to
negative for America’s AAA long-term sovereign credit rating, I
asked Nikola Swann, the primary credit analyst on the report,
about recent parallels. He told me that, in the mid-1990s, both
S&P and Moody’s downgraded  Canada ’s credit rating (from AAA to
AA+ and Aa2, respectively), as a result of the country’s
deteriorating fiscal situation, the lack of a plan to deal with
it and a reliance on external borrowing.  O Canada  Canada’s deficit as a share of gross domestic product had,
in the early ‘90s, ballooned to 9.1 percent, and public debt had
risen to 68.4 percent of GDP. By comparison, the U.S.’s  publicly
held debt  is expected to reach 72 percent of GDP this year,
according to the White House Office of Management and Budget.  Canada worked hard to regain its AAA status in 2002.  “Canadians felt embarrassed by the downgrade, which helped
build grassroots support for fiscal discipline,” Swann said.  The groundswell of public support to do whatever it would
take to get Canada’s fiscal house in order started with the
ouster of the ruling Progressive Conservative Party and the
installation of the  Liberal Party . Prime Minister Jean Chretien
and Finance Minister Paul Martin slashed federal spending by 20
percent. Provincial and local governments came to see balancing
the budget as a virtue. By 1998, Canada went from chronic budget
deficits to a surplus.  I’ve heard a lot of emotions expressed about the U.S.
fiscal stalemate, but embarrassment isn’t one of them.  Instead,  opinion polls  consistently show that Americans
don’t want cuts in their Medicare and Social Security benefits.
They don’t want to pay higher taxes. The one thing most
Americans favor is raising taxes on the rich.  The trouble is, there aren’t enough rich folks to provide
for our unlimited wants. Once people accept this, then the
government can proceed with a deficit-reduction plan. If we
can’t send a message to  Washington  that we are willing to accept
sacrifices, then we’re the ones who should be embarrassed.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  