-- 
Goldman Sachs Creditor Group Files Payment Plan for Lehman

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-25T21:55:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/goldman-creditor-group-files-lehman-liquidation-plan-to-rival-paulson-s.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  creditors, including Morgan
Stanley and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , filed a liquidation plan for
the defunct company that would give their group more money than
two other proposals for allotting $61 billion among creditors.  The rival plan, filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan , is the second that Lehman Chief Executive Officer
Bryan Marsal must contend with as he tries to end the 2 1/2-
year-old bankruptcy case. The group, which includes Silver Point
Capital LP and banks with derivatives claims on Lehman, filed
its plan about four months after bondholders including Paulson &
Co. and the  California  Public Employees’ Retirement System
submitted a competing proposal.  Under the Goldman Sachs group’s plan, derivatives creditors
of Lehman’s special financing unit would get 26 cents on the
dollar, up from 22.3 cents in Lehman’s proposal. They would
boost their payout by another 15 cents after claiming more money
under a guarantee from the Lehman parent. The losers would be
senior bondholders, who would get 21.4 cents from Lehman and 16
cents from the group including Goldman Sachs, which is the
fourth-largest U.S. bank.  The plan “fully respects the best view of the legal rights
and obligations of all entities and constituencies,” the group
said in the filing. It “also provides the only practical path
toward confirmation.”  Bondholder ‘Windfall’  Lehman’s plan would give bondholders more than they’re
entitled to, the group said. “This windfall is unprincipled,”
according to the filing.  Dan Kamensky, a senior vice president at Paulson, a New
York-based hedge fund, declined to comment.  Kimberly Macleod , a
Lehman spokeswoman, said the company is reviewing the Goldman
Sachs group filing.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman,
declined to comment.  The group of about 19 Lehman creditors includes State
Street Bank & Trust Co., Oaktree Capital Management LP,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  Goldman Sachs filed two claims totaling $2.5 billion
against a Lehman unit that financed derivatives transactions,
according to claims records.  Lehman, which collapsed in 2008 in the biggest bankruptcy
in U.S. history, faces opposition to the way it will apportion
among creditors the $61 billion it aims to raise as it
liquidates assets. It amended its plan in January, taking money
from derivatives creditors to pay bondholders more after the
group including Paulson filed a rival proposal.  Allowable Claims  Marsal seeks to reduce allowable claims to $322 billion,
according to court filings. That would give the average Lehman
creditor 18.6 cents on the dollar. Lehman, once the fourth-
largest investment bank, aims to win a bankruptcy judge’s
approval for a plan in November.  Offering its plan, the Goldman- Morgan Stanley (MS)  group said
Lehman was run through separate subsidiaries whose borrowing
arrangements -- including guarantees -- should be preserved in a
liquidation. The Paulson-Calpers group would treat Lehman more
like a single company, canceling parent guarantees and inter-
company debt and paying creditors more equally.  Discussing the prospect of a Goldman Sachs plan last month,
John Beiers, chief deputy county counsel for San Mateo County in
California, told Bloomberg that big banks were “taking a
position that adversely impacts” bondholders such as San Mateo
County, which is owed $155 million by Lehman.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 