-- 
Greece Haircut for Bondholders Already Overdue: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-04-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/greece-haircut-for-bondholders-already-overdue-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
No cakes, party games or music. As
 Greece  last weekend marked the passing of the first year since
it was forced to seek a bailout from its fellow euro members,
the mood could hardly have been more somber.  Bond yields soared to fresh highs. The cost of insuring
against a Greek default rose to a record. The  finance ministry 
started a criminal investigation into bank employees spreading
rumors of an imminent restructuring.  In fact, Greece should have celebrated the anniversary of
the rescue package in a different way -- by announcing it was
repudiating some of its debts.  The sooner Greece imposes a haircut, to use the financial
market’s term for losses incurred in a default, the better it
will be for everyone. Delay leads to bigger haircuts, and
economic research suggests the bigger the haircut, the worse the
pain that follows. The damage being inflicted on the  Greek
economy  is too great. And once defaults within the euro area are
accepted, a sensible conversation about how to fix the single
currency can begin.  Over the last week, the prices in the market make it clear
that most traders have already concluded that a Greek default is
a done deal. The yield on two-year Greek debt rose higher than
22 percent at the end of last week. Only the most sharkish
credit company charges those kinds of rates. Ten-year bond
yields are now close to 15 percent. The cost of insuring Greek
sovereign debt jumped to a record, with the prices of credit-
default swaps now suggesting there is a 67 percent chance of
default.  No Point  In reality, there isn’t much point in buying the
protection. It’s like insuring yourself against the possibility
it might rain in  London  in the next year. It’s going to happen;
it’s just a question of when.  Officials in Athens and Brussels are still insisting that
default isn’t an option. They should quit pretending. Here’s
why.  The markets portray defaults as catastrophic, mainly
because the bankers and fund managers who provide most of the
commentary stand to lose a lot of money. In fact, countries fail
to pay back their debts all the time. What does make a
difference, however, is the size of the haircut.  Future Punishment  A  paper  presented at the Royal Economic Society conference
in London this month by Juan Cruces and Christoph Trebesch
studied all the debt restructurings between countries and
foreign banks and bondholders since 1970 -- a total of 202 cases
in 68 nations. It found that “restructurings involving higher
haircuts (lower recovery rates) are associated with
significantly higher subsequent spreads (borrowing cost) and
longer periods of capital market exclusion.” In other words,
the worse the losses inflicted on the bondholders, the more the
markets will punish you later on, and the longer it will be
before you can access the capital markets again.  Greece’s debt position is worsening. Delay isn’t an option.
It would be better to impose a 40 percent or 50 percent loss on
bondholders this year than a 70 percent or 80 percent loss in
2013.  Next, the damage being inflicted on the Greek economy right
now is catastrophic. Unemployment is set to rise above 15
percent this year. The central bank  estimates  the economy will
shrink by another 3 percent in 2011, even though the rest of the
global economy is experiencing a sustained if modest recovery.  Spending Cuts  The government is still reducing spending -- another 22
billion euros ($32 billion) of cuts were announced this month --
which will only depress the economy further. There is very
little sign yet that exports can make up for the fall in
domestic demand. You can’t just cut your way out of this crisis.
At some point, the Greek economy needs to start growing again.
So far, no one has explained how that is going to happen.  Lastly, once Greece has defaulted, a serious conversation
can begin about how to reassemble the euro area. Plan A was to
rescue Greece, arrange a bailout, get the country back on track
and stop the contagion. It’s as clear as day that it hasn’t
worked. Greece isn’t showing signs of recovery, and both Ireland
and  Portugal  have had to apply for bailouts as well. If that
doesn’t persuade people to switch to Plan B, it’s hard to know
what will.  Greece should bow to the inevitable, announce a 50 percent
haircut on its debt and impose a three-year suspension of
interest payments on what remains outstanding. Bondholders could
be offered further payments, linked to economic growth, so that
as Greece recovers, they get a bit more of their money back.  With the money saved on debt repayment, Greece could start
restructuring its economy, putting demand back into the system,
and focusing on creating the competitive export industries that
are the only thing that will enable it to survive within the
euro. The rest of  Europe  could stop fighting a losing battle to
rescue Greece from default, and start concentrating instead on
how to make the euro area work better.  There is no point in drawing out the agony any longer --and
certainly not until the second birthday of the bailout package.
It should be done by the end of May, and then everyone can move
on.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  