-- 
Apple, Google Privacy Meeting Sought By Illinois’s Madigan

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-26T00:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/illinois-attorney-general-seeks-meeting-with-apple-google.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
executives were asked to meet with Illinois Attorney General
Lisa Madigan to discuss reports their products collect, store
and can relay information about users’ locations.  Madigan wrote to both companies asking what information
they store, its purposes and for how long, according to a
statement issued today by her office.  “I want to know whether consumers have been informed of
what is being tracked and stored by Apple and Google and whether
those tracking and storage features can be disabled,” Madigan
said in the statement.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , is the maker of
iPhone mobile telephones and iPad tablet computers, each of
which was cited in the attorney general’s statement, as was the
Android software developed by Google for use in mobile phones.  Alasdair Allan, a senior research fellow in astronomy at
the U.K.’s University of Exeter, and former Apple software
engineer Pete Warden in an April 20 report said the Apple
products’ operating software collects latitude and longitude
coordinates along with the dates and times the points are
visited.  The tracking, probably based on the location of nearby
mobile-phone towers, raises security and privacy questions,
Allan and Warden wrote. The information can total tens of
thousands of data points and isn’t encrypted, they said. There
is no evidence it is being shared, according to their report.  European Probes  The report prompted investigations by regulators in France,
 Germany ,  Italy  and  South Korea .  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, didn’t return a call
seeking comment on the Illinois attorney general’s announcement.  Google gathers some data for its location features, said
Chris Gaither, a company spokesman.  “All location sharing on Android is opt-in by the user,”
Gaither said today in an e-mail. “We provide users with notice
and control over the collection, sharing and use of location in
order to provide a better mobile experience on Android devices.
Any location data that is sent back to Google location servers
is anonymized and is not tied or traceable to a specific user.”  He declined to comment on Madigan’s request for a meeting.  Global sales of smartphones, including Android devices and
iPhones, will reach 468 million units in 2011, a 58 percent
increase from last year, according to Gartner Inc.  Samsung, Motorola  Companies including Samsung Electronics Co., Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and HTC Corp. are using Google’s Android
operating system in their devices. Android will account for
39 percent of global smartphone sales this year, compared with
19 percent for Apple’s iPhone operating system, Gartner said.  France  last month fined Google 100,000 euros ($142,000) for
collecting personal computer data from open WiFi networks during
the creation of its Street View mapping service.  Its conduct has been the subject of probes by other E.U.
member states and the U.S., which ended its review in October
after the company said it would improve safeguards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  