-- 
Lime Price Plunge Has Traders Trimming Inflation Estimates: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-04-25T21:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/lime-price-plunge-pushing-down-inflation-bets-mexico-credit.html
Mexican bond investors are paring
inflation bets from a 14-month high after consumer prices rose
less than forecast over the past two months.  The yield gap between inflation-linked debt due in 2014 and
similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds, a gauge of investor
expectations for annual price increases over the next three
years, shrank to 3.93 percent from 4.65 percent on March 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called breakeven
rate in  Chile  narrowed 17 basis points during the same period to
4.05 percent while in  Brazil  it climbed 8 to 6.17 percent.  Bond investors are paring their inflation bets as the
slowdown in consumer price increases prompts central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens to keep benchmark interest rates at a
record low 4.5 percent. Prices fell 0.09 percent in the first
half of April, more than economists’ 0.03 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey, as prices for limes, a staple in
the Mexican diet, plunged for a second month. In March, consumer
prices rose 0.19 percent, less than the 0.3 percent estimate.  “Inflation has surprised on the downside,” Pablo Cisilino, who helps manage $22 billion in emerging-market debt
at Stone Harbor Investment in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. Cisilino said he began switching to Mexican fixed-
rate debt from bonds tied to consumer prices in the past month.  The yield on Mexico’s 9.5 percent peso bonds due in 2014
tumbled 42 basis points from an 11-month high on March 7 to 6.30
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
inflation-linked bonds due the same year climbed 35 basis points
from a four-month low on Feb. 28 to 2.37.  ‘Gentle Recovery’   Inflation in the 12 months through mid-April was 3.2
percent, holding near a four-year low set in March and half the
6.4 percent pace in Brazil, the region’s largest economy. The
cost of electricity, internet service and cars also declined in
the first half of April along with food items including limes,
carrots and eggs,  Mexico ’s central bank said April 20. Lime
prices fell 18 percent in the first half of April after sinking
39 percent in March.  “Mexico is not really the place people should run for
inflation protection,” Guilherme Maciel De Barros, who oversees
$1.1 billion in emerging-market assets at Lombard Odier Darier
Hentsch & Cie, said in a telephone interview from Geneva,
 Switzerland . “We are going to have a couple of months with
inflation prints that are not that worrying. Mexico is very far
from overheating. It has been a very gentle recovery.”  Jobless Rate  Latin America’s second-biggest economy will grow as much as
5 percent this year after expanding 5.5 percent in 2010, the
fastest pace in a decade, Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said
last month. The economy rebounded from a 6.1 percent contraction
in 2009, the worst since 1995, as the recovery in the U.S. drove
exports to a record $298 billion.  Mexico’s expansion last year compared with average 6.1
percent growth in Latin America, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  While rising exports are propelling growth in Mexico,
unemployment and slower private investment growth are helping
keep inflation in check, Carstens said at a banking convention
in  Acapulco , Mexico, on April 7. The jobless rate was 4.6
percent in March, compared with 3.2 percent in May 2008,
according to the national statistics agency.  “Mexico’s advantage is that it provided almost no
stimulus, had the deepest recession and the slowest recovery,”
 Siobhan Morden , head of strategy for Latin America at RBS
Securities Inc., said in a telephone interview. “Inflation risk
is quite low.”  ‘Full Potential’  Jimena Zuniga, a Latin American economist at Barclays Plc
in New York, estimates inflation will quicken to 4 percent this
year as companies struggle to meet rising demand, above the 3.85
percent forecast in a survey of economists released by Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit. The central bank targets annual inflation
of 3 percent.  “Inflation has to go to 4 percent, given that the economy
is nearing its full potential,” Zuniga said in a telephone
interview. “It’s going to rise and you can see that it is
already rising on the margins.”  Mexico is the only major Latin American nation not to raise
 interest rates  in the past year. Carstens held the benchmark
rate at 4.5 percent this month for a record 18th consecutive
meeting.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day interbank rate
due in September were unchanged at 5.05 percent today,
indicating traders expect a rate increase as soon as that month.
As recently as April 11, they predicted Carstens would raise
rates in August.  ‘Very Cheap’  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened 2 basis points
to 137 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 2 basis points to 100 today, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  The peso was little changed at 11.6039 per  U.S. dollar .  Concern inflation would accelerate drove yields on Mexico’s
benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 to a 12-month high of 7.99
percent on March 3. Yields have tumbled since to 7.507 percent,
according to data compiled by Banco Santander SA.  “From the beginning of the year, we were getting a little
bit ahead of ourselves,” Lombard Odier’s Maciel De Barros said.
“People are now more comfortable about the local curve. The
nominal curve was very cheap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  