-- 
Indian Commonwealth Games Chief Arrested in Crackdown Against Corruption

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-04-26T11:40:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/indian-investigators-charge-two-lawmakers-in-corruption-strike.html
Police took the former chief of
Delhi’s Commonwealth Games into custody for eight days to
investigate corruption charges as an event meant to portray
rising economic power continues to embarrass India.  Games organizer  Suresh Kalmadi  appeared in a court in New
Delhi after being arrested yesterday by the  Central Bureau of
Investigation  for conspiring to influence the award of a
contract for the event’s timing and results system to a
Switzerland-based company. In a two-pronged strike against the
political elite, the agency also charged the daughter of one of
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s major allies for working to
receive kickbacks from a 2008 sale of mobile-phone licenses.  The CBI’s actions are “good steps in the right direction
that will create confidence among people that corruption will
not be tolerated,” New Delhi-based Anupama Jha, executive
director of the India chapter of  Transparency International ,
said. “But they took a long time.”  Investigators in  India , which is ranked 87th out of 178
countries in the 2010  Corruption Perceptions Index  conducted by
Transparency International, have already put Singh’s former
telecommunications minister and half a dozen company executives
on trial over the sale of second-generation airwaves. Rising
graft has triggered nationwide street protests and paralyzed
legislation in parliament.  Kalmadi denies wrongdoing. Calls to the cellphones of
Kanimozhi, who uses one name, were not answered.  Investor Concern  Investors in Indian shares consider graft as much of a
barrier to economic progress as inflation,  JPMorgan Asset
Management  said in a December 2010 report. Corruption in India
poses a risk to the South Asian nation’s target of lifting
economic growth above 9 percent and attracting overseas
investment, auditing and consulting company  KPMG said  in March.  India shares its Corruption Perception ranking with Albania,
Liberia and  Jamaica  and is rated worse than Lesotho and  Panama .  Kalmadi, a federal lawmaker from Singh’s Congress party,
made speeches at the opening and closing ceremonies of the
Commonwealth Games, sharing the stage with Britain’s Prince Charles and Indian President Pratibha Patil. Eleven other Indian
officials have been detained as authorities probe contracts
linked to the event’s staging.  The federal investigative agency did not name the
Switzerland-based company it referred to yesterday. Swiss Timing,
a unit of the Swatch Group, was responsible for timing and
scoring during the Oct. 3-14 Delhi Games. Swiss Timing in
December said it had not influenced the award of the contract.  ‘Inflated Cost’  The CBI said it was alleged that officials of Kalmadi’s
organizing committee “conspired with representatives of the
private firm in  Switzerland , and the contract for timing,
scoring and results was awarded by wrongfully restricting and
eliminating competition from other suppliers in a premeditated
and planned manner.”  The committee for short-listing  prospective bidders  was
handpicked, the CBI said. The results system contract was
eventually agreed at an “inflated cost” of 1.41 billion rupees
($31.7 million), leading to a loss to the government of 950
million rupees, the agency said.  The 2010 Games, which cost the government $4.6 billion to
host, attracted attention worldwide after newspaper headlines
described filthy accommodation for athletes, missed construction
deadlines, the collapse of the arena footbridge and inflated
bills for event equipment.  Adding to pressure on Singh’s administration India’s chief
auditor reported shortly after the Games ended that the mobile-
phone airwaves were sold for an “unbelievably low” price when
they may have been worth 10 times as much.  Minister Resigns  Telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja  resigned two
days before the Comptroller and Auditor General gave his report.  The CBI yesterday charged Kanimozhi, whose father heads the
 Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam  party of which Raja is a member. The
DMK, which rules southern  Tamil Nadu state , is the second-
biggest partner of Singh’s Congress party in the federal
coalition government, and has six ministers in the cabinet.  Raja, two ministry officials and six company executives
were found by the CBI April 2 to have “entered into a
conspiracy” to award the phone permits to ineligible companies.
Their acts lowered government income from the sale by 220
billion rupees, the CBI said. India’s chief auditor put the
potential loss at about $31 billion.  Three of the company executives on trial are employed by
billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance ADA Group, while two others
work for  DB Realty Ltd. (DBRL)  and one for  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  All those
charged so far deny the allegations against them.  DMK Meeting  The Reliance ADA Group said April 2 that its three
employees deny the charges and have a legal presumption of
innocence pending the completion of a trial. Unitech said the
same day that it complied with applicable rules in obtaining its
licenses and that none of its employees have done anything
“inappropriate or illegal.”  Singh’s Congress party and the DMK fought the April 13
elections in  Tamil Nadu  together after at first disagreeing over
the number of seats each party would contest. Yesterday’s
charges are likely to further strain relations between the two
ahead of the announcement of results on May 13. DMK leaders will
hold a meeting in Chennai tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
P.S. Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  