-- 
Indonesia Risks Losing Investor ‘Sheen’ as Economy Revamp Slows

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-25T17:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/indonesia-risks-losing-investor-sheen-as-economy-revamp-slows.html
Indonesia’s efforts to reduce
subsidies and cut corruption are faltering, threatening to
undermine a stock market that’s already underperforming the
Asian benchmark.  The backpedaling may hamper a revival in growth that has
put Indonesia’s credit rating one step away from investment
grade. At the same time, the government is fighting inflation,
which has almost doubled in the past year.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has delayed the removal
of fuel subsidies, while parliament has yet to mandate land
sales to improve road and railway development. In May 2010,
Yudhoyono lost a finance minister viewed as the public face of
the drive to improve governance, and the nation’s  anti-graft
unit  operated without a permanent leader for more than a year.  “It’s going to be critical for the government to move
quickly and aggressively on inflation to satisfy people who are
frustrated by local government corruption that they see with
their own eyes and they hear about on the Internet,”  Mark Mobius , who manages about $50 billion of assets as executive
chairman of Templeton’s Emerging Markets Group, said by
telephone on April 12. “Governments can run but they can’t hide
anymore.”  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has gained 2.3 percent so far
this year, less than the 6 percent advance in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Excluding Japan index over the same period. Neighbors
including Thailand and China have had a better return in 2011.  Inflation Risk  Indonesia’s stock index had the biggest monthly fall in
more than two years in January on concern inflation may
accelerate after  Bank Indonesia  left borrowing costs unchanged.
The central bank has raised its benchmark interest rate only
once in the past year, lagging behind most major Southeast Asian
economies in tightening monetary policy.  ING Investment Management, which oversees $518 billion
globally, has sold some Indonesian stocks, said fund manager
Kelly Chung, and exposure to Indonesia remains below the level
at the start of 2011. The ING (L) Invest New Asia fund has added
holdings in China and  Thailand , she said.  “We would not be putting a lot of money into a country
where we think there could be further downside and one of the
reasons for that is the central bank is seen as being behind the
curve,” said Hong Kong-based Chung. “We do still very much
worry about inflationary pressure and the interest-rate cycle,
obviously given oil at where it is.”  Third-Worst  An index of Indonesia’s dollar-denominated government bonds
complied by HSBC Holdings Plc has declined 0.13 percent this
year, while the company’s gauge of Asian dollar-denominated
government debt has risen 1.1 percent. The country’s performance
is the third-worst after the  Philippines  and  Pakistan , HSBC’s
data show.  Indonesian dollar bonds due March 2020 have dropped this
year. The yield on the 5.875 percent note was 4.83 percent
yesterday, from 4.34 percent at the beginning of the year,
according to prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The country needs better tax collection and less graft to
bolster its case for joining  India  and  China  as an investment
grade borrower once again,  Fitch Ratings  said in raising
Indonesia’s BB+ sovereign debt outlook to positive in February.  Standard & Poor’s , which boosted Indonesia to BB+ this
month with a positive outlook, says infrastructure shortfalls,
legal uncertainties, corruption and labor market rigidities
remain key obstacles to achieving higher growth.  Falling Short?  “The continued emphasis on Indonesia’s potential is valid
but the delivery on the ground has fallen short,” said
Venkatraman Anantha-Nageswaran, the Singapore-based global chief
investment officer at Bank Julius Baer & Co., which has about
$304 billion of client assets. “We and other investors are
willing to give them the benefit of the doubt but I’m not sure
how long that will last. The sheen will start to come off.”  Concern that officials will have to tackle price pressures
more aggressively in coming months, sparking a slowdown, is
adding to economic obstacles including capacity constraints.  During Yudhoyono’s first five-year term, only 125
kilometers (78 miles) of toll roads were built, compared with
China’s 4,719 kilometers of expressways in 2009 alone.
 Indonesia ’s target is to build 20,000 kilometers of roads and
add 15,000 megawatts of power generation by 2014.  “Everyone is following the government’s efforts to realize
its commitment to  law enforcement  and to eradicate corruption,”
said Julian Aldrin Pasha, a presidential spokesman. “Of course,
it will take time to ensure all the process goes well.”  Economy Support  Infrastructure development is vital to supporting the
economy and there has been some progress, he said.  While spending on roads and railways is lagging behind, the
government continues to offset the cost of fuel for companies
and individuals, a bill that accounts for 11.5 percent of the
administration’s expenditure. The government has subsidized fuel
prices since the 1950s to lower living costs.  Owners of private cars were to be barred from buying
subsidized diesel and gasoline in Jakarta and surrounding areas
from April 1. As global  oil prices  surged, parliament on March
21 approved a government proposal to delay the planned cut of
subsidized fuel sales to ease inflationary pressure.  “There’s a perception of a cooling-off in reforms
momentum,” said Yougesh Khatri, a senior economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  Singapore .  Still, some foreign investors are judging that the nation’s
potential outweighs obstacles. The benchmark Jakarta stock index
reached a record in 2010, and $16.8 billion of foreign direct
investment flowed into the world’s fourth-most populous country.
The rupiah, close to its strongest since 2004, is one of the
central bank’s tools to control price pressures.  Political Stability  Yudhoyono, 61, has been credited with helping to bring
political stability to Indonesia, contributing to faster growth.
He is targeting an annual average expansion of 6.6 percent
through the remainder of his presidency, ending 2014.  Investors’ thinking at this stage is dominated by “long-
term potential: the demographic growth, the rapidly expanding
middle class, the commodity story, which is driving exports,”
said Milan Zavadjil, the  International Monetary Fund’s  senior
resident representative for Indonesia.  Mobius says Indonesia makes up about 2 percent of
Templeton’s emerging markets portfolio and he holds shares in
companies including PT Astra International, the country’s
largest automotive retailer.  Investors from Japan and India in December and January
signed about $39 billion of accords for projects from mass rapid
transit systems and power plants to steel factories and ports.
 South Korea ’s Lotte Group said it may invest $5 billion in a
petrochemical project.  Battling Corruption  Yudhoyono began his second term in October 2009 vowing to
target the bribery and extortion that deter foreign investment.
The same month, police arrested Bibit Rianto and Chandra Hamzah,
two deputy chairmen of the Corruption Eradication Commission, or
KPK, for abusing their powers, charges they denied.  Anti-graft groups accused the police of doctoring the case
to weaken the agency, whose record of sending governors,
legislators and other state officials to jail during Yudhoyono’s
first term helped improved investor perception of the level of
corruption in Indonesia. Prosecutors dropped the case in
December 2009.  Yudhoyono suspended Antasari Azhar from his position as
chief of the commission in May 2009 after police named him a
suspect in the murder of a businessman, and fired him in October
that year when his trial started. His replacement, Busyro
Muqoddas, was officially sworn into the post in December.  Governance, Transparency  The push to improve governance took a blow in May 2010 when
Finance Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati , the face of the
country’s battle against graft, resigned to join the  World Bank .
Agus Martowardojo, who had been president director of PT Bank
Mandiri, the country’s largest lender by assets, replaced her.  Sri Mulyani had increased salaries for civil servants,
restructured the tax office and cleaned up government practices.
During her tenure, public debt fell to 27.4 percent of GDP at
the end of 2009 from 56.2 percent in 2004.  “Indonesia is now already very transparent but the quality
of information disclosed should be improved,” Sri Mulyani said
in an April 8 interview in Bali, Indonesia. “The predictability
of the policy-making process is becoming very important.”  Gita Wirjawan, head of Indonesia’s Investment Coordinating
Board, expects changes in land acquisition and labor laws to be
passed in the next two years. The former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive says people should consider
Indonesia’s prospects over a 10- or 20-year timeframe.  “Corruption and bureaucratic deadweight -- I can’t fix
those two by tomorrow,” Wirjawan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  