-- 
Insider Trading, MGA-Mattel, BP, U.S. Airways in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-04-25T12:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/insider-trading-mga-mattel-bp-u-s-airways-in-court-news.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam’s lawyer accused U.S. prosecutors of living in a
“make-believe” and “imaginary world” where publicly
available information about pending deals “didn’t exist.”  John Dowd, in the second day of closing arguments at
Rajaratnam’s  insider-trading  trial, took jurors in  Manhattan 
federal court through weeks of evidence to show that his client
wasn’t guilty of conspiracy or securities fraud. His recurring
theme was that information the government claimed was secret was
actually public knowledge.  Dowd said Rajaratnam traded on information about a pending
takeover of ATI Technologies Inc. by  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
because Hector Ruiz, the chief executive officer of AMD at the
time, had told Wall Street analysts about it. Prosecutors say
Rajaratnam was tipped by Anil Kumar, a former partner at
McKinsey & Co., where AMD was a client.  “Word had gotten around,” Dowd said. “Hector was talking
about it.”  Dowd’s April 21 summation came in the seventh week of a
trial that might send Rajaratnam, 53, to prison for 20 years in
the biggest U.S. crackdown on insider trading at  hedge funds .
Rajaratnam is accused of gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about a dozen
stocks, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Intel Corp .,
Clearwire Corp. and  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)   On rebuttal, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter told
jurors that Rajaratnam was the manager of a multibillion-dollar
hedge fund and a graduate of a top U.S. business school, the
Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. “Of course”
Rajaratnam knew it was illegal to trade on advance word of a
company’s earning, Streeter said.  The judge is likely to instruct jurors on the law today,
and jurors will then begin deliberating.  Rajaratnam is charged with five counts of conspiracy and
nine counts of securities fraud. The conspiracy counts each
carry a maximum five-year prison sentence and the fraud counts
each carry a maximum 20-year term.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Jury Finds for MGA in Long-Running Case Over Bratz Dolls  A jury last week found that MGA Entertainment Inc. had
neither stolen the idea for its popular Bratz dolls from Mattel
nor infringed the giant toymaker’s copyright.  The federal court jury in Santa Ana,  California , found
Mattel, the maker of the Barbie doll, liable for stealing
closely held MGA’s trade secrets when its representatives used
fake identities to gain access to MGA’s showrooms at toy fairs.
The jury awarded MGA $88.4 million in damages.  The jury also awarded Mattel $10,000 in damages on its
claims that MGA interfered with the contract of Mattel’s former
employee. The jury also found that that Mattel should have known
as early as 2002 about the contract interference.  Jennifer Keller, a lawyer for  Van Nuys , California-based
MGA, said the company may seek punitive damages that could
triple the award because the jury found Mattel’s conduct was
“willful and malicious,” as well as attorney fees.  Michael T. Zeller, a lawyer for Mattel, said the company
will ask the judge to set aside the jurors’ findings and rule in
favor of the Mattel claims they rejected.  “There is clear and compelling evidence that
overwhelmingly proves that  Carter Bryant  made these drawings and
sketches while he was employed at Mattel,” Zeller said.  The case has taken a circuitous path. In 2008, a jury in
Riverside, California, found for El Segundo, California-based
Mattel. That jury awarded the big toy manufacturer $100 million
in damages after finding that the designer, Carter Bryant, made
most of the initial sketches for the dolls while he worked for
Mattel. Last year, a federal appeals court overturned that
verdict. The appeals court, in ordering a second trial, said the
lower-court judge had erred in ruling that Bryant’s employment
agreement entitled Mattel to the designer’s drawings as a matter
of law. The appeals court also found that the judge, Stephen
Larson, who has since returned to private practice, was wrong to
award Mattel the rights to most of MGA’s Bratz products.  In the current trial, Mattel, the maker of the Barbie doll,
claimed lost profits of $314 million to $544 million.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrials  U.S. Judge Dismisses Suit Challenging Obama Health Overhaul  A federal judge in  New Jersey  dismissed a lawsuit
challenging the constitutionality of the Obama administration’s
health-care law.  U.S. District Judge Freda Wolfson ruled that Nicholas
Purpura and Donald R. Laster Jr. lack legal standing to
challenge the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
They claimed the law’s requirement that almost every American
have some form of medical insurance starting in 2014 was
unconstitutional.  Purpura is 68 and claims he would lose “Medicare
Advantage,” while Laster is handicapped and said that as a
result of the law, he would “be tax [sic] on medical devices
that cross state lines, and will suffer restrictions to certain
drugs,” Wolfson wrote.  The plaintiffs, who brought the suit pro se, or without
lawyers, alleged “few, if any, facts demonstrating the effect
that the act has on them currently or the effect that the act
will have in the future,” Wolfson ruled in federal court in
Trenton. “These allegations fail to establish plaintiffs’
standing to challenge any of the provision of the act.”  Twenty five states have joined in the lawsuit filed a year
ago by then- Florida  Attorney General Bill McCollum. Last month,
a U.S. appeals court in Atlanta put on an expedited schedule the
federal government’s appeal of a judge’s decision throwing out
the Obama administration’s health-care law.  The case is Purpura v. Sebelius, 10-cv-4814, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  U.S. Seeks Delay of Insider-Trading Case Against FDA Chemist  The U.S. asked a federal judge to delay its insider-trading
case against a Food and Drug Administration chemist, claiming
the government is trying to work out a potential resolution with
the defendant.  Prosecutors, in a filing April 20 in federal court in
Greenbelt,  Maryland , said the defendant, Cheng Yi Liang, agreed
to a 60-day delay of the case.  “The parties request additional time in order to discuss
further steps and a potential resolution of this matter,” the
government said.  Cheng Yi Liang, who worked for the FDA’s  Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research , and his son, Andrew Liang, are accused
of reaping at least $3 million from trading on nonpublic
information related to drug-approval applications.  The Liangs, who live in Gaithersburg, Maryland, were
charged last month with conspiracy, wire fraud and securities
fraud. The maximum penalty for the fraud charges is 20 years in
prison.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in a related
civil suit said the elder Liang made $3.6 million by trading
shares of 19 firms before 27 FDA decisions since 2006.  An FDA employee since 1996, Liang had computer access to
the nonpublic records of the review process for each drug
examined by the office, the U.S. said.  Liang traded in smaller developmental drug companies, where
a government decision would be more likely to have a significant
effect on the stock price, the SEC said. He gained more than $1
million trading stock of  Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VNDA)  a Rockville,
Maryland, firm that rose more than 600 percent a day after the
FDA cleared sales of its schizophrenia drug Fanapt in May 2009,
according to the lawsuit.  He profited from  share purchases  ahead of 19 positive
announcements and on short sales before six negative decisions,
the SEC said. He also avoided losses by selling stock before two
other negative decisions, the agency said. His average profit on
each announcement was $135,015, according to the lawsuit.  Andrew Carter, Liang’s lawyer, declined to comment.  The cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi Liang, 8:11-mj-01236-WGC, and
U.S. v. Andrew Liang, 8:11-mj-01237-WGC, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  Winklevosses Ask Court to Look Into Possible Facebook Evidence  Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and Divya Narendra said they
will ask a federal court in  Boston  to look into the possibility
that Facebook Inc. hid instant messages during a lawsuit
claiming company founder  Mark Zuckerberg  stole their idea for
the social network.  In papers filed April 20, the Winklevosses and Narendra
told the court they will ask it to conduct an inquiry into
claims reported on the Internet and in The New Yorker magazine
that  Facebook  improperly withheld “critical evidence,”
including instant messages allegedly sent by Zuckerberg in 2003.  “If that is true, we need to know why these documents were
not produced then,” Tyler Meade, a lawyer for Narendra and the
Winklevoss twins, said in an e-mail message last week.  The three sued Zuckerberg in 2004 claiming he stole the
idea for Facebook and delayed their project, ConnectU, while
they were all Harvard University students. The dispute is
dramatized in the Academy Award-winning 2010 film “The Social
Network.” The filing is the latest move by the Winklevosses to
reopen their litigation challenging the origins of the world’s
most popular social networking site.  On April 11, a federal appeals court in  San Francisco 
upheld the Winklevosses’ $65 million settlement with Facebook in
2008, rejecting their claim it should be thrown out because
Facebook misled them about the company’s value at the time. They
have asked for review by an expanded panel of the appeals court.  “We consider the matter concluded,” Andrew Noyes, a
Facebook spokesman, said in an e-mail last week.  Last week’s papers also quote a complaint filed by  Paul
Ceglia , a western New York man who claims a 2003 contract
entitles him to half of Zuckerberg’s Facebook holdings.
According to the Ceglia complaint, filed in federal court in
Buffalo, New York, April 11, Zuckerberg e-mailed him on Nov. 22,
2003: “I have recently met with a couple of upperclassmen here
at Harvard that are planning to launch a site very similar to
ours. If we don’t make a move soon, I think we will lose the
advantage we would have if we release before them. I’ve stalled
them for the time being.”  If the Ceglia e-mail is genuine, Facebook should have
produced it to the Winklevosses and Narendra in their suit, they
said in the court filing.  Orin Snyder, a lawyer for Facebook, has said Ceglia’s
ownership claim is “ridiculous,” and that an amended complaint
citing e-mails by Zuckerberg “is no better.”  The case is: The ConnectU Inc. v. Facebook Inc., 07-cv-
10593, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  For more, click here.  Bank of America Dismissed From Countrywide Securities Lawsuit  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was dismissed from a lawsuit brought
by investors who bought mortgage-backed securities sold by
Countrywide Financial Corp., the home lender Bank of America
acquired in 2008.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer granted Bank of
America’s request to dismiss the claim against it on grounds
that it can’t be held liable for actions of a unit, according to
an April 20 order filed in  Los Angeles .  The investors failed to show that two separate transactions
in 2008, whereby Bank of America, through a subsidiary, acquired
and transferred the Countrywide assets, constituted a “de
facto” merger, Pfaelzer said.  The judge had dismissed the lawsuit in November, saying the
investors didn’t sufficiently demonstrate they suffered an
injury for the securities they bought, and that the statute of
limitations had expired for some claims. The judge allowed the
plaintiffs to file an amended complaint to address these
failings before she would rule on Bank of America’s Aug. 20
request to dismiss it from the complaint.  Bank of America said in its Aug. 20 filing that Countrywide
remained a separate, wholly owned subsidiary of the bank and
that, as a parent company, it can’t be held liable for the
mortgage lender’s alleged wrongdoing.  Joel Laitman, a lawyer representing the investors, didn’t
immediately return a call to his office after regular business
hours.  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment.  Pfaelzer held a hearing on March 23 on motions to dismiss
the other claims in the amended complaint and has yet to issue a
ruling on those requests.  The case is Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  Goldman Ex-Director Seeks to Have District Judge Decide SEC Case  Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat Gupta,
accused by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission of
leaking inside information about the company, seeks to have his
SEC dispute heard by a U.S. district judge in New York.  The SEC, in an administrative proceeding filed March 1 in
 Washington , accuses Gupta of giving information to Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5
billion investment in Goldman Sachs. The agency also alleges
Gupta told Rajaratnam about the New York-based bank’s quarterly
earnings and those of  Procter & Gamble Co ., where Gupta was also
a director. Gupta hasn’t been criminally charged.  Gupta sued the SEC on March 18 in federal court in
Manhattan, denying the SEC’s allegations and arguing he was the
only one of more than two dozen people tied to the government’s
Galleon case to have such an administrative proceeding filed
against him. He also argued the SEC’s allegations occurred at
least 1 1/2 years before regulators were allowed to bring such
an action under the Dodd-Frank Act.  “We have a constitutional issue here,” Gupta’s lawyer,
 Gary Naftalis , told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is
presiding over Gupta’s lawsuit.  Naftalis argued that under the SEC proceeding, Gupta won’t
have access to the evidence collected by the SEC which must be
turned over to a defendant during a civil lawsuit. He also told
Rakoff that an administrative law judge will first make a
finding and that a final determination is made by the SEC. Gupta
could appeal only after the SEC makes its finding, Naftalis
said.  In such an SEC proceeding, the judge is allowed to consider
hearsay, or evidence that may only be indirect or speculative.
Brenda Murray, the SEC’s chief administrative law judge,
previously declined to stay the commission’s action and
scheduled a July 18 administrative trial for Gupta.  Richard Humes, a lawyer for the SEC, on April 21 said that
federal courts don’t have jurisdiction in the dispute before any
findings are made in its administrative action against Gupta. If
there is a finding in the administrative proceeding, Gupta must
take any appeal directly to a federal appeals court, Humes said.  “Even if it makes a mistake, the proper process is to take
the appeal to the appeals court and correct it,” Humes said.  Rakoff said he would issue a ruling later.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in federal court in Manhattan
in the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S.
history. The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of gaining
$63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders including
Gupta. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing, saying he based trades on
research.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-cv-01900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The Rajaratnam case
is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Whole Foods Florida Suit Over Trade Practices Can Proceed  A Florida judge allowed a lawsuit to proceed that claims
 Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFMI)  violated the state’s deceptive trade-
practices law by selling frozen vegetables from  China  grown in a
polluted region by prisoners and certified as organic.  Miami-Dade County Circuit Judge Amy Steele Donner on April
20 denied the grocery chain’s motion to dismiss the suit filed
on behalf of the Southeast Consumer Alliance Inc., a nonprofit
organization based in Boca Raton, Florida.  The suit claims that Whole Foods knew that its Silver River
supplier, based in the Chinese province of Zhejiang, was
actually a front company for a network of farms where Chinese
prisoners are forced to work and that the farms are irrigated
from a highly polluted river.  The suit also claims that Austin, Texas-based Whole Foods
knew that the company providing the initial organic
certification is owned by the Chinese government, which also
owns the farms, creating a conflict of interest.  A spokeswoman for the grocery store chain didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment. Whole Foods
attorney Christopher Wayne Wadsworth said he wasn’t authorized
to comment on the case.  Bruce Baldwin, the plaintiff’s attorney, said Whole Foods
pulled many of its Chinese frozen vegetables off the shelves
after he filed the suit but that the company continues to sell
Chinese soybeans. The case, which is seeking class-action, or
group, certification, was originally filed in 2009 and amended
last year to include the deceptive trade practices claim.  The case is Southern Consumer Alliance Inc. v. Whole Foods
Market Inc., 09-cv-92727CA, Miami-Dade County Circuit Court
(Miami).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Akamai Loss to Limelight to Be Reheard by U.S. Appeals Court  Akamai Technologies Inc. persuaded a U.S. appeals court to
reconsider whether  Limelight Networks Inc. (LLNW)  infringed a patent
over software that speeds delivery of Web videos.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit said in December Limelight didn’t infringe the
patent. In an  order  posted on the court’s website April 21, the
Federal Circuit said the dispute will be decided by all active
judges of the court.  Akamai’s lawsuit in 2006 accused Tempe, Arizona-based
Limelight of building its business on technology developed by
Akamai’s founders at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
in Cambridge. Akamai faces increased competition from Limelight,
 Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT)  and Cotendo Inc. over CDNs, which
distribute movies, music and software to computers on behalf of
services such as Hulu LLC and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   The en banc Federal Circuit in Washington, which
specializes in U.S. patent law, will consider whether a company
should be found liable for infringing a patent if separate
entities perform different steps in an invention.  A federal jury in Boston in 2008 sided with Akamai before
the judge reversed the $45.5 million verdict. The judge ruled
that Limelight’s actions alone didn’t use the Akamai technology,
meaning it couldn’t be held liable. Three judges of the Federal
Circuit  affirmed  that decision in December. The appeals court
last week vacated that decision and ordered lawyers in the case
to submit new written legal arguments. It gave no date for when
the case would be heard.  “Limelight believes the decision of the panel was correct
and should be affirmed,” the company said in a statement.
“This was not an issue of first impression for the panel -- its
ruling affirmed the court’s precedent from earlier decisions.”  The case is Akamai Technologies v. Limelight Networks,
2009-1372, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Akamai Technologies v.
Limelight Networks Inc., 06cv11109, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Transocean Blamed in BP Suit for Billions in Spill Damages (1)  BP Plc (BP/)  sued  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner and operator of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that exploded one year ago, for
billions of dollars in damages related to the  Gulf of Mexico  oil
spill.  BP said in a complaint filed April 20 in federal court in
New Orleans that it has incurred costs of $17.7 billion and that
it took a pretax charge last year of $40.9 billion in relation
to the spill. The London-based company said that without
Transocean’s “misconduct,” there wouldn’t have been any
explosion, fire, deaths or oil spill.  “The simple fact is that on April 20, 2010, every single
safety system and device and well control procedure on the
Deepwater Horizon failed, resulting in the casualty,” BP said
in its complaint.  The Macondo well blowout and the explosion that followed
killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors. BP’s filing last
week came as part of a series of complaints and counterclaims by
plaintiffs and defendants meeting a deadline set by the federal
judge overseeing the suits.  The lawsuits also name as defendants  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services, and BP’s minority partners in the
well,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore
LLC unit. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  has scheduled a
nonjury trial for February 2012 to determine fault.  “This suit is specious and unconscionable,” Lou
Colasuonno, a Transocean spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The Deepwater Horizon was a world-class drilling
rig manned by a top-flight crew that was put in jeopardy by BP,
the operator of the Macondo well, through a series of cost-
saving decisions that increased risk -- in some cases,
severely.”  Transocean on April 20 filed cross-claims against its
former partners in the Macondo well project, accusing BP of
failing “to honor its contractual commitments,” said Kerry
Miller, a Transocean attorney. BP has failed to indemnify
Transocean against lawsuits for death, personal injury and
pollution, as required by its drilling contract, Miller said.  Halliburton filed claims against BP, Transocean and the
other contractors, claiming any damages resulting from the
blowout or spill were “proximately caused by the actions and/or
omissions” of the other parties “and not by any conduct on the
part of Halliburton Energy Services.” Halliburton claimed
indemnity for any damages it might be assessed. “Halliburton
remains confident that we executed our work on the Macondo well
under BP’s direction and according to their plan,”  Cathy Mann ,
a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Last week BP also sued  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  over
allegations that that company’s blowout-prevention equipment was
a cause “in whole or in part” of the well blowout and spill.  Cameron’s design and manufacture of the blowout preventer,
or BOP, “used on the Deepwater Horizon, as well as Cameron’s
maintenance and modification of that BOP, did not meet the
standards of a reasonable manufacturer and service provider,”
BP said in a filing. The blowout preventer “failed to properly
operate when needed and was unreasonably dangerous when used as
intended,” BP said.  Cameron said in court filings last week that the explosion
wasn’t its fault because oil and gas were already surging toward
the rig when workers tried to activate the blowout-prevention
equipment to seal the well. “Hydrocarbons had entered the riser
well before the crew attempted to activate the BOP, and even a
perfectly functioning BOP could not have prevented the
explosions,” Cameron said in its April 15 filing.  Plaintiffs suing the companies over the spill have claimed
Houston-based Cameron’s BOP wasn’t designed to handle the
extreme environment and thicker drill pipes found in ultra-deep
wells. BP claims the blowout preventer was defectively designed
and incapable of working as expected.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  US Airways Files Antitrust Suit Against Sabre Holdings  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  said it filed a federal antitrust
lawsuit against airline ticket reservation service Sabre
Holdings Corp. to halt alleged anticompetitive and anticonsumer
practices and recover monetary damages.  Sabre, the parent of Travelocity.com, “engaged in a
pattern of exclusionary conduct to shut out competition, protect
its monopoly pricing power and maintain its technologically-
obsolete business model,” Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways said
April 21 in a statement.  More than 35 percent of US Airways revenue is booked
through Sabre and affiliated travel agents, the carrier said.
The lawsuit follows a new distribution pact between Sabre and US
Airways reached earlier this year.  Industry tensions boiled over on Dec. 21 when  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American Airlines pulled fares from travel agent Orbitz.com as
the carrier focuses on a proprietary computer system to share
prices, bypassing distributors such as Sabre. American is in
talks with Sabre to settle a lawsuit the airline filed Jan. 10.  Sabre is “reviewing the details of their legal claims,”
Nancy St. Pierre, a spokeswoman for Southlake, Texas-based
Sabre, said in an e-mail. “We will have further comment when
appropriate.”  Bronco Drilling Sued by Investor Over Chesapeake Energy Bid  Bronco Drilling Co. was sued in Delaware Chancery Court by
a stockholder seeking more than the $11 a share being offered
for the company by  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  The deal is currently
valued at about $316 million.  Directors of Bronco, based in Edmond, Oklahoma, have a duty
to get the best price for the company and have undervalued the
stock, investor Sam Berlinberg said in a complaint filed April
20 in Wilmington.  “The proposed transaction offers Bronco shareholders a
mere 6 percent premium,” and “analysts have set a target price
for Bronco shares as high as $13.50,” the plaintiff’s lawyers
said in court papers.  Bronco, which reported a $50.6 million net loss last year
on $124.4 million in revenue, is 22 percent owned by Third
Avenue Management LLC and 15 percent controlled by billionaire
 Carlos Slim .  “It is our policy to not comment on pending litigation,”
Bob Jarvis, a Bronco spokesman, said in an e-mailed message.  The case is Sam Berlinberg v. Bronco Drilling Co., CA6398,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 