-- 
Investors Wary of Changing British Energy Policies, Industry Grouping Says

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-04-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/investors-wary-of-changing-british-energy-policies-cbi-says.html
Investors are wary of spending
money to build power plants and energy networks in the U.K.
because of uncertainties surrounding long-term government
policy, according to the  Confederation of British Industry .  To meet climate change targets, the British power sector
needs as much as 150 billion pounds ($248 billion) of private
investment over the next 20 years, the CBI said today in a
 report . Business leaders are not convinced  energy policy  will
remain the same and protect returns over that period, they said.  The U.K. government made four proposals in December to
ensure aging power plants are replaced and climate targets met,
including setting a floor price on carbon emissions and
guaranteeing long-term prices for low-carbon generators. The
announcement marked the biggest shift in British energy policy
in two decades, reining back the market structure put in place
by  Margaret Thatcher .  “Businesses want to get on with building new low-carbon
infrastructure, but there is still too much policy
uncertainty,” CBI Chief Policy Director Katja Hall said in a
statement. “We need the government to set a clear direction of
travel and to stick to it.”  The government needs to speed up planning decisions for
energy projects and allow the recently established Green
Investment Bank to issue guarantee bonds as soon as possible,
the report said. The bank must be able to raise capital in 2015,
when a majority of projects will need construction funding,
Accenture Managing Director Omar Abbosh said separately.  “The question is not where the funding will come from, but
how to unlock it and prevent it being drawn to other countries
with more attractive incentives,” Abbosh said. “We must create
securities to allow pension funds and other institutions to fund
low carbon investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  