-- 
Iraq Asks Companies to Bid for New Energy Licenses in June

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-25T13:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/iraq-asks-companies-to-bid-for-new-energy-licenses-in-june-1-.html
Iraq, eager to boost energy exports
to pay for its reconstruction, asked companies to begin
submitting bids in June for a new round of exploration licenses
and aims to disclose the results in January.  The country also hopes to sign an initial agreement next
month for development of the Akkas natural-gas field, Abdul-
Mahdi al-Ameedi, the head of the Oil Ministry’s licensing
department, said today at a news conference in  Baghdad . The
Akkas accord was delayed by “internal issues” within
 Kazakhstan ’s KazMunaiGaz National Co., which won a license last
year to develop the field with  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , he said.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves and
depends on oil exports for most of its revenue. The nation needs
additional foreign investment and expertise to increase output
and rebuild an economy shattered by decades of conflict,
economic sanctions and sabotage. To help raise output, it has
signed 15 licenses for energy exploration since the toppling of
former President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.  In the latest effort, the government plans to organize a
promotional conference in August to attract bids for rights to
explore 12 concessions -- seven for oil and five for gas, Oil
Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi told the conference. The areas
cover 88,800 square kilometers (34,000 square miles) across the
south, north and west of the country, he said.  Luaibi said on March 22 that the blocks contain a combined
29 billion cubic meters of gas and 10 billion barrels of crude.  April Export Target  Iraq  currently exports an average of 2.08 million barrels a
day of crude and expects to raise the level to 2.1 million
barrels a day by the end of April, Falah al-Amri, head of the
State Oil Marketing Organization, told reporters today.  Iraq’s government wants to produce gas to fuel  power
plants , which have been unable to meet demand. It awarded the
contract for the Akkas field in October, along with licenses for
the Mansouriya and Siba gas fields. Kuwait Energy Co., Turkiye
Petrolleri AO and Korea Gas, known as Kogas, secured rights to
develop Mansouriya. Kuwait Energy and Turkiye Petrolleri won
bidding for Siba.  “The Iraqi Council of Ministers will hopefully approve the
Mansouriya and Siba deals within two weeks, and then we will
sign final contracts with the companies,” said Ameedi of the
ministry’s licensing department.  Capturing Wasted Gas  In a separate development, lawyers for the Iraqi
government,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  will meet
next week to discuss the final contract for a $12 billion plan
to develop and capture gas that is now flared off and wasted in
southern Iraq, Deputy Oil Minister Ahmed al-Shamma said.  “Everything depends on this meeting, which we hope will
lead us to an agreement on the final draft of the contract,”
al-Shamma said.  The signing for this gas-capture project has been delayed
since the government last June approved the creation of a
venture to be called Basra Gas Co. State-owned South Gas Co.
would own 51 percent of the venture, with Shell holding a 44
percent stake and Mitsubishi the remainder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  