-- 
Haley Barbour Says He Won’t Run for President in 2012

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-26T14:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/mississippi-s-barbour-says-he-won-t-make-presidential-bid-2-.html
Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour ,
who had been making campaign-style appearances in states crucial
to the presidential-selection process, announced yesterday that
he wouldn’t seek the White House in 2012.  “A candidate for president today is embracing a 10-year
commitment to an all-consuming effort,” Barbour, a Republican,
said in a statement released by his office. Saying that
supporters would “expect and deserve no less than absolute fire
in the belly from their candidate,” he added, “I cannot offer
that with certainty, and total certainty is required.”  He said he would keep his post as policy chairman of the
Republican Governors Association and would work to help a
Republican defeat President  Barack Obama  next year. His second
term as  Mississippi ’s governor ends in January 2012, and under
state law he can’t seek re-election.  As a fiscal and social conservative with an extensive
record of promoting his party, Barbour would have enjoyed a
strong base of support from Republican officials had he entered
the race. His decision to take a pass leaves an opening for
another candidate to vie for that support, said Frank Donatelli,
a former deputy chairman of the Republican National Committee.  “Clearly there’s room for another right-of-center
establishment candidate to get into this race,” Donatelli said.  Race Relations  Hurdles that Barbour, 63, would have faced included his
background as a lobbyist and recent statements he made about
racial relations in the South during the civil rights era.  “It’s hard for a governor from the Deep South to win the
nomination,” said  Jennifer Duffy , senior editor at the
nonpartisan Cook Political Report in Washington. “He had a lot
of work to do.”  Among other Republicans, former Governors Tim Pawlenty of
 Minnesota  and Mitt Romney of Massachusetts have established
presidential exploratory committees, taking the first official
step toward bids for the White House.  Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich of  Georgia  on March 3
announced the establishment of a  website  to enable him to raise
money and possibly run for president. Other prospective 2012
Republican candidates include former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee; former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008
vice presidential nominee; Governor Mitch Daniels of Indiana, a
former director of the Office of Management and Budget; and
former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who is stepping down as U.S.
ambassador to  China  this month.  Other Prospects  The lack of a clear Republican frontrunner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,
a Tea Party favorite, to position themselves as potential
candidates. Businessman Donald Trump also is flirting with
seeking the Republican nomination, saying he will announce in
June whether he will run.  Obama has already opened a 2012 re-election campaign
headquarters in  Chicago . He has raised millions of dollars in
support of his campaign at events this month in Chicago,  San
Francisco  and  Los Angeles .  Barbour, who won his first gubernatorial term in November
2003, helped his state recover from 2005’s Hurricane Katrina and
the Gulf Coast oil spill in 2010. He has helped spur employers,
including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , to
expand in Mississippi.  Low Rankings  Still, the state traditionally ranks last or near last in
per-capita income and educational attainment. Mississippi’s
unemployment rate was 10.2 percent in March, above the
nationwide figure of 8.8 percent.  As chairman of the Republican Governors Association,
Barbour helped his party capture the governorships of 11 states
from Democrats in last November’s elections.  Barbour had made campaign-style appearances this year in
the early caucus and primary states of  Iowa , New Hampshire and
 South Carolina . In March appearances in Iowa, he proposed
cutting the defense budget, suggesting he might take a different
approach to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq from the one
advocated by many in his party.  National polls  of Republican-leaning voters, though, showed
him barely registering as a presidential candidate. He typically
received three or fewer percentage points of support.  Along with building his backing, Barbour would have needed
to address criticism about comments he has made on racial
matters, an inescapable issue in his home state where
segregationist policies and violence disenfranchised blacks for
generations.  Magazine Comments  The Dec. 27 issue of the Weekly Standard magazine  quoted 
Barbour saying that as a teenager he found watching girls more
important than hearing Martin Luther King Jr. speak. He also
said the whites-only Citizens Council kept the peace in his
hometown.  A lawyer, Barbour served in President Ronald Reagan’s White
House and was chairman of the  Republican National Committee  from
1993 to 1997. He also  worked  as a lobbyist with the Washington-
based Barbour, Griffith & Rogers Inc., now called  BGR Group .  “Nobody has done more than Haley to build the Republican
Party over the last three decades,” Pawlenty said in a
statement after Barbour announced his decision. “When
Republicans defeat Barack Obama next year, it will be thanks to
the solid party foundation Haley helped build.”  Daniels, a close friend of Barbour, said he would have
“made a great president.”  “I’d have been proud to try to help him had he chosen to
run,” Daniels said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  