-- 
Japan’s Terrifying Day Saw Unprecedented Blown Roof Expose Tepco Fuel Rods

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-25T16:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/japan-s-terrifying-day-saw-unprecedented-exposed-fuel-rods.html
Makoto Nagai was sitting in his
third-floor office at 2:46 p.m. on March 11 when the earthquake
alarm buzzed. An orange LCD screen flashed 100 and 4, telling
him the number of seconds before a category 4 quake would hit
the city of Sendai on  Japan ’s northeast coast.  The intensity warning quickly jumped to 6, said Nagai, 55,
head of the emergency response team in  Sendai , located 129
kilometers (80 miles) west of the epicenter of what became the
strongest quake in Japan’s recorded history.  “I stood up, and my coffee cup bounced sideways off my
desk,” he said. “We were in an earthquake-resistant building
yet an internal wall and bookshelves collapsed. Then people
started to scream.”  As the  magnitude-9 earthquake  erupted, Kazuma Yokota, a 39-
year-old inspector from Japan’s  Nuclear Industrial and Safety
Agency , crawled under his desk in fear the ceiling was about to
collapse. Then he watched seismic shocks rip L-shaped cabinet
brackets out of the wall in his office at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power station, 100 kilometers south of Sendai.  Under the ocean floor that day, now referred to in Japan as
“san ten ichi ichi” or 3/11, two 50-mile-thick slabs of the
earth’s crust heaved in a grinding 80-million-year-old conflict
between tectonic plates. The quake unleashed energy 24,000 times
stronger than the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki in 1945,
wrenching part of the coastline 3.6 meters closer to the U.S.  Relieved Workers  Interviews with  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. engineers,
technicians and contract workers who were at the company’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant on March 11 or handled the disaster
response show how the facility stood up to the quake, only to
fail when the tsunami that followed found a way through its
engineering defenses.  About 15 minutes after the quake, a relieved Yokota was
walking toward the west gate of the plant. He was among
thousands of men and women in hard hats, orange, blue and white
boiler suits, shoes crunching on broken glass streaming up a
hill to emergency evacuation points spread over the site’s 864
acres, equivalent to 490 soccer fields.  Maintenance technician Kazuhiko Matsumoto, 43, was among
them. He was near the seafront in the turbine building of the
idle No. 6 reactor wrapping up work on air ducts when the shock
waves arrived. He clung to the wall to keep from falling as the
room blacked out except for green emergency exit signs. As back-
up lighting came on, a loudspeaker blared evacuation orders.  ‘Get Out’  “People were pushing,” he said, “Someone was shouting,
‘get out, quick, get out.’”  Koichi Imamura, a 42-year-old maintenance worker at the
facility for more than 20 years, was in a changing room next to
reactor 5, also shut for maintenance. He was in overalls after
taking off protective clothing and a radiation dosimeter when
he was knocked on all fours as lockers fell over, he said.  “People were yelling and I was just thinking I’ve got to
get out of here.”  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi station had 6,415 people on site
that day. More than 5,500, like Matsumoto and Imamura, were
subcontractors who reported to their clusters of offices in the
plant for a head count.  As Tokyo Electric compiled the numbers, officials found
that 6,413 staffers were safe and accounted for. Two Tokyo
Electric employees were missing.  Monitor the Situation  At this point, the crisis appeared contained. While roads
inside the site had buckled and windows were shattered, the six
reactor buildings, reinforced concrete and steel boxes as high
as 56 meters, had withstood the earthquake.  The temblor had triggered the automatic shutdown of the
Dai-Ichi’s three operating reactors as designed. The engineering
defense had worked.  “We thought we’d have to monitor the situation but that
was about all,” said Yokota, who headed a team of seven from
the nuclear safety agency based at the plant. That day he was at
a quarterly review of operations with officials from Tokyo
Electric, known as Tepco.  What Yokota didn’t know was that the quake knocked out a
transformer station about 10 kilometers away, severing the
utility’s connection to the electricity grid and the power
needed to keep reactor cooling systems operating. It would be
another hour before events conspired to make the name Fukushima
synonymous with the biggest nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.  Jammed Roads  After the head counts, thousands of subcontractors left to
check if families were safe, including Matsumoto and Imamura.  Matsumoto’s drive didn’t last long; he was forced to
abandon his car because the roads were cracked and jammed with
traffic. He walked 10 kilometers to his in-laws’ house to meet
up with his wife and two sons, aged nine and three.  Imamura drove to his home in the town of Okuma 5 kilometers
away, also convinced the engineering had averted a nuclear
accident.  “Reactors four, five and six weren’t even running and the
other ones shut down when the quake hit,” he said.  Yokota and two of his team also went to Okuma, where the
agency kept an emergency command office.  The three men reached the center in 15 minutes and found
the office wrecked, power down and no working communications,
the first indication to Yokota that emergency procedures were
unraveling.  “We couldn’t contact anybody for one or two hours,” he
said. “I thought, this means trouble.”  ‘Inside Out’  Back at the Fukushima site, the head of the Dai-Ichi
operation Masao Yoshida and two deputies, Masatoshi Fukura and
Atsufumi Yoshizawa, set up a disaster control center in an
earthquake-proofed bunker. Yoshida, 56, had taken up the
position in June, his fourth stint at the 40-year-old atomic
power station.  Linked by a hot line to Tepco  headquarters  in central
Tokyo, the three-story, white  bunker  had extra-thick walls and
two filtration systems designed to keep out radiation. It was to
become their new home.  Yoshida knew Dai-Ichi “inside out” and was ready to take
charge, said Yokota, who later joined him in the bunker.  “It’s our mission to keep the power plant stable, putting
safety as the top priority,”  Yoshida said  in a Jan. 4 New Year
video greeting posted on Tepco’s website. Wearing glasses and
dressed in blue overalls, he is flanked by two “kadomatsu”
bamboo decorations that symbolize good fortune for the coming
year.  Yoshida had been vice chairman of the Japan Society of
Maintenology, a group that studies how to safely extend the
lifespan of nuclear power facilities.  Thirteen Generators  “Yoshida isn’t afraid to deliver bad news,” said Kenzo Miya, 70, an honorary professor at the  University of Tokyo  who
chairs the society.  The Dai-Ichi chief’s priority was to manage the  power
failure  after the earthquake cut the utility’s connection to the
electricity grid.  Yoshida could get replacement electricity from 13 back-up
diesel generators to run emergency water pumps for cooling
reactors. Each generator is the size of a train locomotive and
capable of delivering 6,000 kilowatt hours of power, enough to
run 14,400 Japanese homes for that period. Again, the
engineering was working.  “When the generators are running, the noise is so loud you
can’t go near them without earplugs,” said Yasuo Arai, who
trained as an engineer and now works at community relations for
Tepco.  Basement One  “Most are located in generator rooms in basement 1 of the
turbine buildings,” Arai said, pointing to a diagram in a Tepco
brochure of the Dai-Ichi plant. The turbine buildings holding
eight of the generators are about 140 meters from the seafront,
another two generators were on the ground floor behind reactor
4, which was offline for maintenance. Three others were in and
around reactor 6, which was also offline.  As Yoshida’s Tepco engineers fanned out to control rooms to
check for earthquake damage and monitor procedures as the
reactors shut down, 25 kilometers up the coast in  Minami Soma ,
Mayor Katsunobu Sakurai was realizing the earthquake was only
part of the unfolding disaster.  Sakurai had raced to the fifth-floor rooftop of the
government office, one of the highest in the city of 70,000
people. He looked toward the sea and saw what looked like a wall
of sand pummeling and splintering through rows of houses and
bellowing clouds of smoke and dust.  ‘Couldn’t Comprehend’  “In those first moments we couldn’t comprehend what we
were seeing,” Sakurai, 55, said. The tsunami he was witnessing
surged 2.4 kilometers inland, swallowing everyone in its path.
Almost 1,500 town residents were killed or are listed as
missing, out of a national toll exceeding 26,000.  The seabed off Japan had buckled along a 300-kilometer
stretch of fault line. The upheaval hurled about 67 cubic
kilometers of ocean at Japan’s coast, or enough to flood all of
 Manhattan  a mile deep, according to estimates by  Roger Bilham , a
seismologist at the  University of Colorado .  Within an hour the tsunami would smash into 860 kilometers
of Japan’s coastline at heights the U.S.  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration  estimated as high as 24 meters.  Akira Tamura, a 35-year-old control room manager at Dai-
Ichi’s No. 2 reactor, was home on March 11 in Minami Soma on a
day off. He was surfing Internet news sites dressed in sweat
pants and a T-shirt, when the quake reached his area.  “Roof tiles went flying and crashing in the street,” he
said.  Unseen Tsunami  After checking on elderly neighbors, Tamura jumped in the
car and picked up his wife at the flower shop where she worked.
He was forced to change route because main roads were flooded.
His apartment was on higher ground out of the tsunami’s reach.  At Tamura’s Dai-Ichi workplace, the tsunami crashed over a
2.5-kilometer breakwater of 60,000 concrete blocks and 25-ton
tetra pods as well as a 5.6-meter-high wall in the seabed in
front of the site.  The plant, built on a layer of rock 10 meters above  sea
level , was pummeled by a wave as high as 15 meters that flooded
parts of the facility in six meters of seawater before flowing
back to the ocean, according to Tepco estimates.  Interviews with workers at Dai-Ichi that day indicate that
as most staff had left and many of the Tepco technicians were
inside buildings checking on reactors, few saw the waves arrive.  Witnesses say from higher ground behind the plant, the view
was blocked by buildings. A Tepco engineer, who’d worked for the
company for 30 years, was in reactors 5 and 6 after the
earthquake and said he didn’t realize the tsunami had hit.  ‘Station Blackout’  What the earthquake had failed to do, the tsunami now
achieved: It overwhelmed the engineering defenses at Dai-Ichi.  Seawater flooded the basements of turbine buildings and
other sites, disabling 12 of the 13 back-up generators and
destroying electrical switching units. Salt water shorted
electric circuitry, depriving the reactors of power for cooling
and triggering a nuclear disaster that Tepco was forced to
combat with fire hoses and makeshift pumps.  “The level of flooding differed by building, but it was as
high as 1.5 meters in one turbine room,” said Hikaru Kuroda,
chief of Tepco’s nuclear facility management group.  At about 3:41 p.m., almost an hour after the quake, Dai-
Ichi lost alternating-current power at the three operational
reactors as the generators failed. Tepco immediately informed
the government it had experienced “station blackout” as
required by nuclear emergency regulations.  Coping Batteries  Eighteen days later Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  slammed the
sea defenses as inadequate. “It’s undeniable their assumptions
about tsunamis were greatly mistaken,” he told lawmakers.  The unfolding crisis and the radiation leaks that followed
shook a nation that sends 300,000 school children each year to
visit the Hiroshima memorial for victims of the first atomic
bombing and those killed by radiation poisoning.  The only defenses left to prevent Dai-Ichi’s nuclear fuel
rods from overheating and spewing radiation were banks of so-
called “coping” batteries designed to last no more than half a
day. Once those were deployed to power emergency cooling, a
nuclear plant would be, in the parlance of the industry, “12-
hours coping.”  “What that means is the clock has started ticking on
restoring power before the batteries run out,” said  Edward
Morse , a professor of  nuclear  engineering at the  University of
California  at Berkeley. Batteries buy several hours to “work
miracles,” he said. ``Once the batteries start failing, if the
cavalry isn’t there to bail you out, then you know you are
really in trouble.''  Blinded Engineers  Without cooling, nuclear reactors are like giant kettles
left to boil. Water covering the fuel rods inside begins to turn
to steam, exposing the rods that melt and emit radiation upon
contact with air.  Tepco’s engineers couldn’t determine if the batteries were
working because monitoring equipment malfunctioned, leaving them
blind to what was happening inside the reactors.  “We lost the ability to assess the performance of the
emergency core cooling system because meters designed to check
the water flow rates in the No. 1 and No. 2 reactors failed,”
Kuroda said. “We still don’t know why they died, that will be
part of the accident investigation.”  At 4:36 p.m., less than two hours after the quake, Tepco
was forced to acknowledge it had lost control of the reactors.
Nine minutes later, the company notified the government.  At 7:03 p.m., Kan declared a nuclear emergency, prompting
an evacuation of residents living around the Fukushima facility
that would extend to a 20-kilometer radius within 24 hours.  Lesser Evil  Tepco engineers were unable for the next two hours to get
readings for how much water was covering the fuel rods in the
No. 1 and No. 2 reactors, according to a data sheet obtained by
Bloomberg News. Once readings were available, they showed that
water levels held steady through the night, an indication the
batteries were working.  At the No. 1 reactor, water levels began dropping in the 
early morning of March 12. At 8:36 a.m., the reading showed zero
centimeters as the fuel rods began to emerge and come into
contact with the air. Within four hours, 1.7 meters of fuel rods
were exposed.  By this time, Tepco had begun to vent radioactive steam
into the atmosphere to reduce pressure in the reactor.  “They were choosing the lesser of two evils,” said
Yokota. “If pressure built up too much inside, it would explode
and could have thrown a lot more radioactive material into the
environment.”  Outside the Playbook  Professor Morse at Berkeley agreed, saying releasing the
pressure by venting steam is “in the playbook,” referring to
procedures for dealing with nuclear accidents.  That afternoon, about 24 hours after the quake, a hydrogen
explosion inside the No. 1 reactor building caused radiation
levels to rise. The explosion caused “blow out” panels in the
concrete building around the reactor to do what they’re designed
to do -- blow out under pressure.  A second threat emerged from spent-fuel pools, about 40-
feet deep and located at the top of the reactors. The spent fuel
rods also need to be cooled and covered with water to prevent
them melting and emitting radiation.  After two further blasts in the next 62 hours, it was a
March 15 fire around the spent fuel pool in reactor 4 that told
Berkeley’s Morse that Tepco engineers were entering territory
outside the nuclear playbook.  ‘Terrifying Event’  With reactor 4 shut down for maintenance, more than 1,300
fuel rods were stored at the top of the reactor building
where an unexplained explosion had destroyed the roof.  “Before the spent fuel pool ignited, I could put my thumbs
under my suspenders and say, ‘yeah that’s a small-break LOCA,’”
Morse said, using the industry jargon for “loss of cooling
accidents” similar to what occurred at  Three Mile Island ,
 Pennsylvania , in 1979.  “That turned out to be the most terrifying event
throughout the whole ordeal,” Morse said. “Now they have no
containment structure whatsoever, they don’t even have a roof. I
thought that could have been a game changer.”  Tepco now had three reactors without cooling systems and a
fourth with a fire spewing radiation into the air.  The danger now was an increase in radiation from the spent
fuel pool would force workers to withdraw from trying to get the
three reactors under control, threatening multiple reactor
meltdowns.  Fire Hoses  With no means to circulate cooling fluid inside the
reactors, the company drafted in fire engines, Chinook
helicopters, concrete-pouring trucks and crowd-control water
cannons to inject, spray and dump thousands of tons of water
onto the spent-fuel pools and into the reactor vessels.  “In the worse-case scenario, if we imagine there’s no
water in the spent fuel pool and there is a source of fire
that’s strong enough to melt the rods, a gaseous release of
radioactive nuclides takes place,” said Gennady Pshakin, a
nuclear physicist based in Obninsk, site of  Russia ’s first
nuclear power plant. “Naturally, the fresher the fuel, the
higher the radiation volume, especially of iodine and cesium.”  The radioactive gases contain heavy elements so while
winds could blow them some 20 kilometers, they wouldn’t reach 
Tokyo, Pshakin said.  Radioactive Ping  On two occasions radiation levels at Dai-Ichi reached 1
sievert an hour. Thirty minutes of exposure to that dose would
trigger nausea. Contamination for four hours might lead to death
within four months, according to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency.  Five kilometers away at the nuclear safety agency’s offsite
center, Yokota said radiation levels set off a constant warning
ping at detectors in the office, so he put on his DuPont Co.
Tyvek protective suit and a face mask.  On March 15, Yokota, who sports a wispy mustache and thin,
graying sideburns, moved the office to Fukushima city, the
prefectural capital about 60 kilometers from the plant, because
of radiation spikes.  He shuttled between the offsite and the Dai-Ichi bunker.
When the No. 3 reactor housing exploded on the morning of March
14, levels inside the bunker jumped as much as 12-fold, he said,
checking dates and times in a pocket diary.  Losing Weight  “I was so tired I didn’t have trouble sleeping. We ate
crackers and cheese for breakfast, for dinner we had canned
rations. I lost weight. My belt is one hole tighter.”  Tamura, the reactor control room manager from Minami Soma,
attempted to return to Dai-Ichi two days after the quake, only
to find the roads blocked. It was March 18 before the 16-year
Tepco veteran, who attended a company-run vocational high school
and played for the rugby team, was able to enter the reactor
site.  He worked on helping repair electrical equipment and
restore cooling systems. Much of his time was spent trying to
get diesel for emergency generators, he said.  “When I told my family that I’m going to Dai-Ichi my wife
begged me to stop. She was dead set against it,” Tamura said in
a March 24 interview at the port of Onahama about 55 kilometers
south of the plant. He was speaking during his first break in a
week outside the Kaiwo Maru, a four-masted sailing ship used to
accommodate exhausted workers.  Hot Meal  At first there were no blankets at Dai-Ichi so Tamura
grabbed what sleep he could on the floor. On board the Kaiwo
Maru, he took a bath and ate his first hot meal in a week,
teriyaki chicken.  “I wanted to have seconds but after eating so little all
this time I just couldn’t,” he said.  The stopgap methods to cool the reactors and spent-fuel
rods were having little effect, he said, with the use of salt
water adding a further complication from corrosion.  “Even as firefighters pumped water into the reactors, the
levels wouldn’t rise, and you can’t determine the reason without
getting inside,” Tamura said.  “Now, I just want to see my wife. At work, you leave all
personal belonging outside, so I don’t even have a picture to
look at,” he said before leaving for another shift.  “I kept remembering her face while I worked. She loves
flowers. I like seeing my wife working with flowers, because she
looks happy.”  On March 29, Tepco was able to restore lighting in the
control room of the No. 4 reactor as engineers slowly made
progress in fighting the crisis.  The next day in the adjoining turbine building, the bodies
of the two missing Tepco workers, Kazuhiko Kokubo, 24, and
Yoshiki Terashima, 21, were found in the basement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net 
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net 
Yuji Okada at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net 
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  