-- 
Japan's Opposition Wins By-Election as Crisis Erodes Support for Kan's DPJ

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-04-25T08:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/japan-s-opposition-wins-by-election-as-crisis-erodes-support-for-kan-s-dpj.html
The ruling  Democratic Party of
Japan  lost a parliamentary seat in local elections, the latest
blow to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  as pressure mounts over his
handling of last month’s earthquake and tsunami.  Kan’s party also lost five seats and won three in 10 head-
to-head contests with the  Liberal Democratic Party  in municipal
mayoral races yesterday,  Kyodo News  reported. A third party won
one race and another result wasn’t yet known, Kyodo said.  The results mark the second setback in elections for Kan
after last month’s earthquake and ensuing nuclear power plant
crisis. The prime minister, who this week will submit a 4
trillion yen ($49 billion) rebuilding package to the Diet, lacks
a two-thirds majority in the lower house needed to override any
veto from the opposition-controlled upper chamber. The LDP
hasn’t said whether it will support the plan.  “Everybody’s blaming Kan for a lack of leadership, whether
he deserves it or not,” said Steven R. Reed, a political
science professor at Chuo University in  Tokyo . “The LDP has
shown no leadership either. The question is, can Kan hold on?”  Three polls last week showed seven in 10 voters think the
government has mishandled the situation at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear power plant, which was crippled by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami. Kan’s approval ratings remained under 30
percent in the surveys, taken by the Asahi, Yomiuri and Nikkei
newspapers.  ‘Severe’ Results  “We must accept the results of the election, which were
severe,” Kan said today in parliament. “However, I intend to
give my all in rebuilding from the disaster as well as coping
with the nuclear power plant incident.”  He repeatedly denied any intention to step down while being
questioned by opposition politicians. Kan took office in June,
becoming  Japan ’s fifth prime minister since 2006. None of his
four immediate predecessors lasted more than a year.  “For me to abandon my responsibilities during these
circumstances would be an impossible choice,” Kan said.  LDP candidate Hideki Niwa, 38, received 61 percent of the
vote to win a place in the Diet’s lower house from Aichi
prefecture yesterday, according to the area’s election  website .
The DPJ didn’t field a candidate in the race after one of its
lawmakers gave up the seat in January in an unsuccessful attempt
to run for mayor of Nagoya, Aichi’s biggest city.  The Nikkei poll showed less than a fifth of voters said Kan
should step down soon. The Mainichi and Nikkei said around 60
percent of voters favored bringing the LDP into the government,
something the party has resisted. Party leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki 
on April 14 said Kan should consider stepping down, signaling
less cooperation on reconstruction efforts.  The LDP, which until 2009 held power for more than 50 years,
has refused to approve legislation to sell bonds that would fund
almost half of this year’s record 92.4 trillion yen budget. The
initial reconstruction plan will be funded without increasing
new bond issuances for the year ending March 2012. Financing is
an issue for Japan, which has a debt burden double the size of
the economy.  The Democrats lost two races for governor in April 10 local
elections to candidates from the LDP, the first vote following
the earthquake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  