-- 
Jimmy Carter to Visit North Korea to Push Forward Nuclear Talks, Food Aid

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-25T02:34:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/jimmy-carter-to-visit-n-korea-to-push-nuclear-talks-food-aid.html
Former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter 
and other former leaders will visit  North Korea  tomorrow to help
push forward talks on curbing the development of nuclear weapons
and addressing food shortages that plague the Stalinist state.  Carter, former Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari, former
Norwegian Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland and former Irish
President Mary Robinson are in Beijing today, the group said in
a  statement . In Beijing, Pyongyang and in  Seoul  they will meet
with top officials, diplomats, scholars and “members of civil
society,” said the group, which calls itself “The Elders.”  Tension on the Korean peninsula rose last year after 46
South Korean sailors died in the sinking of the Cheonan warship,
blamed on a North Korean torpedo. In November, the North shelled
a South Korean island, killing four people. Chinese-led six-
country talks aimed at curbing the North’s nuclear program have
not taken place in more than two years.  “At a time when official dialogue with the Democratic
People’s Republic of  Korea  appears to be at a standstill, we aim
to see how we may be of assistance in reducing tensions and help
the parties address key issues including denuclearization,”
Carter said in a statement.  Brundtland, former director-general of the United Nations
World Health Organization, said the group would also discuss
“longer-term food security and health issues that are so
important to economic development.”  The UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization  said  last month
that an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in North Korea
endangered the lives of cattle, hogs and goats.  North Korea’s economy shrank 0.9 percent in 2009, when UN
sanctions banning arms trading and restricting financial
transactions were toughened following the country’s second
nuclear test in May that year, according to the  Bank of Korea  in
Seoul. North Korea doesn’t release its own data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  