-- 
Breslin Scores With Branch Rickey Book; DiMaggio Reconsidered

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 
2011-04-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/jimmy-breslin-scores-with-rickey-bio-dimaggio-reconsidered-sports-books.html
This spring, Jimmy Breslin steps
out of the bullpen with a terrific biography of Brooklyn Dodgers
general manager Branch Rickey.  Rickey would have been enshrined in baseball history merely
for his ingenuity in inventing the farm system. But he’s also
remembered as the visionary who brought Jackie Robinson, and an
entire race, into baseball in 1947. Breslin’s “ Branch Rickey” 
(Viking, $19.95) is a near-poetic celebration of the man and his
courage, and it is also a reminder of the virtuosity of Jimmy
Breslin.  Writers strain for years to produce a single memorable
phrase, but Breslin manages two in the course of three
sentences. Try this on: “You held the American heart in your
hand when you attempted to change anything in baseball.” Then
this: “Baseball was a sport for hillbillies with great
eyesight.”  Breslin understands Rickey and shows that Rickey himself
understood what was at stake when he made his daring hire:  “Robinson caused the gravest of all fears: what if this
black man makes it and then there is another one after him and
soon a third and fourth and more, then what will happen to our
way of life, this national pastime, if these players take
everything and the whites we applauded turned out not to be so
great and wound up working in Southern gas stations?”  Rickey’s Plan  Tough luck. Rickey did it, and not on a lark. He had a
plan. First he’d bring on Robinson, then he’d go with the
catcher Roy Campanella (himself the subject of a recent book,
“ Campy ” by Neil Lanctot), and then the pitcher Don Newcombe.
Suddenly Rickey was talking about a revolution and not a
curiosity, and suddenly he was doing exactly what Breslin was
talking about. He wasn’t only changing America’s sport. He was
changing America.  The brilliance of Breslin’s book is that he writes about an
event at the center of American sports history and yet makes his
case with beguiling asides -- brush-back pitches, you might say
-- that startle the reader with their perspicacity. Consider the
notion that the farm system Rickey conceived was “modeled
somewhat after the Southern system of slavery,” or the insight
that Rickey possessed “a Midwestern Christian religious fervor
as strong as a wheat crop, and a political faith in anything
Republican.”  Charyn on DiMaggio  Now for the closers, both beauties. First is Jerome
Charyn’s “ Joe DiMaggio: The Long Vigil”  (Yale, $24), and even
if you’ve read a handful of DiMaggio books there’s real value to
this one. It’s an attempt, maybe the best yet, to explain
Joltin’ Joe and, inevitably, his love for, and then his
obsession with,  Marilyn Monroe : “With her and her alone he
recaptured at least a little of that mysterious grace he had on
the field.”  Then there’s Mark Kurlansky’s “ Hank Greenberg: The Hero
Who Didn’t Want to Be One ” (Yale, $25), another meditation on
heroism, baseball and individuality. While DiMaggio loved being
a hero, Greenberg didn’t understand it, especially the part
about being the great Jewish American hero. Kurlansky argues
that “he never accepted the definition of himself that some of
his Jewish fans had cut out for him.”  Nonetheless, one record still stands.  Sandy Koufax  wasn’t
the first Jewish star to sit out Yom Kippur. Hank Greenberg was,
in 1934. You could look it up.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 