-- 
Judge Blocks Lockout of NFL PLayers by Team Owners; League Moves to Appeal

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-26T17:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/judge-issues-order-blocking-lockout-of-nfl-players-by-team-owners.html
National Football League team
owners must end their month-old player lockout, a federal judge
ruled, prompting the owners to move immediately to appeal.  The league yesterday asked U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in St. Paul, Minnesota, for an order delaying her
ruling pending action by a  U.S. Court of Appeals .  Nelson issued the order in a suit filed by 10 players led
by  Super Bowl  winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and
 Drew Brees . They accused the league of violating federal
antitrust law.  “The judge has clearly ruled the lockout is illegal,”
said  Anthony Sabino , a professor of law at  St. John’s University 
in New York who practices antitrust law. “Even if she stays her
order pending appeal, the owners have lost significant ground,
and they are now motivated to resume talks.”  Sabino, who isn’t involved in the NFL litigation, said an
appeals court reversal is unlikely because an injunction is
largely within the discretion of a judge based on findings of
fact.  The judge said in granting a preliminary injunction that
the players established the necessary “fair chance” of final
success in the case.  The NFL declared a labor lockout on March 12 after talks to
create a new collective bargaining agreement collapsed and the
players’ association said it no longer would act as a union.  Areas of Conflict  The two sides disagreed on the formula by which the New
York-based, 32-team league and its players would divide about $9
billion in annual revenue, extension of the season from 16 to 18
games, a rookie salary cap and health care for players.  During a lockout, players aren’t paid and teams can’t
practice, sign new players or make trades.  “We believe that federal law bars injunctions in labor
disputes,”  Greg Aiello , an NFL spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are confident that the Eighth Circuit will
agree.” That appeals court, whose area includes  Minnesota , is
based in  St. Louis ,  Missouri , and also hears cases in St. Paul.
The league filed a notice of appeal with the court.  Aiello said the league believes the dispute will inevitably
end with a collective bargaining agreement.  “We can reach a fair agreement only if we continue
negotiations toward that goal,” he said.  Lawyers for the NFL’s owners and players, at Nelson’s
urging, engaged in four days of court-assisted talks mediated by
U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan in  Minneapolis . The
negotiations are scheduled to resume on May 16.  Players’ Lawyer  “The players want to play,” James W. Quinn, a lawyer for
the athletes, said in a phone interview. “Whether this will
move the other side to a place of rationality, who knows?”  The league’s quick move to appeal was unsurprising, he
said. “We expected that.”  Nelson today ordered the players’ attorneys to submit
written arguments opposing the owners’ requested stay of her
order by 9 a.m.  St. Paul  time tomorrow. She will rule based on
papers before her, according to an entry in the court’s docket.  The NFL will ask the appeals court to consider its
challenge on an expedited basis, it said yesterday in a court
filing.  Arguing for delayed enforcement of the court order, the
league said that without it “the clubs would be forced to
choose between the irreparable harm of unrestricted free agency
or the irreparable harm of more treble damages lawsuits.”  If Lockout Ends  With the lockout lifted, the NFL’s offseason would
officially begin after being on hold since March.  Players would resume getting paid, and teams could hold
practices, sign players and make trades. About 500 players would
become free agents, clearing them to pursue jobs with the teams
of their choosing.  The NFL’s draft of college players, which begins April 28,
is the only league activity scheduled during the lockout.  NFL training camps usually open in July and August. The
regular season is scheduled to begin Sept. 8. Some of the
approximately 2,500 players who will compete for regular season
roster spots appeared at their teams’ practice facilities today.  Pittsburgh Steelers safety Ryan Clark appeared at his
team’s practice facility at the  University of Pittsburgh .  ‘Courtesy’  While he wasn’t permitted to work out, Clark told the Walt
Disney Co.-owned all-sports ESPN cable-television network that
he’d met with head coach Mike Tomlin and team president Art Rooney II.  “We definitely have been treated with courtesy,” Clark
said in a telephone interview broadcast by ESPN. “I wasn’t
expecting anything else from the brass of the Pittsburgh
Steelers.”  New York  Jets offensive tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson, who
has a $750,000 bonus in his contract that’s tied to offseason
workouts, reported to the team facility in  Florham Park ,  New
Jersey , the Star-Ledger of  Newark  reported.  Jets players Brandon Moore, Mike DeVito, Jerricho Cotchery,
Bart Scott and  David Harris  also were granted access, though
they weren’t able to use facilities such as the weight room,
training room, hot and cold tubs, the paper said.  ‘Hiding Out’  “It’s kind of weird to not be able to have access to a
facility like you normally do,” Moore told the Star-Ledger.
“To not speak to anybody, everybody’s hiding out, not
available, nobody’s walking the halls. It’s awkward that it’s
come to this.”  The NFL instructed teams to allow players access to
facilities today and recommended they keep weight rooms and
other training areas closed, its spokesman, Aiello, said today
in an e-mailed statement.  “We are going to proceed in an orderly way that is fair to
the teams and players and complies with court orders,” he said.
“Players are being treated with courtesy and respect at club
facilities. We do not believe it is appropriate for football
activities to take place until there are further rulings from
the court.”  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York
at   matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 