-- 
Katy Perry Prances With Cup Cakes in Sugary World Tour: Review

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-04-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/katy-perry-prances-with-cup-cakes-in-sugary-world-tour-review.html
Katy Perry is on a tour with a
mission to give the world an overdose of sugary pop.  Thirty seconds of her is probably enough to cause a glucose
overload, based on her recent European shows.  The 26-year-old singer arrives in a rah-rah skirt made of
primary-colored cupcakes, skips around giant lollipops and
flirts with dancing gingerbread men.  Waves of pop confection bounce perkily from the sound
system. There’s an echo of Madonna’s “Sticky and Sweet” tour,
though Perry is at the frivolous end of the pop spectrum. She
does jokes. Madonna takes herself too seriously to do that.  Perry’s giddily intoxicating rush has made her flavor of
the month and more: Her “ California Dreams ” shows at  London ’s
Wembley Arena and HMV Hammersmith Apollo will be followed by
even larger ones at the  O2 Arena  in October. In the meantime she
will play  Japan , Australasia and about 50 dates across  Canada 
and the U.S. during the summer.  The West Coast singer has replaced the controversy of “I
Kissed a Girl” with the notoriety of being the wife of comedian
 Russell Brand .  Her set is pure Willy Wonka. The demented dancers behave
like children’s entertainers. The band members are dressed in
sharp white suits and look as if they have stepped out of the
Beatles’ “Yellow Submarine.”  The tune “Hot N Cold” is brassily ditzy and “Peacock” a
dire concoction of lame innuendo. Perry belts out her garish
choruses: She sang gospel when she was growing up, releasing a
Christian rock CD aged 16. Since her pop conversion, she has
only released two albums.  She makes up for this lack of material with an acoustic
medley of covers. She turns Lady Gaga’s “Born This Way” into
something like a lost Rolling Stones classic. Willow Smith’s
“Whip My Hair” sounds like it was sung by the Queen. It takes
talent and guts to successfully take on Jay-Z’s “Big Pimpin’”
accompanied only by acoustic guitar and a recorder. There is
more to Ms. Perry than brash power-pop and silly sweet-shop
shtick.  Rating: ***.  Perry’s tour continues on April 28 in  Melbourne ,  Australia ,
moving to  New Zealand  and Japan in May. Her American concerts
start in Atlanta on June 7 and continue through September before
she moves to Brazil and the U.K.  Perry’s CD “Teenage Dream” is on Capitol, priced from
$12.98 in the U.S. and 8.99 pounds in the U.K. Download fees
vary across services.  Information:  http://www.katyperry.com/   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 