-- 
Nasdaq, ICE Face Schumer Inquiry on Job Losses Amid Bid for NYSE Euronext

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-25T14:57:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/nasdaq-faces-schumer-inquiry-in-bid-for-nyse-euronext-wsj-says.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  can add the scrutiny of U.S.
Senator  Charles Schumer  to potential obstacles facing their
unsolicited takeover bid for NYSE Euronext.  Schumer, a New York Democrat, wrote to the companies asking
for data on job losses in their $11.3 billion proposal,
according to a letter dated today from Schumer’s office. He
asked for Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s estimate of how many jobs would
be cut “prior to pursuing the deal further,” the letter says.
The Wall Street Journal reported Schumer’s requests yesterday.  NYSE Euronext rejected the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer for the
second time in two weeks on April 21, citing the potential for
layoffs and “unacceptable execution risk” posed by government
antitrust review. The New York Stock Exchange operator has stuck
to its two-month-old agreement to merge with Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , a plan that would create the world’s largest
exchange operator.  “I am concerned with the potential impact a NASDAQ/ICE
takeover of NYSE Euronext would have on jobs in the New York
City area,” Schumer wrote to Nasdaq OMX and ICE. “This would
be a major consideration in judging any potential transaction.”  Shareholder Meetings  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  and ICE
CEO Jeffrey Sprecher have said they are meeting with NYSE
Euronext shareholders as they try to head off the $9.53 billion
Deutsche Boerse agreement. Their offer, valued at $42.90 per
NYSE Euronext share as of 10:35 a.m. New York time, is priced
about 14 percent higher than the bid from  Deutsche Boerse .  NYSE Euronext estimates the deal outlined by Nasdaq OMX and
ICE would result in 1,000 to 1,100 job losses, with about 800 in
New York City, according to Schumer’s letter. Combining with
NYSE Euronext would lead to “significant overlap,” he said
today, citing industry analysts.  Greifeld says his plan to purchase NYSE Euronext offers at
least 27 percent more in cost savings and revenue synergies than
Deutsche Boerse’s Feb. 15 proposal. New York-based Nasdaq OMX,
the second-largest U.S. bourse operator, and ICE in Atlanta say
they will generate about $740 million in expense cuts and
synergies in three years.  ‘Significant Job Losses’  “That almost certainly means significant job losses,”
Schumer wrote to Greifeld, referring to Nasdaq OMX’s cost-cut
projections. He added that he is requesting the data on
estimated job cuts with the understanding that the companies may
“further revise their proposal or take it directly to  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) ’s stockholders.”  Nasdaq spokesman Frank De Maria declined to comment
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The Deutsche Boerse-NYSE agreement estimates 400 million
euros ($582.36 million) in cuts and synergies, with NYSE
Euronext planning to raise that forecast to 500 million euros
($728.2 million), according to the New York-based company today.  NYSE’s merger announcement with the Frankfurt-based company
on Feb. 15 helped acclerate a wave of exchange consolidation
that has seen about $20 billion of deals announced in less than
six months. NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer considers the
Deutsche Boerse proposal a merger of equals that fits the New
York-based company’s long-term strategy of increasing revenue
through expansion.  Better for New York  Niederauer said in an April 10 interview with Bloomberg
that the Deutsche Boerse deal would be better for  New York City 
than the Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal. The combined entity with
Deutsche Boerse would have about 6,200 or 6,300 employees at the
time the deal closed, he said.  “What we’ve been perplexed by is how you promise all these
synergies but then caveat it by saying it’s going to be great
for New York, it’s going to create jobs in New York,” he said,
referring to the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer. “I don’t know how you
deliver those kinds of synergies without eliminating hundreds if
not above 1,000 jobs in New York.”  Nasdaq OMX had been left out of the consolidation wave
since October, when Singapore Exchange Ltd. offered A$8.35
billion ($8.97 billion) for Sydney-based ASX Ltd. In addition to
the Deutsche Boerse offer in February, London Stock Exchange
Group Plc said that month that it would buy Canada’s TMX Group
Inc. The ASX deal was blocked by the Australian government.  Schumer, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat, has yet to
announce support for either proposal. He said when the  New York 
Stock Exchange owner announced its agreement with Deutsche
Boerse in February that the U.S. company’s name should be
retained should the combination be completed.  “NYSE is one of the preeminent brands in the financial
industry, and there is no reason it shouldn’t come first in the
new exchange’s name,” he said in a statement on Feb. 15. “If
Deutsche Boerse pushes any alternative name, it would be an
indication that they are not viewing this deal as a merger of
equals and that could have negative consequences with regard to
future decisions on the merger’s implementations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 