-- 
NATO Strike on Qaddafi Compound Denounced as Italy to Join Allies’ Mission

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-04-25T22:03:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/nato-strikes-qaddafi-compound-as-loyalist-forces-shell-misrata.html
Libya  denounced a NATO airstrike on
Muammar Qaddafi’s compound as an assassination attempt, as Italy
announced it will join in airstrikes on pro-regime forces that
threaten civilians.  The NATO attack destroyed part of Qaddafi’s Bab al-Aziziya
compound in the capital Tripoli. NATO said in an e-mailed
statement that it hit a “communications headquarters” in
Tripoli, without giving details. A local security official said
four people were slightly hurt, The  Associated Press  reported.  Moussa Ibrahim, a spokesman for the Libyan government, said
that Qaddafi remains “healthy and well” after an “attempt to
assassinate” him. Libyan state television later showed Qaddafi
receiving local leaders while sitting in a tent with a
television displaying the day’s date.  “He is not hiding, he is leading the battle,” Ibrahim
said at a press conference at the bombing site that was
broadcast on state television. “He is in high spirits.”  Italy ’s warplanes will join those from the U.K.,  France  and
several other nations. It had previously declined to participate
because of its history as Libya’s colonial ruler.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  told U.S. President  Barack Obama  about the decision in a phone call yesterday. Italy
“decided to respond positively to a request from NATO,” the
Italian government said in an e-mailed statement.  “The two leaders agreed that additional pressure is
necessary to strengthen the civilian protection mission, and the
president emphasized that the best way to ensure the safety of
the Libyan people is for Qaddafi to leave power,” the White
House said in a statement.  Oil Steady  The conflict in Libya, which has Africa’s largest oil
reserves, has pushed crude prices to the highest since September
2008. Crude oil futures for June delivery settled at $112.28 on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , reversing an early drop of 1.1
percent and essentially unchanged from the April 22 settlement
price. Oil has gained more than 30 percent since the war began
in mid-February.  Libya’s production, which averaged 1.6 million barrels a
day last year, shrank to 390,000 barrels a day in March,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of producers. Production at
the Messla and Sarir oil fields, in the rebel-controlled east,
has been halted due to damage from the fighting, rebel officials
said at a press conference Sunday in Benghazi, according to AP.  After more than two months of fighting between Qaddafi’s
forces and rebels seeking to end his 42-year rule, Libya has
ground to a military impasse, with the government controlling
much of the west and the insurgents holding the east.  Misrata Shelled  The strike in Qaddafi’s compound followed a weekend of
intense shelling by his forces on Misrata, the biggest rebel-
held city in the west, in which the AP said 32 people were
killed and dozens wounded. Qaddafi’s troops resumed shelling the
city yesterday after announcing a pullout over the weekend, AP
reported.  “We will keep up the pressure until all attacks against
civilians have stopped, Qaddafi’s forces have withdrawn to bases
and full and unimpeded humanitarian access has been ensured,”
NATO spokeswoman Oana Lungescu said in a statement yesterday
from the alliance’s headquarters in Brussels.  ‘Traitors, Agents and Spies’  Qaddafi’s son Saif al-Islam said that NATO is fighting a
“losing battle” in Libya because it is “backed by traitors,
agents and spies,” according to the state-run JANA news agency.
Targeting Qaddafi’s office was “an act of cowardice done at
night that can do nothing more than terrify children, and it’s
impossible that it would frighten us or make us surrender,” he
said.  The two buildings hit appeared to hold a library, offices
and reception hall for visiting officials, the AP reported.
Earlier, a government official had said three people were killed
and 15 seriously injured, AP said.  U.S.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a Republican from  South
Carolina , called for the U.S. and its allies to go after Qaddafi
to resolve “what looks like a stalemate.”  “My recommendation to NATO and the administration is to
cut the head of the snake off, go to Tripoli, start bombing
Qaddafi’s inner circle, their compounds, their military
headquarters,” he said April 24 on  CNN ’s “State of the Union”
show.  Strike Sorties  The NATO-led mission began last month after a United
Nations Security Council resolution authorizing military action
to protect civilians and impose an arms embargo. NATO said it
carried out 62 “strike sorties” April 24, with other targets
including ammunition facilities around Tripoli and Misrata.  Italy has supported NATO operations, including the
enforcement of the no-fly zone and arms embargo, and NATO
warplanes have been flying from bases in Italy.  Libya’s Transitional National Council, the interim
authority set up by the rebels, has called for more
international assistance. The council is getting 50 million
dinars ($181 million) from  Kuwait , its leader Mustafa Abdel
Jalil, said April 24 during a visit to the Persian Gulf state.  The conflict is spurring an exodus into neighboring Tunisia
and  Egypt . About 5,000 people a day flee across Libya’s borders,
said Reuben Brigety, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of State
for population, refugees, and migration. The displacement is
“substantial and slightly unusual,” because most people
leaving Libya are foreign nationals, Brigety said at a press
briefing at a State Department yesterday.  So far, 117,000 people have been evacuated by air from the
region, Brigety said. Increasing numbers of Libyans also have
started fleeing the country in the south from the western
mountains, he said.  The U.S. has committed $47 million to humanitarian aid,
Brigety said. The money is distributed to the  International
Organization  for Migration, the World Food Program, the
International Committee of the Red Cross, the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees and non-governmental agencies, some of
which are on the ground in Libya, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  