-- 
NCAA Says Ohio State Football Coach Tressel Covered Up Player Violations

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-04-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/ncaa-says-ohio-state-coach-jim-tressel-covered-up-violations.html
Ohio  State University football
coach Jim Tressel withheld information from school officials
that his players sold championship rings and apparel at a local
tattoo parlor, college sports’ governing body said.  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  notified Ohio
State yesterday that it wouldn’t be cited for a lack of
institutional control -- the NCAA’s most serious breach --
because Tressel kept information from school administrators for
more than nine months.  Ohio State said in a  statement  on its website that the
allegations are consistent with what it reported to the NCAA in
March. The school said it would have no further comment until
the NCAA’s review is complete.  Tressel, who coached Ohio State to a national title in
2002, was previously suspended by the school for the first five
games of the 2011 season and fined $250,000.  There was no indication from the NCAA or Ohio State whether
further penalties might result from the case. The school has 90
days to respond to the NCAA’s request for additional
information. The NCAA committee on infractions meets Aug. 12 in
Indianapolis.  The NCAA said that between November 2008 and May 2010,
football players sold university-issued sports awards, apparel
and equipment to Edward Rife, the owner of a tattoo parlor in
Columbus, Ohio, the school’s home.  The merchandise included 2008 Big Ten Conference
championship rings, a 2008 national championship game jersey, a
pair of pants and pair of shoes, and a 2010 Rose Bowl watch.  Preferential Treatment  The NCAA said Tressel “knew or should have known” that at
least two football players received preferential treatment and
sold the awards, clothing and equipment.  It said the coach “failed to report the information to
athletics administrators and, as a result, permitted football
student-athletes to participate in intercollegiate athletics
competition while ineligible.”  The letter said Tressel failed to “deport himself in
accordance with the honesty and integrity normally associated
with the conduct and administration of intercollegiate
athletics.”  It said Tressel received e-mail notification that the
athletes sold the awards, apparel and equipment, and withheld
the knowledge until the school discovered the e-mails in January
2011.  The NCAA also said that in September 2010, Tressel falsely
attested that he reported all knowledge of NCAA violations to
the school as part of a certification-of-compliance form.  Tressel received an e-mail in April 2010 from Columbus
lawyer Christopher Cicero, saying that a federal agency had
raided Rife’s tattoo shop and discovered autographed apparel,
according to the Columbus Dispatch.  Federal Probe  Tressel didn’t notify anyone at the school. Instead, he
contacted a mentor of quarterback Terrelle Pryor, who was later
identified as one of the players involved in the scandal, the
 Associated Press  reported.  The U.S. Attorney’s office contacted the school about the
memorabilia its officers found at the parlor, prompting an
investigation by the school that never led to the e-mails
proving Tressel’s knowledge, AP said.  Pryor and five other players were given five-game
suspensions beginning with the first game of the 2011 season.  When the school appealed the players’ punishment, it
discovered the e-mails to Tressel, who was then suspended and
fined. Tressel has a 106-22 record at Ohio State.  The Dispatch reported that the NCAA “warned that it could
treat Ohio State as a repeat offender stemming from the
violations involving former quarterback Troy Smith, who took
$500 from a booster, and former men’s basketball coach Jim
O’Brien, who gave $6,000 to a recruit.”  The newspaper said repeat offenders face postseason bans,
loss of scholarships and suspensions of entire coaching staffs
under NCAA rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  