-- 
Neptune Orient Gets New CEO From Temasek, Starting Jan. 1

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-04-25T12:46:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/neptune-orient-names-temasek-s-ng-yat-chung-ceo-jan-1-as-widdows-retires.html
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.,
 Asia ’s third-largest container shipping line, hired a former
Singapore army chief and manager at controlling shareholder
Temasek Holdings Pte as its next chief executive officer.  Ng Yat Chung, 49, will take over on Jan. 1 after Ron Widdows, 57, retires from the post at the end of this year,
Neptune Orient said today in a statement to the Singapore
stock exchange. Widdows took on the job in July 2008 and will
remain as a senior adviser, it said.  “After a comprehensive global search, the board is
fully satisfied that Ng Yat Chung is the candidate to succeed
Ron Widdows in leading the company forward in its next phase
of strategy,” Neptune Orient’s Chairman Cheng Wai Keung said
in the statement.  Ng is joining Neptune Orient as Drewry Maritime Research
says the $240-billion container shipping industry is headed
for a bust this year as liners cut rates to fill space on new
vessels, ending its shortest growth cycle in at least 15
years. Growth may slow this year, Widdows said in February.  Ng will become an executive director from May 1, Neptune
Orient said. He spent 28 years in  Singapore ’s Armed Forces
and was chief of defense force before he joined Singapore
state investment company Temasek, which owns 67 percent of
Neptune Orient, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cambridge Graduate  Ng, a Cambridge University graduate, was head of
Temasek’s energy and resources group and also co-headed
 Australia  and  New Zealand  as well as strategy, Neptune Orient
said.  Neptune Orient lost a third of its value since Widdows
took over in July 2008 as the credit crisis caused a slump in
global trade. The stock closed unchanged at S$1.92 today,
before the announcement.  Neptune Orient posted net income of $460.9 million last
year, compared with a $740.8 million loss in 2009, as trade
and rates improved. The company ordered 12  container ships 
valued at $1.2 billion in July.  Widdows was chief executive officer of  APL Ltd. , the
container shipping unit of Neptune Orient, from 2003 before
he took over his current job. He worked for APL when Neptune
Orient bought the company in 1997 and is the chairman of the
 World Shipping Council .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  