-- 
Netflix Falls as Quarterly Profit Outlook Misses Estimates

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-04-26T20:49:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/netflix-first-quarter-profit-rises-88-on-new-subscribers.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the mail-order and
online movie-rental service, fell in Nasdaq trading after an
analyst downgraded the stock, saying increased competition and a
push into the international market will force it to spend more.  Tony Wible , an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
cut his rating on the shares to “sell” from “neutral,” based
on his target price of $170, which is 26 percent below today’s
close. Netflix fell $22.76, or 9 percent, to $228.91 at 4:30
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. It has gained 30
percent this year.  The  Los Gatos , California-based company’s shares already
were under pressure after its second-quarter profit forecast
missed analysts’ predictions on greater-than-expected
international expansion costs.  “The number of headwinds is starting to mount,” Wible
told Bloomberg Television, citing competition in the U.S. and
costs to secure content and begin service in international
markets.  Costs related to growth outside the U.S. may increase
second-half international operating losses to as much as $70
million, up from a previous forecast of $50 million, the company
said. Netflix plans to expand beyond  Canada  into two new
countries by early 2012. The company also is spending to gain
rights to films and TV shows outside the U.S.  Higher Costs  “Streaming content costs are up substantially, and it’s
coming as a surprise to a lot of investors,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles  who
has an “underperform” rating on the shares. “The company
might not be as profitable as some people thought.”  Net income in the current quarter will be $50 million to
$62 million, or 93 cents to $1.15 a share, the company said
yesterday in a  statement . Netflix projects sales of as much as
$798 million. Analysts had estimated profit of $1.18 a share on
revenue of $767.5 million.  For the first quarter, net income grew to $60 million, or
$1.11 a share, from $32 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier,
Netflix said. Sales increased 46 percent to $719 million,
beating analysts’ projections of $706.1 million. They had
predicted profit of $1.07 a share, the average of 24 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  New Users  The company signed up 3.59 million new users to reach 23.6
million worldwide, near the top of its predicted range.  “The Canadian adoption of Netflix has been phenomenal,”
Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said in an interview.
“Our adoption of pure streaming in the U.S. at $7.99 has been
amazing, so we think we have good prospects for international
expansion.”  The company is also likely to focus its efforts on fending
off increasing competition from streaming services offered by
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Hulu.com, George Askew, a Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. analyst who has a “hold” rating on the stock, said
yesterday in a research note to investors.  “Hulu.com continues to gain traction, as the streaming
service expects to top 1 million subscribers and generate over
$500 million in revenue in 2011,” Askew wrote.  Netflix may reach almost 30 million subscribers by the end
of year, and pass  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  HBO  early next year, said
Scott Devitt, a Morgan Stanley analyst, in a research note.
Devitt has an “equal weight” rating on the stock.  In last year’s second quarter, Netflix reported net income
of $43.5 million, or 80 cents a share, on revenue of $519.8
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  