-- 
New Orleans Restaurants Bounce Back With Stanley, Stella!: John Mariani

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-04-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/new-orleans-restaurants-bounce-back-with-stanley-stella-john-mariani.html
In the days after  Hurricane Katrina 
ripped into New Orleans on Aug. 29, 2005, shutting down nearly
every restaurant in the French Quarter, chef Scott Boswell knew
that getting his diner, Stanley, up and running was crucial to
bringing the city back to life.  “Two weeks after Katrina I got a military pass to get into
the Quarter,” says Boswell. “My staff was scattered all over
the country, and I had no payroll records and no  cash flow . My
mother came to help out and a sous-chef and his girlfriend came
back. We went to a local grocery for provisions and started
selling a hamburger, potato chips, pickle and a drink for five
bucks.  We put tables outside, my mom insisted we put flowers on
the tables and there were lines to get in.  We served 128 people that first day, and got media
attention from all over -- newspapers, CNN, even Japanese TV. By
week’s end we were serving 500 people a day.”  Stanley  was the first restaurant that re-opened in the
Quarter. Now, five years later,  New Orleans  actually has more
restaurants than before the hurricane.  On the basis of two trips to the city in the last six
months, I can attest that restaurants are packed every night,
from old-timers  Brennan’s  and  Galatoire’s  to newcomers like
 Dominique’s  and  Domenica .  Boswell relocated Stanley to Jackson Square, where in
addition to those redemptive burgers, he serves terrific gumbos,
eggs Benedict and po’ boy sandwiches. At the same time, after
eight months of renovation, he re-opened his fine dining
restaurant  Stella!  (like Stanley, inspired by Tennessee Williams’s “A Streetcar Named Desire”), which is emblematic of
just how vibrant and forward thinking the Crescent City’s food
scene has become.  Royal Roe  While most of the city’s restaurants are still devoted to
beloved but entrenched Creole culinary traditions, Stella! has
moved into modern haute cuisine, but without the haughtiness.  Boswell calls his food “global,” based on his cooking
stints at restaurants in France, Italy and  Japan , all filtered
through a generous Southern sensibility. By New Orleans
standards, Stella! is not cheap, with entrees ranging from $31-
$43, and a separate “international caviar menu” that offers
two ounces of paddlefish roe for $100 and 50 grams of “Royal
Osetra” for $300.  Fat Shrimp  Stella’s decor, once quaintly casual, is now among the most
elegant in New Orleans. You enter through a cobblestone
courtyard into a dining room with beamed ceilings, gold and
silver wallpaper, big, vanilla-colored tufted upholstered
chairs, crystal chandeliers and an antique, marble-covered table
set with a magnificent display of flowers.  The place is as effusively romantic as any restaurant in
the city, with plenty of guys popping the question over dessert,
and where both locals and tourists tend to dress up for the
occasion.  Boswell’s culinary ideas are complex yet beautifully
conceived. Many components both buoy and complement the main
ingredients, evident in a dish like his roasted potato and
parmesan gnocchi with fennel fronds, grilled corn, maitake
mushrooms, duck prosciutto, broccoli florets, scallions and
lemon zest ($18).  What at first seems a betrayal of the simplicity of Italian
pastas, emerges as a canny marriage of smoky, tangy and green
flavors with crisp textures.  Fat Louisiana Gulf shrimp are melded with risotto, laced
with hot andouille sausage, caramelized shiitake mushrooms, peas
and scallions ($16), a wonderfully tasty dish despite the rice
being overcooked one night.  Duck x Five  An entree called “Duck Five Ways” ($37) is a tour de
force of duck breast dusted with Sichuan pepper, lacquered leg
and thigh, mu-shu stir fry in a Chinese pancake, duck miso
broth, and crispy duck foie gras wontons with a cassis
reduction.  The dish ups the ante on traditional Peking duck by
multiplying the variations.  Boswell, along with chef de cuisine Carlos Briceno, use as
many local ingredients and techniques as possible, as in their
crisp meaty breast of Palmetto squab, served with braised
collard greens, skillet cornbread, oyster dressing and a Madeira
jus ($36).  This is also where I had two splendid desserts. An old-
fashioned German chocolate cake was brought happily into the
21st century, rich with toasted coconut and pecan ganache with
caramel sauce, plus milk chocolate mousse made in seconds with
freezing liquid nitrogen.  The other dessert is a masterpiece of sheer decadence -- a
grilled cheese sandwich made with a triple creme Delice de
Bourgogne and a dark chocolate ganache in brioche bread fried in
clarified butter and lashed with wild huckleberry sauce.  The 500-label wine list, overseen by sommelier  John
Mitchell , is exceptionally well balanced with New and Old World
selections and rare vintages, though I’d like to see more
bottles under $50.  It is a winning formula for a chef to be able to make great
burgers and po’ boys while also serving up some of the most
sophisticated cuisine. In a city where food is a religion,
Boswell delivers restorative effects on body and soul.
Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Main courses $31-$43.  Sound Level: Very comfortable for conversation.  Date Place: Absolutely.  Inside Tip: The seven-course menu at $125 is really a  good deal, with wines, add $95.  Special Feature: An extensive caviar menu.  Will I be back: Yes.  Stella! is at 1032 Chartres Street. Information: +1-504-
587-0091 or  http://www.restaurantstella.com .  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 