-- 
‘Rio’ Is No. 1 Movie for 2nd Week on Sales of $26.3 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-04-25T22:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/news-corp-s-rio-is-top-movie-for-second-week-on-sales-of-26-8-million.html
The animated comedy “Rio” was the
top film in U.S. and Canadian theaters for a second week, taking
in $26.3 million in ticket sales for News Corp.’s Twentieth
Century Fox studio.  The Tyler Perry comedy “Madea’s Big Happy Family” opened
in second place over the Easter weekend with sales of $25.1
million for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The first-place finish for “Rio” marks the fourth
straight weekend in which a children’s film has been Hollywood’s
top moneymaker. “Hop,” featuring a bunny who must save the
Easter holiday, was first for two weeks before “Rio” opened.  “Family films like ‘Rio’ tend to do well over Easter
weekend,” said Gitesh Pandya, editor of Box Office Guru. “It
was surprising that Tyler Perry’s film didn’t do better,” he
said. It may be “the Tyler Perry machine is slowing down.”  “Rio,” featuring the voices of  Anne Hathaway  and  Jesse Eisenberg , has taken in $80.8 million since its debut. In the
film, a domesticated macaw travels from  Minnesota  to  Rio de
Janeiro  to find a mate.  “Madea’s Big Happy Family” stars Perry, in drag, in his
recurring role as the outspoken matron of a large Southern
family. He also writes, directs and produces the films. “Madea
Goes to Jail,” the most successful of the Madea movies, took in
$90.5 million in U.S. ticket sales, according to researcher Box
Office Mojo.  Pattinson and Witherspoon  “Water for Elephants” was third in its debut, with sales
of $16.8 million for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox studio. The film features
“Twilight” star  Robert Pattinson  as a veterinary student who
falls in love with a circus performer played by Reese Witherspoon. Christoph Waltz plays her husband. The film is
based on the novel by  Sara Gruen .  “Hop” dropped to fourth from third with sales of $12.2
million. The film, combining animation and live action, was the
first from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  to lead the box
office this year. It has taken in $100.2 million since its April
1 release, according to Hollywood.com.  The horror sequel “Scream 4” dropped to fifth from second
with $7 million. In the movie from Weinstein Co.’s Dimension
Films, heroine Sidney Prescott, played by Neve Campbell, returns
to the town of Woodsboro, where she is pursued once again by
serial killer Ghostface. The first three “Scream” movies
generated $507 million in worldwide ticket sales, according to
Box Office Mojo.  Children’s Films  “African Cats,” from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Disneynature
division, opened in sixth place with sales of $6 million. The
movie follows families of lions and cheetahs as the parents
teach the cubs to survive. Samuel L. Jackson narrates.  Revenue for the top 12 films this past weekend gained 35
percent to $121.2 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com
said. Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 17
percent to $2.84 billion. Attendance is down 18 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 22-24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  