-- 
Nigerian Rights Group Says 600 Killed in North's Post-Election Violence

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 
2011-04-25T16:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/nigerian-rights-group-says-600-killed-in-north-s-post-election-violence.html
At least 600 people were killed in
violence between Muslim and Christian ethnic groups in  Nigeria ,
triggered by opposition protests against President Goodluck Jonathan’s victory in the April 16 election, a local civic group
said.  Most of the victims, 516 people, were killed in Kaduna
state, Shehu Sani, executive director of the Kaduna-based Civil
Rights Congress, said in a telephone interview from the city
today, citing reports from members. “We keep discovering more
details of massacres that have been carried out in the
hinterland.”  The mainly Muslim supporters of Muhammadu Buhari, a former
military ruler in Africa’s top oil producer and candidate of the
Congress for Progressive Change, attacked backers of Jonathan,
the election winner, of the People’s  Democratic Party , and
clashed with Christians in the Kaduna city, the state capital.
The violence spread to seven other towns and cities in the
mainly Muslim region.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation with 150 million
residents, is roughly split between a mostly Muslim north and a
largely Christian south, a divide reflected in voting for the
election. Buhari won all of the country’s 12 northern states
while Jonathan took 23 of 24 in the mainly Christian central and
southern states.  Legislative Election  Jonathan, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger River delta
region, defeated Buhari by 57 percent to 31 percent, according
to the Independent National Electoral Commission. Buhari’s party
rejected the outcome, saying it was marred by fraud.  Most local and international observers, while noting
incidents of underage voting and suspicious turnout figures,
called the vote credible. The last elections, in 2007, were
described by international and local monitors as flawed because
of intimidation of voters and ballot fraud.  Ahead of state governorship and legislative elections
tomorrow, troops have been deployed across the north to quell
the violence and in some southern cities to forestall reprisal
attacks against Muslims, the military said. A night-time curfew
is in place in some cities.  Three explosions in the northern city of Maiduguri late
yesterday killed three people and injured 14, Mai Mamman, a
police spokesman in the city said. Authorities in Nigeria’s
north have blamed a group known as Boko Haram, which draws
inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, for a spate of
bomb attacks and killings targeting government officials since
last year.  More than 14,000 people died in ethnic and religious
clashes in Nigeria between 1999 and 2009, according to the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 