-- 
Nintendo Forecasts Profit Short of Estimates, Will Offer Next Wii in 2012

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-04-25T10:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/nintendo-forecasts-net-to-climb-42-will-introduce-wii-successor-in-2012.html
Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest
maker of video-game consoles, will sell a new version of its
best-selling Wii model next year after profit fell to a seven-
year low on competition with  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Microsoft Corp.  Net income slumped 66 percent to 77.6 billion yen ($946
million) in the year ended in March, the Kyoto-based company
said today. The earnings, Nintendo’s forecast for a 42 percent
jump in profit this fiscal year and predictions for operating
profit and sales, all lagged behind analysts’ estimates.  “The market reaction is likely to be negative, because the
profit outlook fell short of the consensus,” said Yusuke Tsunoda, an analyst at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. “Sales of Wii
software are forecast to plunge, while at the same time the
company’s outlook is probably also taking into account a price
cut for the console.”  President Satoru Iwata, facing mounting competition from
Sony’s PlayStation 3 and Microsoft’s Xbox 360, needs the second-
generation Wii to rekindle the success of its top-selling
console that was introduced in 2006. That will be the second
major product in a year from Nintendo, which in February began
sales of the 3DS model, capable of beaming images in three
dimensions.  New Approach  Shares of Nintendo rose 0.9 percent to close at 20,330 yen
on the Osaka Securities Exchange prior to the announcement of
the earnings. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.1 percent. The
stock has retreated 15 percent this year compared with a 16
percent drop for Sony and a 8.6 percent decline for Microsoft.  Nintendo forecast net income of 110 billion yen in the year
ending in March, missing the 143.8 billion yen average of nine
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The projection
doesn’t include sales of the new Wii, which will be shown at the
E3 Expo in  Los Angeles  in June, Nintendo said.  Sales of the Wii will probably drop 14 percent to 13
million units this fiscal year, whiles software sales may plunge
30 percent to 120 million units, the company said.  “We would like to propose a new approach to home video
game consoles” with the Wii successor, Iwata said, without
elaborating. “It’s difficult to make 3-D images a key feature,
because 3-D televisions haven’t obtained wide acceptance yet.”  ‘Too Aggressive’  The company today said it expects to sell 16 million units
of the 3DS this fiscal year, compared with 3.61 million a year
earlier. Sales of software titles for the handheld will probably
climb to 62 million units, from 9.4 million in the year just
ended. The 3DS game lineup will also include a “Legend of
Zelda” title that will become available in June, Iwata said.  “The outlook for 3DS hardware and software sales is very
aggressive,” Tsunoda said. “The company will need a very
strong lineup of original titles to meet these goals.”  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, will climb 2.3 percent to 175 billion
yen in the period, after falling 52 percent in the year just
ended, the company said. Revenue will probably grow 8.4 percent
to 1.1 trillion yen, after a 29 percent drop, Nintendo said. The
analysts expected 222.5 billion yen in operating income on 1.12
trillion yen in sales.  Nintendo, which dominated game hardware in consoles with
the Wii and in portable players since the Gameboy in 1989, seeks
to defend its lead against Sony’s latest PSP.  The $250 3DS, which went on sales in the U.S.,  Europe  in
 Japan  in the past two months, also faces  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
smartphones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, which have
attracted gamers with third-party applications.  Nintendo Vs Sony  Sony, the world’s second-largest maker of portable game
players, in January said it will offer the new model of the PSP
by the year-end holiday season. The device, code-named NGP, will
offer access to third-generation wireless networks and have
front and rear touch pads, it said.  Sony, whose PlayStation player dominated the previous
generation of game consoles, also introduced its motion-sensing
controller, called Move, for the PlayStation 3 to appeal to
casual users. The black controller, resembling Wii’s wand with a
colored ball in front, went on sale in the U.S. in September for
$50, or $80 with a companion product.  In November,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  introduced its Kinect motion-
sensing controller with a free game for $150. The Redmond,
Washington-based company last month said it sold 10 million
Kinect sensors.  Nintendo sold almost 440,000 units of the 3DS handheld game
player during its first week of U.S. sales in late March.
Combined with three older models, Nintendo sold 860,000 DS units
in March, Nintendo of America President Reggie Fils-Aime said
earlier this month, citing figures from industry tracker NPD
Group Inc. A year ago, Nintendo sold 701,000 DS handhelds.  The company missed its 4 million 3DS players sales target
for the year just ended because of last month’s earthquake and
tsunami in northern Japan, Iwata said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  