-- 
NTT Data Agrees to Acquire Italy’s Value Team to Expand in Europe, Brazil

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-04-25T05:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/ntt-data-agrees-to-acquire-italy-s-value-team-to-expand-in-europe-brazil.html
NTT Data Corp. (9613) , the network-
services unit of  Japan ’s largest phone company, agreed to buy
Italy’s Value Team SpA to expand in  Europe  and the growing Latin
American market.  Value Team, which generated revenue of 308 million euros
($449 million) last year, will provide a “bridgehead” with
Brazil to tap Latin American customers, Tokyo-based NTT Data
said in a statement, without disclosing financial terms. NTT
will spend 250 million euros for the purchase, the Nikkei
newspaper reported today. Norihiko Sugimoto, a spokesman at NTT
Data, declined to comment on the amount.  President Toru Yamashita plans to spend as much as 300
billion yen ($3.7 billion) on acquisitions to quadruple sales
outside Japan over three years. The Value Team agreement follows
the acquisition of Boston-based Keane International Inc. in
December and is NTT Data’s seventh overseas deal in the past
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This acquisition has a positive impact on NTT Data’s
overseas expansion plan,” Hidemasa Mizumoto, an analyst at
Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said by phone today.
“Value Team SpA’s business locations in  South America  will help
NTT Data to obtain more overseas sales.”  NTT Data rose 0.7 percent to 251,800 yen as of 2:02 p.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average fell 0.1 percent. NTT Data shares have fallen 11.5
percent in 2011.  Value Team, which offers consulting and system engineering
services to Italy’s telecommunications, manufacturing and
financial companies, has more than 300 customers in the
telecommunications, financial and manufacturing industries,
according to the statement. The Milan-based company employs
almost 3,000 people, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  