-- 
Obama Considering Possible U.S. Sanctions for Syrian Protest Crackdown

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-25T15:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/obama-drafting-possible-u-s-sanctions-against-syrian-officials.html
The Obama administration is
considering options to hold Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
accountable for the increasingly violent crackdown against anti-
government protesters, including possible sanctions, an
administration official said.  One of the options under consideration is an executive
order by President  Barack Obama  that would institute sanctions
against Syrian officials, the administration official said,
speaking on the condition of anonymity. The sanctions would
target those officials leading the crackdown and may include
freezing their assets and banning business dealings with the
U.S., the official said.  The administration is looking for ways to register
international opposition to Assad’s actions and discourage the
crackdown, the official said. Still, the draft executive order
hasn’t been completed and no final decisions have been made. The
potential move was reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  “The  United States  is pursuing a range of possible policy
options, including targeted sanctions, to respond to the
crackdown and make clear that this behavior is unacceptable,”
White House spokesman Tommy Vietor said in an e-mailed
statement.  Anti-Government Protests  Assad has failed to quell protests after pledging steps to
meet activists’ demands and end a 48-year state of emergency.
Over the weekend, scores of anti-government protesters were
killed and Syrian security forces detained at least 200 people,
prompting a number of officials to announce their resignations,
activists said.  Khalil al-Rifai and Nasser al-Hariri, lawmakers from the
southern town of Daraa, the scene of the deadliest clashes,
resigned. The city’s top government-appointed religious leader,
Mufti Rizq Abdel Dayem Abazid, also said he quit.  While protests against Assad’s government began March 15,
the U.S. is stepping up its efforts to pressure  Syria ’s
leadership to stop the crackdown.  Obama condemned Syria for its “outrageous use of
violence” and said the government’s moves to lift the state of
emergency and allow peaceful demonstrations “were not serious
given the continued violent repression against protesters.” The
president called on Assad to “change course now and heed the
calls of his own people.”  Mahmoud Merhi, who heads the Arab Organization for Human
Rights, said in an interview from Damascus that 200 to 300
people have been detained since April 22. Many of those arrested
were taken from their homes at night, according to Haitham al-
Maleh, a member of the  Syrian Human Rights Committee , who
estimates “hundreds” were arrested.  Merhi said 126 people were killed in the past two days, 113
of them during April 22 demonstrations and 13 during ensuing
funerals, making them the deadliest clashes since protests began
March 15. More than 2,000 people have been detained, with half
of them released since mid-March, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  