-- 
Oil Speculation, Insider Trading, JPMorgan, AT&T: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-25T12:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/oil-speculation-insider-trading-jpmorgan-at-t-compliance.html
President  Barack Obama  said a
 Justice Department  probe will examine the role of “traders and
speculators” in oil markets and how they contribute to high gas
prices.  “The attorney general’s putting together a team whose job
it us to root out any cases of fraud or manipulation in the oil
markets that might affect gas prices, and that includes the role
of traders and speculators,” Obama said April 21 in Reno,
 Nevada . “We are going to make sure that no one is taking
advantage of American consumers for their own short-term gain.”  The administration on April 21 created a working group to
explore whether oil and gasoline prices are being driven higher
by illegal manipulation.  The group, which includes representatives of federal
agencies and state attorneys general, will check for fraud,
collusion or misrepresentation at the retail and wholesale
level, the Justice Department said in a statement last week. The
group also will examine investor practices and the role of
speculators and index traders in oil futures markets.  Obama faces political pressure over rising gasoline prices.
Crude oil futures have increased 22 percent and gasoline surged
34 percent this year as Middle East unrest reduced supply and
the global economic rebound bolstered fuel demand. Both futures
contracts touched the highest levels this month since the
records reached in 2008.  For more, click here.  Courts  JPMorgan to Settle Lehman Brokerage Claims for $800 Million  JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to return $800 million in cash
and securities to settle claims against it brought by  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage, according to court papers.  The defunct brokerage,  Lehman Brothers Inc ., will
distribute the money to customers, according to a filing April
21 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  JPMorgan was the main clearing bank for the Lehman
brokerage, processing billions of dollars of transactions and
lending tens of billions of dollars daily to LBI, according to
the filing. While some of the loans were secured by securities
in the brokerage’s accounts, the bank didn’t have a valid lien
on some customer property, which now is being returned, it said.  “The agreement will have no material financial impact on
JPMorgan,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  Most of the assets were set aside to await a resolution of
claims by the trustee who is liquidating the remnants of
Lehman’s brokerage, it said.  Separately, JPMorgan, the second-biggest  U.S. bank , is
trying to get an $8.6 billion lawsuit by the Lehman parent
dismissed.  The brokerage bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers
Inc., 08-01420, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  JPMorgan Settles Military Mortgage Suits for $56 Million  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , one of the lenders criticized over
improper foreclosures on military families’ homes, agreed to pay
$56 million to settle claims it overcharged service members on
their mortgages.  JPMorgan will pay $27 million in cash to about 6,000
active-duty military personnel who were overcharged on their
mortgages, cut  interest rates  on soldiers’ home loans and return
homes that were wrongfully foreclosed upon as part of the
accord, according to filings in federal court in Beaufort,  South
Carolina .  JPMorgan officials said three months ago that one of the
bank’s units had made errors in the handling of mortgages
covered by the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. That law was
enacted in 1942 to shield deployed military personnel from
financial stress.  “We are sorry and regret the mistakes our firm made on
mortgages for members of the military,” Frank Bisignano, a
JPMorgan official appointed to oversee the company’s home-
lending unit in February, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
hold ourselves accountable and responsible for these mistakes.”  Richard Harpootlian and William Harvey, two South Carolina
lawyers who represented the soldiers who sued the bank, didn’t
return calls for comment.  U.S. District Judge Margaret B. Seymour still must approve
the class-action settlement before it becomes final.  The South Carolina case is Rowles v. Chase Home Finance
LLC, 10-1756-MBS, U.S. District Court, District of South
Carolina (Beaufort Division).  For more, click here.  U.S. Seeks Delay of  Insider-Trading  Case Against FDA Chemist  The U.S. asked a federal judge to delay its insider-trading
case against a Food and Drug Administration chemist, claiming
the government is trying to work out a potential resolution with
the defendant.  Prosecutors, in a filing April 20 in federal court in
Greenbelt,  Maryland , said the defendant, Cheng Yi Liang, agreed
to a 60-day delay of the case.  “The parties request additional time in order to discuss
further steps and a potential resolution of this matter,” the
government said.  Cheng Yi Liang, who worked for the FDA’s  Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research , and his son, Andrew Liang, are accused
of reaping at least $3 million from trading on nonpublic
information related to drug-approval applications.  The Liangs, who live in Gaithersburg, Maryland, were
charged last month with conspiracy,  wire fraud  and  securities
fraud . The maximum penalty for the fraud charges is 20 years in
prison.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in a related
civil lawsuit said the elder Liang made $3.6 million by trading
shares of 19 firms before 27 FDA decisions since 2006.  An FDA employee since 1996, Liang had computer access to
nonpublic records of the review process for each drug examined
by the office, the U.S. said.  Liang traded in smaller developmental drug companies, where
a government decision would be more likely to have a significant
effect on the stock price, the SEC said. He gained more than $1
million trading stock of  Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VNDA)  a Rockville,
Maryland, firm that rose more than 600 percent a day after the
FDA cleared sales of its schizophrenia drug Fanapt in May 2009,
according to the lawsuit.  He profited from  share purchases  ahead of 19 positive
announcements and on short sales before six negative decisions,
the SEC said. He also avoided losses by selling stock before two
other negative decisions, the agency said. His average profit on
each announcement was $135,015, according to the lawsuit.  Andrew Carter, Liang’s lawyer, declined to comment.  The cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi Liang, 8:11-mj-01236-WGC, and
U.S. v. Andrew Liang, 8:11-mj-01237-WGC, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  Rajaratnam Prosecutors Inhabit ‘Imaginary World,’ Dowd Says  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s lawyer
accused U.S. prosecutors of living in a “make-believe” and
“imaginary world” where publicly available information about
pending deals “didn’t exist.”  John Dowd , in the second day of closing arguments at
Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial on April 21, took jurors in
Manhattan federal court through weeks of evidence to show that
his client wasn’t guilty of conspiracy or securities fraud. His
recurring theme was that information the government claimed was
secret was actually public knowledge.  Dowd said Rajaratnam traded on information about a pending
takeover of ATI Technologies Inc. by  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
because  Hector Ruiz , the chief executive officer of AMD at the
time, had told Wall Street analysts about it. Prosecutors say
Rajaratnam was tipped by  Anil Kumar , a former partner at
McKinsey & Co., where AMD was a client.  Dowd’s summation came in the seventh week of a trial that
might send Rajaratnam, 53, to prison for 20 years in the biggest
U.S. crackdown on insider trading at  hedge funds . Rajaratnam is
accused of gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate
insiders and hedge-fund traders about a dozen stocks, including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Clearwire Corp. and
 Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)   Dowd said another alleged leak from Kumar, that  Abu Dhabi ’s
Mubadala Development Co. was investing in a 2008 spinoff of
Sunnyvale, California-based AMD, was “public.”  Prosecutors said wiretaps of conversations between Kumar
and Rajaratnam supported Kumar’s claim that he tipped Rajaratnam
about rumored job cuts at EBay Inc. Dowd said the news had been
widely reported beforehand in the media.  On rebuttal, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter told
jurors that Rajaratnam was the manager of a multibillion-dollar
hedge fund and a graduate of a top U.S. business school, the
Wharton School at the  University of Pennsylvania . “Of course”
Rajaratnam knew it was illegal to trade on advance word of a
company’s earning, Streeter said.  The judge is likely to instruct jurors on the law today,
and jurors will then begin deliberating.  Rajaratnam is charged with five counts of conspiracy and
nine counts of securities fraud. The conspiracy counts each
carry a maximum five-year prison sentence and the fraud counts
each carry a maximum 20-year term.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New York Lawyer Pleads Guilty in Probe of Ex-Galleon Trader  A  Brooklyn , New York, lawyer, who the U.S. said was a
member of one of three Galleon Group LLC insider-trading rings,
pleaded guilty to securities fraud charges in federal court in
Manhattan.  Jason Goldfarb pleaded guilty April 21 to conspiracy and
securities fraud before U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan .
Goldfarb was one of 14 people arrested in November 2009 by the
FBI as part of the probe into the Galleon hedge fund.  “With great regret, I made a horrible mistake and agreed
to participate in this scheme,” Goldfarb told the judge at the
hearing. His lawyer, Michael Soshnick, declined to comment after
the hearing.  As part of his plea agreement, Goldfarb won’t be prosecuted
further by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District
of New York, except for any potential criminal tax violations,
according to a copy of the accord.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  America Movil Fine of 12 Billion Pesos Confirmed by Agency  Mexico ’s antitrust agency said it levied a fine of 12
billion pesos ($1 billion) against the local unit of America
Movil SAB, Latin America’s largest wireless provider, for
charging competitors too much to connect to its network.  The fine is equal to 10 percent of the assets of America
Movil’s local unit, or the maximum allowed by law, the  Federal
Competition Commission  said in an e-mailed statement.  Telcel, as the unit is known, has 30 days to appeal or
present a plan to comply with the ruling, the agency said.  China Orders Contractors to Give Workers Injury Insurance  China ordered contractors to offer injury insurance for
workers and encouraged the companies to give workers who take
dangerous assignments accident insurance in the nation’s amended
construction law, the Xinhua News Agency reported.  Japan ’s Financial Regulator to Extend Short-Sale Restrictions  Japan’s financial regulator plans to continue restricting
naked short-selling and require investors to disclose short-sale
positions, it said in a statement posted on its website.  An official extension until Oct. 31 will be announced by
the end of this month, the agency said.  Ukraine’s Central Bank Extends Administration of Sotskombank  Ukraine’s central bank said it extended its administration
of PAT KB Sotskombank for a second time.  The administration will run through July 21, the Kiev-based
Natsionalnyi Bank Ukrainy said April 22 in a statement on its
website. Nataliya Khorolenko will remain as an administrator in
Rodovid, according to the statement.  AT&T Tells Regulators T-Mobile Deal Is a Win for Consumers  AT&T Inc. (T)  formally asked regulators last week to approve
its $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc., saying the
transaction to form the largest U.S. mobile phone company would
benefit consumers.  The deal will help meet escalating demand for advanced
wireless services and consumers will suffer fewer blocked calls,
AT&T said in papers filed April 21 in  Washington  at the Federal
Communications Commission, which will vet the transaction along
with the Justice Department in a review that could take a year.  The purchase announced March 20 would combine the second-
and fourth-largest U.S. wireless carriers into a new market
leader, ahead of  Verizon Wireless .  The merger would bring less competition and higher prices,
according to critics including rival  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and
 Consumers Union . Concentration has increased in the wireless
industry, with Dallas-based AT&T and Verizon having 60 percent
of both subscribers and revenue, the FCC concluded last year.  The wireless market would remain competitive after the
merger, featuring strong competitors including Sprint,  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  and regional operators such as  Cincinnati Bell Inc. (CBB) , AT&T
said in its filing at the FCC, which will judge if the deal is
in the public interest. The agency began accepting comments
April 14, ahead of the company’s filing.  AT&T filed earlier at the Justice Department, where
antitrust experts will consider whether the combined company
would improperly dominate markets.  The transaction needs three votes on the five-member FCC,
which has a Democratic majority.  Commissioner Michael Copps, a Democrat, on March 31 said
the merger faces “a very steep climb” to win his approval and
Commissioner Mignon Clyburn, a Democrat, said April 8 the FCC
needs to keep in mind the need to “encourage competition” as
it weighs mergers. FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat,
has declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to Buy Back  New Jersey  Auction-Rate Debt  Morgan Stanley, operator of the world’s largest brokerage,
agreed to buy back $323 million of auction-rate securities from
New Jersey customers to settle state allegations that it misled
investors.  The market for the securities collapsed during the
financial crisis of 2008 when banks stopped using their own cash
to support the market, leaving investors stuck with bonds they
couldn’t sell. The securities were marketed to investors as a
higher-yielding alternative to cash because, until the market
froze, they could be sold at periodic auctions run by banks.  Banks have agreed to buy back securities from individual
investors to settle state and federal regulatory inquiries into
whether they misled investors about risks associated with the
investments.  In 2008, Morgan Stanley agreed to repurchase $4.5 billion
of the securities under a  settlement  with state regulators. The
company neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.  “This is nothing new,” Christy Pollak, a Morgan Stanley
spokeswoman, said April 21. “It’s simply New Jersey’s portion
of the settlement.”  Jeff Lamm, a spokesman for the New Jersey Attorney
General’s office, didn’t return a message seeking comment.  Compliance Policy  SEC, CFTC to Consider Swap Definitions Required by Dodd-Frank  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will meet this
week to consider whether to propose joint rules with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission defining swaps, security-
based swaps and security-based swap agreements as required by
the Dodd-Frank Act.  Both agencies will consider the proposal at meetings on
April 27, according to statements posted on their websites on
April 21.  New Suits  US Airways  Files Antitrust Suit Against Sabre Holdings  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  said it filed a federal antitrust
lawsuit against airline ticket reservation service Sabre
Holdings Corp. to halt alleged anticompetitive and anticonsumer
practices and recover monetary damages.  Sabre, the parent of Travelocity.com, “engaged in a
pattern of exclusionary conduct to shut out competition, protect
its monopoly pricing power and maintain its technologically-
obsolete business model,” Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways said
April 21 in a statement.  More than 35 percent of US Airways revenue is booked
through Sabre and affiliated travel agents, the carrier said in
a statement, or about $3.5 billion.  The lawsuit follows a new distribution agreement between
Sabre and US Airways reached this year.  Industry tensions boiled over on Dec. 21 when  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
 American Airlines  pulled fares from travel agent Orbitz.com as
the carrier focuses on a proprietary computer system to share
prices, bypassing distributors such as Sabre. American is in
talks with Sabre to settle a lawsuit the airline filed Jan. 10.  Sabre is “reviewing the details of their legal claims,”
Nancy St. Pierre, a spokeswoman for Southlake, Texas-based
Sabre, said in an e-mail. “We will have further comment when
appropriate.”  Bronco Drilling Sued by Investor Over Chesapeake Energy Bid  Bronco Drilling Co. was sued in Delaware Chancery Court by
a stockholder seeking more than the $11 a share being offered
for the company by  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  The deal is currently
valued at about $316 million.  Directors of Bronco, based in Edmond,  Oklahoma , have a duty
to get the best price for the company and have undervalued the
stock, investor Sam Berlinberg said in a complaint filed April
20 in Wilmington.  “The proposed transaction offers Bronco shareholders a
mere 6 percent premium,” and “analysts have set a target price
for Bronco shares as high as $13.50,” the plaintiff’s lawyers
said in court papers.  Bronco, which reported a $50.6 million net loss last year
on $124.4 million in revenue, is 22 percent owned by Third
Avenue Management LLC and 15 percent controlled by billionaire
 Carlos Slim .  “It is our policy to not comment on pending litigation,”
Bob Jarvis, a Bronco spokesman, said in an e-mailed message.  The case is Sam Berlinberg v. Bronco Drilling Co., CA6398,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Deals  NYSE Board Rejects Nasdaq-ICE Bid With Reverse Breakup Fee  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  directors again rebuffed an $11.3 billion
takeover offer from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , saying a proposed breakup fee to
allay antitrust concerns doesn’t change their commitment to
merging with  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s pledge to pay $350 million to the New
York Stock Exchange owners should their bid be blocked by
competition authorities didn’t improve the offer enough, the
board said in a  statement  April 21 on the company’s website.
Directors have twice deemed the Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal
inadequate, saying April 10 that “execution risk” and the
threat of rising debt and layoffs were too high.  “This proposal is substantially the same as what was
previously rejected,” NYSE Euronext chairman Jan-Michiel
Hessels said in the release. “Consequently, our view has not
changed. This proposal does not provide compelling value, has
unacceptable execution risk and is therefore not in the best
interests of NYSE Euronext shareholders.”  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  and ICE
CEO Jeffrey Sprecher said last week that they are meeting with
NYSE Euronext shareholders as they try to head off the $9.53
billion  Deutsche Boerse  agreement. Their offer is priced about
14 percent higher than the bid from Deutsche Boerse.  “Continually refusing to engage is starting to appear as
if they are protecting their deal rather than acting in the best
interest of their shareholders,” Greifeld said in a joint
Nasdaq OMX-ICE statement after the rejection. “We will not be
deterred by the board’s attempts to protect an inferior
transaction.”  Deutsche Boerse is “pleased” with the decision and it
plans to move forward with the merger agreement, according to an
e-mailed statement April 21.  For more, click here.  Speeches/Interviews  FTC Might Stop Internet Firms From Dominating Multiple Markets  Timothy Wu, an information industries scholar hired by the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission, said in his first interview since
joining the regulator that dominant Internet companies should be
barred from monopolizing more than one market.  “We just take it for granted the Internet is always going
to be vibrant, always going to be moving,” Wu, who joined the
FTC in February, said in an April 18 interview. “It may require
some oversight and also may require that the government itself
doesn’t become the guarantor of monopoly.”  People familiar with the agency have said it’s weighing a
probe of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s most popular Internet
search engine. Wu said the FTC may consider how to prevent the
more powerful Internet firms from gaining multiple monopolies,
which would make them hard to displace.  He cited as an earlier example AT&T, which controlled
local, long-distance and wireless telephone service and
switching before it was broken up in 1984.  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , which dominated  computer hardware ,
software, operating systems, accessories and repair businesses,
is another example, Wu said, adding that his comments reflect
his own views, not the commission’s.  Wu, 38, is on leave from  Columbia University  in New York,
where he teaches telecommunications and copyright law. He is
working on preliminary investigations and formal probes, and
running a weekly internal discussion group that examines how
companies come to dominate the Internet business.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 Cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  