-- 
Paulson Bought Lehman Bonds for as Low as 9 Cents on Dollar

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-25T16:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/paulson-bought-lehman-senior-bonds-for-as-little-as-9-cents-on-the-dollar.html
Hedge fund Paulson & Co. paid as
little as 9 cents on the dollar for some of its $4 billion in
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. senior bonds, according to a court
filing.  A bondholders group including New York-based Paulson and
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  made the
filing in response to a U.S. bankruptcy judge’s order that the
group disclose details about its members. The group is fighting
to control defunct Lehman’s $61 billion liquidation with a
payout plan that competes with Lehman’s own proposal.  Paulson paid 9 cents on the dollar for $5.1 million of
Lehman’s senior bonds on Dec. 1, 2008, according to the filing.
Paulson paid 34 cents to 35 cents on the dollar for the bonds
when Lehman filed bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008. Calpers paid 86
cents to $1.04 on the dollar for $90.1 million of Lehman’s
senior bonds between July 2006 and December 2007, according to
the filing, which was made on April 22.  Paulson and other senior bondholders are being offered 21.4
cents on the dollar in Lehman’s liquidation plan, and as much as
24.5 cents in the Paulson-Calpers proposal.  Under a disclosure provision called Rule 2019, the judge
could have denied the group a voice in court if they hadn’t
complied with his order.  Judge’s Influence  “We took into consideration our colloquy with the judge
regarding transparency,” Gerard Uzzi, a lawyer for the group at
White & Case LLP, said in a phone interview. “We hope that
other creditors will respond by making similar disclosures.”  Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a call or e-
mail seeking comment.  The bondholders group was formed around May 2009 to share
the costs of participating in Lehman’s bankruptcy, according to
the filing. Its steering committee comprises Paulson, Canyon
Capital Advisors LLC, Fir Tree Inc. and Taconic Capital Advisors
LP. The bondholders own $16.1 billion in face value of Lehman’s
senior bonds, they said in the filing.  Calpers and other institutional investors don’t pay any
fees for belonging to the group, according to the filing.  Calpers is the largest U.S. public pension fund. Another
member of the group, Pacific Investment Management Co., runs the
world’s largest bond fund, and group member Canyon Partners LLC,
based in  Los Angeles , is a hedge fund.  Once the fourth-largest investment bank, Lehman filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008, listing
$613 billion in debts.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  