-- 
Peru Stocks, Currency Decline as Ex-Rebel Humala Leads Presidential Poll

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-25T21:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/peru-stocks-currency-decline-as-ex-rebel-humala-leads-presidential-poll.html
Peruvian stocks, bonds and the
currency fell, and the country’s relative borrowing costs
climbed to the highest since July, after former Peruvian
military rebel Ollanta Humala opened a six-point lead in a
presidential poll before a June 5 runoff vote.  The Lima General Index of stocks declined 3.3 percent to
18,176.55. The gauge has dropped 16 percent in the past month,
the biggest slide among 90 primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Humala, who won the first round of elections this month,
had the support of 42 percent of those polled by Lima-based
researcher  Ipsos Apoyo , compared with 36 percent for
Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori. Falling Peruvian asset prices
reflect investors’ fear of Humala’s proposals, including higher
mining royalties and increased state control of the country’s
gas reserves, and concern he will strengthen ties with
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , said Cesar Perez-Novoa,
managing director of Santiago-based brokerage Celfin Capital.  “All this adds up to less investment and a hindrance for
the economy,” Perez-Novoa said. “Given the country’s strong
growth, its potential and Peru’s position in the international
market, there is more at stake in these elections than ever.”  Peruvian Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said last week
that Humala’s economic policy plans, which include renegotiating
contracts with foreign companies and trading partners including
the U.S., are unsettling investors. The $153 billion economy
will slow, beginning this month, as companies postpone
investment until after the vote, Benavides said.  Sol Decline  The Peruvian sol fell 0.2 percent to 2.8245 per  U.S.
dollar . The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond rose to its highest in more than two years,
adding 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.28
percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Peruvian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 4 basis points to 208, the
most since July, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The sol has declined 1.3 percent in the past month, the
worst performance among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, on concern Humala’s pledges to boost state control of
the fastest-growing major Latin American economy of the last
five years will lead investors to pare investment projects
valued at as much as $50 billion.  Peru  is the world’s second-largest miner of copper, No. 6
in gold and the world’s largest silver producer. Minerals
account for about two-thirds of the Andean country’s exports.  Lima Favors Fujimori  “The fact that Humala is in the lead by six percentage
points is negative as far as foreign investors are concerned,”
Joe Kogan, head of emerging markets strategy at Scotia Capital
Markets Inc., said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“It’s getting harder and harder to say he can’t win. In the
long term, investment in the  mining industry  would probably
suffer quite a bit with Humala.”  According to the Ipsos Apoyo poll, Humala had 44 percent
support outside of the  Lima  metropolitan area, compared with
Fujimori’s 33 percent. Within Lima’s city limits, Fujimori, 35,
the daughter of jailed former president Alberto Fujimori, had 43
percent support, compared with 35 percent for Humala, Ipsos
Apoyo said. Lima accounts for about a third of the Peruvian
electorate.  Ipsos Apoyo said 22 percent of those surveyed are either
undecided or would cast a blank vote. The researcher said 35
percent of those surveyed said they would never vote for Humala,
compared with 38 percent for Fujimori.  The researcher contacted 1,802 people in 23 of Peru’s 25
regions from April 16 to 21. The margin of error was 2.3
percentage points.  Outside Financing  Almost half of those surveyed say Chavez is financing
Humala’s campaign and that, if elected, the former army official
would ally himself with the Venezuelan leader and Bolivian
President  Evo Morales , according to the poll, which was
published yesterday in  El Comercio  newspaper.  Humala, 48, has said he hasn’t received any outside
financing for his presidential campaign.  Almost two-thirds of those surveyed are in favor of
Humala’s proposal to change or replace the 1993 constitution
introduced after Alberto Fujimori dissolved Congress and the
courts in April 1992, the poll shows.  Humala in 2000 commanded 50 soldiers who seized and
occupied one of Phoenix-based Southern Copper Corp.’s Peruvian
mines for a week to protest corruption in Fujimori’s government.  Ipsos Apoyo said 68 percent of those surveyed predict that,
if elected, Fujimori would free her father, who is serving a 25-
year sentence for directing a paramilitary death squad.  First Round  Fujimori said last week she won’t pardon her father, after
saying in 2008 she wouldn’t hesitate to free him if she became
president.  Humala won 32 percent of balloting in the April 10 first-
round vote, falling short of the 50 percent needed to avoid a
runoff. The U.S.-educated Fujimori won 24 percent of the vote.  Peruvians should vote for Humala and demand he respects
democracy and a free-market economy, Mario Vargas Llosa, the
Nobel Prize literature laureate who lost the presidency to
 Alberto Fujimori  in the 1990 election, wrote in  Spain ’s  El Pais 
newspaper yesterday.  Humala is the clear favorite to win the presidency and
there is a 70 percent probability he will, said Erasto Almeida,
an analyst at research company Eurasia Group, in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  