-- 
Platinum Funds Expanding Fastest in Metals as Lonmin Seen Doubling Profit

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-26T17:12:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/platinum-funds-expanding-fastest-in-metals-as-lonmin-seen-doubling-profit.html
Investors expanded their platinum
holdings in funds faster than for any other precious metal this
year, in a bet that mining companies digging as deep as 1.4
miles underground will fail to meet record consumption.  Assets in exchange-traded products rose 14 percent to 42.8
metric tons, valued at $2.5 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Prices will rally 14 percent to a three-year high
of $2,050 an ounce by Dec. 31, based on the median estimate of
25 analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg.  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the
third-biggest producer, will double profit this year, and  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the second-largest, will report a 49
percent gain, the mean of analyst estimates shows.  Companies are drilling ever-deeper to maintain production,
pumping chilled air down mine shafts to cool seams as hot as 160
degrees Fahrenheit. Record car output means two in every five
ounces are now being used to coat auto catalysts and overall
demand is expanding 9 percent, almost twice the increase in
supply,  Barclays Capital  estimates. Shortages will get worse
until at least 2015, Macquarie Group Ltd. forecasts.  “Platinum is one of those supply-driven markets. It’s
extremely difficult for the producers to satisfy demand. At the
same time you have a rebound in consumption,” said  Michael Widmer , head of metals research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in London and the most accurate forecaster tracked by Bloomberg
over eight quarters. “Platinum is my favorite metal for the
second half,” he said, forecasting a high of $2,100.  Gold Reaches Record  While gold and silver are trading at records, platinum
would have to climb another 28 percent to reach the all-time
high of $2,301.50 set in March 2008, from $1,801.25 at 6:10 p.m.
in London. The metal is up 1.8 percent this year, compared with
a 19 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodities and 6.8 percent gain for the MSCI World Index of
equities. Treasuries returned 0.6 percent, a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index shows.  Platinum has more than doubled since reaching a five-year
low of $744.25 in October 2008 as car production rebounded after
the worst global recession since World War II. Demand from
makers of catalytic converters will reach 3.58 million ounces
this year, 64 percent more than in 2009, Barclays estimates. The
increase exceeds what mines in  Russia  and  North America , the
biggest suppliers after South Africa, can produce in a year.  Global car and truck sales will climb 6.1 percent to 76.7
million units this year, according to Oxford, England-based J.D.
Power Automotive Forecasting. The average auto catalyst contains
4 grams (0.13 troy ounces) of platinum, palladium or rhodium,
according to London-based Johnson Matthey Plc, which supplies
one in three of the devices. The canisters have honeycomb-like
surfaces that convert emissions into less harmful substances and
are installed on about 95 percent of new passenger vehicles.  Environmental Laws  While rising car production and tougher environmental laws
combined to drive platinum prices higher in eight of the last
nine years, they also made the metal more dependent than ever on
industrial demand. Prices fell almost 5 percent in three days
after a magnitude-9 earthquake and 23-foot tsunami that hit
 Japan  on March 11 crippled  power plants  and closed factories.
Gold declined 1.3 percent.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, said
April 22 it expects production to return to normal by December
at the latest. It plans to suspend U.S. and Canadian output for
a week because of a lack of parts and said it may miss a sales
target in  China  for the same reason. Honda Motor Co., Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. and Nissan Motor Co. also closed factories.  The closures cut demand for platinum-group metals by about
90,000 ounces so far, equal to about 0.5 percent of combined
annual usage, Barclays estimates. Consumption will be deferred
rather than lost, the bank said in a report April 15.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said this month that investors
should reduce their holdings in commodities over the next two
quarters because it is more likely prices will drop. The bank’s
team of analysts, led by  Jeffrey Currie  in  London , is still
forecasting a 10 percent gain in commodities over 12 months.  “Not just platinum, but all financial markets and
commodities in general may face a few headwinds from tighter
monetary policy,” said  Robin Bhar , an analyst at Credit
Agricole SA in London and the winner of the London Bullion
Market Association’s 2009 survey on palladium.  The anticipated surge in platinum prices may also reduce
sales of jewelry, which account for about 30 percent of
consumption. Demand will reach 1.76 million ounces this year,
compared with 2.25 million ounces in 2009, Macquarie estimates.  Consumer purchases may also be damped by slower economic
growth. The U.S. will expand 2.8 percent this year, down from a
January forecast of 3 percent, the  International Monetary Fund 
said April 11. The acceleration in worldwide inflation is also
spurring central banks from the euro region to China to increase
 interest rates , potentially curbing expansion.  Supply Outlook  Still, investors remain bullish because of the outlook for
supply. Production in  South Africa , which mines 76 percent of
the world’s platinum, will reach 4.85 million ounces this year,
8.4 percent less than five years ago, Barclays estimates. Mining
companies worldwide are extracting about 3.83 grams of platinum-
group metals from every ton of rock, down from 4.4 grams in
2006, according to GFMS Ltd., a London-based research company.  The companies are going deeper to find metal. Northam
Platinum Ltd.’s Zondereinde mine in South Africa uses as many as
seven refrigeration units simultaneously to pump almost 31,000
cubic feet of chilled air a second into shafts extending as much
as 7,200 feet below the surface, company data show.  World Mining Fund  “The supply side is one of the reasons I am so bullish,”
said Catherine Raw, who helps manage BlackRock Inc.’s World
Mining Fund, which has about 3 percent of its $17 billion of
assets invested in Impala. “You’re seeing demand recover and
you’re now seeing demand growth, but what you’re not seeing is
any growth out of the platinum industry. As you look to the
future you can see a significant deficit growing.”  Companies mining in South Africa also have to contend with
power shortages. Eskom Holdings Ltd., which supplies 95 percent
of the country’s electricity, said April 8 it doesn’t have the
capacity to adequately maintain its plants. Power cuts in
January 2008 closed mines and metal smelters for five days.
Higher prices will compensate for lost output.  Lonmin, based in London and mining in South Africa, will
report net income of $245.7 million in its fiscal year ending in
September, compared with $112 million a year earlier, according
to the mean of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Johannesburg-based Impala will make 7.03 billion rand ($1.04
billion) in the 12 months ending in June, up from 4.72 billion
rand a year earlier, the mean of five estimates shows.  Silver-Backed Funds  Holdings in gold-backed ETPs fell 2.3 percent to 2,069.9
tons this year, valued at $100 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Assets in silver-backed funds advanced 2.3
percent to 15,416 tons valued at $23.68 billion while those in
palladium ETPs rose 2.1 percent to 69.36 tons, valued at $1.69
billion, the data show.  Investors in  futures markets  are also increasingly bullish
on platinum.  Hedge funds  raised their net long position, or bets
on higher prices, by 14 percent since March 22 in contracts
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , data from the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. Platinum volumes
traded on the Shanghai Gold Exchange reached a record in March,
according to bourse data.  “A lot of people are looking at precious metals as a
potential inflation hedge and they’re just trying to see where
they can get most value,” said  Dan Smith , an analyst at
Standard Chartered Plc in London and the most accurate platinum
forecaster tracked by Bloomberg in the third quarter. “We’re
looking for platinum to bounce back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  