-- 
Princeton’s Gadowsky Leaves for Penn State’s First Hockey Team Since 1946

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-25T16:16:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/princeton-s-gadowsky-leaves-for-penn-state-s-first-hockey-team-since-1946.html
Guy Gadowsky is leaving as coach of
the  Princeton University  hockey team to lead the new  Penn State
University  men’s program in its first varsity season since 1946.  Gadowsky, 43, who led the Tigers to a school-record 22
victories in the 2008-09 season, will coach the Nittany Lions
when the hockey returns as a varsity sport next year, Penn State
Athletic director Tim Curley said yesterday in a statement on
the team’s website. The university announced in September that
it received an $88 million donation from alumnus Terry Pegula
and his wife, Kim, to start a men’s ice hockey program.  The grant, the largest in the school’s history, will also
pay for a 200,000-square-foot multipurpose arena, set for
completion in 2013. Pegula sold his natural-gas firm to  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for $4.9 billion last year.  “Guy is the perfect choice for Penn State,” university
President Graham Spanier said in the statement. “He has been
immensely successful, is a great motivator, knows how to build
programs, and has strong academic values.”  Gadowsky took over a Princeton team in 2004 that had won
five games the previous season. The Tigers improved on that
total in each of the next five years, culminating in the
school’s first at-large bid to the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament in the 2008-09 season.  Gadowsky was 101-105-15 in seven seasons at Princeton,
including 17-13-12 this season. The Tigers won an ECAC Hockey
title, their first outright Ivy League title and twice qualified
for the NCAA tournament in that span. He has the highest winning
percentage among all Princeton hockey coaches since 1933.  Athletics, Education  “Guy is the epitome of understanding the role athletics
plays in the educational process at an Ivy League institution,”
Gary Walters, Princeton’s athletic director, said on the Tigers’
website. “Every constituency on our campus will sorely miss
him.”  Gadowsky’s departure comes three weeks after Sydney Johnson
left as Princeton’s basketball coach to take the same job at
Fairfield University. He was replaced last week by another
former Tigers’ player, Mitch Henderson. Walters said a national
search for Gadowsky’s replacement would begin immediately.  Penn State will become the sixth Big Ten conference school
with varsity hockey. The other five -- the  University of
Michigan , Michigan State, the  University of Wisconsin , the
University of  Minnesota  and Ohio State -- have combined for 23
men’s national championships and five women’s titles.  According to the release, the athletic directors at the six
schools will recommend in June to the Big Ten Council of
Presidents and Chancellors the creation of a Big Ten men’s
hockey conference. The Nittany Lion hockey team will debut as an
independent for the 2012-13 season.  Gadowsky coached four All-Americans and a number of future
National Hockey League players at Princeton, including Darroll Powe of the  Philadelphia Flyers , Kevin Westgarth of the  Los
Angeles Kings  and Mike Moore of the  San Jose Sharks .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 