-- 
Qaddafi’s Money Man in Vienna Loses Funds With London Friends

-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-04-25T23:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/qaddafi-s-money-man-in-vienna-finds-funds-frozen-as-london-friends-recede.html
As Muammar Qaddafi’s forces strafed
crowds of protesters in Tripoli with automatic gunfire on Feb.
21, the dictator’s money manager fled the city in a car to the
airport to escape the violence.  With phone lines and Internet connections down, Mustafa Zarti, vice chairman of  Libya ’s $65 billion sovereign-wealth
fund, couldn’t buy an airline ticket in advance. As mobs of
travelers at the airport jostled for seats on packed flights,
Zarti scored a spot in business class on Austrian Airlines and
flew to Vienna, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its June
issue.  “It was catastrophic that day,” Zarti says. “I’m very sad
for Libya.”  In helping run the world’s 11th-biggest sovereign-wealth
fund, Zarti strove to make money in global markets three decades
after sanctions relegated Libya to the sidelines. He moved in
the most-exclusive corners of the financial world, enlisting as
his advisers Lord Jacob Rothschild, the London-based financier,
and Sir  Howard Davies , director of the London School of
Economics and Political Science.  Stephen Schwarzman , chairman of Blackstone Group LP,
attended Zarti’s 2008 wedding in Tripoli. As a close personal
friend of one of the dictator’s sons, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi,
Zarti also had a direct line to an heir of the Qaddafi regime.  Those connections are now causing him nothing but grief.
Zarti quit his job at the Libyan Investment Authority three days
after fleeing the country, saying in his resignation letter that
the government’s violence against political protesters was
unjustified.  Undisclosed Location  “May God have mercy on the souls of the martyrs of Libya
who sacrificed their lives for reform,” he wrote.  A Tripoli native and citizen of  Austria , he’s now living in
Vienna in a location he refuses to divulge, with his wife and
young child, and without access to at least some of his
accounts.  Austria’s central bank on March 4 froze two of Zarti’s
accounts that held more than 1 million euros ($1.4 million),
citing his work at the LIA and close ties to the Libyan regime.
Six days later, the Council of the  European Union  put a block on
the same accounts. The council didn’t list Zarti among Libyans
it accused of violence against demonstrators and dissidents.  “He is very close to the Qaddafi family,” says Peter
Launsky-Tieffenthal, a spokesman for the Austrian Foreign
Ministry.  The EU, U.K. and U.S. have frozen the LIA’s assets as part
of an effort to cut off the regime’s access to funding after its
forces killed hundreds of unarmed civilians.  Unjust Actions  Zarti, 41, is now fighting to restore his reputation and
regain access to his money. In early March, an unshaven Zarti,
wearing jeans and a charcoal-colored sweater, sits at a long
white table in his publicist’s office in Vienna. While sipping
coffee, puffing on Philip Morris cigarettes and fidgeting with
his lighter, he explains in English how the stress from the
uprising has made him physically sick and says that the
government actions against him are unjust.  Zarti says his lawyer filed a lawsuit in the constitutional
court in Vienna, demanding Austria free his accounts. The
attorney also submitted a complaint to the EU body in April.
Zarti says Austrian officials violated his rights by not
interviewing him before imposing the freeze. He says the frozen
money is his own, not the regime’s, and that he didn’t have
access to the LIA’s accounts.  Zarti says the freeze threatens his ability to provide for
his wife and child and that he’s now being supported by other
family members.  Befriending Qaddafi’s Son  “It’s very, very tough,” says Zarti, who has a Master of
Business Administration from Webster University in Vienna. “I’m
responsible for other people. I’ve been treated very unfairly.”  Zarti says he owes his job at the LIA in part to Qaddafi’s
son Saif, who was the driving force behind the creation of the
fund in 2007. Saif, 38, is now at the center of a scandal at the
 London School  of Economics over the authorship of his doctoral
thesis and the role of Davies as an adviser to the LIA.  Saif, who befriended Zarti when they were both students in
Vienna, recommended him for the LIA post. Hired in January 2007,
Zarti helped lead the sovereign fund from the time of its birth,
working with Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Hussain Layas, a banker for the Qaddafi government for more than
35 years. Saif couldn’t be reached for comment.  Deripaska, Schroeder  Zarti, a former investment officer at the OPEC Fund for
International Development, says he aimed to build a
professionally run organization. He says he travelled the globe
and met with executives such as Russian aluminum billionaire
Oleg Deripaska and politicians who included former German
Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  to scout where to invest Libya’s
proceeds from sales of oil and natural gas.  “Zarti is a professional,” says Schroeder, honorary
chairman of the German Near and Middle East Association, a
Berlin-based trade group. “He was active in the debates. He’s
more a technocrat than a politician.”  The LIA has about 70 employees housed in its head offices
in Tripoli’s 25-story Al Fateh Tower -- a modern high-rise with
a revolving restaurant at the top. The LIA was part of Saif’s
effort to create new sources of income for a country almost
completely dependent on hydrocarbons for cash.  That shift became possible because of a decision made in
 Washington . In 2004, President  George W. Bush  eased the last of
the international sanctions against Libya for its involvement in
terrorist attacks, including the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight
103. Libya could now attempt to do openly what it had done
furtively during the sanctions era.  Rothschild’s Role  The LIA’s predecessor, Libyan Arab Foreign Investment Co.,
was skilled at taking ownership stakes in European corporations
that were too small to trigger the strictures. Lafico also gave
generic names to its holding companies to avoid detection. The
LIA absorbed Lafico as a unit and started operating in January
2007 with ambitions to be a transparent sovereign-wealth fund
much like Norway’s.  Zarti courted top-tier advisers to help the LIA achieve its
goal of 8 percent annual returns. The fund recruited Rothschild
and Marco  Tronchetti Provera , chairman of Italian tiremaker
Pirelli & C. SpA, to its international advisory board.  Rothschild met twice a year with the LIA’s executives and
other board members, including the LSE’s Davies, according to a
person familiar with the meetings. Davies was part of the U.K.
effort led by then Prime Minister  Tony Blair  to boost economic
ties with the North African nation. Davies, Rothschild and
Tronchetti Provera quit the board and declined to comment. A
spokesman for Schwarzman, who didn’t serve as an adviser,
declined to comment on his attendance at Zarti’s wedding.  McKinsey, Mercer  The LIA hired global consulting firms for guidance on
particular deals. New York-based McKinsey & Co. provided counsel
on the restructuring of Oilinvest BV, a holding company owned by
the fund, and Mercer LLC in  London  gave the LIA’s mostly Libyan
staff asset allocation guidance, according to Zarti. Ernst &
Young was the auditor for the LIA’s 2008 earnings, an Ernst &
Young spokesman says. McKinsey and Mercer declined to comment.  “We’ve been advised by the top firms in the world,” Zarti
says.  Even with all of this Western expertise at its disposal,
the LIA operated much like its secretive predecessor, Lafico.
The fund never disclosed detailed information about its holdings
or returns, although Zarti says he had planned to eventually
release an annual report. Asked during the interview in Vienna
about the returns, Zarti said he couldn’t provide the numbers
because he had left the necessary documents in Libya.  “I wish that I had papers with me when I left,” he says.  Teenager in Vienna  Zarti says the fund held about the same amount of money
around the time it started operations in 2007 as it possessed in
February 2011. A flat return in that time span, which included
the global financial crisis, would have matched the performance
of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Zarti has a long association with Vienna. When he was 13
years old, in 1983, his father moved the family from Tripoli to
the Austrian capital, where the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries is based. His father took a job as a
director in the personnel department of the OPEC development
fund, where Zarti would later manage investments. The fund
invests money from member nations to provide loans and grants to
 developing countries .  “I spent my most wonderful teenaged years here in Vienna,”
says Zarti, who also speaks German and Arabic.  Chance Meeting  Zarti returned to Libya for college, earning a degree in
mechanical engineering in 1994 from Al Fateh University in
Tripoli. He then rejoined his family in Vienna and enrolled in
the MBA program at Webster University, an overseas campus of the
St. Louis-based private school founded in 1915. While studying
for his master’s, Zarti met Saif, who was in an MBA program at
Vienna’s private Imadec University, at an OPEC fund reception.  “We met by chance in Vienna,” Zarti says. “I did not know
him in Libya. We met there and developed our relationship.”  With his graduate degree in hand, Zarti made his first
foray into investing and management in 2001. He became chairman
and CEO of a Tripoli-based tuna fishing company, Ras Al Hilal
Marine Services, in exchange for a minority stake. Zarti says he
oversaw the restructuring of the company, which today has about
seven fishing boats along with canning and freight operations.  Two years later, Zarti stepped down as CEO, retaining his
chairman title and moving back to Vienna to join the OPEC fund
as an investment officer. At the fund, which has given about $13
billion in aid since 1975, Zarti says, he helped provide
financing for private-sector investments in developing
countries.  ‘Kept Our Cash’  Zarti joined the LIA as its deputy CEO a few months before
credit markets began to tighten in 2007. The  money manager  says
he mostly stuck with a cautious investing approach through his
four-year tenure, keeping the majority of the fund -- about $35
billion -- in money markets and mostly cash accounts, with $20
billion in bonds and $8.5 billion in equities.  “We tried to be very conservative,” Zarti says. “We kept
our cash. Like the Arabic saying: ‘Put your money where you can
touch it.’”  The LIA suffered when it turned to  Wall Street  for help to
manage the cash heap. The fund needed to offset an inherent
deficiency in its operation: Because Libya got its oil income in
dollars, the LIA was overexposed to the U.S. currency, Zarti
says. In 2007 and 2008, the fund purchased currency and
commodity derivatives from firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank , a person familiar with the
investments says.  Derivatives Losses  The bets went wrong partly because the dollar rose in the
middle of 2008 as confidence in credit markets collapsed in the
runup to the  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  bankruptcy, spurring
demand for dollar assets such as U.S. Treasuries. The
appreciation left Zarti’s fund with losses on paper that may
exceed $4 billion, the person says.  “I cannot comment on these issues,” the LIA’s Layas says.
“We are discussing and we cannot reveal information at this
stage.” A Goldman spokeswoman in London declined to comment.  In another move that backfired, the LIA invested $300
million in December 2007 in a five-year “capital-protected”
security built by Lehman Brothers, according to the fund’s
filing in the firm’s bankruptcy. The note’s value was based on
an interest-bearing cash fund with an additional layer linked to
the performance of a basket of stock indexes.  Lehman Bonds  The LIA also bought $27 million of Lehman bonds denominated
in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen, Swiss francs and British pounds.
These investments became losers when Lehman Brothers filed the
biggest-ever U.S. bankruptcy in September 2008. The LIA is
seeking in bankruptcy court to recover at least $327 million.  “The LIA, like other oil funds, accumulated massive funds
and was unprepared on how to spend it,” says Gawdat Bahgat,
professor at the National Defense University in Washington and
an editor of “The Political Economy of Sovereign Wealth Funds”
(Palgrave Macmillan, 2010).  Zarti says he made a few good bets, such as in London real
estate. In December 2008, the fund bought 14 Cornhill, a 16,220-
square-meter (175,000-square-foot) office building located
opposite the  Bank of England , as the city’s property market
neared the bottom of a slump. Since then, the commercial-real-
estate market has rebounded, with office prices in Britain’s
capital gaining 9.9 percent through February, according to
London-based Investment Property Databank Ltd.  Zarti, who was promoted to vice chairman in 2009, says he
followed  Warren Buffett ’s lead, picking stocks based on
fundamentals such as profit outlook. The LIA was the second-
biggest subscriber in the January 2010 Hong Kong listing of
United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer.  Schroeder Meeting  Zarti says the fund spent $300 million for 1.43 percent of
Moscow-based Rusal. The LIA invested in Rusal partly because the
company’s use of hydroelectric power gave it a cost advantage
over competitors.  “You can still make a profit if aluminum prices go down,”
Zarti says.  The LIA also explored investments in alternative energy. At
a meeting in London in March 2010, Zarti and Layas sought the
advice of Gerhard Schroeder about investing in solar power.  “They were really at the beginning of this analysis,”
Schroeder says. “They wanted to know more and diversify.”  In March of this year, as Libya escalated its military
assault on the rebels, an adviser to Qaddafi’s fund became part
of the collateral damage.  LSE Investigation  Davies quit as LSE director on March 3, saying in his
resignation letter that the school’s reputation had suffered in
light of developments in Libya and his role as an LIA adviser.
The LSE also announced on the same day that it was investigating
the authenticity of Saif’s doctoral thesis but didn’t allege
that Davies had any role in this issue.  Davies, a former chairman of Britain’s financial markets
regulator, the Financial Services Authority, wrote that he took
the LIA post at the encouragement of the British government,
which supported Libyan moves to invest in London. Davies told
the  BBC  in March that he had the LIA pay his advisory fee of
$50,000 into an LSE scholarship fund.  “There was nothing substantive to be ashamed of in that
(modest and unpaid) work,” Davies wrote. His resignation from
the LSE is effective in May.  At his publicist’s office in Vienna, Zarti says the
Austrian government should free his accounts and let him get on
with his life. While Zarti has been close to Saif, he says, he
isn’t an ally of the regime and has criticized its military
actions against Libyans.  “The Austrian government says a lot of things that are
harming my reputation,” Zarti says.  Over the last four years, the money manager has gone from
mingling in the elite world of finance to standing in near
isolation -- much like his native Libya.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  