-- 
Rajaratnam Jury Including Bookkeeper, Nurse to Deliberate for Second Day

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-04-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/rajaratnam-jury-begins-deliberations-in-hedge-fund-insider-trading-trial.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s fate rests with jurors including a retired
bookkeeper, a nurse and a customer-service representative for
the New York subway system, as the panel is scheduled for a
second day of deliberations in the insider-trading trial.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan yesterday
instructed jurors on the law of conspiracy and  securities fraud 
and asked the panel to weigh the evidence presented at the trial
of Rajaratnam, who prosecutors said was worth at least
$1 billion the day of his arrest in October 2009. The jury,
which deliberated for four hours, is scheduled to return today.  The deliberations follow six weeks of trial testimony in
the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S.
history. Jurors heard parts of four dozen conversations secretly
recorded by the U.S. government of Rajaratnam talking to fellow
traders, business executives and corporate consultants.  “It must be clear to you by now that counsel for the
parties are asking you to draw very different conclusions,”
Holwell told the jury as he instructed them on the law.  Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of gaining $63.8 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about a
dozen stocks, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
Clearwire Corp. and Akamai Technologies Inc.  He faces five counts of conspiracy to commit securities
fraud and nine securities fraud charges. The conspiracy counts
each carry a maximum five-year prison sentence and the fraud
charges each carry a maximum 20-year term.  Denies Wrongdoing  The Sri Lankan-born money manager denies wrongdoing, saying
he based his trades on research including analyst reports, news
accounts and stock trading trends.  The jurors hail from Westchester County, the Bronx and
Manhattan. The panel includes teachers, a retired bookkeeper who
served with the Israel defense forces, an activities therapist
for a private nursing home, a nurse, a customer-service
representative for the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  and
a three-decade veteran food-service worker for  New York ’s
Education Department.  Yesterday, the panel selected Juror 9 as its foreman. He is
a 56-year-old resident of the Bronx who is a graphic artist and
works for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Jurors asked to review charts presented by prosecutors
during summations and documents offered by the defense related
to a transaction involving Clearwire. The government charts
weren’t given to jurors because they weren’t in evidence. Jurors
received the Clearwire documents.  Jury Schedule  Holwell also instructed the four alternate jurors that
while they could go home yesterday, he wouldn’t dismiss them
from the case because he may need to recall them as substitutes.  Before they began their deliberations, the jury listened
yesterday for about 30 minutes to a rebuttal argument by
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter. Streeter told jurors
that Rajaratnam’s lawyer,  John Dowd  made “implausible”
arguments to refute the evidence presented by the government.  “Ladies and gentlemen, you know better than to accept
their twisted and completely implausible explanation for this
evidence,” Streeter said. “The evidence is overwhelming and
that evidence has shown that the defendant is guilty of all 14
counts of the indictment.”  Witnesses ‘Liars’  During his closing argument last week, Dowd repeatedly
called the U.S. case “a fiction,” labeled the cooperating
witnesses “liars” and argued that Rajaratnam’s trades were
conducted after exhaustive research.  “The government is trying to make Galleon into something
it wasn’t,” Dowd said in his summation. “Rajaratnam worked
hard for Galleon investors.”  Streeter said yesterday the witnesses’ accounts were
corroborated by secretly recorded wiretapped conversations of
Rajaratnam by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and records of
the hedge fund manager’s trading in the stocks, as well as
telephone records and electronic messages.  Streeter said the defense argument that the three
government cooperators had lied on the stand was “absurd.”  “In the real world, people do not come in and admit to
elaborate crimes they did not even commit,” he said.  Records confirmed Rajaratnam bought or sold stock soon
after receiving tips on each occasion described by cooperating
witnesses in their testimony, prosecutors said.  ‘Forget Reality’  “The defense has twisted itself into knots trying to
explain away the evidence,” Streeter said. “The defense is
asking you to ignore logic, forget reality and suspend your
common sense.”  The jury received two metal carts, about three feet long,
filled with hundreds of exhibits from the U.S. entered into
evidence during the prosecution’s case. The defense delivered
four banker’s boxes on a handcart to the jury room filled with
evidence they provided during their week-long case.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  