-- 
Treasury Six-Month Bill Rates Decline to Record Low on Greece Debt Concern

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-25T11:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/treasuries-fail-to-extend-two-week-advance-as-u-s-prepares-note-auctions.html
Treasury six-month bill rates
dropped to a record as some investors sought the relative safety
of U.S. securities because of speculation  Greece  will
restructure its debt.  “The flight to quality is coming from the European
situation,” said Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-rate strategist
in Tokyo at BNP Paribas SA, whose U.S. unit is one of the 20
primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve .
“There was talk of a haircut for Greece.”  U.S. notes and bonds were little changed after two weeks of
gains before the government’s auction of $99 billion of two-,
five- and seven-year securities over the next three days.  The six-month rate fell as low as 0.0507 percent, a record,
according to Bloomberg data starting in 1958. It was 0.107
percent at 7:30 a.m. in  New York . The benchmark 10-year note
yield decreased one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
3.39 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Short-term U.S. rates have fallen this month as the
Treasury cut the amount of outstanding Supplementary Financing
Program bills to $5 billion from $200 billion, reducing a
facility set up in 2008 to help support the financial system.  The Treasury said on Jan. 27 it was reducing its borrowing
program, which it conducts on behalf of the Fed, because of
concern the federal debt was approaching its limit.  FDIC Revision  The short-term financing market also has been affected by a
revision to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s assessments on
banks. The change has led to lower  interest rates  in the
repurchase agreement and federal funds markets, which fueled
increased Treasury-bill purchases and helped push rates down.  Bonds tumbled across  Europe  last week on concern a Greek
default would bring losses to investors in what traders call a
“haircut.” Greek and Portuguese 2- and 10-year government bond
yields rose to euro-era records last week.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy considers Bank of  Italy 
Governor Mario Draghi the leading candidate to succeed Jean- Claude Trichet at the helm of the  European Central Bank , a
person familiar with the matter said.  The French leader may disclose his views as early as
tomorrow at a briefing in  Rome  with Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi , a Sarkozy aide told reporters last week.  The U.S. government will sell $35 billion of two-year debt
tomorrow, $35 billion of five-year notes the next day and
$29 billion of seven-year securities on April 28.  Fed Decision  The Fed will leave the target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent on April 27, according to
all of the 80 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
benchmark has stayed at that level since December 2008.  U.S. reports this week will show orders for durable goods
increased, though economic growth slowed in the first three
months of the year, according to Bloomberg News surveys of
analysts.  “There will be more fear of inflation as the  U.S. economy 
continues to grow,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an economist in  Tokyo 
at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “That will make yields go up.”  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.9 percent annual
pace, after increasing at a 3.1 percent rate in the final
quarter of 2010, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the Commerce Department report April 28.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has widened to
2.60 percentage points from 2.17 six months ago.  Bond Volatility  Volatility has fallen to an eight-month low, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Move index. The gauge, measuring
price swings based on over-the-counter options maturing in two
to 30 years, declined on April 21to 76.60, the lowest level
since Aug. 11.  Traders became less bearish on Treasuries through the end
of June, according to a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc. The
company’s sentiment gauge rose to 48 for the seven days ended
April 21 from 46 the week before. A figure less than 50
indicates investors expect prices to decline.  The world’s biggest bond dealers dispute  Bill Gross ’s
assertion that the $9.13 trillion market for U.S. Treasuries
offers little value.  While Gross, who runs Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
$236 billion Total Return Fund, is betting against government
debt, the 20 firms that trade with the Fed predict yields on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note will hold below 4 percent for
the balance of 2011.  Trading in Treasuries was less active than usual today
because of Easter holidays in some countries, which may have
exaggerated market movements, Fujiki said.  Financial markets in  Australia ,  Hong Kong  and  New Zealand 
were closed for holidays today. Trading of Treasuries was
scheduled to stop at 3 p.m. in  Japan  and stay shut in the U.K.,
according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  