-- 
Renault Leadership Vacuum Threatens to Push Back European Recovery Goals

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-04-25T22:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/renault-leadership-vacuum-threatens-to-push-back-european-recovery-goals.html
Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Operating Officer
Patrick Pelata’s exit over a botched espionage investigation
threatens the French company’s plan to reverse sagging European
sales and expand in emerging markets, analysts said.  Pelata’s resignation, announced April 11, leaves Renault
without a permanent operational boss as it seeks to restore its
core car-making business to consistent profitability and pursue
sales and profit targets announced eight weeks before his
departure.  “The biggest challenge for Renault is to sort out its core
brand and stop losing market share in  Europe ,” said Philippe Houchois, an analyst at UBS AG in  London . “Whoever replaces
Pelata, the issue is that there appears to be no  succession plan 
in place, so it won’t be a smooth transition.”  While Renault’s no-frills Dacia unit has enjoyed buoyant
sales, the namesake brand’s share of west-European registrations
has averaged below 8 percent over the past three years versus
almost 11 percent in 2002,  Association of European Carmakers 
data shows. The company is counting on revamps by design chief
Laurens van den Acker and a push in emerging markets to achieve
3 million sales and a 5 percent operating-profit margin in 2013.  “Renault has set itself targets that would have been
difficult even with a stable management team,” said Albrecht Denninghoff, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Silvia Quandt Bank.  The COO’s departure “is bound to delay some important
decisions” and disruption at Japanese affiliate Nissan Motor
Co. after the earthquake and tsunami makes it “even less likely
that Renault will meet the targets,” Denninghoff said.  Sales Forecast  Renault may say that first-quarter sales rose 4.7 percent
to 9.5 billion euros when it reports figures later today, based
on the median of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
PSA Peugeot Citroen, Renault’s larger domestic rival, beat
expectations April 20 with a 10 percent gain in sales. Renault
analysts published their estimates before the Peugeot report.  Boulogne Billancourt-based Renault holds its annual
shareholders meeting in Paris on April 29, when Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  may face questions on his handling of the
spying affair and the appointment of a replacement COO.  Pelata, 55, stepped down in the face of pressure from the
French government, Renault’s biggest shareholder with a 15
percent stake, following the carmaker’s admission that it
wrongfully fired three senior managers. An internal
investigation had concluded incorrectly that the three men
received payments from Chinese companies via foreign accounts.  Stock Performance  Renault’s new growth and earnings goals, issued on Feb. 10,
compare with 2.63 million deliveries and a 2.8 percent margin
last year and replace targets missed in 2009, when CEO Ghosn had
pledged to lift profitability to 6 percent of revenue and sales
volumes to 3.33 million units.  “Whoever takes over from Pelata will have a lot of live
issues to pick up,” said Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC
in Paris who rates Renault “buy.” As a result, the recovery
plan may be “pushed back by six months to a year.”  Renault shares have fallen 12 percent this year, the
second-worst performance on the 14-member Stoxx 600 Automobiles
& Parts Index, valuing the company at 11.3 billion euros ($16
billion). French rival PSA Peugeot Citroen is up 2.3 percent.  Ghosn, who splits his time between Renault and Nissan,
refused Pelata’s resignation last month, saying it would “add
crisis to crisis” after the March 11 quake. Renault owns 43.4
percent of the Japanese automaker.  Nissan Effect  Disruption at Nissan, which has postponed the reopening of
the Iwaki engine plant, “will make a sizable dent” in its
contribution to Renault’s accounts for 2011, according to
 Barclays Capital  analyst Michael Tyndall, who has cut his target
price for the stock to 54 euros from 58 euros.  Renault said Pelata’s exit and “dysfunctions” uncovered
in an audit of the spy scandal need not distract management.  “We do have to find new ways of working as we replace
Patrick Pelata, but our roadmap for 2013 and 2016 is well
established and won’t be affected,” Gerard Leclercq, the head
of manufacturing and supply chain, told journalists this month.  Not all analysts expect Pelata’s exit to hamper the
company’s recovery. Jose Asumendi at RBS in London, who
recommends buying Renault stock, said the automaker should still
meet its 2013 goals on demand for less costly autos.  “I respect Pelata’s work, but I don’t think the company is
going to be distracted by this,” he said. “Whereas the
previous plan was a risky bet on larger vehicle categories, the
new one is much better because it leverages what they already do
well.”  Internal Candidates  The French automaker has “several possible internal
candidates” to replace Pelata, Ghosn said April 13 in comments
to  Les Echos  that were confirmed by Renault spokeswoman Caroline De Gezelle. The company has nothing further to add, she said.  Pelata’s deputy Philippe Klein, Chief Financial Officer
Dominique Thormann and Nissan North America chief  Carlos Tavares 
are all in the running,  La Tribune  reported the same day. Sales
chief Jerome Stoll was also identified as a candidate in an
April 20 report by French business magazine Challenges.  Klein, 53, recruited as an engineer in 1989 and made head
of product planning in 2008, has held strategic rather than
operational roles, while Thormann, 56, has occupied financial
posts since joining from Chase Manhattan Bank. Shifting the CFO
isn’t the obvious move, CM-CIC’s Couvreur said.  “He’s very smart and would do a good job, but you need
someone with operational fiber, somebody like Tavares who has
held posts in sales and manufacturing,” the analyst said.  Tavares, 52, joined Renault in 1981 after graduating from
 France ’s Ecole Centrale. As a Nissan executive he could also
help deliver more synergies from the alliance, said Tyndall of
Barclays Capital, though the move might have to wait until the
Japanese company has dealt with its production crisis.  “Pulling Tavares out at this point might be the wrong
thing to do,” the London-based analyst said. “I wouldn’t be
surprised if we saw a handover later in the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  