-- 
Rousseff Says She's ‘Immensely Worried’ About Brazil's Accelerating Prices

-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-04-25T14:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/rousseff-says-she-s-immensely-worried-about-accelerating-brazil-prices.html
Brazil President  Dilma Rousseff 
said she’s “immensely worried” about accelerating prices after
the central bank slowed the pace of interest rate increases.
Yields on interest-rate futures after this year rose.  “We’re immensely worried with inflation,” Rousseff told
reporters in Brasilia today. “Under no hypothesis will the
government demobilize efforts to control inflation.”  Economists covering Latin America’s largest economy boosted
their inflation forecast for the seventh straight week following
policy makers’ decision to raise the benchmark interest rate by
25 basis points on April 20. Economists expect consumer prices
will rise 6.34 percent this year, up from a week-earlier
forecast of 6.29 percent, according to an April 20  survey  of
about 100 economists published today.  Rousseff declined to comment when asked whether her concern
will materialize in new measures to contain consumer prices.  Policy makers made a “wrong move” last week when they
decided to raise borrowing costs by 25 basis points, down from
increases of 50 basis points at each of their two previous
meetings this year, said Alessandra Ribeiro, an economist at Sao
Paulo-based Tendencias Consultoria Integrada.  Yields on interest rate future contracts due July 2013 rose
as much as 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, before
trimming gains to 12.78 percent, at 10:05 a.m. New York time.
The real fell 0.3 percent to 1.5702 per dollar.  ‘No Consistency’  “Dilma’s speech has no consistency, she believes  Brazil 
can grow 5.5 percent with inflation on target,” Ribeiro said.
“She should have a tougher stance on inflation, but the central
bank is in line with the  Finance Ministry , which is adding money
to the economy through the state development bank.”  Consumer inflation accelerated to 6.44 percent in the year
through mid-April, its fastest pace since November 2008. Brazil
targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage
points.  “There’s nothing to trigger a retreat in inflation,” said
 Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank in  Sao Paulo . “With last week’s rate decision, this makes
that case even stronger.”  Policy makers aim to bring inflation back to target in 2012
as the cost of meeting the goal this year would be excessive in
terms of lost output, the central bank said in its quarterly
inflation report published in March.  Anti-Inflation Tools  The bank will rely on a variety of tools beyond raising
interest rates to contain consumer prices, policy makers said in
the report. A 50.7 billion reais ($32.3 billion) spending cut
mixed with so-called macro-prudential measures, such as higher
reserve and capital requirements, taxes on consumer loans, will
slow demand that helped the economy grow at the fastest pace in
more than two decades last year, they said.  ‘The government can be signaling that new measures will be
adopted,’’  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital
Markets CCTVM Ltda. “She wants to show that the government as
whole is engaged in controlling inflation.”  Rousseff’s administration on March 29 increased to 6
percent a tax on new corporate loans and debt sales abroad by
banks. A few days later, she applied the higher tax to renewed,
renegotiated, or transferred loans of up to two years in length.
Companies previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90
days and zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.  Tax Increases  The government also doubled the so-called IOF tax levied on
 consumer credit  to 3 percent a year. In October, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases.  Inflation may exceed the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
target between July and August, the central bank’s economic
policy director Carlos Hamilton said March 30.  The central bank survey also showed economists expect gross
domestic product to expand 4 percent this year and 4.21 percent
in 2012, compared with the previous week’s forecasts of 4
percent and 4.25 percent respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   Mario Bessa Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  