-- 
South Korea to Audit Currency Derivatives Held at Four Banks

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-04-25T06:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/s-korea-to-audit-credit-agricole-ing-for-currency-derivatives.html
South Korean regulators will
conduct an audit of currency derivatives of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
 ING Groep NV (INGA) , Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Ltd. and Woori
Bank amid concern over rising short-term external debt.  The  Financial Supervisory Service  will begin the inspection
for local branches of  Credit Agricole  and ING for four days
starting tomorrow and from May 2 for Woori and Standard
Chartered First Bank, Doh Bo Eun, head of the foreign-exchange
coordination team at the FSS, said by phone today. The agency
may probe more banks after inspecting the first four, Doh said.  The won halted its gains near the strongest level since
2008 after regulators on April 21 announced the plan for the
audit, the second of its kind. The ministry said it will focus
on who the banks’ clients are and their purpose for buying or
selling non-deliverable forwards.  “There is sentiment in the market that the authorities may
expand its defence of the won from rising too fast, with the
announcement of the inspection,” said Song Kyung Hee, a
currency analyst at Hana Institute of Finance in  Seoul .  The won traded at 1,080.35 versus the dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Last week, gains halted at 1,078 per dollar, matching the
highest level on Sept. 8, 2008.  Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said on April 22 that the
government may decide on whether to strengthen the rules over
foreign-exchange derivatives contracts depending on the result
of the inspection. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets
at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled
in dollars. Banks often borrow foreign-exchange to limit their
exposure to currency swings when trading forwards.  Calls to Credit Agricole in  Hong Kong  were not answered as
the office is closed for a holiday. Jeroen Plag, country manager
of ING Seoul branch, declined to comment on the inspection in an
e-mail, citing company policy. Standard Chartered First Bank
spokeswoman Lee Ji Won declined to comment by phone, as did
Woori Bank spokesman Jung Hee Kyung.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  