-- 
Saleh Defies Call for Resignation as Yemeni Clashes Persist

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-04-25T12:27:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/saleh-defies-call-for-resignation-as-yemeni-clashes-persist-1-.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
defied calls for him to step down immediately, saying he won’t
hand power to “insurrectionists” as protesters clashed with
security forces in two southern cities in the country..  “We are committed to constitutional legitimacy and don’t
accept chaos,” Saleh said in an interview with  BBC Arabic  late
yesterday. “Whom shall I hand it over to? Those who are trying
to make a coup? No. We will do it through ballot boxes and
referendums.”  Protests have continued after Saleh and the main opposition
movement agreed to a Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered plan for
Saleh to cede power in a month’s time and be granted immunity
from prosecution. He would be the third Middle Eastern leader
forced from office by popular protest movements this year, after
 Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Demonstrators clashed with security forces and armed
supporters of Saleh in Taiz, Ahmed Saeed, a protester, said by
telephone. More than fifty protesters were wounded by live
ammunition and stones, and another 250 suffered from tear gas
inhalation, Sadek al-Shujaa, chief doctor of a field clinic in
Taiz, said by telephone.  Seven protesters were also wounded by bullets in Ibb, a
city south of the capital,  al-Sahwa opposition  website said
today. Opposition supporters rallied yesterday in Sana’a, the
capital, chanting “Down, down with the regime” and demanding
the president’s unconditional ouster.  In March, Saleh, 68, agreed to an opposition proposal to
hand over power by the end of the year, then backtracked by
saying he’d stand down only after a newly elected government was
formed and power was transferred to safer hands.  ‘Danger to Region’  Among the Yemeni opposition, youth groups have rejected the
GCC initiative and called for continued rallies against Saleh,
the Revolution Coalition of Peaceful Change said yesterday at a
press conference in Sana’a. The government “doesn’t keep its
word and its existence has become dangerous not only to Yemen
but to the entire region,” the group said.  By rejecting the GCC plan, the youth movements will
“escalate the crisis,” Saleh told the  BBC . It will be
“catastrophic” if the opposition assumed power, he said.  The Joint Meeting Parties, a coalition of six opposition
groups, have agreed to the GCC plan. They wouldn’t participate
in a national unity government under Saleh during the 30 days
he’d remain in power, said Mohammed al-Sabri, a leader of the
movement.  A total of 109 Yemeni protesters have been killed since
Feb. 11, according to Majed al-Madhaji, a spokesman at the
Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights in Sana’a.  The worsening unrest in Yemen threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda, which has in the past launched attacks from Yemen against
neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest exporter of crude
oil. Saleh told the BBC that al-Qaeda militants have infiltrated
protest movements. “This is very dangerous,” he said. 