-- 
Sales of New U.S. Homes Probably Rose From Record Low as Market Struggled

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-25T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/sales-of-new-u-s-homes-probably-rose-from-record-low-as-market-struggled.html
Purchases of new houses in the U.S.
probably rose in March from a record low, economists said a
report today will show.  New-home sales, tabulated when contracts are signed,
climbed 12 percent to a 280,000 annual pace last month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
64 economists. Purchases slumped 17 percent in February to a
250,000 rate, the weakest in data going back to 1963.  “A housing recovery is going to be slow,” said Michael Gapen, a senior U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New
York . “I see light at the end of the tunnel, but I see a lot
more tunnel. We still have tight credit conditions, and we need
plain, outright job growth to spur demand.”  The market for new homes faces competition from a glut of
foreclosed properties that may keep prices depressed through the
year, discouraging new construction. Housing’s struggles help
explain why the  Federal Reserve  may announce at the conclusion
of this week’s policy meeting that it plans to complete the
purchase of $600 billion of Treasuries by June.  The Commerce Department report is due at 10 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from 247,000 to
300,000.  Purchases of previously owned homes climbed 3.7 percent to
a 5.1 million annual rate in March as properties in or near
foreclosure lured investors, a National Association of Realtors
report showed April 20. All-cash deals accounted for 35 percent
of the transactions, the most on record, while distressed
properties including foreclosures and short sales made up 40
percent of all deals, the group said.  More Timely  New-home sales are considered a more timely barometer than
purchases of previously owned homes, which are calculated when a
contract closes. Resales account for about 95 percent of the
housing market so far this year.  Housing demand gyrated in 2010 as a boost from a homebuyer
tax incentive of as much as $8,000 gave way to a mid-year plunge
after the credit ended.  The lack of demand is keeping builders pessimistic. The
 National Association of Home Builders ’ confidence index fell to
16 this month from 17 in March. A reading under 50 means a
majority of builders view conditions as poor.  The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilder Index, which includes
Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp., has climbed 1.3 percent
this year, trailing a 6.3 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500
Index. (SPX)   Orders Slump  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, reported a bigger-than-expected loss for the
quarter ended Feb. 28 as orders plunged.  “A sustained, broad-based housing recovery will not occur
until we start to experience material job creation,” Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a conference call
with analysts on April 5.  An  unemployment rate  projected to average 8.7 percent in
2011, according to a Bloomberg survey earlier this month, may
force more owners into distress. Foreclosure filings will climb
about 20 percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing
crisis, according to a forecast in January from RealtyTrac Inc.,
an Irvine, California-based data seller.  The housing market was either “little changed from low
levels” or weaker across the country, the Fed said in its Beige
Book report on April 13. The lack of a sustained housing rebound
is among reasons policy makers will complete their $600 billion
asset purchase plan and hold borrowing costs near zero.  Central bankers conclude a two-day policy meeting on April
27. At their March 15 meeting, officials said in their statement
that the “housing sector continues to be depressed.”  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  