-- 
School Kids in Handcuffs Reveal Teacher Bondage: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-04-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/school-kids-in-handcuffs-show-teacher-bondage-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Another week, another tot gets his
rights violated. A few days before Easter police in Maspeth,  New
York , handcuffed a first grader who had a temper tantrum after
coloring an egg at school.  “I want those cops to say sorry to me and the principal
for calling the ambulance on me and handcuffing me,” the 7-year
old later told a TV station, about the time his mother retained
a lawyer.  In Shreveport,  Louisiana , the  American Civil Liberties
Union  is looking into the case of a sixth-grader handcuffed in
the principal’s office. Last year authorities in Port St. Lucie,
 Florida , sent a 6-year-old girl to a mental-health facility
after the 40-pound child acted up. The  Citizens Commission on
Human Rights  in Florida is all over the case.  This looks like yet more evidence that the U.S. is becoming
the creepy militaristic state that the anti-body scan,
Guantanamo-obsessed crowd warn about.  But there’s something awry in these school scenes. Child.
Tantrum. Principal. Police. Mom. Civil Rights. Lawyer. Lawsuit.
There are a lot of players in such scenarios, but someone is
missing. It’s the one person who has dedicated years of training
to help a freaked-out child through a difficult moment without
creating a federal case: the teacher.  Education Scandals  The real scandal is that our teachers are desperate enough
to abdicate or absent themselves when kids have tantrums. This
is due to a series of changes in precedent, statute and
regulation that took place over decades. The changes were well-
intentioned, says  Philip Howard , founder of Common Good, a
nonpartisan legal reform group that works on education issues.
But over time, “law, like acid, has corroded teacher
authority,” Howard said.  What happened? Education once was a local affair. Children
didn’t have rights. Parents scarcely had rights. The teacher
wielded a lot of authority, and usually a ruler or stick as
well. So did the teacher’s backup, the terrifying principal, who
has the power to suspend.  Looking back, two features of these policies couldn’t be
tolerated -- corporal punishment and racial segregation. The
general attitude became: this must change.  Change it did. The U.S.  Supreme Court  intervened on the
racial integration issue in 1954, with Brown v. Board of
Education. The case itself did nothing to undermine teachers or
principals.  Expanding Pupil Rights  Brown proved to be only the start of the expansion of pupil
rights. In another case, Tinker v. Des Moines Independent
Community School District, the court upheld the constitutional
rights of children to freedom of expression. In 1975 the Supreme
Court heard Goss v. Lopez, a lawsuit filed by high school
pupils. In that case several Columbus,  Ohio , high schools
responded to rioting by suspending students for 10 days without
hearings. The pupils claimed their 14th Amendment rights to due
process had been violated. The court sided with the pupils.  Again, it sure sounds fair. But as the author of the
dissenting opinion in Goss v. Lopez, the late Lewis Powell,
noted, the emphasis on child rights altered the balance of power
in the classroom, creating “avenues for judicial intervention
that may affect adversely the quality of education.” Powell
also noted that teens are exquisitely sensitive to changes in
the power structure. The  High Court ’s support for the Ohio
rebels, he wrote, might spur many other rebellions.  Challenging Authority  A child,  Powell  warned, “is rendered a disservice if
appropriate sanctions are not applied or if procedures for their
application are so formalized as to invite a challenge to the
teacher’s authority -- an invitation which rebellious or even
merely spirited youngsters are likely to accept.”  In the 1980s and 1990s new rules restricted teacher
autonomy. Governments, state and federal, pushed schools to
provide more support for children with disabilities and to
include them in regular classes. Schools that resisted new plans
or philosophies were running the risk they might be accused of
violating a disabled child’s civil rights.  We don’t know enough to comment on the incidents in
Maspeth,  Port St. Lucie  or Shreveport. Yet it’s clear that legal
changes make it harder for teachers to do their jobs. Teachers
and their principals realize they have to tread carefully. No
one will back them up. Small children sometimes respond best
when they get a hand to hold or a lap to sit in. Still these
days an educator who lays a friendly finger on a child may be
accused of corporal punishment, sexual harassment or some
combination of the two. Powell was a visionary, but even he
couldn’t foresee the extent to which parents would use civil
rights issues to contest school policies.  Easier Route  Teachers, Howard says, now ask themselves: “Why take the
risk of legal hearings or threats by an angry parent?” It’s
easier to dial 911. The child’s rights may win in such a case,
but the child does not. In a child’s life, a good lawyer can’t
substitute for a good teacher.  The perversity here is that laws meant to protect children
acquaint them far too early with police stations, courtrooms and
handcuffs. You don’t have to bring back the paddle or racism to
undo this dynamic. All you have to do is give educators the
chance to educate. It’s time. Just ask a teacher.  ( Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)*  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  