-- 
Schwarzman Says Cheap Financing Is Pushing Up Prices of Buyouts

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-04-25T16:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/schwarzman-says-cheap-financing-is-pushing-up-prices-of-buyouts.html
Stephen Schwarzman , chairman of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said the world’s biggest private-equity
firm isn’t finding enough opportunities for leveraged buyouts
despite easy access to debt.  “The financing is clearly there,” Schwarzman, 64, said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview in Durham,  North
Carolina . “The question is, ‘Is the value there?’”  Buyout managers led by Blackstone are increasingly pursuing
non-traditional deals in energy and building non-LBO businesses
such as real estate and  hedge funds  as leveraged buyouts remain
a fraction of their size before the financial crisis.
Blackstone, based in New York, last week reported its best
quarter since going public four years ago, driven in part by a
surge in real estate values.  Private-equity firms are competing with each other for
deals, as well as with corporations eager to spend some of their
cash balances on acquisitions amid a broader economic recovery.
Cheap debt means deals get bid up, Schwarzman said.  “We’ve seen prices higher than we expected as a result of
very low levels of  interest rates ,” he said. “The Fed has
created a lot of liquidity.”  Blackstone said last week that first-quarter profit rose 58
percent to $568.1 million, or 51 cents a share, beating
analysts’ estimates.  The value of Blackstone’s real estate equity funds rose 8.7
percent in the first quarter, helping profit in that business
increase fourfold to $361 million from $89.3 million a year
earlier. The firm said it’s begun fundraising for its next
property fund.  The results helped drive Blackstone’s stock to its highest
price in almost three years last week. The shares fell 17 cents
to $19.14 at 11:22 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  