-- 
Senate’s Biggest Scandal Doesn’t Involve Sex: Michael Waldman

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-25T23:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/senate-s-real-scandal-doesn-t-involve-sex-commentary-by-michael-waldman.html
The imminent resignation of Nevada
Senator  John Ensign , who was facing an ethics probe and a strong
chance of expulsion, adds to a stampede for the exits. Seven
other senators have announced they won’t seek re-election in
2012, and unlike Ensign, none of them are embroiled in a sex
scandal.  That’s close to a record turnover, for the second election
cycle in a row. Ten Senate seats were open in 2010, most due to
retirements. In the past 100 years, the record for most senators
leaving at one time is 13, timed to the 1996 election.  The Senate once styled itself as the “world’s greatest
deliberative body.” Now its members can’t wait to get out.  No doubt many departures are due to the political climate.
It’s no picnic to run as an incumbent with persistent
unemployment between 8 percent and 9 percent. And one retiring
incumbent, first-term Senator  Jim Webb  of  Virginia , won his seat
in the Democratic wave of 2006 and therefore was an electoral
outlier facing an unlikely path to reelection.  Still, something more profound seems at work. Partisan
shifts can’t explain why Republicans  Kay Bailey Hutchison  and
 Jon Kyl  are leaving, or Democrat Jeff Bingaman, or Democrat-
turned-independent  Joe Lieberman . Those retirements likely have
more to do with the rancor, partisanship and sheer dysfunction
that seized the Senate in recent years. Once the cushiest place
to serve as a public official, now it seems like a grind.  The Senate had ambled through the 20th century at its own
leisurely pace. With their six-year terms, senators weren’t
expected to jet home every weekend, as many of their House
colleagues do. Party organizations took care of things back in
their states. A few big contributors could discreetly run their
fund-raising.  Hyper-Partisan  Now Senate life has become frenetic, hyper-partisan and
obsessed with fundraising. In other words, more like the House.  Once, the chambers differed sharply. “The Republicans are
the opposition,” longtime House Speaker Tip O’Neill would say.
“The Senate is the enemy.” If the House was defined by the yap
of members competing for airtime with their one-minute speeches,
the Senate was defined by sonorous self-regard. Though its
pomposity was easily mocked, the Senate had a sensible centrist
bloc that was real and could produce progress.  Today, rather than silver-haired former governors near the
end of their careers, former House members hardened by
legislative combat set the tone in the Senate.  A generation ago, conservative southerners shared the
 Democratic Party  with liberal northerners. Patrician Rockefeller
Republicans vied with the Taft and Goldwater wings. Now party-
line votes are the norm. Every Democrat in the Senate was more
liberal than every Republican in 2010, according to an  analysis 
by the National Journal.  Stalemate Rules  Senate procedures still date from an earlier era and are
easily abused by partisans. The filibuster, once used rarely,
now amounts to a legislative no-fly zone: Without 60 votes,
nothing moves. This de facto supermajority requirement produces
not consensus but stalemate. When the new Congress convened in
January, Senate leaders declined to do much of anything about
filibusters. These senate Old Bulls turned out to be more like
wimpy Ferdinand.  Added to this mix is what an incumbent must do to stay in
the Senate. Fundraising for a typical race has increased almost
five-fold since 1982. Senators now raise, on average, $9.4
million to stay in office, much more in larger states. You’ll
find them at party offices, hunched over a phone, dialing for
dollars. Think “Glengarry Glen Ross.” You can’t blame them: To
the threat of a free-spending self-financing opponent, now add
the tens of millions of dollars that might be poured into
secretly funded attack ads, thanks to the U.S. Supreme Court’s
Citizens United decision.  Lobbying Beckons  No wonder so many senators seem to think: if you can’t beat
K Street, join it. Some 150 former senators and representatives
worked as lobbyists in 2009,  according to   Public Citizen .  Many of the departing senators seem relieved. In their
remaining time, they have pledged to work together to pass
comprehensive immigration and entitlement reforms and to take on
other fractious topics.  What we really need is for them to work on the Senate’s
dysfunction. There is a long tradition in which lawmakers rise
in their final speech and renounce the fundraising arms race,
having been silent before then. (As Saint Augustine prayed,
“Give me chastity and continence, but not yet.”)  Chance for Change  Unlike Ensign, the retiring senators still have 20 months
to make change. They don’t need to raise money anymore. They
should take the lead in a new push for public financing of
congressional campaigns, a cause often embraced by senators only
after they leave. At the very least, the Republicans who long
urged more campaign-finance disclosure, then voted to filibuster
legislation that would require corporations and unions to
disclose spending on political advertising, should vote their
true views.  Instead of Saint Augustine, these departing senators should
take their tune from SaintJanis Joplin: Freedom’s just another
word for nothing left to lose.  ( Michael Waldman , former head speechwriter for President
 Bill Clinton , is executive director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at  New York University School of Law  and the author of
“My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman.comments@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  