-- 
Singapore's Consumer Prices Climb 5%, Justifying Tighter Monetary Policy

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-25T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/singapore-s-consumer-prices-climb-5-justifying-tighter-monetary-policy.html
Singapore ’s inflation held at 5
percent in March as housing and transportation costs surged,
supporting the central bank’s decision this month to allow
further currency appreciation.  The increase in the  consumer price index  matched the gain
reported previously for February and the median estimate of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, a Department of
Statistics statement showed today. Prices rose 0.1 percent from
February, without adjusting for seasonal factors.  Asian central banks from China to Thailand and India are
raising  interest rates  or allowing their currencies to gain to
curb price pressures as oil and food costs rise. Singapore’s
dollar has risen to records after the central bank said April 14
it would allow further appreciation in its third tightening of
 monetary policy  in a year.  “Food inflation is rising despite a strong Singapore
dollar while oil prices have continued to escalate despite the
gradual stabilization in the Middle East and North Africa
political crisis,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report. The “chance
is high that inflation will remain stuck at an uncomfortably
high range of 4.5 to 5.5 percent in the coming months before
easing off in the second half of the year,” he said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore, which uses the
 exchange rate  as its main tool to manage inflation, said this
month it will re-center the currency’s band upwards, a move
economists including Seah said amounts to a one-off revaluation.
Inflation may reach the upper end of the central bank’s 3
percent-to-4 percent forecast range this year, it said.  The  Singapore dollar  has gained more than 11 percent
against the U.S. currency in the past year to be the best
performer in Asia excluding Japan. It traded at S$1.2345 a
dollar at 12:42 p.m. local time.  Consumer prices may rise faster in the coming months after
Singapore Power Ltd., the island’s main electricity provider,
increased tariffs for the April-to-June quarter by an average
6.5 percent because of higher oil costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  