-- 
Sony Starts Probe as Hacking Stops Gaming for 75 Million Playstation Users

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-04-26T09:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/sony-playstation-network-outage-extends-to-day-five-after-attack.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , the world’s second-
largest maker of video-game players, is investigating whether
data on 75 million users were accessed after an attack on its
PlayStation Network and Qriocity online service.  Sony won’t resume the services, which have been suspended
since last week, until it learns the “full details of what
happened and what caused the trouble,” Satoshi Fukuoka, a
Tokyo-based company spokesman, said by telephone today. The
company is strengthening the network’s security and has no
estimate for when services will resume, Fukuoka said.  The disruption, which occurred at about 1 p.m. Tokyo time
on April 21, has deprived users from logging on the network to
play games and watch films. Qriocity, which provides movies or
music in 11 nations on Web-connected Bravia televisions and Blu-
ray players, was also halted after an “external intrusion”
affected operations, Tokyo-based Sony said.  “This is not something they can afford to have
recurring,” said  Jay Defibaugh , an analyst at MF Global FXA
Securities in Tokyo. “This is an opportunity to rebuild the
system.”  Sony fell 2.1 percent to 2,415 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo trading, extending its loss to 17 percent this year. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average retreated 1.2 percent today.  Anonymous Target  Separately, Sony was singled out in a statement by a group
of hacker-activists known as  Anonymous  after the company sued
George Hotz for posting online information about how to install
alternative operating systems for the PlayStation 3 game
console. The group issued a separate  statement  denying
responsibility for the PlayStation Network disruption, while
saying some of its members might be behind it.  Hackers previously also targeted Sony along with companies
including Google Inc., Walt Disney Co., and Johnson & Johnson,
according to confidential e-mail discussing the subsequent
investigation.  “The hacker community has been unhappy with Sony for
locking down the PS3 and being pretty aggressive in protecting
its content,” Defibaugh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  