-- 
South Korea, Taiwan Inflation Fight to Persist Even as Growth Decelerates

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-04-26T02:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/south-korea-taiwan-inflation-fight-to-persist-even-as-growth-decelerates.html
South Korea  and  Taiwan  may need to
keep raising  interest rates  as an estimated slowdown in growth
last quarter failed to ease inflationary pressure.  South Korea’s gross domestic product expanded 4.2 percent
in the three months through March from a year earlier, less than
the 4.7 percent pace in the previous quarter, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists.
Taiwan’s growth likely slowed to 5 percent from 6.92 percent,
according to the median forecast in a survey of 14 analysts.  While Japan’s record earthquake and China’s monetary policy
tightening have increased the risks for Asian exporters
including Samsung Electronics Co. and Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co., inflation has accelerated in Taiwan and South
 Korea  amid rising commodity costs and capital inflows. Policy
makers in the two economies may raise interest rates several
times this year, according to  Barclays Capital .  “Increasingly, balancing growth and inflation will be the
key challenge facing policy makers,” said Wai Ho Leong, a
regional economist at Barclays Capital in  Singapore . “Core
inflation pressures are intensifying, not just in Korea, but
also in Taiwan.”  The Bank of Korea may increase interest rates in May, July
and September, while Taiwan’s central bank may do so in June,
September and December, Leong said. South Korea will release its
GDP data at 8 a.m. Seoul time tomorrow while Taiwan’s report
will come out at 4 p.m. local time on April 29.  Inflation Risks  China  raised interest rates this month, joining nations
from  Thailand  to  India  that have boosted borrowing costs in 2011
to fight inflation. Japan’s March 11 quake may have caused as
much as 25 trillion yen ($304 billion) in damage while
disrupting the global supply chain, according to the government.  In South Korea, “the overall economic risks are still
tilted towards inflation in our view,” said Ma Tieying, an
economist with DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, who expects
a Korean rate increase as soon as next month.  Consumer-price growth has exceeded the Bank of Korea’s 4
percent ceiling since the start of the year, prompting the bank
to raise rates by a quarter of a percentage point each in
January and March.  ‘War’ on Inflation  The country’s consumer confidence in April rebounded from a
23-month low and inflation expectations reached the  Bank of
Korea ’s 4 percent target ceiling, data released today by the
central bank showed.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  declared a “war” on
inflation in January, urging policy makers to contain inflation
at 3 percent this year. Inflation hit a 29-month high in March.  In Taiwan, the government’s consumer-price growth forecast
of 2 percent this year exceeded the benchmark interest rate
level, central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan said after raising
borrowing costs for a fourth straight quarter last month.
Taiwan’s inflation accelerated to 1.41 percent in March, the
fastest in four months.  Sales abroad have climbed to record levels in both South
Korea and Taiwan. In South Korea, where exports of goods and
services accounted for 52 percent of the GDP in 2010, overseas
shipments reached an unprecedented $48.6 billion in March.  ‘Headwinds’ for Exports  Taiwan’s export orders climbed 13.37 percent to a record
$38.99 billion in March, a government report showed last week.
The island’s exports accounted for 67.65 percent of its GDP in
2010, according to the statistics bureau.  In the second quarter, “exports are likely to face
headwinds due to  Japan ’s earthquake, China’s tightening, and
fiscal troubles in Europe and U.S.,” said DBS’s Ma. Economic
growth is likely to rebound in the second half in both South
Korea and Taiwan, as “the oil price shock fades and Japan’s
reconstruction efforts start.”  Shortages in South Korea of imported goods such as
electronics parts from Japan after the quake “will crimp output
and thus harm GDP growth,” said Katrina Ell, a Sydney-based
economist at Moody’s Analytics Australia Pty Ltd.  “Taiwanese manufacturers of LCD display panels,
semiconductor equipment, autos and parts will also suffer as
components are mostly imported from Japan,” said Ell.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of chips, lowered its forecast for revenue
growth in the global chip-industry after last month’s Japan
earthquake hurt expected demand.  South Korea’s Samsung Electronics, the world’s biggest
maker of televisions and flat-screen monitors, said this month
its first-quarter operating profit dropped 34 percent due to
rising competition in tablets and phones.  Strengthening Currencies  Export growth may also be damped by the two economies’
strengthening currencies, which authorities are tolerating
because they limit oil price gains in local currency terms.
Leong at Barclays said he expects the won to strengthen to 1,025
against the dollar and Taiwan’s dollar to advance to 28 against
its U.S. counterpart, by the year-end. The won dropped 0.33
percent to 1,085.10 per dollar as of 10:48 a.m. in  Seoul  today
and the Taiwanese dollar fell 0.1 percent to 28.949 as of 9:26
a.m. local time, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  The Bank of Korea projected on April 13 that the economy
will expand 4.5 percent this year and inflation will accelerate
to 3.9 percent. Taiwan’s government in February forecast
economic growth of 4.92 percent and projected inflation will
climb to 2 percent from 0.96 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net 
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  