-- 
South Sudan Army Battles Rebel Groups Leaving 179 People Dead

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-04-25T10:42:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/south-sudan-army-battles-rebel-groups-leaving-179-people-dead.html
Fighting between South Sudan’s army
and rebel groups broke out in two of the region’s ten states,
killing at least 179 people, the army’s director of information,
Malaak Ayuen Ajok, said by phone today from Juba.  The fighting started Tuesday in oil-rich Unity state when
rebels, led by General Peter Gadet, who defected from Sudan
People’s Liberation Army, attacked towns in Mayom County.  “They wanted to take Mayom. The SPLA was able to dislodge
them,” Ajok said.  The rebels claim to have killed hundreds of SPLA soldiers
in four days of fighting between a small village called Mankien
and the county headquarters of Mayom, Bol Gatkouth Kol, a former
member of the southern parliament and rebel spokesman, said by
phone Saturday.  The violence adds to conflicts that have overshadowed the
oil-rich region’s preparations for independence in July.
Fighting earlier this year killed at least 800 people and
displaced 93,783, the  United Nations  said on April 13.  Gadet’s rebel group is known as the South Sudan Liberation
Army. It announced its formation on April 11 by issuing a
declaration accusing the regional government of corruption. The
group has also called for the removal of Unity state’s governor,
Taban Deng.  Separate fighting also broke out on Saturday between a
militia led by former northern army commander Gabriel Tang and
the southern army, Upper Nile state information minister, Peter
Lam Both, said by phone yesterday from the state capital
Malakal.  Tang surrendered yesterday and is being held along with
1,300 of his soldiers at the county headquarters in Canal, Ajok
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 