-- 
Sprint Seeks Peek at Private AT&T Filings in T-Mobile Deal

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-26T20:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/sprint-seeks-peek-at-confidential-at-t-filings-in-t-mobile-deal.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  asked the
Federal Communications Commission to grant it access to
confidential documents filed as part of  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39
billion purchase of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  unit T-Mobile USA.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless provider, has
sought to block the merger, saying it would stifle competition
and prevent smaller companies from getting access to the best
mobile phones and other devices.  In a document filed yesterday with the FCC, outside
attorneys for Sprint signed confidentiality agreements in
advance of possibly gaining access to filings that won’t be
available to the public.  In public copies of its April 21 application filed with the
FCC, Dallas-based AT&T omitted information it considered
confidential, such as details of its service limitations and
geographical market share. Sprint wants to be able to view the
complete filings available to FCC staff.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, said it retained
law firms Lawler, Metzger, Keeney & Logan LLC and Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and consulting firm Charles River
Associates.  AT&T and T-Mobile combined would have about 129 million
subscribers, compared with 94.1 million for  Verizon Wireless  and
49.9 million at Sprint, based on year-end 2010 data.  “We cannot let this happen,” Sprint Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Hesse  said April 15 at an event in San Francisco.  AT&T needs approval by the FCC and U.S. Justice Department
for the acquisition to proceed.  Sprint added 1 cent to $4.81 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 14 percent
this year. AT&T rose 39 cents to $30.94 and have risen 5.3
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  