-- 
Sri Lankan Army, Tamil Tigers Likely Violated Laws, UN Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-25T23:30:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/sri-lankan-army-tamil-tigers-likely-violated-laws-un-says.html
Sri Lanka ’s military and the rebel
Tamil Tigers likely committed serious violations of
international law in the final stages of a conflict that ended
in May 2009 and caused as many as 40,000 civilian deaths,
according to a  United Nations  report.  The 200-page report of a three-member panel set up by UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon “found credible allegations” of
violations of international humanitarian and human rights laws
by both sides. The report also said UN “political organs and
bodies failed to take actions that might have protected
civilians,” including public use of casualty figures.  The report cited evidence that a “wide range of serious
violations of international humanitarian law and international
human rights law was committed both by the government of Sri
Lanka and the  Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam , some of which
would amount to  war crimes  and crimes against humanity.”  Sri Lankan troops defeated the separatist Tamil Tigers two
years ago, ending the ethnic minority’s 26-year struggle for a
separate homeland.  The report said the panel’s mandate was limited to
determining whether allegations of human rights abuses were
credible. Its conclusions were based on information obtained
without visiting Sri Lanka because the government refused to
permit a visit.  The Sri Lankan government, which received a copy of the
report last week, didn’t respond to its findings, Ban said in a
statement accompanying its release today in  New York .  Accountable for Violations  “The government of Sri Lanka should respond to the serious
allegations by initiating an effective accountability process
beginning with genuine investigations,” the UN said in the
 statement . “The secretary-general has consistently held the view
that Sri Lanka should, first and foremost, assume responsibility
for ensuring accountability for the alleged violations.”  The UN said Ban couldn’t adopt the recommendation to launch
an international investigation of the events at the end of the
war without the government’s consent. Ban will review UN actions
during the conflict, the statement said.  “The panel’s determination of credible allegations reveals
a very different version of the final stages of the war than
that maintained to this day by the government,” the report said.
“The government shelled on a large scale in three consecutive
no-fire zones, where it had encouraged the civilian population
to concentrate, even after indicating it would cease the use of
heavy weapons.”  The panel found credible evidence of widespread killing of
civilians by government forces, shelling of hospitals, denial of
humanitarian aid, purposeful underestimation of fatalities and
summary execution, rape and torture of survivors who left the
conflict zone.  The Tamil Tigers used civilians as human shields, killed
people fleeing areas under their control, recruited children and
killed civilians through suicide attacks, the report said.  The report said government efforts at accountability for
alleged crimes was “deeply flawed” and “not in accordance
with international standards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  