-- 
Virginia’s Bid for Fast-Track Review of Health Law Denied by Supreme Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-04-25T15:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/supreme-court-won-t-expedite-review-of-u-s-health-care-law.html
The U.S. Supreme Court declined an
opportunity to review President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul, rejecting  Virginia ’s bid to have its challenge to the
law considered on an unusual fast-track basis.  Virginia, one of 28 states suing to invalidate the measure,
urged the justices to schedule arguments without waiting for the
four appeals courts that are poised to consider the law. The
states say Congress overstepped its authority by requiring
Americans to either obtain insurance or pay a penalty.  The rebuff doesn’t preclude the Supreme Court from hearing
the case later, perhaps even before the 2012 election. For the
time being, today’s action is a victory for the Obama
administration, which urged the justices not to grant Virginia’s
bid for a hearing.  “Expediting our case would have been the exception and so,
although disappointing, this is not surprising,” Virginia
Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli, said in a statement. He had
said in court papers that the dispute was “of imperative
national importance requiring immediate determination in this
court.”  The step sought by Virginia, known as certiorari before
judgment, is one the court has taken only a handful of times,
including its 1974 decision ordering President  Richard Nixon  to
turn over Oval Office tape recordings and its 1952 ruling
blocking President Harry S Truman from seizing the nation’s
steel mills.  The Obama administration argued that the health-care
dispute doesn’t rise to that level of urgency, in part because
the disputed provision doesn’t take effect until 2014.  No Urgency  “The constitutionality of the minimum coverage provision
is undoubtedly an issue of great public importance,” acting
U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal argued in court papers.
“This case is not, however, one of the rare cases that
justifies deviation from normal appellate practice and requires
immediate determination in this court.”  All nine justices took part in today’s decision to reject
the appeal after the participation of Justices Elena Kagan and
 Clarence Thomas  had become fodder for debate. For Kagan, the
issue was what role she played in the law’s defense while
serving as Obama’s top courtroom lawyer. Thomas has come under
question because of the political and policy work of his wife,
Virginia Thomas.  Even in the view of some opponents of the law, the Virginia
petition stood little chance of getting a high court hearing.
“Everybody thinks it’s a long-shot,” Randy Barnett, a
Georgetown University law professor, said before the court
acted.  Interstate Commerce  “By all rights, the legal challenge to health-care reform
should be rejected unanimously by the courts of appeal and never
even be reviewed on the merits by the  Supreme Court ,” said Doug Kendall, the president of the Washington-based Constitutional
Accountability Center, which supports the law.  U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson ruled in December that
Congress’s authority over interstate commerce didn’t give it the
power to enact the insurance mandate. A federal appeals court
based in Richmond, Virginia, is scheduled to hear the Obama
administration’s appeal of that ruling May 10 -- alongside an
appeal of a different judge’s decision upholding the law.  Another appeals court, based in Cincinnati, will consider
the issue June 1, and a third, based in Atlanta, will hear
arguments June 8 in a case involving the other 26 states
challenging the law. An appeals court in Washington will
consider the matter later this year.  Action Required  The Supreme Court hasn’t directly considered a challenge to
Congress’s power under the Constitution’s commerce clause since
 John Roberts  became chief justice in 2005.  Opponents say the health plan is unlike anything the
Supreme Court has ever upheld because the law would require
people to take action: either buy health insurance or pay a
fine. Hudson said no Supreme Court or appeals court ruling
authorizes Congress to “compel an individual to involuntarily
enter the stream of commerce” by buying something.  The Obama administration argues that people who would opt
not to buy insurance without the mandate will affect interstate
commerce eventually -- and potentially impose costs on the
government, insurers and hospitals -- when they seek emergency
room or other medical services.  The administration also contends that the individual
mandate is essential to the law’s goal of increasing health-care
availability and affordability.  The government says that, without such a rule, people could
forgo buying insurance until they became sick, at which point
the new law would require insurers to provide coverage. The
effect would be to eventually drive insurers out of business,
the administration says.  The Supreme Court case is Virginia ex rel. Cuccinelli v.
Sebelius, 10-1014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 