-- 
Surging Layton Fends off Attacks NDP Platform Unaffordable in Canada Vote

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-25T16:39:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/surging-layton-fends-off-attacks-ndp-platform-unaffordable-in-canada-vote.html
Canadian opposition  New Democratic
Party  leader  Jack Layton , whose party has risen in opinion polls
and may be poised to boost its seat count in the May 2 election,
dismissed rivals’ attacks that his platform is unaffordable.  Layton’s NDP became the subject of direct attacks from both
Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Liberal leader
 Michael Ignatieff  over the weekend after polls showed his party
gaining voter support.  “‘We are very proud of our practical steps that we are
proposing for Canadians,” Layton, 60, yesterday said in a brief
interview in Toronto. “They address the practical problems that
they are grappling with right now: affordability, lack of family
doctors, retirement security.”  The left-leaning NDP was statistically tied with the
Liberals in a Nanos Research poll published today. The Liberals
ran a new  television commercial  over the weekend saying NDP
promises are unaffordable, turning his focus from Harper’s
Conservatives, and another one today saying both parties are
“two sides of the same coin” with wasteful spending plans.  “If you look at this science fiction platform, you get to
C$70 billion of spending over four years, and we just think the
numbers don’t add up,” Ignatieff said of the NDP program today
in Thunder Bay, Ontario. He pointed to Layton’s plan to raise
C$3.6 billion in revenue ($3.8 billion) in the fiscal year that
started April 1 by introducing a cap-and-trade system for
 greenhouse gases .  Never Governed  Ignatieff also made several references since the NDP’s jump
in the polls to the party never having formed a federal
government. The party has governed in half of  Canada ’s 10
provinces.  The Conservatives aired a television ad during last night’s
playoff hockey broadcast that said both Layton and Ignatieff are
making promises that can only be paid for by raising taxes.
Ignatieff has said he will reverse tax cuts worth C$6 billion a
year for companies such as Royal Bank of Canada if he’s elected.  Voters will choose between the opposition’s “high-tax
agenda” and “stable national government with our low-tax plan
for jobs and growth,” Harper said today in Sault Ste. Marie,
Ontario.  ‘Copying Our Platform’  Asked about Ignatieff’s statements that the NDP plan is too
expensive, Layton said, “I notice that he’s spent most of his
time copying our platform.” He said the NDP has “very
practical proposals” for implementing its platform.  Both Layton and Ignatieff both spoke at yesterday’s Khalsa
Day Sikh cultural event in Toronto, and the two briefly met and
shook hands. Before the leaders spoke, Preet Rai, a 19-year-old
student from Toronto, said she will support Layton because “he
will make a difference.”  “Whatever I’ve seen from the Liberals and the
Conservatives is a whole bunch of lies,” Rai said, adding she
is concerned that she won’t be able to afford tuition fees.  Avtar Singh, 55, who owns a garage and works on the
campaign of a local Conservative candidate, also attended the
rally. He said he favors the Conservatives because “they
believe in Canadian values like free enterprise,” and “are
working hard to bring us out of recession.”  Nationally, the NDP was backed by 24 percent of Canadians,
compared with the 18 percent it received in the 2008 vote and up
from 17 percent on April 19, according to today’s Nanos poll.
The Conservatives were supported by 39 percent of voters and the
Liberals had 26 percent. The national survey questioned 1,200
voters by telephone on April 21, 23 and 24, and has a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Toronto at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 