-- 
Swedish Goal of Toughest Bank Rules Doesn't Need Nordic Unity, Ingves Says

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-04-26T11:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/sweden-can-lead-on-bank-rules-without-nordic-unity-ingves-says.html
Sweden  must be ready to impose
harsher bank rules than in the rest of Scandinavia even after
its biggest lender signaled it may move its headquarters outside
the Nordic country, central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said.  “Harmony is a good thing but in the end, given that it’s
the public purse that backs up the banking sector and as long as
it remains like that, it’s going to be up to each individual
country to choose what to do,” Ingves, 57, said in an interview
in Stockholm.  Ingves, who was one of the main architects of Sweden’s
1990s bank restructuring that led to the creation of  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) , said larger capital buffers will help the government
safeguard taxpayer funds. Nordea Chairman Bjoern Wahlroos’
suggestion this month that he may shift the bank’s headquarters
to escape tougher capital rules is the latest threat from
Sweden’s financial sector it will fight policy maker efforts to
enforce some of the world’s strictest regulatory standards.  “We know how much a banking crisis costs and how
troublesome it is to solve,” Ingves told Bloomberg today.
“It’s not in the interest of society to in some sense have a
race to the bottom when it comes to capital coverage.”  Banks should be forced to burn through more layers of
capital before getting state assistance in future, Ingves said.
To help banks maintain required  capital ratios , they should be
able to use contingent convertible bonds -- which convert to
equity at a given trigger -- to add to their palate of buffers,
he said.  Nordic Harmony  Finance Minister Anders Borg, in an interview given the day
Wahlroos’ comments were published, said he’ll talk with the
other Nordic countries before committing to stricter Swedish
rules, signaling he may have softened his stance.  “Each country must choose which way to go,” Ingves said
today. “It’s up to the state to put its foot down.”  Sweden is home to four of the Nordic region’s six biggest
banks and its financial industry is about four times the size of
the economy. Ingves said Sweden’s government is working on a
draft bill to prevent banks from lowering their capital ratios
as it determines how much more capital they’ll need.  Sweden wants its financial industry to follow stricter
standards than those set out by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , and to push the changes through earlier. The
Swedish Bankers Association has said it will fight rules that
undermine competitiveness, while Nordea Chief Executive Officer
Christian Clausen has called the plan “not realistic.”  Shareholder Responsibility  Wahlroos said the region’s biggest bank has a
responsibility to its shareholders to seek the best capital
environment. Nordea will report a 9.8 percent increase in net
income to 705 million euros ($1.03 billion), when it publishes
first-quarter results on April 28, according to the average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts. The bank will
raise its 2012 dividend to 32 euro cents from 29 euro cents this
year, the survey shows.  Shares in Nordea rose 0.40 krona, or 0.6 percent, to 71
kronor at 1:06 p.m. in Stockholm. The stock has slipped 2.9
percent this year, compared with a 2.7 percent gain in the
Bloomberg European Bank and Financial Services Index of 48
companies.  UBS Profits  Switzerland ’s biggest bank  UBS AG (UBSN) , which has been under
pressure from local regulators to increase its capital above
Basel III levels, today reported the largest net new money
inflows at its wealth management units since the end of 2007 as
first-quarter profit surpassed analysts’ estimates because of
what Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  called “the return
of client trust and confidence.” The Swiss lender isn’t
expected to pay a dividend next year, according to the average
Bloomberg estimate.  “We of course must take into consideration should another
Nordic country offer much better or much worse rules,” Wahlroos
said in an interview with Stockholm-based Dagens Industri’s
monthly magazine Dimension, published 14. The comments were
confirmed by Maria Silander, a spokeswoman at Helsinki-based
Sampo Oyj, also chaired by Wahlroos and Nordea’s biggest owner.  Sweden’s banks are still recovering after their Baltic
operations got caught in the region’s 2009 property bubble. That
experience should serve as a lesson to policy makers, according
to Ingves.  “What happened in the Baltic countries wasn’t really
supposed to happen nor were we really expecting our banks to
have a liquidity problem,” he said. “Given that Swedish banks
are large when funding themselves abroad, what is very, very
important is for the banks to manage their liquidity position
and also do it in such a way that you can manage whatever is
going on in the global market.”  Detailed Proposal  Banks should prepare for a one percentage point increase in
 capital requirements  every year “over the next few years,”
Borg said in March. The government, which is due to present a
detailed proposal on banking regulation by the end of the year
or beginning of next year, in February sold $3 billion worth of
shares in Nordea, lowering its stake to 13.5 percent.  “The idea is that Swedish banks should be more secure than
other banks,” Borg said last month. “The requirements on core
capital will increase by a few percentage points in the next few
years.” Banks “ought to be very careful with dividends, they
ought to save most of their profits, they ought to treat their
capital base so that they can meet future requirements.”  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , the biggest bank in Latvia, Lithuania and
 Estonia , wrote down $2.4 billion in 2009 after the former Soviet
region suffered the European Union’s deepest economic slump. The
losses fueled a 22 percent drop in Sweden’s krona against the
euro from an August 2008 peak through a March 2009 low.  Under the so-called Basel III rules, banks are required to
have a minimum core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, of 7 percent. Nordea has a core Tier-1 ratio of 10.3
percent, fourth-quarter results show. That compares with 13.8
percent at  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , 12.2 percent at SEB AB, and
13.9 percent at Swedbank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  