-- 
Swiss Bond Sales Boom as Banks Diversify Amid Dollar Plunge: India Credit

-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 
2011-04-26T05:06:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/swiss-bond-sales-boom-as-banks-diversify-amid-dollar-plunge-india-credit.html
After a 24-year hiatus, Indian
companies are poised to raise almost $1 billion of Swiss franc-
denominated bonds, about a quarter of total overseas borrowing
in 2011, as demand rises among European investors.  State-owned  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  will meet Swiss investors next
month in its bid to become the fourth Indian issuer this year to
borrow in francs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Union
Bank of  India ’s 3.375 percent franc bonds due August 2015 yield
109 basis points more than debt of similar maturities and
ratings sold by Jona, Switzerland-based Holcim Ltd., the world’s
second-biggest cement maker.  Borrowers in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy are selling bonds
in Swiss francs for the first time since 1987 as the Dollar
Index’s 6.5 percent plunge this year spurs a search for
alternative funding. European buyers are lured by higher returns
and the Indian government’s forecast for economic growth of more
than 9 percent this financial year.  “ Interest rates  in  Switzerland  are lower and there is
strong demand for emerging-market debt,” said Pierre Faddoul, a
Singapore-based credit analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc
that manages $287 billion. “Companies selling bonds are looking
to gain recognition in the Swiss market.”  ‘Conducive’ Market  Lenders Export-Import Bank of India,  State Bank of India (SBIN) 
and Union Bank sold 660 million francs ($750 million) of bonds
this year, Bloomberg data show. IDBI last issued notes
denominated in the Swiss currency when it raised 100 million
francs from 5.625 percent, 10-year securities.  The Swiss market is now “conducive” for raising as much
as 200 million francs, Melwyn Rego, Mumbai-based executive
director at IDBI, said in an interview yesterday. “We are
looking at diversifying our funding sources.”  Five-year rupee funding costs for top-rated lenders were
last at 9.29 percent, according to  FIMMDA , the Fixed Income
Money Market and Derivatives Association of India. Swiss
financial companies’ bonds yielded 2.46 percent on average
yesterday, SWX index prices show.  IDBI appointed BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS
AG to arrange meetings with debt investors in Switzerland, a
person familiar with the matter said April 8. Export-Import Bank
of India sold 175 million francs of 3.5 percent bonds this month
maturing in April 2016. Borrowing a similar amount in dollars
would have cost the lender a 4.1 percent rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘New Markets’  “Issuers like Indian banks have to look at new markets
and now probably is the time,” S.S. Mundra, Mumbai-based
executive director at  Union Bank of India (UNBK) , said in an interview
yesterday. “We will certainly look at Swiss bonds again when
the opportunity arises and that may happen sooner rather than
later.”  The rupee has strengthened 0.3 percent this year to 44.6050
per dollar as overseas funds raised their holdings of the
nation’s fixed-income securities by $2.6 billion to $20.3
billion, official data show. The difference in yields between
India’s government debt and U.S. Treasuries due in a decade has
widened to 475 basis points from a 10-month low of 437 reached
April 8.  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-rated Indian
corporate bonds for five years instead of government debt has
shrunk 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 125 from an
18-month high on Feb. 23, Bloomberg data show.  Bond Losses  The yield on Swiss government debt maturing in March 2016
rose six basis points this month to 1.4 percent, according to
Credit Suisse. In India, the yield on the most-traded 8.08
percent bond due August 2022 fell one basis point to 8.27
percent today, the central bank’s trading system shows.  India’s bonds have lost 0.7 percent this month, the worst
performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt markets outside
 Japan , indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc show.  Five-year credit-default swaps on  State Bank , which is
based in Mumbai and regarded by some investors as a proxy for
the sovereign, rose eight basis points this year to 169 basis
points, according to CMA in  New York . IDBI Bank’s five-year
default swaps climbed five basis points to 170.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Haven Reputation  While Swiss investors are looking to diversify their
holdings, Switzerland’s reputation as a haven for  wealth
management  attracts Indian companies looking to raise funds,
according to Ajay Mahajan, Mumbai-based managing director at the
Indian unit of UBS AG.  “The fact the country is rich and has inflows makes a
difference in terms of providing the right geography for
issuers,” Mahajan said. The dollar’s weakness also has a “role
to play in more funds pouring into Swiss francs.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six
major U.S. trading partners, is headed for its fifth consecutive
monthly fall in April as the  Federal Reserve  keeps interest
rates in a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent, prompting
investors to seek higher returns in emerging assets.  The dollar traded at 1.4649 per euro last week, the weakest
level since December 2009.  The  U.S. economy  probably grew at a 1.9 percent annual pace
after increasing at a 3.1 percent rate in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of 72 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before an April 28 Commerce
Department report.  “Issuers will begin to shy away from dollar-led funding if
its weakening becomes a trend they and look for issuance in
other currencies as an option,” said Rajiv Kumar Bakshi,
Mumbai-based executive director at  Bank of Baroda . “Issuers
have comfort in the fact that the spectrum of investors for
emerging market issuers is widening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  