-- 
Syria Troops Fire on Daraa as Death Toll From Crackdown Rises

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   D o n n a   A b u   N a s r
-- 
2011-04-26T19:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/syrian-forces-storm-city-of-daraa-to-quell-protests-killing-at-least-20.html
Syrian security forces strafed the
streets of the southern city of Daraa with machine guns and the
government cut off water supplies as the death toll from
yesterday’s crackdown rose to 25, a witness said.  Snipers have taken up posts on the roofs of schools and
mosques, said Mohsen, who spoke in an interview today by
satellite phone and declined to give his surname on concern over
reprisals. He said that he and other Daraa residents have pulled
the bodies of 14 people from the streets since yesterday, and
saw 11 others that they couldn’t remove because of sniper fire.
Troops fired machine guns from tanks and armored vehicles.  The Syrian government said its soldiers moved into the city
in response to an appeal by residents to “stop killing,
vandalism and intimidation by radical terrorists,” the state
news agency SANA said yesterday, citing a military official.
Activists say the crackdown is aimed at stamping out a six-week
uprising.  President Bashar al-Assad’s decision to end the emergency
rule in place for half a century and his pledges of future
political and economic measures have failed to halt the spread
of demonstrations. At least 400 people have been killed
nationwide since protests began in  Syria  in mid-March, Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s  National Organization for Human Rights ,
said yesterday.  ‘Shock and Awe’  “This opposition protest movement has been snowballing and
clearly the military element is saying we have to get control of
the situation and we have to stamp this out,” Joshua Landis, a
Syria specialist who directs the Center for Middle East Studies
at the University of Oklahoma in Norman, said in a telephone
interview today. “This is a classic shock and awe operation to
go hard and try to intimidate people.”  More than 1,000 people have been detained across the
country since Friday’s demonstrations, bringing the total number
of detentions since the unrest began March 15 to at least 2,000,
Mahmoud Merhi, who heads the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said in an interview from Damascus today. Mahmoud Issa, a
prominent opposition figure and former prisoner who was arrested
last week after giving an interview to al-Jazeera has been
referred to a military court, Razan Zaitouneh, a Damascus-based
human rights lawyer and activist, said on her Facebook page.  “No one has asked the Syrian government to send troops to
Daraa,” Merhi said. “Those who want to protect do not kill and
arrest people.”  Armored Vehicles  Troops in tanks and armored vehicles stormed Daraa, the
center of the most sustained protests, at dawn yesterday and
hundreds of soldiers fanned out through the city. Power and
phone lines were cut, Qurabi said by phone from Cairo yesterday.
Water supplies have also halted, Mohsen said today.  The military appears to be preparing for a possible move
into Banias, the site of an earlier crackdown against
protesters, Abdul-Karim Rihawi, head of the Syrian Human Rights
League, said in a telephone interview from Damascus today. He
didn’t give further details. Protests are under way in Banias in
support of Daraa and also in the port city of Latakia, Zaitouneh
said.  Security forces have been deployed around the cities of
Jableh, Homs, Moadamya, and Hama and the Damascus suburb of
Douma, according to Rami Nakhle, a Syrian dissident who lives in
Lebanon. People in Daraa are calling on the  Red Cross  for help
because of a shortage of medical equipment, he said.  Draft Statement  The  United Nations Security Council  is being asked to
condemn the Syrian government’s attacks on protesters, according
to diplomats. Britain, France, Germany and Portugal yesterday
circulated a draft statement for discussion today, according to
the diplomats, who spoke on condition of not being identified
because the text hasn’t been released.  European Union governments will discuss possible sanctions
against Syria, Catherine Ray, a spokeswoman for the EU, told
reporters in Brussels today. Member states are going to meet in
“the days or hours to come to discuss potential actions vis-a-
vis Syria,” she said, adding that the meeting will be at an
ambassadorial level, without giving further details.  Washington  Reviews ‘Options’  In Washington, the Obama administration is looking at a
“range of options,” including sanctions, to increase pressure
on Assad to halt the violence, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday. The U.S. State Department issued a
warning late yesterday urging Americans “to defer all travel to
Syria” and advising those in the country now to leave.  The U.S. has no plans to close its embassy in Syria, Jacob
Sullivan, the director of policy planning at the U.S. State
Department, said today in Washington.  U.S. Assistant Secretary for Near East Affairs Jeffrey Feltman called the Syrian ambassador to the U.S. into his
office yesterday, Sullivan told reporters. He also said that the
U.S. ambassador to Syria, Robert Ford, was in recent contact
with Syrian officials.  Syria is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring
Lebanon, where it supports Hezbollah, an armed Shiite Muslim
group. Assad and other officials say the violence in Syria is
the result of foreign-backed conspirators seeking to exploit the
expression of legitimate popular demands. Uprisings already have
toppled rulers in Tunisia and Egypt this year and led to a
military confrontation in  Libya .  The military official who spoke to Sana said that several
terrorists have been arrested in Daraa and large quantities of
weapons and ammunition have been seized, according to the
agency.  Seeking Freedom  “This is totally untrue,” said Merhi. “There are no
terrorists. There are no armed gangs. There are just people who
are demanding to be free.”  In 1982, Assad’s father crushed a rebellion led by Sunni
Muslim militants in the city of Hama, killing as many as 10,000
people according to estimates cited by  Human Rights Watch . The
current outbreak of unrest is the most serious since then.  Bashar Assad wants “to carry out another Hama to break the
resolve of the people but I don’t think this can happen or
succeed,” Yassin Al-Haj Saleh, a Syrian writer and political
activist, said in a telephone interview today.  “There is a popular awakening, a consciousness that didn’t
exist before and there is mounting international pressure,” he
said. “The events in Tunisia and  Egypt  have had a profound
effect, and this is why the youth and the people are out on the
streets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  