-- 
U.A.E. Detains Suspects on State Security Threat, WAM Says

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-04-25T14:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/u-a-e-detains-suspects-on-state-security-threat-wam-says-1-.html
The  United Arab Emirates  has
remanded five people in custody for posing a threat to state
security and insulting the country’s leadership, the WAM state
news service said  on its website , citing the public prosecutor.  The defendants appeared before a court with their lawyers
and will remain in custody pending an investigation, the news
service said. They are being questioned for “perpetrating acts
that pose a threat to state security,” the news service said.  The U.A.E. government has cracked down on dissent this
month by arresting activists who signed an online petition that
calls for elections for members of the Federal National Council,
which advises the government. A government committee now picks
half the council’s members and the rulers of the U.A.E.’s seven
emirates choose the rest.  Among those remanded was blogger and activist Ahmed
Mansour, and Nasser bin Ghaith, an economics professor at the
Abu Dhabi branch of  France ’s Sorbonne University, WAM said.
Mansour was taken April 8 after police entered his Dubai home,
seizing documents and two  laptop computers , his wife, Nadia,
said in a phone interview a day later. Ghaith was also arrested
for signing the petition, Mohammed al-Mansouri, a lawyer and
activist, said on April 12.  While the U.A.E. has been spared the protests that have
erupted across much of the Arab world this year, the government
has taken measures to appease its citizens. It said March 2 that
it would allocate 5.7 billion dirhams ($1.6 billion) to fund
water and infrastructure projects in the northern emirates,
which have traditionally lagged behind the rapid development of
others such as Dubai and  Abu Dhabi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  