-- 
U.S. Food Costs May Rise 4% Behind Beef, Pork: USDA

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-04-25T15:34:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/u-s-food-costs-may-rise-4-behind-beef-pork-usda-says.html
Surging pork and beef costs will
keep pressure on U.S. food inflation, which the Department of
Agriculture says will rise 3 percent to 4 percent this year, the
most since 2008.  While the overall estimate for food inflation was left
unchanged in today’s  report , the USDA said prices for meat
poultry and fish will jump 5 percent to 6 percent, led by beef,
which may climb 8 percent, and pork, which could gain 7.5
percent. The beef estimate was increased by 2.5 percentage
points from March and pork was raised 1 percentage point.  “I suspect when December arrives we will see increases of
4 to 6 percent” for the year in overall prices, said Bill Lapp,
the president of Advanced Economic Solutions, an agricultural-
research company based in Omaha,  Nebraska . “The pressure on
food prices is clearly on the upside,” said Lapp, a former
chief economist for ConAgra Foods Inc.  Earlier this month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said
food costs rose 0.7 percent in March, capping a 2 percent gain
for the first quarter. Cattle futures traded in  Chicago  were up
6.3 percent for the year through April 21, and hogs had
increased 25 percent, on rising export demand. Crude oil surged
33 percent.  Higher Energy Costs  “Cost pressures on wholesale and retail-food prices due to
higher energy and food-commodity prices, along with
strengthening global food demand, have pushed inflation
projections for 2011 upward,” Ephraim Leibtag, the USDA’s food-
inflation economist, said in  a note  that accompanied today’s
report.  Riots prompted partly by rising costs have toppled
governments in Egypt and  Tunisia  and contributed to unrest in
other parts of northern  Africa  and the Middle East.  China  is now
battling increasing pest infestation in its wheat-growing
regions, while U.S. winter-crop conditions are rated at their
worst since 2002.  The USDA also raised its estimate for inflation for fats
and oils by a full percentage point, to 6 percent to 7 percent.
Costs for fruits and vegetables will increase by 3.5 percent to
4.5 percent, the department said, a half-percentage-point gain.  In the first quarter, meat and fish prices rose 3.2
percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. A fresh
whole chicken cost $1.269 a pound at the end of March, slightly
lower than $1.28 at the beginning of the year, while consumers
paid about $2.715 for a pound of ground beef, a 14 percent
increase.  Vegetable Increases  The price of a pound of field-grown tomatoes last month
reached $2.086 a pound, the highest since 2007 and almost a
third more expensive than at the beginning of the year, the
bureau said. Fresh fruit and vegetables, which have more
volatile prices because of their vulnerability to weather
disruptions, have already risen 6.5 percent this year, according
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That trend may level off with
better weather, Lapp said.  Wholesale-food costs unexpectedly dropped 0.2 percent in
March after rising 3.9 percent in February, the biggest gain
since November 1974, according to Bloomberg data. The decline
was paced by a 21 percent drop in vegetables.  The wholesale-price drop “was a temporary phenomenon,”
said Lapp, who estimates that $30 billion in additional
commodity and wholesale costs have not yet been passed on to
consumers. Food prices will continue to rise steadily in coming
months, with a risk of significant gains should weather disrupt
U.S. grain and oilseed production, he said.  “It’s very difficult for companies to pass their expenses
onto their customers in a competitive environment,” Lapp said.  The USDA also raised its estimate for inflation for fats
and oils by a full percentage point, to 6 percent to 7 percent.
Costs for fruits and vegetables will increase by 3.5 percent to
4.5 percent, the department said, a half-percentage-point gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  