-- 
U.S. Air Force to Launch Competition for 93 New Helicopters

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-25T21:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/u-s-air-force-to-launch-competition-for-93-new-helicopters-1-.html
The U.S.  Air Force  today announced
it’s launching a competition for 93 new helicopters that would
protect U.S. intercontinental ballistic missile sites and
evacuate government officials in case of an attack.  The Air Force anticipates releasing a draft request for
proposals between mid-June and September and final request later
this year, officials said in an  on-line article  posted on a
service website.  The service hopes to have the aircraft operational by 2015,
it said. No dollar amount was cited.  “There are a number of manufacturers who have products we
believe can meet Air Force needs and we think it’s fair that all
of them have a chance to fulfill that requirement,”  Dave Van
Buren , Air Force senior acquisition executive, said in an
interview.  The  new aircraft  would replace Bell Helicopter Textron UH-
1N Hueys.  “We anticipate, based on market research and industry
response,” that a commercial or military helicopter already in
production “will be able to meet requirements,” Air Force
Director of Global Reach Programs Major General Randal  Fullhart 
said in the article.  Bryon Callan, a defense analyst for Washington, D.C.-based
Capital Alpha Partners LLC, said “I don’t think the market has
really keyed in on this yet, but it is a sizable program and
investors will pay more attention to it once the program
parameters are firmly established.”  Competitors  Callan said he expected  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Bell Helicopter
unit,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky unit,  Finmeccanica
SpA (FNC)  and EADS  Eurocopter  to compete.  Finmeccanica’s AgustaWestland North America subsidiary will
compete, said spokeswoman Ramona Layne in an e-mail.
“AgustaWestland has spent millions of its own money developing
the  AW139M ” helicopter as a contender, she said.  The Air Force also reaffirmed in the article it would
continue to compete for a new combat search-and-rescue
helicopter to replace 112 aging HH-60G Pave Hawk helicopters.  The service anticipates releasing that request for
proposals next year, the Air Force said.  The original program had been canceled in April 2009 by
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who cited its “troubled
acquisition history.” The Air Force restructured the program
and said it planned a competition.  Black Hawk  Tim Healy, director of Air Force programs at Sikorsky, said
in an e-mail the company will offer its H-60M Black Hawk for
both programs.  “The Air Force can derive significant savings” from
“Sikorsky’s mature production line for the U.S. Army and
established logistics support and aircrew/maintainer training,”
he wrote.  The Air Force plans to replace Hueys used for ICBM site
protection with a “Common Vertical Lift Support Platform” and
asked in its fiscal 2012 budget for $5.4 million for development
and $52.8 million to buy the first two new copters.  Missions would include securing the transport of
intercontinental ballistic missiles and so-called continuation-
of-government missions in  Washington  if the capital were under
attack, according to the Air Force.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  