-- 
U.S. Home Prices May Fall 11% This Year, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-04-25T20:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/u-s-home-prices-may-decrease-6-to-11-this-year-morgan-stanley-says.html
U.S.  home prices  will fall 6
percent to 11 percent this year, more than previously forecast,
as mortgages become harder to obtain and distressed sales drive
down values, according to Morgan Stanley.  Prices will have lost as much as 39 percent from their 2006
peak through the first half of 2012, according to measures such
as the S&P/Case-Shiller index, analysts Oliver Chang in San
Francisco and Vishwanath Tirupattur and James Egan in  New York 
said today in a report. Morgan Stanley previously estimated
values would drop 35 percent from the peak.  “We revised our outlook lower for two key reasons,” Chang
wrote in an e-mail today. “First, home prices have fallen more
than we expected since our last published forecast in early
December 2010, and second, sales activity has remained weak,
especially for mortgage-dependent transactions, which are needed
to support the non-distressed market.”  Home values are dropping as foreclosures, which sell at a
discount, undermine real estate prices. Distressed properties,
including foreclosures and short sales, made up 40 percent of
existing home purchases in March, the National Association of
Realtors said April 20. Short sales occur when a lender agrees
to sell for less than the mortgage balance.  S&P/Case-Shiller  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of 20 U.S. cities will probably
show tomorrow that prices fell 3.3 percent in February from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate of 23 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. The measure was down 32 percent in January
from its July 2006 peak.  The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  forecast calls for a bigger drop than
other projections.  David Wyss  and Beth Ann Bovino of  Standard &
Poor’s  said April 8 that home prices will fall another 4 percent
and bottom out in the second quarter of this year. The Case-
Shiller index will decrease 5 percent this year and hit bottom
by the third quarter, Celia Chen of Moody’s Analytics Inc. said
in a March report.  “Our view is we’ll see a 5 percent drop in national home
prices this year,”  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Global Research in New York, said
during an April 20 interview on Bloomberg Television. “It could
be larger. What dictates that forecast is the share of
distressed properties.”  Uncertainty about home-financing and foreclosure
regulations are also weighing on values, the Morgan Stanley
analysts said. Lenders are tightening standards in the face of
proposals to reform  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ; requirements
under Dodd-Frank legislation that they retain a percentage of
mortgages; and negotiations with state attorneys general to
settle foreclosure disputes, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 