-- 
Huawei’s $30 Billion China Credit Opens Doors in Brazil, Mexico

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-25T00:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/huawei-counts-on-30-billion-china-credit-to-open-doors-in-brazil-mexico.html
When  Tele Norte Leste Participacoes
SA (TNLP3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest land-line company, was shopping for  network
equipment  last year, Huawei Technologies Co.’s offer had an edge:
access to China Development Bank’s $30 billion credit line.  A two-year grace period on payments and an interest rate of
2 percentage points over the London interbank offered rate
created an unbeatable deal, Tele Norte Chief Financial Officer
Alex Zornig, 52, says.  “The Chinese are filling the space left empty by Americans
and Europeans,” Zornig said in an interview. “They are very
aggressive and they have a lot of money.”  China Development Bank’s support for Huawei and other
Chinese companies is the cornerstone of the country’s “going
out” policy, meant to nurture companies in telecommunications,
alternative energy and oil. The bank’s low-interest loans dwarf
those offered by U.S. and European development agencies, helping
Shenzhen-based Huawei and crosstown rival  ZTE Corp. (763)  increase
market share.  “Our support for Huawei, ZTE and other high-technology
companies has opened up the overseas market,” China Development
Bank Chairman Chen Yuan, 66, wrote in the January issue of China
Reform magazine. “We have become the principal source of
finance of our country’s overseas investments.”  Good Financing  The terms of Tele Norte Leste’s seven-year credit agreement
give the company an interest rate of about 4 percent, Zornig
said. Brazilian companies are paying an average borrowing cost
for dollar debt of about 5.99 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  In 2009,  Mexico  City-based America Movil SAB, Latin
America’s largest mobile-phone carrier, was also seeking $1
billion to upgrade its mobile network, and Chief Financial
Officer Carlos Garcia Moreno reached the same conclusion as
Zornig.  “People who were going to the market were often taking on
very high  interest rates ,” Garcia Moreno, 54, said in an
interview. “The rates that many blue chips paid were very high.
In that situation, we got very good financing.”  Huawei spokesman Ross Gan said there’s much “distortion”
about the significance of the  credit line  from China Development
Bank, and what it means for the company’s relationship with the
government. Huawei is an employee-owned, private company and the
government doesn’t hold any shares, he said.  Market-Share Gains  The financing’s helped. Huawei held about 15.7 percent of
the $78.6 billion global market for carrier network
infrastructure last year, second to Ericsson AB’s 19.6 percent
share, according to estimates from research firm Gartner Inc. on
April 11.  Huawei, which didn’t win its first contract outside China
until 1997, generated international sales of more than $100
million by 2000. Overseas business exceeded contracts in China
for the first time in 2005, according to the company’s website.  ZTE, which has a $15 billion credit line from  China
Development Bank , has jumped to fifth, from seventh two years
ago, according to  Redwood City , California-based Dell’Oro Group.  Winning over customers like America Movil’s Garcia Moreno
helped Huawei’s Mexico unit more than double sales to $440
million last year, from about $200 million in 2009, says Oscar
Toulet, director of government affairs and public relations for
Huawei in Mexico.  EU, U.S. Investigation  The extent of vendor financing by Chinese companies has
raised concern with European and U.S. government agencies. In
September, the European Union opened a probe into unfair trade
practices that threatened curbs on imports of wireless modems
from Chinese suppliers such as Huawei.  The EU dropped the probe in January after Huawei reached a
27-million-euro ($39.4 million) licensing agreement with  Option
NV (OPTI) , the Belgian company that filed the original complaint, which
alleged that China Development Bank had supplied Huawei’s
customers with below-market rates on loans.  While vendor-financing in itself isn’t unusual, the extent
of the financial backing sets Huawei and ZTE apart, according to
the Chinese companies’ competitors.  “Export credit programs are available everywhere,” said
Adolfo Hernandez, Alcatel-Lucent’s president for  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa . “The difference in China is mainly that
they’re bigger.”  $30 Billion Credit Line  In 2004, China Development Bank agreed to offer a $10
billion credit line to Huawei’s customers and the amount was
later tripled to $30 billion in 2009, Ken Hu, chairman of
Huawei’s U.S. operations, wrote in a letter posted on the
company website in February.  As of February,  China  Development Bank had loaned a total
of $10 billion to Huawei’s customers, Hu said in the letter. The
bank didn’t respond to requests to comment about its
relationship with Huawei and ZTE.  Vendor financing is “standard industry practice” and the
amount received by Huawei’s customers isn’t out of line with
what rivals such as Ericsson can offer through  Sweden ’s export
financing agency, Gan said. Huawei is a private company that
makes decisions based on market principles, he said.  The practice of lending to customers backfired for Ericsson
in 2002, when provisions for vendor financing bloated to 7.9
billion kronor ($1.3 billion) by the third quarter.  Johan Winlund, a spokesman for the state-run Swedish Export
Credit Corp., the country’s sole provider of export credit at
subsidized rates, said banking secrecy laws prohibited him from
providing details on individual customers. The corporation’s
annual report showed in 2009 it signed a loan agreement valued
at $1.07 billion with Russia’s OAO Mobile TeleSystems to buy
equipment from Ericsson that was one of the agency’s largest
export loans that year.  Those terms aren’t going deter customers such as America
Movil’s Garcia Moreno from becoming believers in Huawei.  “Huawei is a very good company, very solid, and I would
say that they have created a very good relationship with the
China Development Bank,” he said.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  