-- 
Mumbai Terrorist Attack Prosecution Adds Four Defendants

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-25T23:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/mumbai-terrorist-attack-prosecution-adds-four-defendants-1-.html
Four people allegedly affiliated
with the Pakistani group Lashkar-e-Taiba were added as
defendants to a U.S. Justice Department case accusing a Chicago-
area businessman of helping to plot the 2008 Mumbai terror
attacks.  While their indictment by a federal grand jury in  Chicago 
was unsealed today, none are in U.S. custody, according to an
e-mailed statement from a spokesman for Chicago U.S. Attorney
Patrick J. Fitzgerald,  Randall Samborn . The November 2008
attacks killed 164 people over three days, including six
Americans.  The revised indictment comes three weeks before the
scheduled May 16 trial of Tahawwur Rana, a Canadian citizen who
ran an immigration services business with offices in Chicago,
 New York  and Toronto.  Lashkar-e-Taiba, whose name prosecutors say translates to
“Army of the Good,” was designated as a terrorist organization
by the U.S. in 2001.  Each of the new defendants faces six counts of aiding and
abetting the murder of U.S. citizens in  India , which carry
maximum sentences of death or life imprisonment. Prosecutors
identified three of the men as Sajid Mir, Abu Qahafa, Mazhar
Iqbal and provided only a pseudonym for the fourth, “Major
Iqbal.” All four are also charged with one count of conspiracy
to murder and maim in India, while Mir, Abu Qahafa and Mazhar
Iqbal additionally are charged with conspiracy to bomb public
places in India.  Rana had been accused of using his First World Immigration
Services to assist another man, David Coleman Headley, to
conduct reconnaissance missions for the Mumbai attack. Rana is
also accused of helping Headley conduct surveillance for a
never-executed attack on a Danish newspaper that in 2005 printed
cartoons by the artist Kurt Westergaard including one depicting
the Islamic prophet Muhammad with a bomb in his turban.  Depictions of the prophet are forbidden in that faith.
Publication of the Westergaard cartoons touched off protests in
Muslim communities worldwide.  Headley, who may have faced the death penalty if he had
been convicted after a trial, in March 2010 pleaded guilty to 12
criminal counts including aiding and abetting the murder of
Americans in Mumbai and agreed to cooperate with the
prosecution.  Rana faces  life imprisonment  if convicted on the charges he
provided material support to the Mumbai attackers.  His attorney, Patrick Blegen, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment on the revised indictment. A status
conference before U.S. District Judge Harry Leinenweber is
scheduled for tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  