-- 
UN Council Asked to Condemn Syria Attacks on Protesters

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-25T21:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/un-security-council-asked-to-condemn-syria-attacks-on-protesters.html
The  United Nations   Security Council 
is being asked to condemn the Syrian government’s attacks on
protesters against President Bashar al-Assad,  Portugal ’s
ambassador said.  Britain, France, Germany and Portugal today circulated a
draft statement that asks for restraint by all parties to the
conflict and respect for human rights, and endorses Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon’s call for an investigation of the violence.
It also notes Assad’s decision last week to lift the 48-year-old
emergency law and abolish the Supreme State Security Court.  “The situation in  Syria  is extremely serious and it
requires a very clear condemnation from the international
community,” said Portugal’s ambassador to the UN, Jose Moraes Cabral. Noting that Ban and the European Union’s foreign policy
chief,  Catherine Ashton , have condemned the Syrian government’s
actions, Cabral said it was “time the Security Council also
said something.”  The first UN  Security Council  consideration of the
situation in Syria follows the reported deaths today of at least
20 people when security forces stormed the city of Daraa in the
south and opened fire from tanks and armored vehicles.  Syria has intensified a violent crackdown on protesters in
the past week, leaving more than 100 dead. Assad’s decision to
end the emergency rule in place for half a century, along with
his pledges of future political and economic measures, have
failed to halt the spread of demonstrations against his regime
echoing those that toppled rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia  this
year.  No Consultations  Bashar Ja’Afari, Syria’s ambassador to the UN, said the
move by European Union members of the Security Council would be
a “violation of the  UN Charter  because it would happen without
consultations with Syria.” Ja’Afari called the proposed
statement an “intervention in the domestic affairs of a
sovereign member of the UN.”  The Obama administration is considering its own options,
including possible sanctions, to hold Assad accountable for the
increasingly violent crackdown against anti-government
protesters, an administration official said.  One option under consideration is an executive order by
President  Barack Obama  that would impose sanctions on Syrian
officials, said the official, who was not authorized to discuss
the matter publicly and spoke on the condition of anonymity. The
sanctions would target those officials leading the crackdown and
could include freezing their assets and banning business
dealings with the U.S., the official said.  Security Council  Syria is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring
Lebanon, where it supports Hezbollah, an armed Shiite Muslim
group. Assad and other officials say foreign-backed conspirators
are seeking to exploit the expression of legitimate popular
demands as a pretext for violence.  The ability of the Security Council to agree on a statement
is in doubt following opposition last week to a council position
on the violence in Yemen. Statements such as the one being
proposed require the unanimous consent of the panel’s 15 member
governments.  “Any kind of unilateral move in the Security Council would
not be welcome, not only by Syria but by some other members of
the council, because it is counter-productive and would lead to
a verbal escalation of the situation,” Ja’Afari said. “The
UN’s role is to help, not to undermine any chances of a peaceful
settlement.”  Ja’Afari said he wouldn’t comment on allegations of
violence against protesters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  