-- 
Will and Kate Toilet Seats, Condoms Join Tacky London Souvenirs

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-04-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/will-and-kate-toilet-seats-condoms-join-tacky-london-souvenirs.html
Mark Flego leans on the gilded
gates of  Buckingham Palace , clutching a red plastic bag.  The telephone repairman from  New York  has just bought two
fridge magnets and a thimble picturing soon-to-wed Prince William -- grandson of  Queen Elizabeth II  -- and  Kate Middleton .
The souvenirs are for Flego’s mom, who keeps a book of press
clippings from the Queen’s 1947 wedding, and for his sister, who
owns a thimble featuring William’s late mother Diana.  “They’re into the whole royal thing,” says Flego, 53, as
he pulls off his mirrored shades. “They just like the fantasy
of the king and queen and all that.”  The April 29 royal wedding has flooded London with
trinkets, baubles, books and DVDs. The marriage could add as
much as 620 million pounds ($1 billion) to the economy in
tourism revenue and sales of food and drink, according to
 Verdict Research , a retail analysis unit of Datamonitor Plc.  The buzz is centered around Buckingham Palace and nearby
stores, starting with the palace’s own boutiques, which market
tasteful memorabilia -- at a price.  The carpeted  Royal Mews Shop  has piped-in orchestral music
and an array of handmade-China mugs, pillboxes and plates with a
coronet and the couple’s interlocking initials. These
pictureless mementoes cost from 7.95 pounds (for a tea towel) to
125 pounds (for a “loving cup”).  Across the street, London Souvenirs has the beaming couple
on tea towels, dinner bells, ashtrays, T-shirts, and mugs, with
Kate’s cheeks sometimes looking unusually rosy. Prices range
from 6 pence for a pencil to 10.99 pounds for a fancy plate.  Made in  China   “Everything is made in China,” says manager Suryan
Satyan. “Business is good.”  Further afield, East End wholesalers sell the same goods
for even less, provided you’re a retailer buying in bulk.  At Swift Supplies Ltd., Will-and-Kate mugs elbow Big Ben
bottle openers, London-taxi pencil sharpeners, and double-decker
paperweights. There, a Prince William shot glass costs 60 pence.  For humor -- intentional or not -- the Internet is the
place to turn.  Guandong Enterprises Ltd.  produced a 9.99 pound bone-china
cup mistakenly showing Kate, 29, beside William’s kid brother
Harry, 26. “The Fairytale Romantic Union of All the
Centuries,” read the upper inscription on the Web page.  “We have had a high level of interest,” the company
informed customers.  Crown Jewels Condoms of Distinction  offers a blue-and-gold
collector’s box for 5 pounds, picturing the couple virtually
cheek-to-cheek. Its contents “promise a royal union of
pleasure.”  Royal Throne  Other merchandisers have crafted a royal throne of sorts: a
9.99 pound  cotton toilet-seat cover , with a besuited William,
28, standing shoulder-to-shoulder with his veiled bride.  Merchandising aside, there’s plenty of educational home
entertainment on the nuptials. The documentary DVD “ Prince
William  & Kate: The Royal Romance,” narrated by TV presenter
Juliet Morris, has “rare and unseen footage” -- leftovers from
newsreels. They show the Queen as she greets well wishers at
William’s graduation, or Prince Charles and his sons posing on a
log outside a ski chalet.  Juicier vignettes are on offer in “William & Kate: A Royal
Love Story.” William is seen slumming it out on his gap year in
 Chile  -- sleeping on the floor of an old nursery with 16 others,
and wiping the tiles of the only toilet.  Revolver Entertainment  proposes a fictionalized take in
“William & Kate: The Movie,” with tall Nico Evers-Swindell and
high-cheeked Camilla Luddington in the title roles.  Kate’s Dress  William, then an art-history major, is bored by all the Van Gogh lectures, and distracted by Kate -- especially when she
models a see-through lace number at a student fashion show.
“She’s hot,” he exclaims. In no time, they move in together,
split up, and make up. The movie ends as William drops to his
knees in a tent in  Africa .  On the book front comes a “ For Dummies ” special, with
handy tips if you’re a guest: Meeting the Queen, you curtsy if
you’re a woman, and nod with your head if you’re a man.  “Don’t talk to the royal unless you’re spoken to,” warns
author Julian Knight. “Don’t grab their hand -- or other part
of the royal person -- unless it is offered.”  Claudia Joseph’s “Kate: The Making of a Princess” is a
well-researched source of gossip.  When Kate becomes Queen, the author concludes, “she will
be the first wife of a British monarch to have graduated from
university, displayed her lingerie on the catwalk or lived with
a king out of wedlock.”  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 