-- 
China’s Goldwind Wins Orders for Two U.S. Wind Projects

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-25T17:31:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/xinjiang-goldwind-wins-2-u-s-wind-turbine-orders-xinhua-says.html
Xinjiang Goldwind Science and
Technology Co. Ltd. won orders for its  wind turbines  from U.S.
clients, helping the Chinese manufacturer expand in the second-
biggest energy market and compete with  General Electric Co. (GE)   Goldwind will supply five 1.5-megawatt direct-drive
machines to wind farms in Ohio and Rhode Island, the Shenzhen-
traded company said today in a  statement . The Gilbane Building
Co. will use three turbines at a Rhode Island project providing
power to a wastewater treatment plant in Providence. V.H. Cooper
& Co. Inc. will install the other two at a wind farm in Ohio.  With this deal China’s second-largest wind-turbine maker
after Sinovel Wind Group Co. has sold 120 megawatts since
setting up in the Americas. Urumqi, China-based Goldwind is
focusing overseas sales on Australia, the U.S. and  South Africa ,
Garth Heron, the company’s associate director of international
business, said in March. Goldwind has nine factories in  China 
and is able to manufacture 4,000 1.5-megawatt turbines annually.  China’s wind-turbine makers, with little track record in
the U.S. or Europe, have decided exporting is a “strategic
target” for them, Chinese newswire Xinhua reported. Chinese
solar-panel makers last year supplied more than half the world
market for the first time, competing with German, Japanese and
U.S. manufacturers, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Chinese manufacturers are boosting exports as they build on
expertise gained in supplying the majority of units for their
own market and turning it into the world’s largest installed
base of wind power. In the U.S., Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE
is the biggest wind-turbine supplier.  In December, Goldwind said it will sell power to
Commonwealth Edison, a unit of  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , from its Illinois
project, the first large U.S. wind farm using Chinese-made
turbines.  Goldwind’s shares have dropped 24 percent this year in
Shenzhen trading, compared with a 5.2 percent gain in the 64-
member Bloomberg Wind Energy Index as of 12:28 a.m. in New York.  China is the  world’s largest energy consumer , according to
the  International Energy Agency .  -- Wang Ying  in Beijing and Todd White in Madrid. Editors: Donna
Alvarado, Will Wade  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  