-- 
Yale-Bound Hess Advances to Semifinal Playoff for U.S. Chess Championship

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-25T13:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/yale-bound-hess-advances-to-semifinal-playoff-for-u-s-chess-championship.html
Robert Hess, a chess grandmaster
who interned at a hedge fund in 2008 and will attend  Yale
University  in August, will compete in a playoff today in the
semifinals of the U.S. Championship in  St. Louis .  Hess, 19, drew two semifinal games on April 23 and
yesterday against grandmaster Yuri Shulman, who won the
tournament in 2008. The two will play a best-of-two-games time-
shortened match today, with the winner advancing to play
defending-champion Gata Kamsky in the finals.  If Hess and Shulman remain tied after their two games, they
will play one more game for a berth in the finals, with the
player with the black pieces advancing in the event of a draw.
Shulman and Hess will bid on the right to play with the black
pieces by setting the amount of time deducted from the base 45
minutes that they would be willing to forfeit to choose their
color.  Hess, a Manhattan native who deferred a year from Yale
after winning the $42,000 Samford Chess Scholarship, had a 2008
summer internship at  Fortress Investment Group LLC , a New York
hedge fund. While at Fortress, Hess developed an interest in
finance, which he intends to pursue in college.  Hess was rated 11th out of the U.S. Championship’s 16
players and went undefeated through the tournament’s first
phase, winning five games and drawing two others. He was the
only player in his group without a loss after the first seven
rounds, setting up his semifinal pairing with the 35-year-old
Shulman.  Kamsky, a 36-year-old Russian-born grandmaster, defeated
Samuel Shankland in the other semifinal this weekend. The
highest-rated player in the tournament, Kamsky won the U.S.
Championship in 1991 and 2010.  The best-of-two-games final starts tomorrow, with the
winner receiving $40,000 and the runner-up $30,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 