-- 
Dollar Declines Versus Euro on Bets Fed Will Keep Yields Low

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-04-26T11:53:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-25/yen-dollar-advance-as-middle-east-concern-boosts-safety-demand.html
The dollar fell versus the yen and
dropped for a sixth day against the euro, matching the longest
streak since May 2009, on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
discuss measures to keep yields low to support the economy.  The Dollar Index, used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the currency versus those of six major U.S. trading
partners, neared the lowest level since August 2008 before data
that may show home prices slid for a fifth month. Fed policy
makers, who begin a two-day meeting today, may consider measures
to support the economy as the end of its $600 billion asset-
purchase program approaches in June. The Swiss franc rose
against most major currencies as investors sought havens amid
concern about unrest in Syria and Libya.  “The Federal Reserve is likely to remain cautious and
stress that loose monetary policy will be in place in the
foreseeable future,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The dollar’s
downtrend is firmly entrenched at the moment, and we don’t
expect anything that the Fed says this week will materially
change that dynamic.”  The dollar declined 0.2 percent against the euro to $1.4607
at 7:50 a.m. in  New York , after rising as much as 0.6 percent.
The currency has weakened 3.1 percent against the euro this
month. It depreciated 0.1 percent to 81.72 yen.  The Dollar Index fell 0.1 percent to 73.891, bringing this
month’s decline to 3 percent. It dropped to 73.735 on April 21,
the lowest level since August 2008. The Australian dollar rose
0.3 percent to $1.0753 after declining earlier.  U.S. Housing  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 U.S.
cities for the 12 months through February fell 3.3 percent, the
biggest decline since November 2009, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists. Commerce Department data yesterday showed
that new home purchases rose in March from a record low.  “We expect the Fed will leave its policy rate on hold,”
said Mike Jones, a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington. “Should Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicate
the Fed is in no hurry to start reversing policy accommodation,
further dollar weakness may be on the cards.”  The U.S. central bank will leave its target rate for
overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent at its
two-day meeting starting today, according to another survey. The
Fed may say it plans to complete the purchase of $600 billion of
Treasuries by June.  The Fed’s trade-weighted dollar index fell to a record low
last week. The index, which tracks the dollar versus the
currencies of U.S. trading partners such as  Japan  and the U.K.,
declined as low as 69.0337 on April 21, the data showed.  Risk Appetite  The euro rose against the yen and the dollar as European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  suggested policy
makers stand ready to raise  interest rates  to counter inflation
expectations.  Greece ’s budget deficit fell to 10.5 percent of
gross domestic product from 15.4 percent in 2009. That’s higher
than the previous estimate of 9.4 percent.  “We have risks of second-round effects here and there,”
Trichet said in the transcript of an interview with Finnish
publications Helsingin Sanomat and Kauppalehti that was released
on the ECB’s website today. Second-round effects refer to an
increase in consumer prices prompting bigger wage increases that
then feed through to faster inflation.  The euro rose 3.5 percent this year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which measure the 10 most widely
traded currencies, as global demand for higher-yielding assets
overshadowed the region’s debt crisis. It has trailed only the
Swedish krona and the Norwegian krone.  Aussie, Franc  The Australian dollar climbed against the greenback and the
yen, while the  New Zealand dollar  gained versus most major
currencies on speculation the countries will benefit from global
growth that drives demand for their commodity exports.  “We expect risk appetite to remain well-supported against
the backdrop of global growth, and see any dip in these higher-
yielding currencies as an opportunity to buy,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  The Swiss franc rose against all 16 of its major
counterparts. Data showed the country’s exports rose in the
first quarter, with foreign sales advancing 6.1 percent from the
previous three months, when they fell 0.1 percent.  Switzerland ’s economy is gaining momentum as demand from
 Asia  and the euro area bolsters the Alpine country’s exports,
defying the franc’s 12 percent gain in trade-weighted terms over
the past 12 months.  Syria,  Libya   The Swiss government last month raised its forecast for
2011 export gains to 4.1 percent from 2.6 percent. Nestle SA,
the world’s biggest food maker, on April 15 reported first-
quarter sales growth as the Swiss company pushed through price
increases on bottled water in  Latin America  and Asia.  The franc, perceived as a safe haven, also rose as Syrian
security forces stormed the city of Daraa yesterday as President
Bashar al-Assad seeks to stamp out a six-week uprising. Italy
said it will join in airstrikes on pro-regime Libyan forces that
threaten civilians.  “I’m not saying that the market is risk-averse today, but
people seem to be buying the franc as insurance against what
could go wrong in the Middle East,  Europe  or in the U.S.,” said
 Geoffrey Yu , a currency strategist at UBS AG in  London . “That
perhaps explains its strength.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  