-- ‘Chaplin’ Gets No Laughs; Fugard’s ‘Train Driver’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-09-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/-chaplin-gets-no-laughs-fugard-s-train-driver-review.html
The live action in “Chaplin: The
Musical” begins with Charlie on a tightrope high above a
soundstage.  Below him, a crowd sings “Whatcha gonna do when it all
falls down?”  Subtle, it’s not.  Chaplin’s tale is the stuff of Dickensian melodrama. It
begins in childhood poverty and  London  “variety” shows, moves to
silent-film stardom in Hollywood, marriages to several very
young women and exile in  Switzerland . It concludes -- need I
say “spoiler alert?” -- with his triumphant return to the
Academy Awards in 1972.  That’s also the stuff of this leaden Broadway musical. It
isn’t engaging musically and, worse, it isn’t funny.  The characters include the abandoned mother whose mental
disintegration shadows the lives of Charlie and his loyal
brother, Syd. And, of course, the love of his life, Oona
O’Neill, who becomes at 18 his fourth wife, accepting
disinheritance from her playwright father as the cost of
marrying a man the same age (54) as Eugene.  Recreating the Little Tramp is a dream role for the gifted
clown who can suggest pain and loneliness beneath the baggy
pants and twitchy toothbrush mustache. He was a mime who finally
found his voice with the courageous anti-Hitlerist satire, “ The
Great Dictator .”  Robert Downey Jr. won an Oscar nomination for his portrayal
in Richard Attenborough’s picturesque but uninspired 1992  film 
biography.  Penguin Walk  Much the same can be said for “Chaplin.” Rob McClure nails
the penguin walk, rolled derby, flexible cane and rubber limbs
that made Chaplin funny just standing still. But the show never
catches fire.  There’s a nice scene early on, after Charlie has arrived in
Hollywood to become a member of Mack Sennett’s “Keystone”
company. It’s the moment when inspiration strikes as the scared
young immigrant assembles the elements that will transform him
into the Little Tramp. Sennett (Michael McCormick) barks, “Do
that walk again!”  But “Chaplin” -- whose derivative songs are by Christopher
Curtis, the inert book by Curtis and Broadway veteran Thomas
Meehan -- has little else to recommend it. Curtis’s talents do
not include pastiche; you’d never know the period here extends
from pre-WWI to the 1970s. Nor would you get any understanding
of the crucial role that silence plays in silent movies.  On the other hand, you’ll probably recognize some heavy-
handed nods to “Sunset Boulevard” and “A Chorus Line.”  The monochrome sets (Beowulf Boritt) and costumes (Amy
Clark and the late Martin Pakledinaz) have an Art Nouveau
elegance that’s strikingly illuminated by Ken Billington. But
the director/choreographer Warren Carlyle never electrifies a
show that keeps dragging poor batty Mom (Christiane Noll) out
from the wings as a nagging reproof to Charlie’s success.  Hedda Hopper  The show’s villain (unlike the film’s), is the Hollywood
gossip columnist Hedda Hopper (Jenn Colella, convincingly petty
and vindictive), inflamed by Charlie’s refusal to give her an
interview. Oona is played touchingly by Erin Mackey; Wayne Alan
Wilcox is also sympathetic as Syd.  Act I closes with a chorus line of Tramp impersonators --
tall, short, fat, skinny -- as Charlie looks on. It’s a bad
omen. Like Elvises in Vegas, they’re all good for a laugh. None
gives us the man. It’s an unsingular sensation.  At the Ethel Barrymore Theatre, 243 W. 47th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: *1/2  ‘Train Driver’  The setting of Athol Fugard’s “The Train Driver,” at the
Signature Theatre, is a potter’s field that looks like a
junkyard.  The nameless poor “sleeping,” as the black gravedigger
Simon Hanabe calls it, might have a hubcap for a headstone, or
some other castoff detritus marking their unclaimed remains in
this arid oblivion outside  Port Elizabeth  in  South Africa .  Into this Twilight Zone setting comes Roelf Visagie, an
Afrikaaner undone by a woman who recently threw herself and her
baby in front of his  commuter train  as he watched, helpless to
avert the suicide. He’s come, he explains to Simon, not to pay
his respects, but to curse the woman for ruining his life.  The two men will form an unlikely bond and teach one
another different lessons in forgiveness before the play’s 90
minutes have passed. They are, in their irreconcilable life
experiences, both witnesses to nearly unfathomable despair.  The performances by Leon Addison Brown and Ritchie Coster,
under the playwright’s meticulous direction, more than
compensate for a certain amount of redundancy and even
predictableness in the text.  Brown’s Simon is scared by Roelf’s intrusion; the vibes are
bad and you can see fear written on his weathered face. Coster’s
Roelf is undeterred, certain he has found the right place and
even more certain he’ll find redemption there. His eyes are wild
with bitterness, but not for long. Both men are right; both will
suffer the consequences of their prescience.  Through Sept. 23 at the Pershing Square Signature Center,
480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-244-7529;
 http://www.signaturetheatre.org .
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 