-- L’Oreal Creams Vetted by FDA in Drugs-as-Cosmetics Crackdown
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-11T15:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/l-oreal-creams-vetted-by-fda-in-drugs-as-cosmetics-crackdown.html
L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, is being told by U.S. regulators to tone down
claims on its Lancome anti-aging creams or submit the products
to a drug review process reserved for pharmaceutical companies.  The  Food and Drug Administration  sent a  warning letter 
Sept. 7 to Serge Jureidini, the U.S. president for L’Oreal’s
Lancome unit. The FDA cited some of the company’s night creams,
sunscreens and eye lifters for youthful claims that go beyond
simple beautification and instead offer to alter the body’s
function or structure, making them drugs by regulatory
definition. Lancome has 15 working days to respond to the FDA.  The FDA this year has targeted a growing crop of beauty
treatments that are partly pharmaceutical, such as wrinkle
creams with retinol, saying they may need to be regulated as
drugs. Michael Landa, the director of the agency’s Center for
Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, told a House subcommittee in
March that these so-called cosmeceuticals often try to straddle
the line between being a cosmetic treatment and a drug.  L’Oreal claims its Genifique product “boosts the activity
of genes” and its Absolue Sunscreen “has been shown to improve
the condition around the  stem cells  and stimulate cell
regeneration.” Those claims require the products to go through
the drug review process, according to the FDA letter.  Rebecca Caruso, a spokeswoman for Paris-based L’Oreal,
didn’t immediately return requests for comment.  Regulators suggested the company review its website and
product labels to ensure the claims don’t violate drug rules.  The FDA also sent a warning letter Sept. 7 to Greek Island
Labs, which makes Athena 7 Minute Life, sold as “a safe and
effective alternative to Botox.” Greek Island Labs also sells a
nightly renewal cream meant to help promote collagen development
and products that strengthen hair growth that the agency says
must also bear less drug-like claims or go through a review
process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  