-- ‘Titanic’ Effects Shop Digital Domain Goes Chapter 11
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-09-11T20:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/-titanic-effects-shop-digital-domain-goes-chapter-11.html
Digital Domain Media Group Inc.,
the special-effects company behind the movies “Transformers”
and  James Cameron ’s “Titanic,” filed for  bankruptcy protection 
with plans to sell itself.  The company, with operations in Florida, California,
Canada, India, China and  Abu Dhabi , plans to hold an auction for
most of its assets in which a unit of Searchlight Capital
Partners LP would be the initial, or so-called stalking-horse,
bidder, according to papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Wilmington, Delaware.  “As a result of negative working capital, the company
failed to meet the liquidity covenants and was running out of
cash,” Michael Katzenstein, chief restructuring officer, said
in a court filing. The company defaulted on senior note
payments, he said.  The company, which counted former Miami Dolphins football
star  Dan Marino  among its investors, had assets of $205 million
and debt of $214 million as of June, according to Chapter 11
papers.  Among the largest unsecured creditors listed in Digital
Domain’s petition were Carl Stork, owed $5 million in a
litigation settlement;  Reliance Mediaworks Ltd. (RMW)  of Mumbai, owed
$4.6 million; and Legendary Pictures of Burbank, California,
owed $3 million.  DDMG asked a judge to approve as much as $20 million in
financing to carry it through reorganization.  Breakup Fee  The company is also seeking approval of its agreement to
make the Searchlight unit, VFX Holdings LLC, the stalking-horse
bidder. VFX has offered $15 million for DDMG. Should VFX be
outbid at the proposed auction, it would collect a $375,000
breakup fee, according to court papers.  The company’s debt includes $40 million in secured notes,
$8 million in subordinated notes, $12.5 million in so-called
trade debt owed to suppliers and other vendors and $14.9 million
in other obligations.  A former worker at the company’s  Port St. Lucie , Florida
facility sued Digital Domain today, claiming managers shuttered
the business there without first giving employees a 60-day
notice, as required under federal law.  Julie Miller, a spokeswoman for Digital Domain, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment about the lawsuit.  Digital Domain was co-founded by Cameron and went public in
November, selling 4.92 million  shares  at $8.50 each. The shares
plunged 84 percent today to 8.9 cents in over-the-counter
trading.  In a statement today, the company said it would sell some
assets and filed for Chapter 11 in an effort “to ensure the
long-term future of its core business.”  The Port St. Lucie-based company, with 765 employees, said
it also sought court protection in Canada.  The case is In re  Digital Domain Media Group Inc. (DDMGQ) ,
12-12568, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  