-- Abu Dhabi Stocks Rise on U.A.E. Growth Forecast, Oman Declines
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-09-11T10:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/abu-dhabi-stocks-rise-on-u-a-e-growth-forecast-oman-declines.html
Abu Dhabi ’s shares rose for a fifth
day after the United Arab Emirates central bank said growth in
non-oil industries may accelerate to 4 percent this year,
boosting the outlook for company earnings.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB) , the U.A.E.’s second-biggest
Shariah-compliant bank, advanced for a fourth day.  First Gulf
Bank PJSC (FGB) , the lender controlled by Abu Dhabi’s ruling family,
climbed to the highest since Aug. 27. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.2 percent to 2,596.73, the highest since Aug. 26,
at the close in the emirate. The measure gained 1.7 percent
during the five-day rally. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  and Qatar’s
gauge were little changed, while Oman’s index fell 0.7 percent.  The central bank gave its forecast in a report on its
website yesterday. The country, looking to reduce its reliance
on oil exports, wants to boost non-oil exports to 11 percent of
GDP by 2030 from 1 percent now, the National reported this week,
citing the director of foreign trade and exports at the Abu
Dhabi Department of  Economic Development . The IMF forecasts non-
oil industry growth of 3.5 percent, up from 2.7 percent in 2011.  “The central bank projections are higher than
International Monetary Fund estimates, and there is positive
sentiment toward corporate earnings in the third quarter,” said
Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.
“The push to implement Basel III next year” also helped push
stocks up, Farhat said.  The central bank said it would seek to protect the banking
system from future shocks by installing a discount window to
improve “liquidity management” within the U.A.E. and support
the development of collateralized debt markets.  Abu Dhabi Islamic climbed 0.9 percent to 3.28 dirhams, the
highest since Aug. 26. First Gulf Bank increased 0.2 percent to
9.84 dirhams.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  increased 0.1 percent at 1:09
p.m. in  Riyadh  and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained
0.2 percent. Kuwait’s  measure  and Bahrain’s  gauge  fell 0.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  