-- Agrokor Eyes Mercator as Croatia Nears EU, Analysts Say
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-09-11T11:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/agrokor-eyes-mercator-as-croatia-nears-eu-analysts-say.html
Agrokor d.d.,  Croatia ’s largest
company, may revive plans to buy  Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d. 
to expand in two European Union countries and the rest of the
Balkans, Abanka Vipa d.d. and Alta Invest d.d. analysts said.  Zagreb-based Agrokor, which owns Croatian retailer Konzum
d.d. and ice-cream maker Ledo d.d., abandoned its bid in
February after delays and opposition from Slovenian officials.
Two banks involved in the process,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI) , withdrew their support for the takeover,
Finance newspaper said yesterday without saying where it got the
information.  Agrokor may still look to Mercator to expand its Balkan
business as the retail industry consolidates following the
takeover by  Delhaize Group SA (DELB)  of  Serbia ’s Delta Maxi last year,
analysts said. Croatia is set to join the EU in 2013, giving the
27-nation bloc deeper reach in the Balkan region after
Slovenia’s entry in 2004.  “I believe Agrokor is still very interested in Mercator,
especially now that Croatia’s EU membership is approaching as it
would have a dominant position at home, in Slovenia and a big
market chunk in Serbia,” Radivoj Pregelj, an Abanka Vipa
analyst, said in a phone interview in Ljubljana. “Some banks
may have pulled out because Agrokor earnings are worsening, but
I believe it’s still in the game.”  Agrokor offered 221 euros per  Mercator (MELR)  share when it made a
non-binding bid last year, valuing the retailer at 832 million
euros ($1.1 billion).  Banking Concerns  A majority of Mercator was offered for sale by Slovenian
investors, including banks Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  at a time when concern rose that
Slovenia may be forced to ask for international assistance to
prop up its financial industry.  Mercator, the largest retailer in the Balkans, dropped 0.9
percent to 111.50 euros at 12:45 p.m. in Ljubljana, valuing the
company at 420 million euros. Agrokor isn’t listed on any stock
exchange.  The Slovenian company reported a 16.5 million-euro loss in
the first half of the year as the recession and government
austerity measures pushed up the jobless rate and eroded
 consumer spending .  “Agrokor is still eying Mercator, mainly to cement its
dominant position on the Croatian market,” Saso Stanovnik, head
of research at Ljubljana-based Alta Invest, said in an e-mail.
“That’s why it was so persistent in the past, but now it seems
difficult the sale would go through at a much lower price.”  Agrokor’s revenue fell 0.5 percent to 7.46 billion kuna
($1.28 billion) in the second quarter from the previous three
months. Net debt rose 9.6 percent to 10.71 billion kuna from a
year earlier, according to a report by Jyske Bank in Denmark.  Agrokor declined to comment on efforts to renew the bid.
 Zagrebacka Banka d.d. , the Croatian unit of UniCredit, and
Raiffeisen in Vienna also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  