-- Thai Bev Says “Party Acting in Concert” Exploring F&N Bid
-- B y   L i n u s   C h u a
-- 2012-09-11T10:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/thai-bev-says-party-acting-in-concert-exploring-f-n-bid.html
Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV)  said it’s
cooperating with an entity that may bid for  Fraser & Neave (FNH)  Ltd.,
potentially creating a hurdle in  Heineken NV’s (HEIA)  plan to take over
an Asian brewer. F&N rose to the highest since at least 1984.  “A party acting in concert” with the Thai brewer is
exploring the possibility of an offer for F&N, said Thai
Beverage, controlled by billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi,
in a statement to Singapore’s stock exchange today.  Heineken will need approval from F&N shareholders for its
S$5.4 billion ($4.4 billion) offer for the Singapore-based
company’s 40 percent stake in Tiger beer maker  Asia Pacific
Breweries Ltd. (APB)  this month. ThaiBev already has a 29 percent
 stake  in F&N, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and any
controlling shareholders would be able to influence the deal.
After selling the brewing stake, F&N will still own businesses
ranging from soft drinks to serviced apartment buildings.  The potential bidder is probably one of Charoen’s
companies, said Goh Han Peng, analyst at DMG & Partners Research
Pte in Singapore. Goh said it could also be a brewer or
developer interested in F&N’s real estate operations.  “Anything close to a 50 percent stake would allow them to
block Heineken,” he said.  Fraser & Neave shares rose 1.3 percent to S$8.66 at the
close in Singapore, the highest since at least January 1984.
Vichate Tantiwanich, a spokesman for ThaiBev, in a text message
in response to questions declined to name the party the company
is working with.  Shareholder Meeting  “We have noted ThaiBev’s statement,” said Heineken
spokesman  John Clarke  in an e-mailed statement. “Heineken is
not in a position to comment on what they may or may not do in
the future.”  The brewer’s “focus” remains on the Sept. 28
F&N meeting when shareholders will vote on the APB deal, he
said. Heineken shares fell 0.2 percent to 43.245 euros as of
12:19 p.m. in Amsterdam trading today, set for the lowest in
more than three weeks.  Fraser & Neave got about 30 percent of its 2011 revenue of
S$6.3 billion from its property division, about 12 percent from
soft drinks and 17 percent from dairies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Charoen’s unlisted business TCC Group has
a real estate arm and Thai Beverage sells non-alcoholic drinks
in addition to beer and spirits.  “There is no certainty that an offer for F&N will
materialize,” ThaiBev said in its statement. The brewer said
it’s not seeking funding for a general offer for F&N, and it’s
instead getting refinancing proposals for a loan taken to
finance an earlier investment in the  Singapore  company.  Seeking Control  Heineken, the world’s third-biggest brewer, in August
raised its offer for a controlling stake in APB to S$53 a share
from S$50. The Dutch brewer has sought full control of APB as it
attempts to protect its hold over a key emerging-markets
business and as brewing assets in high-growth economies are in
short supply after a decade of consolidation in the industry.  Kindest Place Groups Ltd., controlled by Charoen’s son-in-
law, has an 8.6 percent stake in APB, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  APB, set up in 1931 as a joint venture between F&N and
Heineken, has rights to brew Bintang beer in  Indonesia , Anchor
in  China ,  Southeast Asia  and  Sri Lanka , and Heineken from China
to  New Zealand .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linus Chua in Singapore at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  