-- AIG Nears End to Pay Limits It Faulted as CEO Repays U.S.
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-09-11T21:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/aig-nears-end-to-pay-limits-it-faulted-as-ceo-repays-u-s-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that bristled at U.S. pay curbs, is nearing an end
to Treasury Department compensation limits as Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche  winds down a taxpayer bailout.  The U.S.  stake  fell to about 16 percent from 53 percent in
the largest sale of the insurer’s stock, the Treasury said
today. The department said it will raise $20.7 billion in the
sale after underwriters bought additional shares, with AIG
repurchasing $5 billion. Treasury can  restrict pay  for top
managers until the U.S. sells its final AIG share, said  Matt Anderson , a department spokesman.  Pay restrictions limit AIG’s ability to “attract talent
and retain and motivate our highest performing employees,” New
York-based AIG said in its annual report.  Kenneth Feinberg , who
oversaw pay at seven bailout recipients for Treasury, told the
special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program
that “80 percent of his headaches came from AIG” in 2009,
according to a  report  from the watchdog in January.  “As AIG repays its TARP support and removes itself from
the government dole, we should expect them to return to private-
sector normalcy in all corporate policy choices, including
executive compensation,” Andrew Karolyi, a professor of finance
at  Cornell University , wrote in an e-mail. “They want it to
become competitive again, the Treasury absolutely craves it, and
the investing public is ready for it.”  Jim Ankner, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment.  Buybacks, Dividends  AIG has finished buying back shares for now and may pay a
dividend, Benmosche said in an interview on CNBC. He said
Treasury may sell additional AIG shares into the open market,
rather than via offerings.  “We expect that once the Treasury is sold out, hopefully
by mid-year next year, we’re then in a position to be able to
pay a dividend,” Benmosche said on CNBC. “I believe,
strategically, we should have a dividend on that stock.”  Benmosche, 68, received about $14 million in total
compensation last year, including a $3 million salary and $10.9
million in stock awards, according to a regulatory filing. Jay Fishman, the CEO of Travelers Cos., the only insurer in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average , received $16.5 million. John Strangfeld, CEO of Prudential Financial Inc., the no. 2 U.S.
life insurer, got $23.7 million.  ‘Sets the Tone’  “If you want me, you can have me, but you’ve got to pay.
And you have to pay a lot, not because I need the money,”
Benmosche told AIG employees in 2009. “But the money is about
what I am worth, and what my job is worth to be your leader. And
that sets the tone for all of you in this room.”  The U.S. compensation limits made “little business
sense,”  Harvey Golub  said in a 2010 letter when he was AIG
chairman.  “In some cases, we are prevented from providing market
competitive compensation to retain some of our own most
experienced and best executives,” Golub wrote in the  letter to
shareholders . “This hurts the business and makes it harder to
repay the taxpayers.”  AIG has said the  Federal Reserve  will become its regulator
after the Treasury’s stake falls below 50 percent. Benmosche
said the insurer welcome U.S. oversight.  “We want our clients, for sure, to know that we’re
regulated, and when we make promises, somebody is watching over
our shoulder to make sure we don’t do what we did before and
cause these problems.”  Volcker Rule  He said AIG will probably close or sell its bank to limit
the effects of the Volcker rule, which would limit proprietary
trading and investing in private equity or hedge funds. Last
month, he said AIG was considering whether to shut the lender.  “The Volcker rule as a rule doesn’t really work for
insurance companies as it works for banks,” he said today.  Wall Street firms’ soaring pay over the last three decades
incentivized traders to disregard risk and limited regulators’
ability to lure talent to police banks, the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission wrote in a 545-page book published last year.
Feinberg said pay limits didn’t put AIG at a competitive
disadvantage.  “I don’t think they were hurt at all,” Feinberg said in a
phone interview today. “Witness the fact that they’re thriving
and repaying the taxpayer.”  Benmosche is seeking an initial public offering of AIG’s
aircraft-leasing unit and is working to sell AIG’s remaining
stake in Hong Kong-based insurer  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)   The U.S. has recovered its full $182.3 billion commitment
to AIG under the bailout after Treasury’s latest sale with a
profit. The profit includes results from the Federal Reserve
portion of the rescue, such as a  credit line  and the purchase of
mortgage-linked securities.  U.S. Profit  Treasury has exceeded its break-even cost of about $28.73
in each of five  share sales , with the stock priced at $32.50 in
the latest offering. There is a 60-day lockup until the next
offering is permitted.  Fitch Ratings  increased its issuer default rating on AIG
one level to BBB+, citing “significant progress in deleveraging
the organization.” AIG gained 15 cents to $33.45 today. The
shares have advanced about 44 percent this year.  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, was bailed out in
2008 amid a worldwide credit crunch. The rescue was among
measures the U.S. government and central bank undertook to
thwart the deepest financial crisis since the Great Depression.
As much as $12.8 trillion was spent, lent or committed to
bolster financial firms and automakers.  Ally, GM  Along with AIG, Ally Financial Inc. and General Motors Co.
are still part-owned by the U.S. and subject to pay curbs.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are among companies no
longer subject to the restrictions after paying back bailout
funds.  “It’s clear that the government won’t lose money on AIG,
whereas that was viewed as a certainty just two years ago,”
 Gary Townsend , head of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, wrote in an e-
mail. “TARP was our government operating at its best. The
subsequent involvement in the minutia of companies’ compensation
practices was  government regulation  at its worst.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  