-- Akin Says National Money Will Flow to Race After Deadline
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/akin-says-national-money-will-flow-to-race-after-deadline.html
Missouri Republican Todd Akin said
he isn’t dropping out of his U.S. Senate race, anticipating
money from party supporters may start flowing his way once a
Sept. 25 deadline passes for him to petition the state’s courts
to remove his name from the ballot.  Back on  Capitol Hill  for the first time since he said in an
Aug. 19 television interview that “legitimate rape” rarely
results in pregnancy, Akin told reporters yesterday that
national Republican groups may reconsider and back his bid to
unseat Democrat  Claire McCaskill .  “I would expect, if that’s going to happen, you’ll see it
after about the 25th,” Akin, a Missouri congressman, said after
leaving the House floor, where he chatted with a number of
fellow Republican lawmakers.  Akin vowed he is staying in the race, resisting pressure
from party leaders, including presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ,
who called Akin’s remarks about rape “outrageous.”  “I’m not getting out,” Akin said. “Our polling data and
everything says we’re going to win this race. That’s the plan
and that’s what we’re focused on.”  Following Akin’s comments, Crossroads GPS, a nonprofit
group that former George W. Bush political adviser  Karl Rove 
helped create, announced it was pulling out of the state,
canceling millions of dollars in planned advertisements. The
 National Republican Senatorial Committee  said it won’t spend
money on the race so long as Akin is the nominee.  Rove Joke  Speaking at an Aug. 30 donor breakfast at the  Republican
National Convention  in Tampa, Rove joked that Akin might be
“found mysteriously murdered.” Rove later called Akin and
apologized.  Akin, who beat St. Louis businessman John Brunner and
former State Treasurer Sarah Steelman in an Aug. 7 primary, said
he had been hearing from “people all over the state” who were
urging him not to let “party bosses” thwart the will of the
people.  “You stay there and you fight, that’s what I am getting
from all over the state,” Akin said.  Under Missouri law, candidates have until Sept. 25 to leave
a race with a judge’s permission. Akin had until Aug. 21 to
withdraw from the race without a court order.  Republicans have been counting on McCaskill’s seat as one
of four they must pick up to ensure they win control of the
Senate in the Nov. 6 election. Following Akin’s comments,
McCaskill has led Akin in a pair of statewide polls, unlike
earlier in the year when she consistently trailed him, although
usually by a slimmer margin than the two other potential
Republican opponents.  ‘Six-Second Mistake’  A St. Louis Post-Dispatch/Mason-Dixon poll conducted Aug.
22-23 showed McCaskill with a nine-percentage-point lead, and a
Public Policy Polling survey conducted Aug. 28-29 showed the
race essentially tied, with Akin trailing McCaskill by one
percentage point.  Akin has apologized for his remarks, saying he misspoke.
His campaign ran an ad Aug. 29 in which Akin contrasts what he
described as a “six-second mistake” with McCaskill’s “six-
year record” of supporting President  Barack Obama ’s policies.  Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican who
talked with Akin for more than 10 minutes tonight on the House
floor, said the two discussed college football as well as Akin’s
Senate bid. Kingston defended Akin’s decision to stay in the
race.  “I’ve been here 20 years and I’ve seen lots of members
have the feeding frenzy turn on them,” Kingston said. “You
ought to be able to make a mistake -- particularly in your
rhetoric where you quickly are the first one to apologize for it
as he was, then, that should not define you and that should not
be unforgivable whether you are Democrat or Republican.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  