-- Talisman CEO Switch Speeds Up Sale Speculation
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-11T20:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/talisman-ceo-switch-speeds-up-sale-speculation-corporate-canada.html
The appointment of Hal Kvisle as
chief executive officer of  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  signals sales of
assets or even the whole company to an Asian buyer after its
shares declined twice as much as  Canada ’s benchmark index in the
past five years.  Kvisle, who spent more than a decade turning  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  into one of Canada’s largest companies, takes over from
John Manzoni, who was ousted yesterday as head of the country’s
seventh-biggest oil and gas producer by market value.  The management change may ready Calgary-based Talisman for
a sale, said  John Stephenson , senior vice president and
portfolio manager at Toronto-based First Asset Investment
Management Inc., who manages C$2.7 billion ($2.8 billion),
including Talisman shares.  “It clears the way, because what I think it really signals
is a focus on operations,” said Stephenson, who said Talisman
is the “next likely big candidate” to be bought by an Asian
energy company. Talisman shares are “cheap” and its assets are
“not core” to Canada’s capital markets, which would make
takeover approval easier to win from the federal government, he
said.  The CEO shift comes less than two months after  China ’s
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  agreed to pay $15.1 billion for  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , a
Calgary-based oil and gas producer with a similar portfolio of
assets. Talisman, which had  four quarters  of net losses since
2007 when Manzoni, 52, took over, produces or explores for
fossil fuels in  North America ,  Colombia , Poland and Kurdistan.
Talisman also has a Chinese connection after agreeing in July to
sell a stake in its U.K. unit to China Petrochemical Corp.  Review Sales  Talisman will evaluate more asset sales and joint ventures,
the new CEO said yesterday in an interview. Kvisle, 59, wouldn’t
rule out selling the entire company, adding that it isn’t an
option now being considered.  “I am not looking at external opportunities, the board is
not looking at them, all of our focus right now is on making
Talisman a better performer by rationalizing assets and playing
more to the strengths of the organization,” he said.  Talisman fell 0.9 percent to C$13.97 at the close in
Toronto and has increased 7.6 percent this year. The shares have
benefited in part from speculation about a sale following
Cnooc’s bid for Nexen, Stephenson said.  The gain this year contrasts with the 1 percent decline for
the  S&P/TSX Energy Index. (STENRS)  Since September 2007, Talisman has
fallen 23 percent, compared with a 14 percent decline in the
energy index and an 11 percent drop for Canada’s benchmark
gauge. Talisman has a market value of C$14.4 billion.  Talisman Value  The cost for shareholders to own Talisman’s reserves of oil
and gas is less than an investment in  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,
Imperial Oil Ltd. and smaller competitors including Crescent
Point Energy Corp. and Athabasca Oil Corp., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Talisman’s price to reserves, or the
current share price as a multiple of oil and gas reserves, was
12.17 in the most recent period, compared with 12.66 at Suncor.  Like Nexen, Talisman produces a majority of its oil and gas
outside Canada and has been plagued by a slumping share price.
Former Nexen CEO Marvin Romanow stepped down in January amid
missed production targets, paving the way for a takeover under
the leadership of interim CEO Kevin Reinhart.  Canada has become a fertile area for Chinese oil producers
seeking to add oil and gas reserves to meet demand in the
world’s largest energy-consuming country. After Cnooc’s Nexen
bid, Chinese companies will have spent almost $50 billion on
buying Canadian fields and oil companies, according to Bloomberg
data.  Manzoni Deals  During his five years at Talisman, Manzoni made 28
transactions to sell assets including a 49 percent stake in its
U.K. unit to China Petrochemical, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. He also made eight acquisitions valued at $3.98
billion, buying operations or assets in  Papua New Guinea  and the
Eagle Ford shale region in  Texas .  “Regardless of whether Talisman is open to a corporate
sale, they will likely still first continue the short-term focus
of rationalizing assets, which should be positive for the
stock,” Andrew Potter, a Calgary-based analyst at  CIBC World
Markets , said in a note to investors. “If this process does not
yield significant value to shareholders, this could lead to the
company pursuing more portfolio shifts or an outright sale.”  Investor Criticism  Manzoni was brought in to create a “strategic focus” at
Talisman and a year later targeted the  North Sea , Southeast  Asia 
and North America, Stephenson said. Investor criticism followed
Manzoni’s subsequent moves into natural gas, unconventional gas
and operations in Kurdistan and Colombia, he said.  “He essentially flip-flopped on what he was trying to do
with the company, so people started to get irritated,”
Stephenson said. Weak gas prices, buying into shale gas assets
in  Quebec  ahead of the government’s moratorium on drilling and
outages and production declines in the North Sea made matters
worse for Manzoni, he said.  Talisman is looking to Asia for growth and is in
discussions about converting its 144,000 net acres in British
Columbia’s Montney shale to liquefied natural gas and benefiting
from the price differential between Asia and North America for
the fuel, Manzoni said on Aug. 1. Talisman joins companies
including Imperial Oil and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in considering
exports of the heating fuel to Asia, where demand is growing.  ‘Shale Gale’  Low North American gas prices are prompting companies to
seek new markets. Asian buyers are paying premiums of seven
times U.S. prices, which hit a 10-year low in April on higher
production, as new technologies allow companies to unlock
reserves from shale areas across the continent.  Manzoni is one of the “brightest, hardest working” oil
executives, Adam Waterous, vice chairman and head of global
 investment banking  at Scotiabank, said in a phone interview.  “But even Superman can’t fly through the shale gale. Low
gas prices have been very tough,” Waterous said.  “One of Talisman’s essential challenges is understanding
how to play the North American gas market,” said Waterous, who
called Kvisle one of the most informed about gas markets in the
industry.  The company boosted production 4 percent in the second
quarter to the equivalent of 435,000 barrels of oil a day, the
company said. Output rose from Talisman’s North American shale
gas and Southeast Asian operations.  While Manzoni sold assets and bought others, he didn’t
manage to turn that into share price gains, said Norman Levine,
managing director at Portfolio Management Corp. in Toronto.  “This has been a value trap,” Levine, who helps oversee
about C$300 million, including Talisman shares, said in an
interview yesterday. “We want to get our money back and get the
value from the shares.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  