-- Amtrak Should Exit Commuter-Rail Business, Mica Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-09-11T16:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/amtrak-should-exit-commuter-rail-business-mica-says.html
Amtrak , the U.S. long-distance
passenger railroad, shouldn’t be in the business of operating
commuter railroads under contract because it’s a bad deal for
taxpayers, the top House Republican overseeing transportation
said.  Amtrak , which receives taxpayer support, costs 11.5 percent
more than private-sector commuter rail operators, Representative
 John Mica , chairman of the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee, said in a  report  panel Republicans
released today.  “Amtrak should not be in the commuter-rail business at
all,” Mica, from  Florida , said today at a hearing in
Washington. “There are plenty of private-sector providers who
can provide this service and provide it at lower costs.”  Amtrak operates commuter service for three providers -- in
 Maryland ,  Connecticut  and California -- and provides other
services, such as maintenance, for operators, Amtrak Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Boardman said in his prepared
testimony.  “It is very sad that we are wasting the committee’s time
micromanaging Amtrak,” said Florida Representative Corrine Brown, the top Democrat on the House rail subcommittee, saying
there are more important transportation concerns on the 11th
anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the U.S.  Competitive Bidding  Amtrak bids for commuter-rail operations in addition to the
monopoly it has on long-distance intercity service. Mica’s
report says Amtrak tries to “stifle competition,” citing a
lawsuit contesting a contract to operate commuter rail in his
home state. The report says Amtrak shouldn’t use U.S. funds for
lawsuits related to competitive bidding.  Amtrak said Veolia Transportation, a unit of Paris-based
 Veolia Environnement (VIE) , illegally approached Amtrak employees when
it submitted the bid it won to operate passenger rail service
for Tri-Rail in south Florida.  Mica released a report last month saying Amtrak lost $84.5
million selling food and beverages last year and $833.8 million
over 10 years. According to the report, cans of soda that cost
taxpayers $3.40 were sold by Amtrak on its trains for $2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  