-- Andy Murray’s Breakthrough Costs U.K. Bookmakers $1.6 Million
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-09-11T13:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/andy-murray-s-breakthrough-costs-u-k-bookmakers-1-6-million.html
Andy Murray’s breakthrough Grand
Slam tennis title at the U.S. Open has proved costly for U.K.
bookmakers.  Murray yesterday ended a 76-year Grand Slam drought for
British men when he beat Novak Djokovic in the finals in  New
York . His 7-6 (12-10), 7-5, 2-6, 3-6, 6-2 defeat of the
defending champion from Serbia yesterday was his first major
final after four previous losses. Murray had won gold at the
London Olympics last month, beating 17-time major champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland.  U.K. bookmakers paid out one million pounds ($1.6 million)
in total on Murray winning the year’s final major at Flushing
Meadows, according to estimates by British online sports betting
website Coral and William Hill Plc, the UK’s largest bookmaker
with 2,370 licensed betting offices.  “We took quite a hit,” William Hill spokesman Joe Crilly
said in an interview. “Every time he makes it through to a
final, and every time a grand slam comes around, he is the best-
backed tennis player. We’ve made a lot of money on the back of
Murray, and we’re certainly not going to begrudge him finally
winning a Grand Slam.”  William Hill paid out about 250,000 pounds, its biggest
ever sum on an individual winning the  U.S. Open , Crilly said.
The bookmaker had offered odds of 5-1 on the 25-year-old from
Dunblane,  Scotland  winning before the start of the tournament,
meaning a $1 bet would yield $5 plus the original stake.  “Punters correctly predicted that winning Olympic gold
would be the catalyst that launched Andy Murray to a first major
victory, and so it proved,” Coral spokesman  David Stevens  said
in an e-mailed statement. “Although bookmakers have been hit
with a 1 million pound hammering, having avoided it for 76
years, we’ll happily pay out with a smile.”  Betting on Murray in Britain is what Crilly called “a
patriotic punt,” similar to  England  playing in soccer’s  World
Cup . “Every year, it’s like a fixture. When Wimbledon comes
around,  Andy Murray  is going to be backed almost twice as much
as the next person.”  William Hill are now offering odds of 150-1 on Murray
sweeping all four grand slam titles next year, while he’s even
money to win at least one more grand slam. He’s 5-2 to win
another four majors in the next four years.  “Now that he’s finally got the monkey off his back, he’ll
go on and win quite a few now,” Crilly said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  