-- AngloGold’s Cutifani Sees South Africa Solution in Months
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-09-11T21:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/anglogold-s-cutifani-sees-south-africa-solution-in-months.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said he expects a solution in
the next couple of months to mine labor unrest in  South Africa 
that has resulted in the death of 44 people.  While a resolution is “hard to see” at the moment, “we
will find a solution in the next month or two, we’ll come
together and redefine a pathway that seeks to answer the right
issues,” said Cutifani, who also serves as vice president of
South Africa’s  Chamber of Mines , a group that negotiates wages
on behalf of gold and coal companies. Cutifani spoke in an
interview yesterday in Denver, where he’s attending the Denver
Gold Forum.  Mediators yesterday failed to persuade  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  workers
to return to their jobs as a strike at the Marikana mine entered
its second month. Forty-four people have been killed at the site
in the deadliest mine violence since the end of apartheid.
Striking workers are seeking higher wages at the mine, which
accounts for about 10 percent of global platinum production.  Employees of Gold Fields Ltd. and Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. have also demanded higher pay in South Africa.  AngloGold Ashanti , the third-biggest producer of the metal,
has six deep-level mines and employed 32,082 people in South
Africa last year, according to the Johannesburg-based company’s
website. Barrick Gold Corp. and Newmont Mining Corp. are the two
largest producers ranked by 2010 production.  “We’ve all got to work harder on the social issues;
connecting and communicating better with the workforce is
important,” Cutifani said. “The union has to also have a look
in the mirror and think about its processes to improve the way
it’s connecting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Denver at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  