-- Angola’s Opposition Unita Takes Seats and Vows to Challenge Vote
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-09-11T10:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/angola-s-opposition-unita-takes-seats-and-vows-to-challenge-vote.html
The main opposition party in
 Angola , Africa’s second-largest oil producer, said it will
accept the seats it won in the Aug. 31 legislative vote and will
challenge the results in court and sue electoral officials for
misconduct.  The National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, a
former rebel group that laid down its arms in 2002 after a 27-
year war, says it should have more than the 32 seats in
Parliament that official results show. The governing Popular
Movement for the Liberation of Angola captured 175 of 220 seats
and the right to extend President Jose Eduardo  dos Santos ’s 33-
year rule by five years.  “Unita will take its space in the state’s institution
where it will continue to defend the rule of law and consolidate
democracy in Angola,” party leader Isaias Samakuva said in an
e-mailed statement late yesterday from Luanda, the capital.  The MPLA’s more than two-thirds majority gives it the
ability to change the constitution and to install Dos Santos,
70, and Manuel Domingos Vicente, former chairman of the national
oil company Sonangol EP, as vice president.  The southwest African country pumps about 1.8 million
barrels a day from offshore wells, second on the continent to
 Nigeria . Operations by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/) 
and  Total SA (FP)  supplied 2.9 percent of U.S. imported oil in May
and 16 percent of China’s as of July, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Selective Exclusion  The Unita has lodged a complaint with the election
commission that more than 35 percent of voters were
“selectively excluded” from casting ballots by transferring
their registrations to polls far from their home areas. The
party also alleged uneven access to media and lack of
accreditation for international and party election monitors.  Absenteeism was about 37 percent, according to the election
commission, compared with almost 13 percent stayed away four
years ago.  The commission’s mandate allows it to hear complaints about
the election, and parties can escalate the process by filing
formal disputes with the  Constitutional Court .  Unita said it’s waiting for the commission’s response
before proceeding to challenge the voting results in court. The
party will also file a lawsuit against the commission because
the violations are “so grave,” it said.  “Any legal challenge will likely be a long drawn-out
affair and may fizzle-out as the MPLA get on with running the
country,” Markus Weimer, an analyst at  Chatham House  in London,
wrote in  a note  last week.  Casa-Ce, a party that won 8 seats under a former Unita
leader, Abel Chivukuvuku, has requested the commission to
explain “discrepancies” between the commission’s announced
results and a count conducted by the party using election poll
documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda via 
 cmendes6@blommerg.net 
Colin McClelland in Luanda via 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  