-- Manpower Says Canada Hiring Plans Lowest Since 2010
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/manpower-says-canada-hiring-plans-lowest-since-2010.html
Canadian-employer hiring plans fell
for a third straight quarter to the lowest in more than two
years, according to a survey by  Manpower Inc. (MAN)   The share of companies planning to hire between October and
December exceeded those forecasting cutbacks by 10 percentage
points after adjusting for seasonal variations, the Milwaukee-
based employment-services firm said in a statement. The so-
called net employment figure was the lowest since the reading of
7 for the second quarter of 2010.  Statistics Canada  said last week the nation’s unemployment
rate remained at 7.3 percent in August after employers added
34,300 positions. The rate will hold steady for the rest of this
year before falling to 7.2 percent in 2013, according to the
median of 15 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Most of the new jobs created in  Canada  this year have
been  full-time , high paying positions,” while the job weakness
has been in  part-time  positions, Byrne Luft, a staffing services
executive at Manpower Canada in Toronto, said in a statement.
“This movement from part-time to full-time employment is an
encouraging sign.”  The Manpower report showed non-durable manufacturing had
the lowest seasonally-adjusted net employment outlook at 5
percentage points in the fourth quarter, and education the
second-lowest with a reading of 6.  The  mining industry  showed the most optimistic hiring
plans, with a net employment outlook of 18, followed by
transportation and public utilities at 15.  The survey of 1,900 Canadian employers found 16 percent
intended to hire and 7 percent anticipated reductions, giving a
net outlook of 9 before seasonal adjustment. The results are
accurate within 2.2 percentage points, Manpower said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  