-- Apache May Be First on Canada LNG, British Columbia Premier Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-11T19:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/apache-may-be-first-on-canada-lng-british-columbia-premier-says.html
A group led by  Apache Corp. (APA)  may
beat rivals including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to become the first
to export liquefied natural gas from Canada’s Pacific Coast,
British Columbia Premier Christy Clark said.  “We will have three LNG plants up and running by 2020, the
first by 2016,” Clark said in an interview yesterday in
Tianjin, China, where she’s attending the  World Economic Forum .
“Apache, Encana, their project will probably be first to go.”  The Apache-led Kitimat LNG, a $15 billion venture with
 Encana Corp. (ECA)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , is among four groups
working to liquefy gas and ship it to Asia, allowing Canada to
diversify from the North American market, where gas prices have
fallen to 10-year lows this year because of rising output.  Canada’s LNG shipments may rise to 4 trillion cubic feet a
year by 2020, putting the country among the top five exporters
in the world, Clark said.  “We are moving at lightning speed to try to enable this,”
she said. “We need to be in the exports market sooner rather
than later to lock up those contracts.”  Clark is on her second trip to China since November and is
traveling to Beijing today. Interest in China is “very, very
big,” she said.  State-owned  PetroChina Co. (857) , China’s biggest oil and gas
producer, is partnering with Shell,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  Korea
Gas Corp. (036460)  for their LNG project in British Columbia. Other
groups include those led by the U.K.’s  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and Haisla
Nation, an aboriginal group centered in Kitimat.  “Currently, we are captive to the North American market,”
Clark said. “If we have potential customers in Korea, Japan,
China, India, we’ll be looking at a better price.”  Low Prices  Gas futures in New York fell to the lowest in more than 10
years in April. Contracts for gas delivery in October jumped 6.5
percent to $2.995 per million British thermal units at 1:44 p.m.
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  “The differential between Asia and North American prices
is going to remain very large,” Clark said. “Whether or not
the price comes down, it’s still going to be a good deal for us
and for investors to move it offshore.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  