-- Apache Plugs Kenyan Well in Absence of Commercial Oil or Gas
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-09-11T16:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/apache-plugs-kenyan-well-in-absence-of-commercial-oil-or-gas.html
Apache Corp. (APA) , the third-largest
U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market value,
said it will plug a Kenyan exploration well after failing to
find commercial quantities of crude or natural gas.  Apache will examine the drilling results and keep open the
option of re-entering the Mbawa-1 well in future if necessary,
said Tim Gilblom, managing director of the company’s Kenyan
unit. Apache may drill one more exploration well in Block L8 as
soon as next year.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and  Pancontinental  Oil & Gas NL, Apache’s
partners in the well, yesterday said they found Kenya’s first
offshore gas. The well has been deepened and a secondary target
didn’t contain hydrocarbons, London-based Tullow said today in a
statement.  “The total amount of gas that has been found is not
sufficient in isolation to be seen to be commercial,” Energy
Minister Kiraitu Murungi told reporters today in Nairobi, the
capital. “The results give us encouragement that the next well
to be drilled in the block will likely result in a bigger
discovery because of the geological information being gathered
from this well.”  Tullow fell 2.1 percent to 1,357 pence in  London . It was
the stock’s biggest one-day decline since Aug. 2.  The partners found 52 meters (171 feet) of gas at Mbawa-1
well, located 70 kilometers (44 miles) from the coastal town of
Malindi. Drilling at two deeper secondary targets didn’t
indicate any hydrocarbons and the well will be plugged, Murungi
said.  “We were drilling for oil,” Gilblom also told reporters
in the capital. “We’re not there yet, but we’ve learned quite a
great deal from the well.”  First Find  Tullow, along with partner  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI) , made Kenya’s
first inland oil find in northwestern Turkana in March. That
discovery, along with the start of crude production in  Uganda 
this year and natural gas discoveries off the coast of Tanzania
and Mozambique, has boosted competition among explorers seeking
to secure acreage and advance drilling programs in  East Africa .  “This well shows there is a working petroleum system and
above all that the source rock is present in Kenya’s offshore,”
said Murungi.  Houston, Texas-based Apache, the operator, has a 50 percent
interest in Block L8. Australia-based  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  holds
20 percent, while Tullow, based in London, and  Australia ’s
Pancontinental each hold a 15 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  