-- Apple, Samsung, Reddit, DirecTV: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-11T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/apple-samsung-reddit-directv-intellectual-property.html
If  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent litigation
is the “thermonuclear war” over smartphone technology and
design that co-founder  Steve Jobs  pledged to his biographer,
Noreen Krall is its field marshal.  Krall has become a familiar sight in courtrooms around the
world as Apple’s chief litigation counsel. Her greatest victory
came Aug. 24, when a California jury ordered Samsung Electronics
Co., the biggest smartphone maker, to pay Apple more than $1
billion for infringing patents related to the iPhone.  “There is no historical precedent for what Noreen Krall is
doing,” said John Thorne, who ran Verizon Communications Inc.’s
intellectual-property team before joining Kellogg Huber in
Washington this year. “Good generalship produces results like
Noreen has gotten. She’s mastering big decisions, like which law
firms to hire, how to manage resources, how much of  Tim Cook ’s
time to take.”  Krall, 47, and her boss, General Counsel Bruce Sewell, have
amassed a team of lawyers from inside Apple and some of the top
U.S. law firms to fight Samsung,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Google’s Motorola
Mobility unit over Google’s Android mobile operating system and
the smartphones and tablets that run on it.  Her job includes understanding the patent rules and court
procedures in more than three dozen jurisdictions, making sure
arguments are consistent, providing feedback and keeping her
team motivated. She observes her lawyers’ arguments from benches
or public seating in the back of courtrooms, leaving with them
at the end of the day.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said Krall and
other officials wouldn’t comment for this story.  Krall, a  New York  native, was trained as an electrical
engineer. Two of her daughters are in college pursuing
engineering degrees.  Before moving to Apple, Krall spent five years managing Sun
Microsystems Inc.’s 14,000 patents as chief intellectual-
property counsel.  Krall joined an Apple team that viewed Android device
makers as a threat to its core business of selling distinctively
designed consumer electronics at a premium price and with
industry-leading profit margins.  She is a founding member of a group of female intellectual-
property lawyers called the Chipsters that puts on events to
share tips on being powerful women and mothers in male-dominated
Silicon Valley.  A finalist this year for the annual Global Counsel Award
for  intellectual-property  lawyers, selected by corporation
lawyers and law-firm partners, she’s a shoo-in for next year,
said Thorne, the former Verizon lawyer.  Apple Asks Seoul Court to Stay Sales Ban on Products in Korea  Apple Inc. asked a Seoul court to put on hold its Aug. 24
order barring sales of some of its smartphones and tablet
computers in South  Korea .  No timeframe has been set for a decision on Apple’s
request, according to Kim Mun Sung, a spokesman for the Seoul
Central District Court.  The court ruled last month that Apple and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  infringed each other’s patents, ordering the
companies to stop selling some smartphones and tablet computers
in  South Korea  and pay damages. Apple was ordered to stop
selling the iPhone 3GS, iPhone 4, iPad 1 and iPad 2 in Korea.  Apple and Samsung are battling over the smartphone market,
estimated by Bloomberg Industries to be worth $219 billion last
year, with patent disputes being litigated on four continents.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Advance’s Reddit Told Gay Users’ ‘Gaymers’ Title Infringes Mark  Advance Publication Inc.’s  Reddit  social-media unit has
received a cease-and-desist letter from a trademark owner over
the use of the term “Gaymer” in computer games used by a
16,000-member group of gay participants, the Neoseeker.com news
website  reported .  Chris Vizzini of Atlanta registered the term in March 2008
for use with computer services, online games and games-related
social networking, according to Neoseeker.com.  Vizzini said the Gaymer name “is something I worked hard
on, way before Reddit was even an idea,” Neoseeker.com
reported.  DirectTV (DTV)  Seeks ‘Grab & Go’ U.S. Trademark for Mobile Services  DirectTV, the largest satellite broadcaster, has applied to
register “Grab & Go” as a trademark, according to the database
of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  The application, filed Aug. 30 by the El Segundo,
California-based company, specifies the term will be used for
set-top boxes, telecommunication services that include streaming
audio and video, and the provision of entertainment content.  The term has previously been registered by others for a
wide range of uses, including containers to pick up hazardous
waste spills, sandwiches for on- and off-premises consumption,
exercise equipment, plastic food containers for commercial use,
kits of emergency supplies, sprayers for pesticides, and parlor
games.  Fred Perry, TopShop Settle Dispute Over Laurel-Wreath Trademark  Fred Perry  Ltd., the U.K. based-clothier, has settled a
trademark dispute with Taveta Investments’ TopShop unit, the
U.K.’s Telegraph newspaper  reported .  TopShop’s use of a laurel wreath image on some of its
sweaters bore too strong a resemblance to Fred Perry’s logo,
according to the Telegraph.  In settlement of the dispute, Topshop paid litigation costs
and legal fees to Fred Perry and agreed not to sell infringing
goods in the future, the newspaper reported.  A spokesperson for Fred Perry said the company won’t
hesitate to enforce its IP rights, the Telegraph reported.  Alabama Says Cease-And-Desist Letter to Bakery Was a Mistake  The  University of Alabama  has apologized to a local bakery
that was sent a cease-and-desist letter after it started selling
cakes and cookies featuring a red letter “A,” the Tuscaloosa
News  reported.   The school assured the owner of  Mary’s Cakes & Bakery  of
Northport,  Alabama , that the letter from its licensing agency --
Forstman Little & Co.’s Collegiate Licensing -- was “not
consistent with the protocol we normally follow for local
vendors on trademark issues,” the newspaper reported.  The football-powerhouse university said it would work with
the bakery “so that she can continue to produce pastries that
bear the university’s marks,” according to the newspaper.  During football season the bakery produced cookies with the
letter “A,” and also football-shaped cookies and cookie hats
with a houndstooth icing pattern like the hat worn by the
legendary Alabama football coach, the late Paul “Bear” Bryant,
the Tuscaloosa News reported.  Candy Trademark Infringement Suit Transferred to Boston  A suit against the  New England Confectionery Co.,  maker of
 Necco Wafers  and  Squirrel Nut Zippers , was transferred from
federal court in  Virginia  to  Boston .  Allied International Corp. of Virginia, an importer of food
items, sued the candy company May 12, saying its “Cambridge and
Thames” trademarks were infringed by the Revere, Massachusetts-
based company. This mark was used for candy produced for Allied
by the New England company.  The product, produced by the company known as Necco, was
then shipped to discount retailer  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  in
Goodlettsville,  Tennessee , through whose stores it was sold,
according to court papers.  Allied claims that it received orders from  Dollar General 
for 2012 and planned to use the New England company to fill the
orders worth about $3.6 million. The company said that when its
trucks arrived to pick up the orders, it was told that the candy
company had canceled its contract and was dealing directly with
Dollar General.  The Virginia company objects to the sale of products it
says are made without authorization and sold to Dollar General.
Consumers are confused, it said, and the company claims to be
damaged.  It asked the court to bar unauthorized use of its name, and
for awards of money damages, profits realized through the
alleged infringement, and awards of attorney fees, litigation
costs, and extra damages of $1 million to punish the New England
company.  Necco asked the Virginia court to dismiss the case for lack
of proper geographic distribution or to transfer it to a more
appropriate venue.  The case was transferred yesterday and assigned to U.S.
District Judge Joseph L. Tauro.  The case is Allied International Corp. of Virginia v. New
England Confectionery Co, 1:12-cv-11666-JLT, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pirate Bay Founder Reported to Sweden to Face Prison Sentence  Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, a founder of  Sweden ’s Pirate Bay
file-sharing service, has been deported from Cambodia,
Singapore’s Straits Times  reported.   Warg, 27, returns to Sweden where a one-year prison
sentence for criminal copyright infringement awaits him,
according to the newspaper.  He was arrested in Phnom Penh Aug. 30 and deported
yesterday, the Straits Time reported.  Despite the absence of an extradition treaty between Sweden
and Cambodia, Cambodian authorities made the decision to expel
Warg, who is being escorted back to Sweden by way of Thailand,
accompanied by four Swedish officials, according to the
newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 