-- Apple’s Krall, Latham, Gardere, Covington: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-11T11:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/apple-s-krall-latham-gardere-simpson-thacher-business-of-law.html
If  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent litigation
is the “thermonuclear war” over smartphone technology and
design that co-founder  Steve Jobs  pledged to his biographer,
Noreen Krall is its field marshal,  Bloomberg News ’s  Susan Decker 
and Adam Satariano report.  Krall has become a familiar sight in courtrooms around the
world as Apple’s chief litigation counsel. Her greatest victory
came Aug. 24, when a California jury ordered Samsung Electronics
Co., the biggest smartphone maker, to pay Apple more than $1
billion for infringing patents related to the iPhone.  “There is no historical precedent for what Noreen Krall is
doing,” said John Thorne, who ran Verizon Communications Inc.’s
intellectual-property team before joining Kellogg Huber in
Washington this year. “Good generalship produces results like
Noreen has gotten. She’s mastering big decisions, like which law
firms to hire, how to manage resources, how much of  Tim Cook ’s
time to take.”  Krall, 47, and her boss, General Counsel Bruce Sewell, have
amassed a team of lawyers from inside Apple and some of the top
U.S. law firms to fight Samsung,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Google’s Motorola
Mobility unit over Google’s Android mobile operating system and
the smartphones and tablets that run on it.  The fight is central to Apple’s identity under Cook, who
succeeded Jobs as chief executive, as it got 46.4 percent of its
sales from the iPhone last quarter and 26 percent from the iPad.
The iPhone generated $47 billion in sales last fiscal year and
the iPad $20.1 billion.  Apple and Samsung together make more than half of the
smartphones sold in the world. Samsung is the biggest player in
the global market and Apple dominant in the U.S. The companies
are vying for increased share of a market that Bloomberg
Industries said grew 62 percent to $219 billion last year.  Krall’s job includes understanding the patent rules and
court procedures in more than three dozen jurisdictions, making
sure arguments are consistent, providing feedback and keeping
her team motivated. She observes her lawyers’ arguments from
benches or public seating in the back of courtrooms, leaving
with them at the end of the day.  For more, click here.  Deals  Plains Exploration to Buy BP, Shell Fields for $6.1 Billion  Latham & Watkins LLP advised  Plains Exploration &
Production Co. (PXP) , which agreed to buy  BP Plc (BP/) ’s and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s stakes in a group of Gulf of Mexico oil fields for
$6.1 billion, doubling crude production in its biggest
acquisition since 2007. BP was advised by Gardere Wynne Sewell
LLP.  Latham’s Houston-based corporate deal team was led by
partners Jeffrey Munoz and Michael P. Darden.  Douglas K. Eyberg and Timothy M. Spear are the energy
mergers and acquisitions partners that led Gardere Wynne
Sewell’s team. Partners Charles E. Meacham and Frank Putman also
worked on certain aspects of the deal.  BP, which has been selling assets after causing the worst
marine oilspill in U.S. history, sold its fields for $5.55
billion. Shell sold its stake in a field co-owned with BP for
$560 million, according to a statement yesterday.  The acquisition amount is larger than Houston-based Plains’
 market value . The purchase gives Plains output in the Gulf’s
deep waters two years after it sold shallow-water assets to
focus on onshore production. The company, which started the day
with a market value of $5.2 billion, will borrow $7 billion for
the deals. Shares fell as much as 10 percent.  The acquisition is Plains’ biggest since it bought Pogo
Producing Co., adding onshore U.S. fields for $5.84 billion of
cash, stock and debt in 2007, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Production from the deep-water fields is equivalent to
67,000 barrels of oil a day and is expected to increase as more
wells come online, James C. Flores, Plains chairman and chief
executive officer, said on a  conference call  yesterday.  The purchase will make Plains owner of three offshore
platforms, Flores said on the call. It includes sole ownership
of BP’s Marlin, Dorado, King and Horn Mountain fields and
minority stakes in fields operated by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
Shell. Plains gets full ownership of the Holstein field and
platform, buying both halves from BP and Shell.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advised Plains on the
deal, effective Oct. 1 and expected to close by year-end.
JPMorgan led financing by a bank group that also includes
Barclays,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Bank of Montreal ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Canada ,  Bank of Nova Scotia ,  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   For more, click here.  Garda Founder Unveils C$1.1 Billion Bid to Take Firm Private  Garda World Security Co. (GW) , Canada’s largest security
company, agreed to be taken private in a C$1.1 billion ($1.1
billion) deal led by its founder and largest shareholder.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Stephan Cretier and
London-based private-equity firm  Apax Partners  LLP are offering
C$12 a share in cash, the company said in a statement. The
offer, which includes the assumption of debt, represents a 30
percent premium to Garda’s closing price Sept. 6.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing Apax
Partners, along with Stikeman Elliot LLP, which acted as
Canadian counsel.  Seguin Racine Ltd. acted as legal adviser for Garda. Norton
Rose Canada LLP advised the Special Committee.  Corporate partner Ryerson Symons is leading the Simpson
Thacher team. Stikeman’s legal team in Toronto included partners
Brian Pukier and Amanda Linett, mergers and acquisitions; John Lorito, tax; Jeffrey Brown, competition; Andrea Boctor,
pensions; Lorna Cuthbert, employment; Craig Mitchell, banking;
and in  Montreal , Maxime Turcotte, mergers and acquisitions; and
Helene Bussieres, employment.  The mergers and acquisitions, securities and fiscal teams
at Seguin Racine included partners Pierre-Hubert Seguin and
Bruno Racine.  Franc Legault, Stephen Kelly & Amar Leclair Ghosh were the
Norton Rose partners involved.  Shareholders holding about 26 percent of the company’s
stock have agreed to the transaction, according to the
statement. Cretier  owned  a 17 percent stake as of April 17,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Garda’s board will unanimously recommend a sale to
shareholders at a special meeting scheduled for October,
according to the statement. The transaction must be approved by
more than 66 percent of stockholders.  UBS Securities Canada Inc. and Desjardins  Capital Markets 
advised Garda on the offer.  Firm News  Covington Starts Africa Practice With Witney Schneidman  Witney Schneidman, a former senior State Department
official, is joining Covington & Burling LLP’s Washington office
as a senior international adviser where he will help start an
 Africa  practice.  A former deputy assistant secretary of state for African
affairs, Schneidman focuses his work on U.S.-African relations,
trade and investment in Sub-Saharan Africa, and issues related
to economic growth and regional integration on the continent.  “Witney’s vast expertise in Africa fills a gap in our
ability to serve clients around the world,” said Timothy
Hester, chairman of the firm’s management committee. “He has a
rich and nuanced understanding of Africa’s major countries and
regional markets as well as unique insight into the recurring
challenges and opportunities across the continent.”  Covington & Burling has more than 800 lawyers at eight
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Moves  Construction Partner Joins Holland & Knight in Abu Dhabi  Holland & Knight LLP expanded its  Abu Dhabi  office with the
addition of Steven Hunt as a partner in the construction
industry practice group. He joins the firm from Al Tamimi &
Company, a U.A.E. law firm, where he was regional head of the
construction and engineering practice, the firm said.  Hunt, who focuses on construction law, engineering and
dispute resolution, has practiced in the  Middle East  since 2001.
He is the fifth lawyer to join the office since the beginning of
the year, the firm said.  Holland & Knight has more than 1,000 lawyers and other
professionals in 17 U.S. offices, as well as offices in China,
Columbia, Mexico and Abu Dhabi.  Loeb & Loeb Hires Bryan Cave Trusts and Estates Team  Loeb & Loeb LLP has hired four trusts and estates lawyers
in Washington. The group is led by partner Mary Ann Mancini and
includes two senior counsel and one associate, all of whom
practiced most recently at  Bryan Cave LLP, the firm said.   Mancini focuses on estate planning with an emphasis on
planning for real estate ownership, closely held businesses and
life insurance. She counsels individuals and their families on
entity planning, including structuring and formation of entities
appropriate for their estate and business needs; and the
protection and preservation of client assets, the firm said.  Loeb & Loeb LLP has more than 300 attorneys focusing on
select practice areas including: media, bankruptcy,
restructuring and creditors’ rights and business litigation. The
firm has five domestic offices, as well as a representative
office in Beijing.  Litigation  HSBC Sues Troutman Sanders Over $100 Million Nemazee Loan  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank, sued law firm
Troutman Sanders LLP for malpractice in connection with a $100
million loan to convicted fraudster Hassan Nemazee.  Nemazee, a former fundraiser for President  Barack Obama  and
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , was sentenced in 2010 to 12
years in federal prison after pleading guilty to cheating
Citigroup Inc., HSBC and  Bank of America Corp.  of $292 million.  HSBC hired Troutman Sanders and Robert Chanis, a former
attorney for the firm who is now with  Harris Beach , to negotiate
the terms of the loan to Nemazee, according to a Sept. 7 filing
by HSBC in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  “As a direct result of defendants’ negligent acts and/or
omissions, either singly or in combination, Nemazee was able to
steal $75 million from HSBC after purportedly pledging
securities which never existed as collateral for the loan,”
HSBC said in the complaint.  HSBC is improperly trying to cast blame on Troutman Sanders
and Chanis and is misrepresenting what happened with the loan,
said Edward Friedman, an attorney with Friedman Kaplan Seiler &
Adelman LLP in New York who said he is representing both
defendants.  “Troutman Sanders and Mr. Chanis acted appropriately and
were not negligent,” Friedman said in a telephone interview.
“The responsibility for this lending decision rested solely
with HSBC and any losses incurred by HSBC were caused by the
fraud of  Hassan Nemazee  and/or the bank’s failure to protect its
own interests.”  The case is HSBC Bank USA N.A. v. Troutman Sanders LLP,
653138/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  News  Adelson’s Sands Faces Sanctions for Not Disclosing Macau Files  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  may be sanctioned in a lawsuit
brought by the fired chief executive of its China casinos for
not disclosing that evidence it said couldn’t be taken out of
 Macau  was already in the U.S.  The casino operator, run and majority-owned by  Sheldon Adelson , was ordered to explain to a  Nevada  judge in Las Vegas
yesterday how and why files from its Macau operations, requested
by Steven Jacobs as evidence in his breach-of-contract case,
ended up in the U.S. while the company claimed that Macau law
prevented it from transferring them overseas.  “Whether they were in the U.S. wrongfully, appropriately,
or in violation of Macau law is a different issue,” Clark
County District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez told the company’s
lawyers at a June 28 hearing. “But nobody told any of us, and
that’s a problem, counsel.”  Jacobs, the former CEO of  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , sued in 2010
after he was fired. Jacobs alleges he was dismissed because he
wouldn’t give in to Adelson’s “illegal demands.” Jacobs said
Adelson directed him to secretly investigate Macau government
officials and use “improper leverage” against them.  More than half of Adelson’s gambling-empire profits come
from his four casinos in the Chinese territory of Macau. Sands
China, accounted for $2.95 billion of the company’s total $5.34
billion in revenue during the first half of the year, according
to its second-quarter earnings report.  Following Jacobs’s allegations, the U.S. Justice Department
and Securities and Exchange Commission opened investigations
into whether Adelson’s company violated the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act. That law prohibits companies with U.S. operations
and their intermediaries from making improper payments to
foreign officials to win or retain business.  Las Vegas Sands has denied Jacobs’s allegations and has
said it is cooperating with the investigations. Lawyers for the
casino company have said in court filings that Jacobs was
dismissed for working on unauthorized deals and violating
company policy.  Ron Reese , a spokesman for Las Vegas Sands, declined to
comment on the case. Todd Bice, a lawyer for Jacobs, didn’t
return phone calls seeking comment.  Gonzalez said June 28 that while she won’t jail anyone over
the disclosure dispute and probably won’t penalize the Sands
with a ruling limiting its use of evidence, she may impose a
fine.  Jacobs is seeking copies of his computer hard drives as
well as e-mails that were transferred to Las Vegas Sands from
Macau in August 2010, about a month after he was fired,
according to a July 6 filing.  The case is  Steven Jacobs  v. Las Vegas Sands, A627691-B,
District Court, Clark County, Nevada.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  