-- Apple Opposes Samsung’s Bid to Lift Ban on Galaxy Tablet
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/apple-opposes-samsung-s-bid-to-lift-ban-on-galaxy-tablet.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s request
for a judge to lift a preliminary ban on U.S. sales of its
Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer was opposed by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California ,
issued an order temporarily blocking sales of the Tab 10.1
computer in June, almost two months before a jury found Aug. 24
that Samsung infringed six of seven Apple patents at stake in a
trial between the two companies and awarded Apple $1.05 billion
in damages.  Apple, in a court filing yesterday, argued that Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung’s effort to lift the ban should be
denied because Samsung’s appeal of Koh’s June order “divests
this court of jurisdiction.” Koh has set a Sept. 20 hearing to
consider Samsung’s request.  “Dissolving the injunction only to reinstate it shortly
thereafter would cause confusion in the market and is not
necessary to prevent irreparable harm” to Samsung, Cupertino,
California-based Apple argued in the filing. “Indeed, Samsung
admitted that the injunction is not likely to have a significant
impact on its business, given that it is already selling a
successor to the Galaxy Tab 10.1.”  Koh also scheduled a Dec. 6 hearing to consider Apple’s
request for a permanent U.S. sales ban of eight Samsung
smartphone models and the tablet following the jury verdict.
Seven of the eight smartphones that Apple seeks to ban are part
of Samsung’s Galaxy line.  Broadening Scope  Koh said previously that Apple has indicated it may seek to
broaden the scope of Samsung products it wants banned in a
permanent injunction. Apple said in an Aug. 27 court filing that
Koh should also bar U.S. sales of a version of the tablet that
runs on mobile networks, even though that product wasn’t covered
by the Aug. 24 verdict.  Samsung sought to have the ban on the Tab 10.1 lifted on
Aug. 26 after the jury found the device didn’t infringe the
Apple design patent on which the June 26 court-ordered sales ban
was based. The jury instead found that the Tab 10.1 infringed
three of Apple’s software patents.  Adam Yates , a Samsung spokesman, declined to comment on
Apple’s filing.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 