-- Larrain Says Working With Central Bank to Cool Chilean Peso
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-09-11T15:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/larrain-boosts-gdp-outlook-as-chile-shrugs-off-global-woes-1-.html
Chile ’s Finance Minister Felipe Larrain indicated that authorities are relying on fiscal
restraint to slow an appreciation in the peso, as it coordinates
actions with the central bank.  “We shouldn’t be igniting the forces of appreciation,” he
said in an interview at the  London  Stock Exchange. “On the
contrary, by doing responsible fiscal policy -- which we have
been doing the last couple of years -- we help to reduce the
appreciation forces.”  Chile’s government will propose a real spending increase
for 2013 of about 5 percent, which is in line with estimates for
economic growth, President Sebastian Pinera said in images
transmitted on state-owned television yesterday. Public spending
expanded 3.3 percent in 2011 while expenditures will grow 6.4
percent in 2012, according to the Budget Office.  The government has resisted pressure from student leaders
like Camila Vallejo to raise spending further to provide
university education free of charge. Students have led more than
14 months of protests over the issue, driving down Pinera’s
approval rating to 27 percent in August, according to Santiago-
based polling company CEP.  Public spending increased at a faster pace during the
previous administration of  Michelle Bachelet , who left office
with a 78 percent approval rating -- the highest of any
president since Chile’s return to democracy in 1990, according
to CEP. Public expenditures grew 8.2 percent in 2008 and 17
percent in 2009 during her last full year as president,
according to the Budget Office.  ‘Responsible Fiscal Policy’  “Our job is to make the central bank’s job easier by doing
responsible fiscal policy and increasing government spending at
a level that doesn’t push up  interest rates ,” said Larrain, who
is in London to promote investment in Chile. “If you push up
interest rates, then you bring capital inflows to the country,
and that appreciates the peso.”  Chile’s peso gained 0.1 percent to 474.84 per  U.S. dollar 
at 11:59 a.m. local time. The peso is the best performer against
the dollar among the world currencies tracked by Bloomberg so
far this year after the Hungarian forint.  Twice in the past five years the central bank undertook
programs to buy dollars after coming under pressure from
politicians and exporters to slow the appreciation of the peso.
Speculation that the bank would intervene again increased last
month after the real  exchange rate , which is adjusted for
inflation, reached the strongest level since December 2010, one
month before the bank started buying dollars.  Significant Reserves  Central bank President Rodrigo Vergara last week told
reporters in Santiago conditions didn’t yet exist to intervene
in the peso, adding that there’s less justification now than in
2011 to increase international reserves. Pinera said in a Sept.
10 interview in  Russia  the peso wasn’t hurting exports in
general.  Larrain didn’t say today whether policy makers need to buy
dollars, adding that he respects the bank’s autonomy to make
decisions. The central bank has “very significant” reserves of
almost $40 billion and the government holds more than $30
billion in foreign assets that will gives it a “strong”
position as the world economy decelerates, he said.  Gross domestic product in the Andean nation will expand
closer to 5 percent this year than the official forecast of 4.7
percent growth made in July, Larrain said. The  International
Monetary Fund  today forecast Chile’s economy would grow 4.75
percent in 2012, “broadly in line with potential growth,” the
Washington-based lender said in an e-mailed report.  Growth Forecast  GDP increased 5.4 percent in the first half of 2012 from
the same period last year, prompting the central bank this month
to raise its growth forecast to a range of 4.75 percent to 5.25
percent from its June estimate of 4 percent to 5 percent.  “Our economy will keep growing, will keep generating jobs
as it has done this year, in the face of a very complicated
international situation,” Larrain said, declining to provide a
forecast for 2013 growth.  Larrain, 54, has an undergraduate degree from Santiago-
based Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile and a doctorate
in economics from  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . President Pinera and central bank President
Vergara also studied economics at Harvard.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in London at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 