-- Harrisburg Default Underlines Lack of State Support: MMA
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/harrisburg-default-underlines-lack-of-state-support-mma.html
Harrisburg’s notice of a second
general-obligation debt default contrasts the way distressed
cities are dealt with in  Pennsylvania  compared with  Rhode
Island , according to Matt Fabian of Municipal Market Advisors.  Harrisburg’s plan to skip $3.4 million in payments due this
week on $51.5 million of bonds underscores the state’s lack of
support for investors in its capital city’s debt, said Fabian, a
managing director and senior analyst with MMA. He said Rhode
Island provided “critical elements” that helped  Central Falls 
bondholders through that community’s bankruptcy.  Pennsylvania’s “failure to act has impugned credit
quality” statewide, Fabian said yesterday by telephone. “From
an investor perspective, you have to assume Pennsylvania local
governments are a bit riskier on average than others because of
the state’s failure to intervene to enforce bond covenants.”  In Central Falls, the city about to emerge from bankruptcy
protection, Rhode Island helped to ease the community’s fiscal
straits while protecting bondholders, Fabian said. The Ocean
State’s smallest municipality kept up its debt payments while
raising taxes, cutting jobs and reducing pensions during 13
months under court supervision.  “Increasingly, municipal analysts and lenders will need to
respect these state-by-state differences which can be, arguable,
more important to  credit quality  than financial balances or
recent economic trends,” Fabian said yesterday in a newsletter
published by the Concord, Massachusetts-based company.  Investors Notified  Pennsylvania’s insolvent capital has notified bondholders
that it will miss payments on its general-obligation debt for
the second time this year, to preserve cash to cover workers’
salaries, William B. Lynch, Harrisburg’s receiver, said Sept. 10
by telephone. Payments on the securities issued in 1997 are due
Sept. 15. The city skipped paying $5.27 million that was due
March 15 on the same bonds.  “We don’t have enough money to make the payment,” Lynch
said. “High finance.”  While Harrisburg failed to cover debt service on securities
related to an incinerator project starting in 2009, it avoided
defaulting on its general-obligation bonds until March. The city
joined Scranton, Pennsylvania; Moberly,  Missouri , and Wenatchee,
 Washington , in deciding not to make payments and use the funds
for other purposes, according to Moody’s Investors Service.
Moody’s said the cities may exemplify a “new trend” of cash-
strapped communities unwilling to meet their obligations.  Insured Bonds  Ambac Assurance , a unit of New York-based  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , backs Harrisburg’s general-obligation debt.  Michael
Fitzgerald , an Ambac spokesman, declined to comment Sept. 10.  Harrisburg, barred from bankruptcy until after Nov. 30 by
state law, faces a debt burden of more than $300 million. Most
of that is tied to an overhaul and expansion of a trash-to-
energy incinerator that doesn’t produce enough revenue to cover
the obligations.  Lynch is implementing a recovery plan that calls for the
sale or lease of city assets, including the power plant. Talks
are under way on the incinerator and municipal parking system,
as well as for a water and sewage-system management contract. He
also has tried to raise a local income tax to boost revenue.  A state court on Sept. 6 delayed an order backing Lynch’s
request to force Harrisburg’s City Council to double an income
tax on residents to 2 percent from 1 percent. The city may
confront a $12.6 million  budget deficit  by the end of the year.  Skipping debt payments to cover workers’ wages isn’t a
viable solution to fiscal instability, said  Dan Miller ,
Harrisburg’s controller. He said he expects the city to be able
to pay salaries through year-end, while it may miss other bills.  Still Broke  “Once we get to the end of the year, we still don’t have
any revenue,” Miller said. “We need to be put into bankruptcy
as soon as possible.”  Council members sought to put the municipality of almost
49,700 into bankruptcy in October, despite the state ban. In
November, a federal judge rejected their petition for court
protection, saying it wasn’t authorized.  One of the general-obligation bonds to be in default, a
zero-coupon capital appreciation bond maturing in September
2014, traded yesterday at an average of 86.7 cents on the
dollar, yielding 7.3 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s almost triple the 2.7 percent yield on a
Bloomberg Fair Value  index  of insured zero-coupon municipal
bonds maturing in nine years.  Yesterday’s transactions compare with a trade of the same
security at about 79.1 cents on the dollar, yielding 9.7
percent, on March 20, after the first default. On Oct. 20, the
bonds traded at 74.8 cents on the dollar, yielding about 10.3
percent, the data show. The council had sought  bankruptcy
protection  about a week earlier.  While Central Falls “breaks the mold” for distressed
cities, Harrisburg shows how “economic disruption created
severe political frictions between government players and major
stakeholders, disabling the recovery process and worsening both
events and their impact,” Fabian said in the newsletter. “At
the heart of Central Falls’ success was state intervention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  