-- Mas Says Catalonia May Pursue Independence Without Tax Deal
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-09-11T16:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/mas-says-catalonia-may-push-for-independence-without-tax-deal.html
Catalonia’s President Artur Mas
said he’ll push for independence from  Spain  unless the central
government allocates a bigger share of  tax revenue  to the
region.  “If we cannot reach a financial agreement, the road to
freedom for Catalonia is open,” Mas said at a press conference
today to mark Catalan national day. “The force of common
national assertion is enough to succeed.”  Nationalists in Catalonia, Spain’s biggest regional
economy, are looking to capitalize on the financial crisis
roiling Spain to gain independence. The region’s obligations to
transfer tax revenue to the national coffers to help poorer
regions forced Mas to request a 5 billion-euro ($6.4 billion)
loan from the regional rescue fund last month.  Catalonia transfers 15 billion euros a year of tax revenue
to the rest of Spain, equivalent to about 8 percent of the
region’s gross domestic product, Mas’s administration said. The
region’s credit rating was cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  on
Sept. 1 following the bailout request.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  criticized Mas for
trying to take advantage of a national crisis.  “This is the last thing we need right now,” Rajoy said in
a television interview last night. “Can we get our priorities
straight, please.”  Rajoy said when Catalonia filed its call for aid on Aug. 28
that the central government will assist the region.  Thousands of Catalans gathered in Barcelona to demonstrate
in favor of independence today, images on state broadcaster TVE
showed. An official at the regional police department, who
asked not to be identified in accordance with policy, declined
to estimate how many people participated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  