-- Most Asian Stocks Fall Ahead of German Decision, U.S. Fed
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-09-11T10:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/asia-stocks-fall-as-greece-debt-overshadows-stimulus-bets.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell, with the
regional benchmark index poised for the first drop in four days,
ahead of a court decision on Germany’s participation in Europe’s
rescue fund and as investors wait to see if the  Federal Reserve 
will boost economic stimulus.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which gets 31 percent of its sales in
Europe, rose 0.6 percent and HSBC Holdings Plc erased an earlier
loss after a German constitutional court said it won’t delay
ruling on the European Stability Mechanism. Guangzhou Automobile
Group Co. paced declines among automakers in Hong Kong after
China’s car sales trailed analysts’ estimates in August for a
second month.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.1 percent to 119.1
as of 7:49 p.m. in Tokyo. About two stocks dropped for each that
rose on the measure, with six of the 10 industry groups
declining.  “Concern about Europe’s debt crisis is casting a shadow at
a time when investors can’t be confident about the global
economy,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , a senior  fund manager  in Tokyo
at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which oversees about $6.3
billion. “This is not an easy environment to take risks.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.7 percent this quarter
through yesterday as expectations of further stimulus measures
overshadowed signs of a global economic slowdown. The Asian
benchmark traded at 12.4 times estimated earnings, compared with
13.8 times for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  and 12 times for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined 0.7 percent and
South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost 0.2 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 fell 0.2 percent after a report showed the nation’s business
confidence dropped last month. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained
0.5 percent as spending on debit, credit and store cards gained
in August.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.7 percent even after
data showed China’s new loans exceeded estimates last month.
 Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index climbed 0.2 percent and  Taiwan’s
Taiex Index (TWSE)  was little changed.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  rose 0.2 percent today. The
index lost 0.6 percent in New York yesterday as Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras met officials from the nation’s
creditors after failing to secure agreement from coalition
partners on spending cuts.  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court rejected a last
minute bid to delay its ruling on the country’s participation in
the European Stability Mechanism, a permanent 500 billion-euro
fund that offers loans to  member states  and may buy their bonds
to lower borrowing costs.  ‘Key Risk’  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty around the
implementation of policy in Europe,” said  Stephen Halmarick ,
Sydney-based head of investment markets research at Colonial
First State Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150
billion. “The German constitutional court ruling on ESM is
obviously a key risk over the next few days and there’s talk
about Greece struggling to come out with budget cuts.”  HSBC rose 0.5 percent to HK$69.80 in Hong Kong after
falling as much as 0.3 percent. Cosco Pacific rose 0.6 percent
to HK$10 in Hong Kong, erasing a drop of as much as 1.8 percent.  Other companies that do business in Europe dropped before
the court statement. Nintendo Co., a maker of video-game players
that depends on Europe for a third of its sales, lost 0.7
percent to 8,740 yen in Osaka, Japan.  Investors are also awaiting a policy statement on Sept. 13
from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee. On Aug.
31, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited his concern about the
jobless rate and said the central bank will provide further
stimulus as needed to cement a recovery.  China Cars  Carmakers fell in Hong Kong after China’s passenger-vehicle
sales missed estimates last month and as the country raised the
maximum price of gasoline and diesel. Guangzhou Automobile
declined 2.2 percent to HK$5.23. Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd.,
slipped 0.8 percent.  Electronics maker Panasonic Corp. fell 1.7 percent to 534
yen in Tokyo after its long-term  credit rating  was cut by two
levels to Baa1 from A2 and its short-term rating by one rank to
Prime-2 from Prime-1, Moody’s said in a statement yesterday. The
ratings company cited weak earnings and higher debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 