-- U.S. Stocks, Commodities Gain as Dollar Falls Before Fed
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-11T20:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/asia-stocks-metals-oil-decline-before-german-bailout-ruling.html
U.S.  stocks  climbed with
commodities while the dollar weakened as investors speculated
the  Federal Reserve  will announce more stimulus plans.
Treasuries fell, while European shares erased early losses.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent at 4
p.m. in  New York  while natural gas, coffee and cattle added more
than 1 percent to lead commodities higher. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index rose 0.3 percent, reversing a 0.6 percent drop. The dollar
slid versus all 16 major peers, with the euro up 0.8 percent to
$1.2858 after a German court said it won’t delay a decision
tomorrow on the country’s role in a bailout fund. Ten-year
Treasury yields rose four basis points to 1.70 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will start a two-day
meeting tomorrow amid speculation it will introduce a third
round of asset purchases.  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court
is due to rule tomorrow on participation in the 500 billion-euro
($640 billion) fund, while Greek politicians meet amid an
impasse on spending cuts needed for a bailout.  “Everybody is waiting to see what the Fed and German court
will do,”  Greg Peterson , director of investment research at
Ballentine Partners LLC in Waltham,  Massachusetts , which has
about $4 billion in assets, said in a telephone interview. “The
Fed has come out and said that things are weakening and that
they’re willing to act. Bernanke is really playing the steady
course and emphasizing that they have more ammo. I’m not sure
they’re going to announce QE3 but they’re trending in that
direction.”  Bernanke’s Concern  The S&P 500 rebounded following yesterday’s 0.6 percent
drop. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 that the weak
jobs market was a “grave concern.” A gauge of market
expectations for additional stimulus rose to record 99 percent
in August, according to Citigroup Inc.  Alcoa Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.
climbed at least 3 percent to lead gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average . Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. jumped
5.9 percent after Luigi Lavazza SpA increased its stake in the
company.  Two-year Treasury yields were little changed at 0.25
percent, while rates on 30-year bonds increased 4.5 basis points
to 2.85 percent.  Treasuries pared losses after an auction of $32 billion in
U.S. three-year debt, the first of three note and bond sales
this week, attracted record demand. A gauge of inflation
expectations approached the highest level since March. Moody’s
Investors Service said it may cut the U.S. credit rating if
Congress fails to agree on a plan to reduce the nation’s ratio
of debt to gross domestic product.  Economic Data  Confidence among small businesses in the U.S. climbed in
August for the first time in four months as more companies
anticipated a pickup in hiring and sales. The  National
Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism index rose to 92.9
from a nine-month low of 91.2 in July. Government data showed
the  U.S. trade deficit  widened in July for the first time in
four months as the global economic slowdown reduced demand for
American-made goods.  The dollar declined the most against the New Zealand and
Australian dollars, losing more than 1 percent, and the Dollar
Index sank 0.7 percent to its weakest level since May 8.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  tumbled 21 percent and led losses in
Britain’s FTSE-100 Index after saying full-year  profit  will be
at the lower end of analyst estimates amid slowing sales growth.
Hugo Boss AG, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA and Ralph Lauren Corp. retreated more
than 2 percent.  Euro Strengthens  The euro strengthened against 13 of its 16 major peers,
climbing as much as 0.9 percent to $1.2871, the strongest level
since May.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities climbed for a fourth
straight day, rising 0.5 percent to the highest level since May.  Crude for October delivery gained 63 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $97.17 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since Aug. 22. Its five-day increase is the
longest since July 19. Prices are 1.7 percent lower this year.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.3 percent for a
fourth straight gain, its longest rally in a month. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.7 percent after auto sales missed
analysts’ estimates and Macquarie Group Ltd. cut its economic
growth estimate for the country.  India ’s Sensex rose 0.5
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  