-- Aston Martin Races to Record $32 Million Asking Price
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-09-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/aston-martin-races-to-record-32-million-asking-price.html
The only  Aston Martin  to have won
the Le Mans 24-Hour race is up for sale, priced at a record $32
million.  The green DBR1 was driven by Carroll Shelby and Roy
Salvadori in the world’s most famous endurance race in 1959. It
is on consignment from a collector at the Berkshire, England-
based dealer  Talacrest , with a formal 20 million-pound asking
price, making it the world’s most valuable British-made car.  The Le Mans-winning Aston had been previously acquired by
Talacrest for $2 million from the French collector Jacky Setton
in 1992, according to the company’s managing director,  John
Collins , who sold the car to its current owner. Four offers
below its new 2012 price have so far been declined, he said.  Postwar rarities from marques such as Aston Martin, Ferrari
and Porsche have climbed in value as rich individuals, keen to
diversify their investments, eye classic cars as an alternative
asset class. Last month’s car auctions in  California  raised a
record $263.3 million, a 33 percent increase on 2011.  Aston Martin, owned by  David Brown , made four team DBR1
cars in the 1950s to challenge Ferrari in the World Sports Car
Championship. The U.K. manufacturer won the title in 1959.  This particular version, numbered DBR1/2, was also driven
to victory by Stirling Moss in the RAC Tourist Trophies at
Goodwood in 1958 and 1959.  If sold for about its asking price, DBR1/2 would be the
first British-made car to sell for $30 million -- a figure
exceeded by at least two 1960s Ferrari GTO racers in private
sales, dealers said.  The highest prices for classic cars are generally achieved
through discreet transactions. In June, a 1929 supercharged
“Blower” Bentley from the Daniels Collection was sold by
Bonhams at the Goodwood Festival of Speed in Sussex, southern
 England , for 5 million pounds ($7.8 million), making it the most
expensive British-made car ever sold at public auction.  Bus Sale  A British-made vehicle of a rather slower kind was among a
miscellany of 167 lots associated with  London ’s sporting,
political and cultural history at Christie’s International.  The 1966 Routemaster double-decker bus that had plied the
73 route from Islington to  Park Lane  was bought by an online
bidder from  South Korea  for 67,250 pounds on Sept. 3. Finished
in classic red London Transport livery, the bus was entered by a
U.K.-based collector and estimated at as much as 30,000 pounds.  Online bidding from  Korea  -- Christie’s wouldn’t confirm if
it was the same client -- also secured six out of seven of the
outfits that had been worn by  Margaret Thatcher , the former U.K.
prime minister. A jade green wool suit by Mansfield worn by
Thatcher on the day she was confirmed as leader of the
 Conservative Party  in February 1975 proved the most expensive,
selling for 25,000 to a U.K. private client.  Mercury Thermometer  One of only three known mercury thermometers by the Dutch
inventor Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit is estimated to sell for as
much as 100,000 pounds at auction in October.  The recently rediscovered brass instrument is inscribed
“Fahrenheit” and “Amst.,” (Amsterdam), where the Dutchman
lectured in chemistry from 1718.  Fahrenheit invented the mercury thermometer in 1714. His
two previously known examples are in the Museum Boerhaave,
Leiden, the Netherlands.  This third was found in a private collection put together
in the 1970s, said  Christie’s , who will be offering it for sale
on Oct. 9 with a low estimate of 70,000 pounds.  “The magic is in the name,” said the Cheshire-based
scientific instruments dealer  Derek Rayment , whose glass-blower
made a new tube and bulb for the thermometer. “It’s a small and
fairly standard thing. If it didn’t have Fahrenheit on the back
it would be worth about 20 pounds.”  The glassblower took four attempts to replace the
thermometer’s 19th century tube and bulb, Rayment said.  “Originally these would have been made first, and then the
numbers would be engraved afterwards,” the dealer said.
“Making the thing backward is always more difficult.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 