-- Aussie, Kiwi Stay Lower as China Concern Saps Risk Demand
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-09-11T06:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/aussie-kiwi-stay-lower-as-china-concern-saps-risk-demand.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars remained lower as demand weakened for commodity-related
currencies on deepening concern that China’s growth is slowing.  The so-called Aussie held its biggest slide in a week
after a private report showed  business confidence  declined in
August, fanning speculation the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will
resume interest-rate cuts to counter the impact of a global
slowdown. Demand for the South Pacific nations’ currencies was
supported by bets the  Federal Reserve  will announce a new round
of asset purchases known as quantitative easing this week.  “The Aussie has been underperforming, which probably comes
down to indications of softening around the edges of the
Australian economy, as well as concern that the regional
economy, notably China, is going to slow down,” said  Todd Elmer , a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore.
“The market has priced in a persistent risk of rate cuts” by
the RBA.  The Aussie was little changed at $1.0330 as of 4:22 p.m. in
Sydney from yesterday, when it declined 0.5 percent, the biggest
drop since Sept. 3. It fetched 80.80 yen from 80.91.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, bought 80.95 U.S.
cents from 80.88, after falling 0.5 percent yesterday. The
currency was at 63.32 yen from 63.32.  Australian  government bonds  gained for a second day, with
the yield on 10-year notes declining two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.11 percent.  China Slowdown  Data this month showed further evidence that Chinese growth
is losing momentum, clouding the outlook for Australian and New
Zealand commodity exports.  China ’s imports unexpectedly fell in August, sliding 2.6
percent, the customs bureau said in Beijing yesterday.
Industrial production increased 8.9 percent, the  National Bureau
of Statistics  said Sept. 9, the slowest pace in three years.
China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New Zealand’s
second-biggest export market.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the  overnight
cash-rate target  at 3.5 percent for the past three meetings,
after lowering it by a total of 75 basis points in May and June.
Traders are pricing in about a 60 percent chance policy makers
will cut borrowing costs next month, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “While the economy may be bottoming out, it has yet to
show signs of an imminent recovery,”  Mary Nicola , a New York-
based currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a note to
clients today, referring to China. “The AUD remains vulnerable
to further downside as weak China data augment market
expectations for a rate cut from the RBA.”  Business Confidence  National Australia Bank Ltd.’s  confidence index , based on a
survey of more than 500 companies, fell to minus 2 last month
from 3 in July, according to a report released today. The
business conditions gauge, a measure of hiring, sales and
profits, improved to 1 from negative 3.  Demand for Australia’s dollar was supported before the U.S.
Federal Open Market Committee begins a two-day meeting tomorrow,
when Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court is also due to rule
on the country’s participation in the European Stability
Mechanism.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 at a
conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, that the costs of
“nontraditional policies” appeared manageable when considered
carefully. He said he wouldn’t rule out steps to lower a jobless
rate he described as a “grave concern.”  “I expect that the Aussie will take direction from the
bigger macro trend, such as Fed on Thursday and the German
Constitutional Court decision,” said Citigroup’s Elmer. “It
probably is better positioned to gain on any positive
development.”  -- Editors: Garfield Reynolds, Benjamin Purvis  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  