-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Rise Versus Peers as Risk Appetite Swells
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-11T21:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/aussie-n-z-dollars-rise-versus-peers-as-risk-appetite-swells.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars gained against all of their most-traded counterparts as
risk appetite increased amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will buy bonds to boost the  U.S. economy .  The two South Pacific nations’ currencies strengthened
against the greenback after Moody’s Investors Service said the
U.S.’s Aaa rating may be cut if it doesn’t reduce its ratio of
debt to gross domestic product. New Zealand’s dollar advanced as
 Fitch Ratings  affirmed the country’s AA status, citing its
strong governance and business environment.  The Aussie has been “supported by a general improvement in
risk aversion,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at
Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotiabank unit in Toronto, wrote
yesterday in a note to clients. “The catalyst for the New
Zealand dollar rally is the improvement in risk sentiment and
Fitch affirmation of New Zealand’s AA rating with a stable
outlook.”  Australia’s currency appreciated 1 percent to $1.0434
yesterday in New York after earlier rising as much as 1.1
percent to $1.0449, its highest level since Aug. 23. It rose 0.3
percent to 81.15 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, gained 1.1
percent to 81.74 U.S. cents after reaching 81.95 cents, its
highest level since Aug. 7. The kiwi strengthened 0.4 percent to
63.56 yen.  The Fed opens a two-day policy meeting today.  Kiwi Bet  BNP Paribas SA added bet the  U.S. dollar  will depreciate
versus its New Zealand counterpart. The greenback will weaken to
84.70 cents against kiwi, Kiran Kowshik and  Steven Saywell ,
London-based currency strategists at the firm, wrote yesterday
in a note to clients. BNP Paribas placed a stop for the trade at
79.65. A stop order is automatically triggered at a set price
level.  The kiwi-dollar cross trade is “due for a catch-up with
the performance of broader equity markets,” they wrote. “Of
the commodity currencies, the New Zealand dollar stands out as
being under-owned from a positioning perspective.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
advanced 0.5 percent, and the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  