-- Average U.S. Wind Farm Creates 1,079 Jobs, Report Finds
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-09-11T15:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/average-wind-farm-creates-1-079-jobs-nrdc-report-finds.html
Planning, building and operating a
typical utility-scale wind farm creates 1,079 jobs over its
lifetime, an industry that’s supported in part by a U.S. tax
credit, according to the  Natural Resources Defense Council .  A 250-megawatt project generates 522 construction jobs, 432
positions in manufacturing, 80 for planning and development, 18
sales slots and 27 for operations, the New York-based
environmental group said in a  report  today.  If Congress fails to extend the production tax credit, a
federal incentive that’s scheduled to expire Dec. 31, that  job
creation  will be threatened, the group said. The wind industry
currently employs about 75,000 U.S. workers.  Extending the credit will “level the playing field” for
wind, making it more competitive with the “heavily subsidized”
fossil-fuels industry, Cai Steger, a policy advocate for the
group and co-author of the report, said on a conference call
today.  “Every time a wind farm gets built, American jobs are
created,” he said in an e-mailed statement. The research shows
“what the PTC has done for the wind industry -- and why it’s
essential that it is extended.”  ‘Potential Layoffs’  New wind-farm development has slowed in the U.S. ahead of
the expiration date, according to Scott Viciana, a vice
president at Ventower Industries LLC.  “There has been a definite pullback of development in the
U.S.,” Viciana said on the call. “With the expiration, we will
be faced with some potential layoffs. It keeps us up at night.”
The Monroe, Michigan-based manufacturer of towers for  wind
turbines  employs about 55 people.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s biggest maker of wind
turbines, expects shipments to decline next year and said Aug.
22 it’s cutting 1,400 jobs worldwide. That’s in addition to the
2,335 positions it eliminated in January. The company is
considering firing 1,600 U.S. workers, a decision it says hinges
largely on whether the PTC is extended.  President  Barack Obama  supports extending the incentive,
which gives producers a tax credit of 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour.
 Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential candidate, opposes it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  