-- Bank Rules to Cause ‘Modest’ Interest Rate Rise, IMF Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-09-11T16:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/bank-regulation-to-cause-modest-interest-rate-rise-imf-says.html
New financial regulations will
cause a “modest” increase in the interest rates banks charge
on loans in developed countries as lenders reduce costs,
according to a study by International Monetary Fund staff.  Higher capital and liquidity requirements will boost
average bank lending rates in the long term by 28 basis points
in the U.S., 18 basis points in  Europe  and eight basis points in
 Japan , according to the study published today.  The  IMF study  found that the increase in lending costs is
lower than in studies by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development and the  Bank for International
Settlements . One reason, the IMF staff said, is that their study
assumes that a larger portion of the safety margins adopted by
banks is voluntary.  “The relatively low levels of economic costs found here
strongly suggest that the benefits in terms of less frequent and
less costly financial crisis would indeed outweigh the costs of
regulatory reforms in the long run,” IMF economist Andre
Oliveira Santos and  Douglas Elliott , a fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  who worked as a consultant for the IMF, wrote in the
report.  “Banks around the world appear to have a considerable
ability to adapt to the regulatory changes without radical
actions that would harm the wider economy.”  Contrasting Studies  The study’s authors contrasted their work with findings of
the  Institute of International Finance . In a 2011  report , the
industry group that represents more than 450 firms estimated
that financial reforms would reduce gross domestic product by
3.2 percent through 2015 and employment by 7.5 million in
developed countries.  “The IIF baseline appears to correspond more with the
levels of safety margins held pre-crisis than it does with the
levels banks would choose to hold in light of the lessons
learned from the financial crisis,” according to the IMF study.  The IMF report, titled “Estimating the Costs of Financial
Regulation,” assumes that banks will reduce spending and make
other adjustments in the response to the new regulations. In the
U.S. alone, cost cuts would help reduce lending rates by 15
basis points, according to the study.  The study’s authors also assume that investors will reduce
the rate of return they demand on bank equity as a result of
improved safety. They stressed the limitations of their report,
which doesn’t address the initial costs of adopting the
regulations or the economic benefits of financial reform.  There has been progress on developing financial
regulations, particularly regarding higher capital and liquidity
ratios, IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  wrote in the
September issue of the fund’s “Finance and Development”
magazine. “But a better financial architecture is still under
construction,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  