-- Bank of England Governor Advertisement by U.K. Treasury (Text)
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-09-11T14:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/bank-of-england-governor-advertisement-by-u-k-treasury-text-.html
Following is the text of an
advertisement by the U.K. Treasury seeking a new governor for
the  Bank of England . The ad will be placed in the Economist
magazine on Sept. 14 and on the government’s public appointments
 website .  HM TREASURY
Governor of the Bank of England  The position of Governor of the Bank of  England  will fall
vacant when Sir  Mervyn King  retires in June 2013. The Governor
leads the Bank of England, and plays an important role in
setting monetary and regulatory policy, chairing the Monetary
Policy Committee, the Financial Policy Committee and (from next
year) the board of the Prudential Regulation Authority. The
Governor represents the Bank in important international fora,
such as the G-7, G-20, the European Systemic Risk Board and the
Bank of International Settlements in Basel. The Governor is an
executive member of the Bank’s Court of Directors.  The Governor will work closely with the Chancellor of the
Exchequer and  HM Treasury , which is responsible for setting the
framework under which the Bank operates.  The new Governor will lead the Bank through major reforms
to the regulatory system, including the transfer of new
responsibilities that will see the Bank take the lead in
safeguarding the stability of the U.K. financial system.  The successful candidate must demonstrate that they can
successfully lead, influence and manage the change in the Bank’s
responsibilities, inspiring confidence and credibility both
within the Bank and throughout financial markets.  The successful candidate will have experience of working
in, or with, a central bank or similar institution; or will have
worked at the most senior level in a major bank or other
financial institution. He or she will demonstrate strong
leadership, management and policy skills; will have an advanced
understanding of financial markets and good economic knowledge.
He or she will be a strong communicator, have good interpersonal
skills and will be a person of undisputed integrity and
standing.  The closing date for all applications is 8:30 a.m. on 8
October 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  