-- Basel Group Faces ‘Now or Never’ Chance on Bank-Liquidity Rule
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-11T09:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/basel-group-faces-now-or-never-chance-on-bank-liquidity-rule.html
Global financial regulators begin
three days of talks today that may pave the way for a deal on
liquidity rules that lenders and the  European Central Bank  warn
could stifle the economic recovery.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will attempt to
overcome divisions within its ranks as it races to meet a self-
imposed January deadline for reviewing the liquidity coverage
ratio, or LCR, three people familiar with the discussions have
said. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has warned the measure risks
choking off bank lending, while some other regulators, including
in the U.S., say that diluting the LCR risks rendering the
standard meaningless, according to the people.  “It’s now or never for the LCR,” Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner of Washington-based Federal Financial
Analytics Inc., said in an e-mail. “If Basel can’t cobble
together an agreement on it that is more than papered-over
differences, the U.S. and U.K. will implement their own
rules, the EU will stand down and the global liquidity framework
may well dissolve.”  The 212 largest global banks would have had a collective
shortfall of 1.76 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) as of June 2011
in the assets needed to meet the LCR, according to figures
published by the Basel group based on a draft version of the
standard. Lenders have warned that full compliance with the LCR
would force them to cut loans to businesses and households.  Credit Squeeze  The LCR, which would force  banks  to hold enough easy-
to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze, was drawn up
by the Basel committee as part of a package of measures in
response to the 2008 financial crisis. It is scheduled to become
binding as of Jan. 1, 2015.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , has said that the U.S. should consider withdrawing from the
Basel committee and that the rules it sets are “anti-
American.”  The LCR is one of the main items on the agenda of the
Basel meeting, which begins today in Istanbul, according to the
people. The Basel group declined to comment on the talks.  The draft version of the LCR “strongly penalizes
interbank lending,” Draghi said in a closed-door session of the
European Parliament in Brussels last week. The ECB is also
concerned that the rule may make it harder for the central bank
to implement its monetary policies, and that it may restrict
lending to the real economy, the people said last month.  Eligible Assets  The ECB’s requests include that the list of eligible assets
that banks can use to meet the LCR should be expanded to include
some asset-backed securities and loans to businesses, as part of
a broader push to align the measure with its own collateral
rules, the people said.  Regulators at the Basel meeting will also discuss draft
reports on how well the EU, the U.S. and  Japan  are implementing
other parts of an overhaul of bank regulation agreed on by the
Basel committee in 2010, according to two of the people.  The papers are part of a so-called peer review process
intended to ensure that the measures, known as Basel III, are
applied similarly in all major economies.  An interim report published by the Basel committee in June
said that draft rule making in the EU, the U.S. and Japan was
weaker that the globally-agreed standards. The final report is
scheduled to be published before the end of the year.  Australia , one of the countries responsible for peer-
reviewing the EU, has complained that  Europe  intends to grant
its banks exemptions from parts of the capital rules.  The Basel committee brings together banking regulators from
27 nations including the U.S., the U.K., and  China , to
coordinate rule-making.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  