-- Belgium’s Savers Reinforce Government Yield Drop: Euro Credit
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-09-11T09:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/belgium-s-savers-reinforce-government-yield-drop-euro-credit.html
Belgium ’s savers are stashing away
enough money to convince bondholders that the nation’s debt
remains lucrative even as the government cuts growth forecasts.  Since December, when savers bought a record 5.73 billion
euros ($7 billion) of retail bonds,  Belgium’s 10-year yield  has
fallen to 2.65 percent from an 11-year high of 5.86 percent
reached Nov. 25. The yield premium to German debt has narrowed
to 112 basis points from 360 in November, helped by lawmakers
ending an 18-month standoff to form a government.  “Having a government and having resources to fund your
whole budget domestically, that calmed down markets,” said
Peter De Keyzer, chief economist at Fortis Bank in Brussels.
“As often in the euro zone crisis and with Belgium as well,
it’s ‘is the market half-full or half-empty?’ We still have a
good relative position compared to other countries.”  Belgians held 229.2 billion euros in  savings accounts  at
domestic banks at the end of July, up 10.7 billion euros from a
year earlier, according to the central bank. Domestic ownership
of Belgian government bonds rose to 48.3 percent last year from
44.3 percent in 2010 and Belgian investors also increased their
holdings of treasury bills to 20.8 percent from less than 10
percent a year earlier, the Brussels-based Debt Agency reported.  Belgian households have a total net worth of 759 billion
euros and they sock away about 20 billion euros per year,
excluding changes in the value of their investments, according
to Julien Manceaux, a senior economist at ING Group NV in
Brussels. Savings may increase as the debt crisis makes Belgians
more risk averse, he wrote in a note to clients.  Relative Returns  Belgian  government bonds  have returned 12 percent so far
this year, the sixth-best performance in local currencies among
26 markets tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. That compares
with a 7.6 percent return for French debt and 2.8 percent for
German bunds.  Belgium’s deficit still exceeds the levels demanded by
European Union rules, and the country must whittle its debt as
its economy shrinks and bank bailouts require more financing.
Dexia SA’s government-guaranteed debt, backed by Belgium, France
and Luxembourg, rose to more than 70 billion euros last year for
the first time since October 2009, and the bank also receives
central bank loans and other public assistance.  Deficit Targets  The Belgian government has pledged to shrink the country’s
budget deficit to 2.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2012
from 3.7 percent in 2011. Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo’s six-
party government remains committed to this target even though it
has revised down its growth projections for the year, Finance
Minister Steven Vanackere told Belgian lawmakers last month.  The domestic economy contracted less than initially
estimated in the second quarter as the biggest retreat of
private consumption in more than three years and a depletion of
stocks reduced demand for goods made abroad.  GDP in Belgium fell 0.5 percent from the first quarter,
compared with an initial estimate of a 0.6 percent decline on
Aug. 1, the  National Bank of Belgium  said today in a statement.
The slump in the second quarter, which followed a 0.2 percent
expansion in the first quarter, was the biggest in more than
three years.  Belgium’s borrowing plan assumes a  federal budget  deficit
of 8.23 billion euros this year. The nation has already
completed almost 99 percent of its long-term funding planned
this year.  Debt Insurance  ING’s Manceaux said the financial crisis has given Belgian
savers “an unprecedented preference” for safety. Total
household net savings are about twice the country’s outstanding
national debt, which is also about the same size as annual
Belgian GDP.  The cost of protecting Belgian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps has fallen 68 percent from
a record on Nov. 25, when  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s
credit rating to AA from AA+. Contracts on Belgium trade at
about 137 basis points, reducing the gap with French swaps to 14
basis points from 91 at the start of this year.  Savings waiting in the wings were “a key factor” in last
year’s successful retail bond sale, said  Laurent Fransolet , head
of European fixed-income strategy at London-based Barclays Plc.  Almost 300,000 retail investors piled in to December’s 5.73
billion-euro sale, according to estimates from the debt agency.
The offering occurred after caretaker Prime Minister  Yves Leterme  promoted it in parliament and the future government led
by Elio Di Rupo exempted the securities on sale from an increase
in the  tax rate  on interest from fixed-income securities to 21
percent from 15 percent.  “This was a game changer for Belgium,” Fransolet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  