-- Berlin Old Masters Win Reprieve After Outcry Over Removal Plan
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-09-11T16:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/berlin-old-masters-win-reprieve-after-outcry-over-removal-plan.html
Berlin’s Botticellis, Rembrandts
and Titians won a reprieve as museum authorities announced they
are reconsidering plans to move them from their home at the
 Gemaeldegalerie  to make way for 20th-century art.  The city’s museum directors have now commissioned a
feasibility study to look at alternative options for housing its
collections, the  Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation  said in a
statement sent by e-mail. Encompassing more than 3,000 works
spanning five centuries, Berlin’s collection of  Old Masters  is
one of the world’s greatest.  The planned move had sparked online petitions and furious
newspaper columns. More than 13,000 people signed one  petition 
calling on Berlin to “reconsider the plan to empty the
Gemaeldegalerie of Old Masters.” German newspapers had warned
the move threatened to “destroy one of the best museums in the
world” and called it “an act of barbarism.”  “Against the background of the controversial debate, it is
a question on the one hand of developing an appropriate
perspective for exhibiting the Old Masters and on the other, of
doing justice to the Nationalgalerie’s 20th-century
collection,” the foundation said in its statement.  The Gemaeldegalerie’s treasures include works by Raphael,
Brueghel, Vermeer, Duerer and Caravaggio. Their move from the
Potsdamer Platz museum was announced after the city acquired a
private collection of 150 surrealist paintings, sculptures and
drawings from Ulla and Heiner Pietzsch.  Miro, Rothko  With an estimated value of 150 million euros ($192
million), the Pietzsch collection includes works by  Max Ernst ,
 Rene Magritte  and  Joan Miro  as well as American abstract
expressionists such as  Mark Rothko  and  Jackson Pollock . The
Pietzsches made the gift on condition that it would be displayed
in one of the Berlin’s big museums.  Critics objected to the plan to move out the Old Masters in
favor of modern art and temporarily showing just part of the
world-class collection in the  Bode Museum  until a new museum is
built for it on the Museum Island complex near the city’s
central boulevard, Unter den Linden.  The feasibility study, to be presented in early 2013, will
examine alternative options, including moving the Old Masters
only after a new home has been built for them on Museum Island;
leaving the Old Masters where they are and building a new museum
for 20th-century art at Potsdamer Platz; and the original plan
to move the Old Masters into temporary accommodation while a
museum is being built for them.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on arts and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 