-- Best Buy Takes on RadioShack in Mobile Strip-Mall Push: Retail
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-09-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/best-buy-takes-on-radioshack-in-mobile-strip-mall-push-retail.html
Even before starting work as Best
Buy Co.’s new chief executive officer, Hubert Joly zeroed in on
the chain’s strategy to open smaller stores dedicated to selling
mobile phones, e-readers and tablets.  Six days before his Sept. 4 debut, Joly met with the
mobility chief, Shawn Score, and ordered him to find “new
runways for growth,” Score said in a phone interview.  In the next three years, Best Buy will more than double the
number of mobile stores to as many as 800 even as it closes and
shrinks big-box locations to reverse declining same-store sales. 
Score told Joly he was targeting strip malls, pocked with vacant
storefronts in the wake of the downturn and the bankruptcies of
such chains as Blockbuster. The move pits Best Buy against
 RadioShack Corp. (RSH) , which also favors strip malls and is focusing
on mobile devices and services.  The logic of opening in strip malls is twofold: cheaper
rent and strong foot traffic, Score said.  “There is a lot of real estate around in places where
50,000 people drive by every day,” he said. “We are finding
great locations. The payback is quicker than at malls.”  The clock is ticking. The Richfield, Minnesota-based
chain’s revenue may decline 2.6 percent to $49.4 billion this
year, according to the average estimate of 20 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “The situation requires urgent action, not because there
is a fire but because this is a very competitive world,” Joly
said in a telephone interview last week.  Lowest Discount  Best Buy fell 0.3 percent yesterday to $18.18 in  New York .
The shares have slid 22 percent this year and are on course for
their fourth annual decline in five years. On a price-to-
earnings basis, the stock trades at a 77 percent  discount  to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index. In July, the discount
reached 78 percent, the lowest since at least 1993, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Best Buy began opening smaller stores to sell mobile phones
in 2006 and has trained its salesmen to show customers how
gadgets work together. Best Buy is focusing on mobile to
generate fees from warranties, service contracts and
accessories. U.S. shipments of tablets will rise 54 percent this
year and smartphones 26 percent, according to IDC, a Framingham,
Massachusetts-based research firm.  “It makes a lot of sense for Best Buy to migrate down this
path,” said  Matt Arnold , a  Des Peres , Missouri-based analyst
for Edward Jones & Co. “Profitability in these smaller
locations is not as big a challenge. It signals intensifying
competition for RadioShack in a very competitive market.”  Dated Image  While RadioShack has 4,400 company-run stores, most of them
free-standing or located in strip centers, the Fort Worth,
Texas-based chain suffers from a dated image. Best Buy,
meanwhile, is moving in with modern stores.  Best Buy “is an emerging player in this space,” said
Bruce Bishop, a spokesman for RadioShack. “I don’t think
anybody really competes with the presence that we have.”  While Best Buy is also competing with stores operated by
Verizon Communications Inc. and AT&T Inc., selling tablet
computers, e-readers and other devices gives Best Buy “an
advantage over the carrier stores that aren’t psyched about
selling beyond mobile phones,” said  Stephen Baker , a Reston,
Virginia-based analyst for NPD Group.  Initially, Score focused on indoor malls, where Best Buy
operates most of its 367 small-format stores. With good mall
space getting scarce, he began looking at strip centers, where
rents are half what they are at indoor shopping centers, Score
said.  Target Boost  Two thirds of the 32 mobile stores Score plans to open
before Thanksgiving are in strip centers in such cities as  San
Antonio , Spokane,  Washington  and  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . He’s
eyeing vacant spots near big-draw stores, including  Target
Corp. (TGT) ,  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and supermarket chains.  In Florida, local managers of Best Buy mobile stores are
cross-marketing with other tenants in shopping centers. In
Miami, a store is redeeming receipts from an adjacent Papa
John’s International Inc. restaurant for a discount on phone
upgrades, Score said. A second Miami store has a similar
relationship with a nearby bank.  Best Buy says it has boosted its share of the U.S. mobile-
phone market over the past six years while its total market
share has remained flat. As such, the mobile unit has emerged as
“a success story,” Joly said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  