-- Biggest Korea 2012 Bond Withdrawals No Deterrent to Manulife
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o ,   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-09-11T06:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/biggest-korea-bond-withdrawals-in-2012-no-deterrent-to-manulife.html
Manulife Asset Management, a unit
of  Canada ’s largest insurer, is sticking with  South Korea ’s
government bonds on bets the won will strengthen, even after
foreign investors cut holdings of the debt by 2.6 trillion won
($2.3 billion) in August, the biggest withdrawals this year.  The company that oversees $37 billion of fixed-income
assets is overweight in South Korean notes as the local currency
is undervalued relative to the yen, a boon for the nation’s
exports, and yields are attractive, Endre Pedersen, managing
director at Manulife Asset, said in an interview yesterday.
Korean securities accounted for 14.2 percent of Manulife’s  Asia
Total Return Bond Strategy (MASTRID)  fund as of July 31, up from 13.6
percent a month earlier, according to the company’s website.
Pedersen said holdings haven’t changed much since.  “The currency is cheap relative to the yen,” said
Singapore-based Pedersen at Manulife Asset, a unit of Canada’s
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  “We are looking at the debt from a
rate perspective, the currency and credit. South Korea is
ticking all these boxes.”  Manulife remains bullish on South Korean debt as analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg predict the won will advance 6 percent
against the dollar by the end of September 2013, the most among
 Asia ’s 11 major currencies after dropping 3.9 percent in the
past year compared with a 0.6 percent depreciation in the yen.
Overseas funds’ holdings of Korean notes decreased as 2.8
trillion won of securities held by foreigners matured and a
bond-market rally encouraged investors to lock in profits, the
Financial Supervisory Service said in a statement on Sept. 5.  Best Returns  Manulife’s Asia Total Return fund rose 8.6 percent this
year, exceeding the average 5.7 percent for its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Korea ’s government bonds handed investors the best return
this quarter among 10 Asian markets tracked by HSBC Holdings
Plc, as the central bank reduced borrowing costs for the first
time since 2009 and the Asia nation’s sovereign credit rating
was upgraded by Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  The  yield  on five-year notes fell 58 basis points, or 0.58
percentage point, this year to 2.88 percent yesterday and
touched a record low of 2.82 percent on Sept. 5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In the  Philippines , where the peso
is Asia’s best-performing currency in the past year,  yields  on
similar-maturity debt declined 27 basis points since Dec. 31 to
4.81 percent.  South Korean securities have returned 3.5 percent this
quarter, compared with gains of 3.2 percent in the Philippines,
3.3 percent for  Indonesia  and 1.8 percent for  India , according
to local-currency debt indexes compiled by HSBC.  Becoming Expensive  Won-denominated bonds are becoming expensive and there’s
less scope for further gains as investors predict only one more
reduction in borrowing costs this year, according to Hwang Jae
Hong, who oversees 12 trillion won as head of fixed income at
UBS Hana Asset Management Co. in  Seoul .  The nation’s three-year notes have yielded less than the
central bank’s benchmark rate since July 6, the longest period
on record. The yield on the 3.25 percent securities due June
2015 was at 2.77 percent as of 2:13 p.m. in Seoul, compared with
 Bank of Korea ’s  seven-day repurchase rate  of 3 percent.  Pressure for Correction  The central bank next meets on Sept. 13, with 15 out of 16
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecasting a 25 basis
point cut. One predicts no change. The Bank of Korea reduced the
policy rate in July for the first time since 2009 before having
kept it on hold last month as the nation’s  gross domestic
product  expanded 2.3 percent in the second quarter, the least
since three months to September 2009.  “To be bullish on bonds at these levels, you need to have
confidence that the Bank of Korea will lower rates twice more
this year, which is unlikely,” Hwang said in a Sept. 6
interview. “Considering the central bank will probably cut the
rate just once more this year and yields are already reflecting
that, South Korean bonds are facing pressure for a correction.”  The won’s 29 percent depreciation against the yen in the
past four years is boosting the competitiveness of South Korean
exporters over their Japanese rivals, which will help support a
rebound in the nation’s exports, Manulife’s Pedersen said. He
declined to provide a forecast for the currency or yields.  “We expect to see Asian currencies as all long-term
strengthening, but the one that has more catch-up to do is the
Korean won,” Pedersen said.  Technical Perspective  Exports, which account for about half South Korea’s $1.1
trillion economy, dropped 6.2 percent in August, the sixth
monthly decline of 2012, official data show. In  Japan , where
shipments make up 16 percent of gross domestic product,  overseas
sales  fell 8.1 percent in July.  Technical indicators are signaling the won may extend its 5
percent gain since reaching a seven-month low in May, according
to Tokyo-based Rakuten Securities Inc., which used 200- and 50-
day moving averages as a guide. The currency traded at 1,128.15
per dollar today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The long-term trend from the technical point of view is
that the won is likely to add to its appreciation,”  Tsutomu
Soma , manager of Rakuten’s investment trust & fixed-income
business unit, said in a Sept. 7 interview. “The dollar is on a
gradual path of decline versus the won.” He forecasts the
greenback may reach an October low of 1,100.05 early next year.  Rating Upgrade  South Korea’s debt rating was upgraded by Fitch on Sept. 6
to AA-, the fourth-highest investment grade and one level above
Japan and  China . Moody’s raised its ranking by one step to the
fourth-highest assessment on Aug. 27, citing “strong fiscal
fundamentals.”  Korea’s government debt amounts to 33.6 percent of the
nation’s GDP, lower than Japan’s 212 percent, China’s 43.5
percent and  Taiwan ’s 36.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The country’s foreign-exchange  reserves  stood at an all-
time high of $317 billion at the end of August.  The nation posted a record  current-account  surplus of $6.1
billion in July, taking the full-year figure to $19.9 billion,
the central bank reported on Aug. 29.  “The won has room to strengthen from here in the medium to
long term, with its relatively cheap valuation and robust
current account,” Takahide Irimura, Tokyo-based head of
emerging-market research at Kokusai Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $43 billion, said in an interview yesterday.
“The won is likely to stay on a gradual appreciation path from
here and a solid return can be expected from their bonds this
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 