-- Bill Gross Sees Higher Long-Term Yields Amid Reflation
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-11T03:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/bill-gross-sees-higher-long-term-yields-amid-reflation.html
Long-term bond yields will be
higher than short-term rates in the U.S. and Europe because of
reflation, according to  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest
bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Bond yield curves will be “very steep” for “a very long
time,” Gross wrote in a Twitter  post  yesterday. A period of
reflation is under way, he wrote. Investors should expect
“higher long rates” and “low short rates,” according to
Gross, who is based in Newport Beach, California.  So-called yield curves are already steepening in the U.S.
and Germany. The  gap  between 10- and 30-year U.S. rates widened
to as much as 1.18 percentage points yesterday, the most since
May. Thirty-year bonds, because of their long maturity, are more
sensitive to inflation than shorter-term Treasuries.  The  spread  between 10- and 30- year German yields was 85
basis points yesterday. The difference was as wide as 91 basis
points on July 24, the most since September 2011.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  on Sept. 6
announced an unlimited bond-purchase program to gain control of
 interest rates  in the euro region. Weaker-than-expected U.S. job
growth in August has fueled bets the  Federal Reserve  will add
more stimulus to the economy through bond purchases when it
meets this week.  Fed Bets  The Fed will give “strong hints” or provide “positive
action” at this week’s  Federal Open Market Committee  meeting,
Gross said in a Sept. 7 radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. The central bank
will likely ease further through “open-ended” purchases of
Treasuries and mortgages and extend its pledge to keep interest
rates low into 2015, he said.  Payrolls rose a less-than-projected 96,000 in August and
the  unemployment rate  declined as more Americans left the  labor
force , indicating the employment market is stagnating. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an Aug. 31 speech in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, the central bank will provide more stimulus as
needed to promote a stronger economic recovery.  The Fed has expanded its  balance sheet  with two rounds of
quantitative easing, purchasing $2.3 trillion of assets between
December 2008 and June 2011.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund gained 8.5 percent during the
past year, beating 93 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund gained 0.9 percent in the past
month, topping 92 percent of comparable funds.  Inflation Expectations  Investors should “continue to expect an attempted
inflationary solution in almost all developed economies over the
next few years and even decades,” Gross wrote in his monthly
investment outlook on Pimco’s  website  on July 31.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, has widened to 2.38 percentage
points from 1.95 percentage points at the end of 2011. The
average over the past decade is 2.16 percentage points.  Inflation isn’t a danger yet, according to Marc Fovinci,
head of fixed income in  Portland , Oregon at Ferguson Wellman
Capital Management Inc., which has $3.1 billion in assets.  “That risk is there, but it’s at least many months, if not
years, down the road,” Fovinci said. “As noted in the yield
curve, we’re seeing a little bit of steepening. But the  U.S.
economy  is just too weak to spur prices on if retailers and
sellers of whatever goods don’t have customers who are willing
to pay higher prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  