-- BlackRock Fined $15 Million by U.K. FSA Over Client Money
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-11T10:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/blackrock-fined-15-million-by-u-k-fsa-over-client-money.html
A U.K. unit of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  was
fined 9.5 million pounds ($15.2 million) for failing to properly
protect client money over a three-and-a-half-year period.  BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Ltd. didn’t take
reasonable care to identify and protect client money and didn’t
have trust letters for some of its money-market deposits with
third-party banks, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said in
a statement today. The average daily balance affected was more
than 1.36 billion pounds,  according to the regulator .  “Despite being part of one of the largest asset managers
in the world, BIM’s systems were simply not adequate, and the
basic step of notifying banks that the money was held on trust
for clients was not done,” Tracey McDermott, the head of
enforcement at the FSA, said.  The errors in setting up trust letters were a result of New
York-based BlackRock’s acquisition of the unit, which was
previously Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Ltd., according to
the FSA. BlackRock reported the failings to the regulator and
received the FSA’s standard 30 percent discount for cooperating.  “The situation that led to this settlement was not
deliberate and no clients suffered any losses as a result of the
error,” Jonathan Mullen, a spokesman for BlackRock, said in an
e-mailed statement. “Still, we regret this instance where our
U.K. procedures regarding money-market deposits for a number of
our clients were not consistent with applicable standards.”  Rules Overhaul  The regulator said last week it is planning to require
banks, brokerages and other companies to better protect clients’
funds, particularly when their investment firm fails. The plans
include overhauling rules on the treatment of margin assets
posted by failed companies for their derivatives trades and
amount to “the most radical change in the client-assets regime
in over 20 years,” the FSA said.  The FSA plans include that an  investment company  could
divide up its clients’ money into various ring-fenced “sub-
pools,” so not all its clients would face the same losses in
the event of insolvency, the regulator said.  The agency stepped up enforcement of client-money rules
after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
The New York-based bank’s former U.K. unit failed to segregate
billions of dollars of client funds from its own accounts,
leaving creditors with competing claims that resulted in years
of litigation. The issue has resurfaced in the administration of
MF Global Holding Ltd.’s U.K. unit.  In 2010, the FSA levied its largest fine at the time, 33.3
million pounds ($53 million), against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
London unit for not properly separating an average of $8.6
billion of client money over seven years. Last year, it fined
Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. 1.12 million pounds for failing
to put as much as 752 million pounds-a-day in client money into
protected accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  