-- BlackRock Sees Dividends Stoking Russia Stock Valuations 40%
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-09-11T09:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/blackrock-sees-dividends-stoking-russia-stock-valuations-40-2-.html
Russian stock valuations will climb
40 percent in a year’s time as the government pushes energy
companies to increase dividends, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s
Sam Vecht.  “Perception about  Russia  takes a long time to change, but
we will see a serious re-rating if it is proven that these
dividends are here to stay and not a temporary phenomenon,”
Vecht, who heads the emerging  Europe  equity team at the world’s
biggest asset manager, said in a Sept. 7 interview in  London .  Russian equities  have the cheapest valuations among
 emerging markets . The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trades at 5.5 times
 estimated earnings , compared with 10 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A government
push to lift the minimum payout at state companies and a 21
percent drop on MSCI Inc’s Russia gauge in May has sent equity
yields surging as dividends increase faster than stock prices.  MSCI Russia’s 3.5 percent  dividend  yield compares with 2.9
percent for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The combined payout for Micex companies jumped 44 percent
during the past 12 months to 48 rubles per share, compared with
a 0.7 percent advance in share prices, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Micex rallied on July 10 after President  Vladimir Putin 
said told executives and government officials that energy
companies, which account for about 54 percent of Russia’s stock
market capitalization, should consider boosting dividends.
Moscow-based OAO Rosneft more than doubled its payout a month
earlier after a request from the President.  Gazprom, Lukoil  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s largest company, this year more than
doubled its 2011 dividend to a record-high of 8.97 rubles a
share from 3.85 rubles in 2010, pushing its dividend yield to
5.49 percent. The company plans to maintain dividend payouts at
25 percent of net income for 2012 and 2013, Chief Financial
Officer Andrey Kruglov told reporters in Moscow on June 28.  Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly can pay even higher
dividends, which will boost the stock from its current multiples
of 2.9 times earnings, according to Vecht, who manages the $200
 Blackrock Eastern Europe Trust. (EST)   “We would expect a re-rating if we see a sustained
dividend yield and greater clarity on efficiency of capital
expenditure use,” he said, referring to Gazprom. The company is
the second-cheapest on the Micex after OAO Transneft, Russia’s
oil pipeline operator, which trades at 1.6 times profit.  Becoming Bullish  Recent dividend payments and share buybacks in Eastern
Europe have been “transformational,” according Vecht, who
cited a dividend yield of 8 percent at  KazMunaiGaz National Co. (KMG) ,
the Kazakh state-run power company and buybacks by Russian
potash company OAO Uralkali and  Dragon Oil Plc., (DGO)  an oil explorer
focused on  Turkmenistan .  Vecht became bullish for “only the third time in his
career” on May 31 this year, as investors steered clear of risk
assets, he said.  “My strong feeling at the time when you have everybody in
the same trade and with the same assumption, the chance of
something else happening are pretty high,” Vecht said. “That
was the bottom and we have seen a big rally from distressed
levels and there has now been a big move into risk assets.”  The 30-stock Micex gauge has rallied 5 percent so far this
year compared with a 5.7 percent gain for the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. (MXEF)   “Emerging markets have been wrongly perceived by investors
who had grouped them in with peripheral Europe,” said Vecht.
“Their debt and structural problems are not in the same
league.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  