-- BOE’s McCafferty Says U.K. Must Continue Fiscal Squeeze: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-11T11:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/boe-s-mccafferty-says-u-k-must-continue-fiscal-squeeze-economy.html
Bank of  England  policy maker  Ian McCafferty  said Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  must
maintain his fiscal squeeze as any easing could push up gilt
yields and hurt the central bank’s efforts to boost growth.  “He needs to maintain the austerity program,” McCafferty,
who joined the Monetary Policy Committee this month, told
lawmakers at his appointment hearing in London today.
“Otherwise, there are risks we would see disruption in
financial markets and that would steepen the yield curve and
significantly damage what we are trying to do” at the Bank of
England, he said.  As Parliament’s Treasury Committee questioned McCafferty to
seek clues on his policy leanings, he noted recent short-term
economic disruptions and said he wanted to see more evidence
before deciding whether the central bank should expand its so-
called  quantitative-easing  program. Still, he also said
inflation may ease at a slower pace than the BOE has forecast
and that the economy may have “more momentum” than recent
gross-domestic-product data suggest.  “We are in a position of significant uncertainty as to
where the economy is,” he said, noting the impact on second-
quarter GDP from an extra public holiday in June. “As a result,
I would like to see more evidence before I make any decision on
whether to continue with more QE or not.”  The Bank of England held its bond-purchase target at 375
billion pounds ($601 billion) this month. The program has helped
to reduce U.K. government bond yields, with the 10-year gilt
falling to a record-low 1.407 percent on July 23. The yield was
at 1.73 percent today.  Fiscal Plan  McCafferty is the former chief economic adviser at the
Confederation of British Industry and replaced  Adam Posen  as a
so-called external member of the MPC. Noting the impact on
business confidence of the escalation in the euro-area debt
crisis in late 2011, he said further developments in the region
will play a part in any decisions on more stimulus.  On the fiscal squeeze, McCafferty said Osborne should wait
for the  Office for Budget Responsibility ’s new economic and
fiscal forecasts before deciding whether to alter his budget
plans.  “I think it’s too early to decide until we see what the
OBR estimates are,” McCafferty said. Should the OBR’s forecasts
show a need for the chancellor to change his plan, “it’s going
to be a difficult decision because he has to balance the need to
deliver the fiscal program and maintain confidence of financial
markets with the need to both ensure short-term demand.”  Inflation Target  In written testimony to lawmakers, McCafferty said there
are upside risks to inflation related to the recent increase in
oil and food-commodity prices. The  Bank of England  sees the U.K.
inflation rate falling below its 2 percent target in the fourth-
quarter of 2013.  These increases “if sustained, may lead to inflation
falling rather more slowly than set out in the Bank’s August
forecast, posing a downside risk to the rate of U.K. consumer
demand growth,” he said. “These downside risks are to a
certain extent already built into existing forecasts of the
outlook for the U.K. If they do not materialize, or are quickly
resolved, growth in the U.K. economy may be higher than current
projections.”  Separately today, the  Office for National Statistics  said
Britain’s  trade deficit  narrowed more than economists forecast
in July as exports soared the most in more than nine years. The
goods-trade gap fell to 7.2 billion pounds from 10.1 billion
pounds in June. Exports rose 9.3 percent, the biggest increase
since January 2003, while imports fell 2.1 percent.  The pound rose against the dollar today and was up 0.2
percent at $1.6024 as of 12:44 p.m. in London.  Japan Cuts  In  Japan  today, Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said that the
government will keep monitoring the economy “for a while”
before deciding whether any extra policy measures are warranted.  Second-quarter  economic growth  was yesterday revised down
to an annualized 0.7 percent from 1.4 percent, fueling concern a
contraction is possible in the three months ending September.  Separate data showed cost-cutting by Japanese companies is
dragging on wages, with nationwide compensation falling to 243.5
trillion yen ($3.1 trillion) in the second quarter. The number,
which is seasonally adjusted, was only 0.7 percent above the
level in the final quarter of 2009, which was the lowest since
1991.  In one positive sign, Japan’s largest manufacturers turned
optimistic for the first time in four quarters, according to a
government index released today.  Australian Confidence  Australian  business confidence  declined in August as a
slowdown in global growth intensified pressure on the resources
industry that drives the nation’s economy, a National Australia
Bank Ltd. survey released in Sydney today showed.  Other economies in the Asia-Pacific region are showing
signs of withstanding the slowdown. Philippine exports rose for
a fourth month in July, a report showed today. New Zealand
consumer purchases on debit, credit and store cards at retail
outlets rose by the most since December 2002.  The U.S. will probably report a  trade deficit  of $44
billion in July, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey ahead of a report today.  In his testimony, the Bank of England’s McCafferty said the
main risk to the U.K. economy stems from the euro-area crisis,
while cooling global growth may also hamper the recovery.  “The risk of a deeper euro-zone recession hitting export
demand from the U.K. has increased,” he said. “Recently, there
have also been signs of a loss of economic momentum more widely,
with both the U.S. and Chinese economies slowing since the early
part of the year. If this were to persist into 2013, the outlook
for the U.K. would be consequently weaker.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  