-- BOE’s Miles Says Loose Policy Required to Help Anemic Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/boe-s-miles-says-loose-policy-required-to-help-anemic-economy.html
Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said officials were right to loosen policy to aid an
“anemic” economy and indicated he may be open to adding
further to stimulus.  “The banking system across much of the rich, western world
remains damaged,” Miles said in a speech in Edinburgh late
yesterday. “ Monetary policy  in the U.K. has been set to its
most expansionary setting in history, and I believe it is right
that it is still being moved further in that direction.”  The comments came days after Bank of England Chief
Economist  Spencer Dale  warned of the risks related to a
prolonged period of loose policy. Miles, who said a “rapid
return to more normal monetary policy is not imminent,” told
reporters that he is “open minded” about further stimulus.  Dale was one of two officials outvoted at the  Bank of
England ’s policy meeting in July, when the  bond-purchase target 
was increased by 50 billion pounds ($80 billion). Miles was
among the majority who favored more quantitative easing.  “The bigger picture is that over the last 12 months it’s
been pretty flattish output,” Miles said to reporters after the
speech. “The right strategy has been to be make monetary policy
more expansionary, which is what we’re doing now. Lets see where
we are at the next few meetings. I’m open minded about what the
next move should be.”  Miles also said the latest measures announced by the
 European Central Bank  to calm the debt turmoil in the euro area
could have a “significant” impact on the U.K. The currency
region is Britain’s biggest trading partner.  Powerful Forces  In his speech, Miles said the economy’s weak performance is
a sign of the “powerful” forces holding back the recovery
rather than the impotence of QE. Policy makers voted last week
to continue the 50 billion pounds ($80 billion) of bond
purchases they authorized in July.  The central bank also left its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month, where it’s been since
March 2009. Minutes of the decision, to be published on Sept.
19, will show whether officials discussed a further reduction.
They said in July that they would assess the merits of such a
move in the light of their new Funding for Lending program.  Miles said that with rates so low, the benefits of a cut
may be overshadowed by the destabilizing impact from the squeeze
it would create on lenders’ margins. He said the reasons the
bank didn’t reduce borrowing costs further in 2009 probably
still apply, “though this is something to keep monitoring.”  Balance Sheet  Still, a rate near zero doesn’t mean policy makers are
powerless, Miles said. They can always expand asset purchases or
increase liquidity insurance to banks. He also said that the
central bank will probably operate “permanently with a
substantially larger balance sheet.”  “Banks have learnt that they took excessive liquidity
risks before the crisis, and are likely to want to hold
substantially higher levels of liquid assets,” he said. “Some
of these assets are likely to be held in the form of central
bank reserves.”  Miles also said that reversing the BOE’s “unusually
accommodative” policy will be determined by the  inflation
outlook . He expects any withdrawal of stimulus to begin with
rate increases.  He said the central bank hasn’t abandoned its 2 percent
inflation target and the weak performance of the economy doesn’t
mean that QE has not helped to limit the damage from the
financial crisis.  “Some people take that fact –- the fact of weak output –-
as proof that monetary policy has stopped being effective,” he
said. “This is not very convincing because it ignores the range
of factors which have restrained demand and which might have
caused output to fall significantly had not an increasingly
expansionary monetary policy been pushing back in the opposite
direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  