-- Boehner ‘Not Confident’ of Deal to Avoid Spending Cuts
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-09-11T20:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/boehner-not-confident-of-deal-to-avoid-spending-cuts.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said he
was “not confident at all” that Congress would reach a deal on
avoiding $1.2 trillion in spending cuts set to take effect in
January.  Boehner said today the Democratic-led Senate and a lack of
leadership by President  Barack Obama  were to blame for inaction
on finding an alternative to the spending cuts to meet the
deficit target and avoid the Dec. 31 expiration of George W. Bush-era tax cuts.  “Well, I’m not confident at all,” the  Ohio Republican 
said when asked at a Capitol Hill news conference about Moody’s
Investors Service’s statement today that it may downgrade the
U.S. credit rating unless Congress finds a way to reduce the
percentage of debt-to-gross domestic product.  Moody’s said it would extend the U.S.’s Aaa rating with
negative outlook beyond 2013 if the so-called “‘fiscal cliff’
actually materialized.” The fiscal cliff refers to $1.2
trillion in automatic spending cuts and the expiration of tax
cuts that would take effect in January.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
he was “disappointed” with Boehner’s comments, adding that it
was “much too early” to give up on a deal.  “I think we have to look at the glass being half full, not
half empty all the time,” Reid told reporters.  ‘Done Its Job’  Boehner said “the House has done its job” by passing
legislation to find alternative spending cuts and extend the
Bush-era tax rates.  “The Senate at some point has to act,” Boehner said.
“Where’s the president? Where’s the leadership? Absent without
leave.”  No talks to avoid the fiscal cliff are under way in
Congress, and lawmakers in both parties have said they don’t
expect negotiations to begin in earnest until after the Nov. 6
election.  House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of  Maryland  told
reporters today he was “optimistic that once this election is
over” that the “patriotism of members -- Republican and
Democratic” will allow them to reach a deal. “I don’t think
anything is going to be done before November,” he said.  Asked about Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ’s
statement that it was a “mistake” for  House Republicans  to
agree to the spending cuts in defense and other domestic
programs, Boehner said, “It was certainly a difficult time.”  Stopgap Measure  Also today, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia
said the House is scheduled to vote Sept. 13 on a continuing
resolution to keep the federal government operating past the
Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year. Obama and congressional leaders
have tentatively agreed to a six-month stopgap measure.  As to whether the House plans to adjourn Sept. 21 until
after the election, Cantor said “the important thing is to make
sure that the necessary resources are there for the government
to continue operating.”  Hoyer said  House Democrats  plan to support the measure
because it continues the spending levels in the 2011 legislation
that extended the government’s borrowing authority.  Florida Representative  Allen West , a freshman Republican
elected on a deficit-reduction platform with support of the Tea
Party movement, said he would vote for the stopgap spending
measure even though it doesn’t contain deeper spending cuts.  Republicans won’t use the threat of a government shutdown
to push for deeper cuts, as they did in past showdowns, because
“I don’t think the American people want that,” West said.  Eight weeks before the presidential and congressional
election, “the most important thing to do is to get a different
administration and win the Senate so we can operate this place
the way it should be,” West said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  