-- BP Spill Victims Claim Gulf Hurricane Undermines Accord
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-09-12T01:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/bp-spill-victims-claim-gulf-hurricane-undermines-accord.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s proposed $7.8 billion
partial settlement of 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil-spill  claims
shouldn’t be approved because last month’s hurricane shows how
the extent of the spill’s damage still isn’t known, a victim’s
lawyer said.  Large amounts of weathered oil and tar were washed up after
Hurricane Isaac struck land in the Gulf of Mexico, showing that
the spill hasn’t been contained and is still affecting the
region, Stuart Smith, a lawyer for hundreds of Gulf Coast
property owners and fishing and tourism businesses, said in a
letter to the U.S. magistrate judge overseeing litigation over
the 2010 spill.  BP’s contention that significant future contamination from
the oil spill is unlikely is a “ridiculous proposition,” Smith
said in the Sept. 10 letter filed in federal court in  New
Orleans  today. “The landfall of Hurricane Isaac has changed the
settlement landscape.”  BP, based in  London , agreed in March to pay an estimated
$7.8 billion to resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for
economic loss, property damage and injuries. The settlement,
reached days before a scheduled trial on liability for the 2010
spill, doesn’t cover federal government claims and those of the
Gulf Coast states.  Excluded Claims  Also excluded are claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by
the spill. The settlement includes two separate agreements --one
over medical claims, the other on economic and property damage.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans granted
preliminary approval to the settlement in May and set a fairness
hearing for Nov. 8. Smith and other lawyers have been filing
objections to the settlement.  BP and the plaintiffs steering committee believe the
settlement agreements “are fair, reasonable and adequate under
the law and therefore should be granted final approval by the
court,”  Scott Dean , a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The objections were expected, “as is common in any class-
action settlement approval process,” Dean said.  Hurricane Isaac uncovered limited amounts of residual oil
from the Macondo well, BP said in a statement today. This
material was “buried in isolated stretches of shoreline we were
cleaning before the storm hit,” Mike Utsler, president of BP’s
Gulf Coast Restoration Organizations, said in the statement.  Cleanup Operations  BP has spent $14 billion on cleanup operations since the
incident, the company said.  Smith asked U.S. Magistrate Sally Shushan to open limited
discovery, or evidence-finding, on the effects of Isaac, as well
as the extent of the environmental recovery in the Gulf.  Smith hadn’t provided the settling parties with enough
opportunity to review and respond to his request for more
discovery, Shushan said in an order today. Shushan gave BP and
the plaintiffs steering committee, which reached the settlement
with the company, until Sept. 14 to respond to Smith’s request.
She didn’t order more discovery.  Even before Hurricane Isaac, “oil continues to wash up on
our beaches,” Allen Kanner, lawyer for  Louisiana  Attorney
General  Buddy Caldwell , said in a court filing last week
objecting to the settlement. “At least four of our fisheries
remain closed due to the continued concentration of oil in the
Gulf.”  The proposed settlement “unfairly transfers the risks of
future losses from BP to the victims even though BP legally
remains forever responsible,” Kanner said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  