-- Brazil’s Leftover Coffee Sales May Send ICE Futures Even Lower
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-11T08:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/brazil-s-leftover-coffee-sales-may-send-ice-futures-even-lower.html
Coffee growers in  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, still have more than half of this
season’s record crop to sell, potentially helping extend
declines for the biggest commodity loser this year.  Producers in the South American nation have yet to sell
about 60 percent of the crop, according to a Bloomberg survey of
10 traders. The country’s output climbed to a record 50.5
million bags this season, the government estimates. Harvesting
may end this month after rains delayed the crop about 30 days,
according to Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research group.  Arabica coffee futures slumped 23 percent this year, the
most of the 24 items in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge
commodities prices. Certified coffee stockpiles in warehouses
monitored by ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  climbed above 2
million bags on Sept. 7 for the first time since 2010,  exchange
data  on Bloomberg showed. Supplies may expand as the harvest
starts next month in Central America.  “At this time of the year, sales would normally be much
more advanced, but the drop in futures this year caught many
traders by surprise and some kept waiting for higher prices and
that never materialized,” Rasmus Wolthers, a trader at coffee
broker Wolthers & Associates, said by phone from Santos, Brazil
yesterday. “September and October should be months of bigger
sales and higher exports and that, coupled with the start of the
crop in Central America, could be bearish for arabica in the
short term.”  Bean Hoarding  Arabica coffee prices climbed to a 14-year high last year
after output slumped in  Colombia , the second-biggest grower of
the variety. Higher prices allowed producers to slow sales,
according to Kona Haque, an analyst in London at Macquarie Group
Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank. A government program
to finance inventories has also helped growers, she said.  “Brazilian producers have been very reluctant to sell this
year as rains damaged part of the crop, so the ones who are
well-capitalized are holding back their coffee, especially the
higher quality beans,” John Wolthers, a coffee trader at
Comexim Ltda., an exporter in Santos, said by phone yesterday.  Demand for arabica coffee, used by Seattle-based  Starbucks (SBUX) 
Corp., the world’s biggest coffee-shop owner, has slowed this
year as roasters switched to cheaper robusta beans, used in
instant coffee and espresso. Robusta usage climbed 5 million
bags in 2010-11 and 2011-12 at the expense of arabica, Macquarie
estimates. Robusta will account for 46 percent of all coffee
consumption in 2012-13, up from 44 percent this season,
according to Volcafe, a unit of trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  Brazil Exchange  Coffee on Brazil’s futures exchange BM&F Bovespa climbed
above the New York price last month for the first time since
February. “The BM&F prices trading above ICE last month show
producers aren’t well-hedged,” Comexim’s Wolthers said. Coffee
futures for December delivery on ICE are $1.7405 a pound,
compared with $223.20 a bag ($1.69 a pound) on BM&F.  “Brazil is a bit late in hedging this year, but producers
won’t flood the market with coffee as some are expecting,”
Jayme Neto, export manager at Terra Forte Exportacao e
Importacao de Cafe Ltda., said by phone from Sao Joao da Boa
Vista yesterday. “The rains have taken away from the market a
large percentage of the good quality beans that usually gets
hedged on the BM&F and that’s why you see higher prices there in
relation to New York. Demand has been weak but you also don’t
see the producer willing to sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 