-- Rousseff to Cut Rates for Brazil Utilities to Renew Licenses
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-09-11T17:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/brazil-cuts-energy-costs-to-boost-growth-through-competitiveness.html
Brazil is forcing power utilities
to cut rates that manufacturers say are the fourth-highest in
the world in a bid to make manufacturers more competitive.  President  Dilma Rousseff  said today that businesses could
see their electricity bills fall by more than the 28 percent
previously announced as part of her plan unveiled today to renew
existing licenses of power companies including Companhia
Energetica de Sao Paulo and  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA. (ELET6)   “The time has come to give back to society the benefits
for paying for investments through a lower, just and balanced
tariff,” Rousseff told executives from the  energy industry  at
an event in Brasilia. “Cheaper energy means lower production
cost and more resources for investments.”  As growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy has flagged,
Rousseff’s administration has been shifting its focus from
stimulating consumer demand to attacking the high costs of
business that have long deterred investment. Today’s energy
reduction plan is part of a “new phase” of Brazil’s
development that also include payroll tax cuts for select
industries and the auctioning of licenses to manage roads,
railways, ports and airports, Rousseff said.  Lower utility rates will also help Rousseff tame  inflation ,
which has remained above the government’s 4.5 percent target
since September 2010. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today
that the cut in electricity costs for households and businesses
will shave between 0.5 and 1 percentage point off inflation
starting next year.  Utilities Fall  Power generators and distributors fell as investors bet
that the license renewal terms offered by regulators will be
unfavorable.  Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , Brazil’s largest utility
by market value, fell 1.5 percent to 34.57 reais at 12:11 p.m.
in Sao Paulo. State-run power generator and distributor Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras, better known as Eletrobras, fell 1.2
percent and Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo fell 0.3 percent.  “The market already absorbed a good part of the negative
expectations, but an additional drop in stock prices is
possible,” Marcos Severine, utilities analyst at Banco Itau,
said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “We have to wait
to see the parameters of these projects.”  Still, analysts are divided on how the policies will affect
companies’ bottom lines. Marcio Loureiro, senior equity analyst
at Votorantim Ctvm Ltda, said the measures weren’t as severe as
the energy sector had expected.  Affect Results  “Company results could fall a bit, but nothing that is
outside their investment plans,” he said by telephone from Sao
Paulo.  Energy Minister Edison Lobao said companies that haven’t
paid off required investments under existing licenses will be
compensated.  Rousseff, in a nationally televised address to commemorate
Brazil’s Independence Day last week, outlined her goal of
reducing power rates by 16 percent for households and as much as
28 percent for larger consumers and manufacturers. Today, she
said that the cost reductions, which will come about through tax
breaks, could be even larger after regulators conclude a study
of the industry’s performance.  Contracts affecting about 20 percent of  Brazil ’s energy
generation and that are set to expire by 2017 will be renewed
under the plan, she said. Companies that don’t accept the new
terms offered by the government will have their concessions re-
auctioned.  Boosting Competitiveness  The main goal is to heighten the competitiveness of
Brazilian manufacturers, who have lost market share to cheaper
imports as a result of currency gains and rising labor costs in
recent years, and more recently from weaker domestic and
international demand. While  industrial production  expanded 0.3
percent in July, it’s still down 3.7 percent this year.  The cut on taxes charged consumers and the plans to
maintain public investments in the industry will cost the
government 3.3 billion reais a year, Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said.  Today’s announcement “shows that industry requests had
echo in the government,” Franklin Feder, Chief Executive
Officer for Alcoa Inc. in Latin America, told reporters at
today’s event.  Brazil’s industry pays an average of 330 reais ($162) per
megawatt-hour, the fourth-highest rate in the world, according
to the National Industry Confederation.  Benjamin Steinbruch, president of Sao Paulo-based
steelmaker  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional (CSNA3) , said on Aug. 15 that a 10
to 20 percent reduction of electricity rates would be
insufficient compared to much lower rates in the U.S. and  China .  “Brazil is an expensive country,” he said Aug. 15.  Feder told reporters that with the rate cuts announced
today Brazil’s production costs will be moving closer to the
world average. He added that “it’s still early to guarantee
Alcoa’s investments in the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  