-- Brent-WTI Oil Gap Sliding as North Sea Output Rebounds
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-09-12T19:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/brent-wti-oil-gap-sliding-as-north-sea-output-rebounds.html
The difference between the world’s
two most-traded grades of oil is narrowing as  North Sea 
production rebounds from the lowest level in five years.  Brent crude  on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London
cost $18.95 a barrel more than West Texas Intermediate on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . That’s down from $21.92 on Aug.
15, the most in almost 10 months. Daily exports of the four
crude grades comprising the Dated Brent benchmark will rise 24
percent in October, the biggest monthly increase in two years,
as offshore maintenance work ends, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It is when we fully exit maintenance in the North Sea
that the impact of additional barrels will be felt,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas SA’s head of commodity-markets
strategy in London, said in an interview yesterday. “The market
tends to look at the difference in price between these two
crudes as it tends to guide arbitrage activity across the
Atlantic.”  The recovery in North Sea supply is combining with a slew
of refinery repairs that are sapping demand for Brent just as
new rail links and pipelines are cutting a glut of WTI stored in
the U.S. Midwest. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has stuck this year
to a forecast that the difference between the two grades, the
most-traded spread on energy exchanges, will shrink to $5 a
barrel. BNP says it may drop to between $13 and $14 after
staying at $20 until the maintenance period ends.  Loading Programs  Exports of Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk crudes, or
BFOE, the four grades used to price Dated Brent, will average
890,323 barrels a day in October, according to loading programs
obtained by Bloomberg. That compares with 720,000 barrels a day
in September, the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling the
schedules in 2007. At the same time, more than 1.1 million
barrels a day of European refining capacity will be halted for
maintenance in October, up from 650,000 barrels this month,
according to Vienna-based JBC Energy GmbH.  Brent traded on ICE closed at a record $27.88 a barrel more
than WTI on the Nymex on Oct. 14 last year. The average during
the past five years is $5.30.  ICE’s Brent-WTI contract is the most popular of those
offered by the exchange for any two commodities. Some 28,199
lots changed hands yesterday. Trading spreads allows
participants to place wagers without buying the outright futures
themselves.  Seaway Pipeline  Loadings of Forties, which typically account for more than
40 percent of total BFOE exports, will rise to 329,032 barrels a
day, up from 180,000 barrels a day this month, the lowest level
in at least five years, programs obtained by Bloomberg showed.  That will follow the completion of scheduled maintenance at
the 200,000 barrel-a-day Buzzard oil field, the biggest
contributor to the Forties blend.  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  said it halted
Buzzard on Sept. 4 for repairs that were anticipated to last
until the middle of October.  The logjam of oil in the U.S. is easing after Enbridge Inc.
and Enterprise Products Partners LP reversed flows on the Seaway
pipeline May 19, carrying supplies from the Midwest to the Gulf
Coast refining hub. The link, transporting as much as 150,000
barrels a day from Cushing in  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
WTI, is scheduled to pump as much as 400,000 barrels a day early
next year.  About 300,000 barrels a day of Bakken shale oil is being
shipped from  North Dakota  by rail, Al Monaco, Enbridge’s
president, said July 11 in Calgary. Some rail deliveries of
Bakken are reaching Texas and Louisiana, according to  Lee Klaskow , a Skillman, New Jersey-based analyst for Bloomberg
Industries Research.  ‘Latest in Surge’  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  received the first unit-train of Bakken crude
Sept. 4 at a new offloading terminal that will allow the
company’s Anacortes refinery in Washington state to receive as
much as 50,000 barrels a day by rail, Tina Barbee, a company
spokeswoman in  San Antonio , said by e-mail on Sept. 5.  “This is only the latest in a surge in rail unloading
capacity that is likely adding more than 200,000 barrels a day
of rail-unloading capacity in the third quarter of 2012,”  David Greely , a New York-based analyst at Goldman Sachs, said in an e-
mailed report yesterday. There will “shortly be enough rail
capacity” for both loading and unloading to move all of North
Dakota’s crude production, he said.  Supplies of Canadian crude that can be sent to the U.S.
have been hampered by planned maintenance to upgrader units that
process heavy bitumen from  Alberta ’s oil sands deposits into
lighter crude.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  started six weeks of repairs
at the Fort McMurray upgrader complex earlier this month, while
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. is conducting work at its
Alberta plant this quarter.  Four-Month High  Bakken crude prices rose to a four-month high of $103.04 a
barrel on Sept. 10, while  syncrude , a synthetic oil upgraded
from tar-like bitumen in Alberta into refinery-ready crude,
jumped to $112.04 a barrel, the highest since July 26, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By comparison, WTI for
October delivery in  New York  settled yesterday at $97.17 and
traded as high as $98.06 today.  “We expect that Bakken and Canadian  crude oil  will need to
continue to flow to Cushing in the fourth quarter 2012, and WTI
prices will need to rise back above Canadian and Bakken prices
in order to motivate these flows,” Greely wrote in the report.
“At current Bakken prices, this would imply that WTI prices
could rise nearly $10 a barrel to $107 a barrel.”  Supertanker Bookings  An unprecedented flow of North Sea oil was shipped to  South
Korea  in the first half of this year after the European Union
signed a free-trade accord in July 2011 with the Asian nation.
That may resume should Brent prices become cheaper again.  A weaker Brent market will “certainly make Forties more
attractive incrementally to South Korea or other Asians,” Seth Kleinman, head of energy research at Citigroup Inc. in London,
said by e-mail on Sept. 7.  A total of 38 million barrels of North Sea crude has been
shipped to South Korea since December, vessel reports and ship-
tracking data from IHS Inc. show. Typically two or three very
large crude carriers sail every month from January and July, and
since August none has been booked for this voyage. A VLCC
carries about 2 million barrels of crude. The FTA exempted the
nation’s refiners from a 3 percent import tax on EU products.  “We have been importing North Sea crude by assessing
economics and facility-related composition matters,” said Yoo
Jung Min, a Seoul-based spokesman at SK Innovation Co., which
owns South Korea’s biggest oil refiner, by phone yesterday.
“When adjusting sources of suppliers, we will closely consider
various elements, including economics.”  The eastbound flow slowed down because of planned
maintenance for a VLCC jetty at Hound Point, the loading
terminal for Forties in  Scotland , and as the price of the crude
advanced. The  grade  averaged a premium of 26 cents a barrel to
Dated Brent in August and was at minus 22 cents yesterday.  “We will start to see some VLCCs to South Korea more than
offset an increase of supply in Europe,”  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director of research group Petromatrix GmbH, said on
Sept. 7 by phone from Zug,  Switzerland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  