-- BTG’s Esteves Drives ‘Better Than Goldman’ Rise in Bank’s Clout
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-09-11T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/btg-s-esteves-drives-better-than-goldman-rise-in-bank-s-clout.html
As UBS AG’s losses from subprime-mortgage bets swelled in early 2008,  Andre Esteves , already a
billionaire as he neared 40, approached his 150-year-old
employer with a deal.  The Rio de Janeiro native would supply UBS with much-needed
capital two years after the Swiss giant had paid him and his
partners $3.1 billion for their Brazilian investment bank. In
return, Esteves sought a controlling stake, people familiar with
the plans say. UBS’s board rejected the proposal, and Esteves
soon quit as global head of fixed income.  With UBS’s cash crunch deepening in 2009, Esteves and some
former partners offered $2.5 billion to repurchase their firm.
This time, UBS accepted. Since then, Esteves, 44, has fashioned
what’s now  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11)  into a regional power to challenge
weakened global rivals and still-sturdy local institutions,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its October special issue
on  the 50 Most Influential people in global finance .  With his bank No. 1 in Brazilian equity underwriting,
Esteves jokes that BTG -- officially Banking and Trading Group -
- stands for Better Than Goldman.  Esteves is leading a shift from a Wall Street-dominated
universe as he amasses clout in the largest emerging economy
after  China . Aiding him is what he calls global finance’s worst
moment: misbehavior ranging from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
multibillion-dollar derivatives loss to the rigging by Barclays
Plc and other firms of the  London  interbank offered rate.  ‘Courage and Guts’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , once Wall Street’s most
profitable firm, posted a 5.4 percent second-quarter return on
equity; BTG returned 30.8 percent.  “He’s got a lot of courage and guts, and he makes things
happen,” says  Arthur Byrnes , who oversees almost $1 billion as
chairman of New York-based Deltec Asset Management LLC and who
doesn’t own BTG shares. “My only advice is, don’t go too fast.”  Esteves, who peppers his rapid-fire Portuguese with such
English phrases as “value proposition,” says he still admires
chief executive officers Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan and Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman.  Alejandro Vollbrechthausen, president of Goldman Sachs in
 Brazil , says the feeling is mutual.  “These guys are fantastic,” he says of BTG. “Sometimes they
are our clients; sometimes they are competitors; sometimes,
trading partners.”  Global Mastodons  Even so, Esteves compares major banks to mastodons.  “The big global banks -- without going into specific names
-- were very out of control, very unregulated, very ownerless,”
Esteves says at BTG’s Sao Paulo headquarters.  “We’ll still see years of transformation, and part of that
transformation is a certain contraction. Obviously, that’s an
opportunity.”  Since 2008, Esteves, as BTG chairman and CEO, has moved to
capitalize on the big banks’ upheaval. He has tripled assets
under management to more than $85 billion. He has opened Hong
Kong, London and  New York  offices and acquired brokerages in
Chile and Colombia.  BTG earned the biggest chunk of its $1.6 billion in  revenue 
in the first half of 2012 by speculating with its own capital --
especially betting on declines in Brazilian borrowing costs and
an improving U.S. mortgage market. The next-largest slice came
from brokerage operations.  The billionaire’s time at UBS was like an MBA, says Marcelo Mesquita, a former co-head of Brazilian equities for the Swiss
bank.  “The internationalization of the business was very much a
consequence of this global experience,” says Mesquita, who now
runs Rio-based asset management firm Leblon Equities.  BTG IPO  Esteves overcame turbulent global markets in April to hold
an initial public offering in  Sao Paulo (IBOV)  and Amsterdam that
valued BTG at $14.5 billion. With the stock little changed as of
Sept. 10, his 22.5 percent stake was valued at about $3 billion.  Dismissing as temporary the rising defaults that have
accompanied Brazil’s recent slowdown, Esteves says his country
is like the U.S. five decades ago, when baby boomers joined an
urbanizing job market. Along with investments in energy and
infrastructure, BTG pours private-equity funds into companies
that stand to gain from Brazil’s growing middle class:
pharmacies, clothing retailers and real estate firms. Partly
because the economy is starving for capital, as he puts it,
Esteves doesn’t need the huge gambles that humbled his northern
colleagues. Brazil’s  interest rates , historically the highest
among major economies, also make leverage expensive.  ‘Dictatorship of Argument’  Esteves blasts the excessive compensation in the U.S. and
 Europe , which he says divorces risk from reward.  “A guy would screw everything up, switch jobs and not lose
a thing,” he says.  He’s upending that approach by inviting the best performing
of more than 160 partners to buy, at book value, more shares in
BTG each year. The worst performers must sell back some
holdings. Persio Arida, a former Brazilian  central bank 
president who joined Esteves in 2008 and helped prepare for the
Pactual repurchase, says that a partner’s persuasiveness trumps
seniority -- what he calls a “dictatorship of argument.”  Esteves sits at a workstation in the proprietary-trading
pit, facing a beige hallway unadorned by art. BTG didn’t buy the
private jet he uses for business trips and doesn’t pay to fuel
or maintain it. He spent one of two weeks of vacation time this
year in  Turkey  with his wife and three small children in July;
his face, framed by graying temples, glows from the sun.  Sunday Pizza  Every Sunday, he invites executives to his home to order
pizza and debate deals. It’s a culture that Arida, now chairman
of the asset management arm, acknowledges may be difficult to
sustain as the bank grows.  Esteves credits two mentors with bringing meritocracy to
Brazil’s financial industry:  Jorge Paulo Lemann  -- the 73-year-old mogul who arranged the Anheuser-Busch InBev NV merger in
2008 and is Brazil’s second-richest man -- and Luiz Cezar Fernandes, 67, who founded Pactual in 1983.  In a 2009 interview with Brazilian magazine “Epoca,”
Lemann said he and Esteves had discussed injecting capital into
UBS, without taking their talks further. Esteves says today they
didn’t attempt to buy control.  Fernandes hired Esteves, who was then a student at Rio’s
Federal University, as a computer technician in 1989. Raised by
his mother, a professor who lectured on education psychology,
Esteves needed the job to repay the loan for his car -- which
got stolen on his first day of work. He was promoted to fixed-income trader by 1990 and headed a nascent asset management
division soon after.  Bonus Pool  As he won a larger slice of the bonus pool, he boosted his
stake in the bank. To capture a bigger share, he took advantage
of his mentor’s misfortune. Fernandes had amassed outside debts
from diversifying into textiles, packaging and orange juice.  In 1998, Esteves and his partners demanded that he hand
over a stake in return for loans. Fernandes accepted and then
quit. In an interview with Brazilian magazine “ Piaui ” in 2006,
Fernandes said Esteves would sell his own mother to achieve
power; he now praises his former protege’s ambition.  Esteves has had run-ins with regulators. In three separate
cases since 1999, Brazil’s central bank and securities
commission alleged Pactual had illegally transferred profits to
foreign funds to disguise gains and avoid taxes.  Esteves and his partners received warnings in the first two
incidents. In the third, he and another partner were ordered to
pay a combined settlement of 100,000 reais ($50,000), with
Pactual paying another 4 million reais. The  case  closed in 2007
without any admission of guilt.  ‘Competing as Equals’  This year, before BTG’s IPO, Italy’s stock market regulator
confiscated 4.2 million euros ($5.4 million) in assets and fined
Esteves 350,000 euros for suspected insider trading. The agency
alleged he’d bought shares of meatpacker Cremonini SpA in
November 2007 while knowing of its impending joint venture with
Brazil’s JBS SA. He appealed, saying the allegations were
baseless, and the fine was canceled. The case was pending.  As his influence expands, Esteves is hiring talent from the
old guard.  “What we do here in Brazil and in much of Latin America, I
think we do as well or better than the best global banks,” he
says.  Esteves predicts a new financial landscape in a decade.  “We’re going to have a few truly global banks competing
with regional champions and competing as equals,” he says.  As banking’s mastodons lose public trust and watch once-outsize profits fade, Esteves, the brash emerging-markets
insurgent, may find that BTG stands for something rare these
days: Bank That Grows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  