-- Burberry’s Stagnating Sales Indicate End to Luxury Boom
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-09-12T08:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/burberry-s-stagnating-sales-indicate-end-to-luxury-goods-boom.html
Burberry Group Plc’s (BRBY)  flagging sales
growth suggests an end to a three-year rally in the luxury-goods
industry as wealthy shoppers cut back on past indulgences.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, (CFR)   Prada SpA (1913)  and  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  are among companies at the greatest
risk of seeing growth shrivel as weakening economies take a toll
on demand for expensive apparel and accessories, according to
 John Guy , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London.  Burberry, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods company, said
yesterday that full-year  profit  will disappoint investors after
same-store revenue stalled in the last 10 weeks, sending the
shares down the most ever and erasing 1.27 billion pounds ($2.04
billion) in market value. Richemont,  Prada , LVMH and Gucci-owner
 PPR SA (PP)  also tumbled on concern that the slowdown may not be
confined to London-based Burberry as shoppers in China and Korea
become more timid about splashing out.  “Asia is carrying the luxury industry today, so any change
in the pace of evolution there is going to affect the entire
industry,” said Uché Okonkwo, executive director of Paris-based
consultancy Luxe Corp. The region is “not as easy to crack as
it used to be so brands need to adjust.”  Luxury companies rebounded after the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., enjoying a surge in demand for
$4,100 green python shoulder bags and Rolex watches among the
world’s wealthiest shoppers. The Bloomberg European Fashion
Index had advanced 22 percent this year before yesterday. The
measure was little changed last year after advancing more than
60 percent in 2010 and 2009.  ‘Not Alone’  “We know we are not alone in terms of what we’ve seen in
the last couple of weeks,” Burberry Chief Financial Officer
Stacey Cartwright said in a phone interview yesterday, citing
conversations with other  luxury-goods  makers. Burberry’s
adjusted net income has grown by more than 10 percent each year
since 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Burberry fell 21 percent to 1,088 pence in London
yesterday, the  steepest drop  since the company’s 2002 initial
public offering. The stock rebounded slightly today, gaining 0.7
percent to 1,096 pence as of 8:54 a.m.  LVMH declined  3.4 percent to 127.8 euros in Paris trading
yesterday, Richemont fell 5.1 percent to 60.85 Swiss francs in
Zurich and Prada slid 6.3 percent to HK$60 in  Hong Kong .  Tiffany, Harry Winston  In China, where a boom in demand for watches and jewelry
has spurred sales gains for some companies, the economy grew at
the slowest pace in three years in the second quarter.  Europe ’s
debt crisis is damping the economic outlook and the region’s
banks have laid off 172,000 workers since 2009, while the U.S.
unemployment rate has been above 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest stretch in monthly records going back to 1948.  That’s starting to have an effect on both global travel and
the number of people shopping at luxury stores, said  Kate Calvert , an analyst at  Seymour Pierce . The global luxury goods
market in 2012 may expand more than 7 percent to over $302
billion, Euromonitor International said yesterday.  Bain Capital 
estimated in May that the industry grew 13 percent last year,
excluding currency moves.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer, reduced its full-year profit forecast on Aug. 27 amid
weaker sales growth.  Harry Winston , a Canadian diamond-mining
company and jewelry retailer, said last week that demand for
luxury products has slowed because of economic instability in
Europe and lower growth in export-driven  emerging markets .  Travel Budget  “If you have companies like Burberry, Tiffany and Harry
Winston talking about a slowdown, then it’s not company
specific,” said Patrik Schwendimann, head of consumer-goods
research at Zuercher Kantonalbank.  The slowdown at Burberry has been “broad-based in all of
the regions,” Cartwright said. Burberry got 37 percent of sales
from the Asia-Pacific region last year, according to Bloomberg
data. Europe accounted for 32 percent and the Americas generated
25 percent. Adjusted pretax profit for the year through March
will be at the lower end of  analyst estimates  ranging from 407
million pounds to 454 million pounds, Cartwright said.  Some of the weakness in Burberry’s sales may have been
“self-inflicted,” according to Guy, who cited the company’s
attempts to move upscale by cutting some opening-price-point
products, particularly in the U.S.  Burberry said it is “taking appropriate actions to protect
short-term profitability,” including clamping down on
discretionary expenses in areas such as hiring and travel.  Euro Boost  Luxury-goods makers with relatively high fixed-cost bases
and low operating expenses as a percentage of sales have less
room for maneuver if demand softens, Guy said.  Richemont’s operating expenses as a percentage of sales is
about 41 percent, compared with an industry average of about 45
percent, according to the analyst. Prada has a ratio of about 35
percent, compared with Burberry’s 52 percent, he said.  Paul Michon, a spokesman for PPR, declined to comment, as
did an external spokesman for LVMH.  Alan Grieve , a spokesman for
Richemont, also declined to comment.  Richemont said last week that sales increased 13 percent,
excluding currency shifts, in the five months through August,
unchanged from the rate of the first four months, as a decline
in the value of the euro led wealthy Asian visitors to spend
more on luxury goods in Europe.  “The story’s very different for Richemont,” said Rene Weber, analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. “Its organic growth
in August was the same as from April to July, so it’s not a
clear read-across from Burberry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  