-- Burberry Leads Luxury Stocks Lower as Revenue Growth Slows
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-09-11T16:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/burberry-says-profit-to-be-at-lower-end-of-market-expectations.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  fell the most
ever in London trading as the U.K.’s largest  luxury-goods  maker
said full-year profit will disappoint after sales growth slowed
globally, rattling the stocks of industry rivals.  “We know we are not alone in terms of what we’ve seen in
the last couple of weeks,” Chief Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said today in an interview, citing conversations with
other luxury-goods makers. “Traffic is down.”  Burberry fell 21 percent after Chief Executive Officer
Angela Ahrendts said the economic environment is becoming “more
challenging.” Profit for the 12 months through March will be at
the lower end of  analyst estimates , the London-based company
said, as sales at stores open at least a year were unchanged in
the 10 weeks ended Sept. 8. The announcement was the second blow
to investors in two months, after Burberry reported in July that
sales slowed as licensing revenue slipped.  “I’m not necessarily convinced that it’s just Burberry-
specific,”  John Guy , a consumer-goods analyst at Berenberg Bank
in London, said in a phone interview. Burberry has also been
hurt by its decision to cut lower-priced products, he said.  Burberry dropped 287 pence to 1,088 pence, erasing about
1.27 billion pounds ($2.04 billion) in market value.  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s biggest maker of luxury
goods, fell 3.4 percent in Paris trading,  Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA (CFR)  lost 5.1 percent in Zurich and PPR SA, owner of the
Gucci brand, declined 2.1 percent.  Earnings Estimates  “We would not be surprised if other luxury players are
seeing similar trends” to Burberry,  Kate Calvert , an analyst at
Seymour Pierce in  London , wrote today in a note, cutting her
recommendation on the stock to hold from buy.  Before today, analysts had estimated adjusted pretax profit
for the year of 407 million pounds to 454 million pounds,
according to Burberry. The average estimate of 14 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg was about 429 million pounds.  In China, where a boom in demand for watches and jewelry
has spurred sales gains for luxury-goods companies, revenue has
slowed ahead of a once-a-decade leadership transition by the
Communist Party later this year, Cartwright said. There has also
been a slowdown in gift-giving, the executive said.  Slowing Growth  “The traveling consumer out of  Asia , out of  China  in
particular, may not be as prevalent as they were in terms of
some of the entry-price products, the aspirational luxury
products,” Cartwright said. “That’s potentially hitting Europe
these last few weeks.”  Retail sales, excluding currency shifts, rose 6 percent in
the period ended Sept. 8, compared with growth of 14 percent in
the first quarter, Burberry said. Sales declined in the last
couple of weeks, Cartwright said, calling the slowdown “broad-
based in all of the regions.”  Still, some of the weakness in Burberry sales may be
“self-inflicted,” said Berenberg’s Guy, citing Burberry’s
attempts to move upscale by cutting some opening-price-point
products, particularly in the U.S.  Cost Management  The U.K. company’s faltering growth contrasts with luxury-
goods makers including Salvatore Ferragamo SpA. The Florence,
Italy-based shoemaker’s August sales were “surprisingly
positive” in the U.S. and  Europe , underpinned by international
customers, while growth in China is “still significant,” Chief
Executive Officer Michele Norsa said last month.  Burberry’s U.S. sales were disproportionately impacted by a
decision to remove some opening-price-point handbags and
trenchcoats as the company seeks to increase its upscale
positioning, Cartwright said. Spending has also been affected by
upcoming elections.  “All of that is adding to the uncertainty,” Cartwright
said. “There’s stuff coming from all directions.”  Burberry is better managing costs by clamping down on areas
such as hiring and travel, Cartwright said. The company’s
guidance for wholesale and licensing revenue remains unchanged,
the CFO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  