-- Canada Dollar Climbs for Fourth Day on Central Bank View
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-09-11T21:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/canada-dollar-climbs-for-fourth-day-on-global-growth-optimism.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened to a
13-month high versus its U.S. counterpart, on optimism measures
by policy makers in the U.S. and Europe will reduce volatility.  The currency gained for a fourth day as the  Federal Reserve 
prepares to begin a two-day policy meeting where investors
anticipate it will announce a third round of bond buying, known
as quantitative easing, to spur the economy. A German court
cleared the way for a ruling tomorrow on a European bailout
plan. The anticipated price swings versus the U.S. dollar were
almost the lowest in five years, according to options pricing.  “The movement we’ve seen in the Canadian dollar, we’re a
little suspicious of it because it seems to be part and parcel
with the theory that more global stimulus is coming and
therefore the market rallies,” said David Madani, an economist
at Capital Economics Canada in Toronto. “Global monetary policy
makers are trying to pull out all the stops right now.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed after the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.5 percent to 97.30 cents
per dollar at 4:15 p.m. in  New York . It touched 97.14 cents, the
highest since Aug. 4, 2011. One Canadian dollar buys $1.02775.  Crude oil futures rose 0.4 percent to $96.91 a barrel in
New York, for a fifth day of gains. Oil is Canada’s largest
export.  Relative Strength  The 14-day relative strength index for the Canadian dollar
versus the  U.S. dollar  rose to 71.8, the highest since March
2010. A reading above 70 indicates an asset may have rallied too
far, too quickly and may be due for a correction.  Canadian bonds fell, with the yield on the two-year
 benchmark  rising one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
1.18 percent and the yield on the 30-year security rising two
basis points to 2.44 percent. The 4 percent bond maturing in
June 2041 fell 57 cents to C$132.03.  Inflows in to the Canadian dollar today are almost twice as
strong as the daily average over the past year, according to
Bank of New York Mellon client data.  “Amongst other G-10 currencies, we are seeing steady net
flows into especially the Canadian dollar and  New Zealand dollar 
over the past week,”  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for
the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon
wrote.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the U.S. dollar
versus the Canadian currency was close to the lowest level since
May 2007 at 6.6 percent. The five-year average is 12 percent.
Implied volatility reflects the expected pace of swings for the
 currency pair .  Volatility Play  “The important thing for the Canadian dollar is that
central-bank policy has removed tail risk and crushed
volatility,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto, said in a phone interview. “The
loonie has a bias today to be higher and it’s a hard trend to
fight.”  Gains in the currency were limited after the nation’s  trade
deficit  unexpectedly widened due to plunging exports of crude
petroleum.  “The Canada data probably bears more watching as a check
on Canadian dollar strength,”  Alan Ruskin , global head of
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New
York, wrote to clients today. “The foreign-exchange market is
looking elsewhere, with broad-based U.S. dollar weakness showing
the extent to which the market believes QE3 is imminent this
week.”  Canada posted a C$2.34 billion ($2.4 billion) deficit
during the month, from a revised C$1.93 billion in June,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in New York at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  