-- Canada July International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-09-11T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/canada-july-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s international merchandise trade report for July
from  Statistics Canada .  Canada’s merchandise exports fell 3.4% and imports
decreased 2.2% in July. As a result, Canada’s trade deficit with
the world expanded from $1.9 billion in June to $2.3 billion in
July.  Exports fell to $37.7 billion as volumes decreased 2.0%.
Energy products were the main contributor to the fall in exports.  Imports decreased to $40.1 billion, mainly as a result of
lower imports of energy products as well as machinery and
equipment. Both volumes (-1.2%) and prices (-1.0%) declined.  Exports to the  United States  fell 5.0% to $27.4 billion in
July, while imports declined 2.1% to $25.3 billion. Consequently,
Canada’s trade surplus with the United States decreased from
$3.0 billion in June to $2.1 billion in July, the smallest  trade
surplus  since October 2010.  Imports from countries other than the United States
decreased 2.4% to $14.7 billion while exports rose 1.2% to $10.3
billion. As a result, Canada’s trade deficit with countries
other than the United States narrowed from $4.9 billion in June
to $4.4 billion in July.  Energy products: The largest contributor to the decrease in
exports  Exports of energy products fell 8.5% to $8.2 billion in
July on lower volumes and prices. Crude petroleum exports, down
9.6% to $5.1 billion, led the decline. Prices and volumes of
crude petroleum have been trending downwards since January 2012.
Exports of petroleum and coal product decreased for a third
consecutive month, falling 10.7% to $1.8 billion, mainly the
result of lower exports of light oils and fuel oils.  Exports of machinery and equipment decreased 5.5% to $6.7
billion, as widespread decreases were recorded within the sector.
Exports of aircraft, engines and parts fell 19.6% on lower
volumes.  Exports of automotive products decreased 5.3% to $5.9
billion, largely as a result of exports of passenger autos and
chassis, which declined 7.5% to $4.0 billion. Overall, volumes
fell 4.7% in July.  Two sectors account for the decline in imports  Imports of energy products declined 12.3% to $3.8 billion,
as both volumes and prices fell in July. Petroleum and coal
products imports, down 33.5%, accounted for the decrease in the
sector.  Imports of machinery and equipment decreased 3.7% to $10.8
billion on lower volumes. The decline in the sector was largely
attributed to a 4.7% decrease in imports of other equipment and
tools, mainly measuring and controlling instruments as well as
air conditioning and refrigeration equipment. Imports of other
industrial machinery and office machines and equipment also
contributed to the decline in the sector.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada’s
international balance of payments (BOP), which also includes
trade in services, investment income, current transfers as well
as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a BOP and a customs basis for the United
States,  Japan  and the  United Kingdom . Trade data for all other
individual countries are available on a customs basis only. BOP
data are derived from customs data by making adjustments for
factors such as valuation, coverage, timing and residency. These
adjustments are made to conform to the concepts and definitions
of the Canadian System of National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a BOP basis, seasonally
adjusted and in current dollars. Constant dollars are calculated
using the Laspeyres volume formula.  For more information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal
adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part-partie3 -
eng.htm).  New aggregation structure  Statistics Canada will introduce the North American Product
Classification System (NAPCS) for merchandise import and export
statistics. The new structure will replace the classification
structures known as the summary import groups (SIG) and the
summary export groups (SEG) and the higher level aggregations
(major groups, subsectors, sectors and sections) that have been
in use for several decades.  Revised data based on NAPCS for the reference period of
January 1988 to August 2012 will be disseminated on October 18.  The first regular release of data based on NAPCS will be on
November 8 for the September reference month.  Readers interested in this upcoming change can find more
detailed information on our web page dedicated to classification
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/concepts/consult-napcs-scpan-eng.htm )
consultation and notification.  Revisions  In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current year
revisions are reflected in both the customs and BOP based data.  The previous year’s customs data are revised with the
release of the January and February reference months as well as
on a quarterly basis. The previous two years of customs based
data are revised annually and are released in February with the
December reference month.  The previous year’s BOP based data will be revised with the
release of the January, February, March and April 2012 reference
months.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of
import and export documentation, incorrect information on
customs forms, replacement of estimates produced for the energy
sector with actual figures, changes in classification of
merchandise based on more current information, and changes to
seasonal adjustment factors.  Revised data are available in the appropriate CANSIM tables,
free of charge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  