-- Carlsberg Expects European Beer Market to Be Challenging in 2013
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-11T16:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/carlsberg-expects-european-beer-market-to-be-challenging-in-2013.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the Danish maker of
Tuborg beer, expects that 2013 will be another challenging year
as the economic slowdown leads Europeans to drink less.  “I’m not very optimistic in terms of seeing significant
improvement in the near-term in  Europe ,” Chief Executive
Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said yesterday in an interview in
Tianjin,  China . “The consumer is not willing to spend. I
believe 2013 will be another challenging year, from a
macroeconomic point of view and also therefore from a consumer
point of view.”  Carlsberg reported second-quarter profit in August that
missed estimates as wet weather across Europe restrained sales.
The Copenhagen-based brewer’s earnings before interest, taxes
and some one-time items fell 6.1 percent to 3.47 billion kroner
($598 million), missing the 3.9 billion-kroner average estimate
of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Beermakers are looking to  emerging markets  for growth to
offset tough environments in Europe. Carlsberg’s revenue and
operating profit both increased in  Asia  in the second quarter,
helped by sales in  India ,  Cambodia ,  Vietnam  and  Laos . It
introduced its Tuborg brand to China in April and added new
bottles in Russia, India and Belarus during the first half.  Volume growth has slowed in China to about 3 percent to 5
percent recently, the CEO said, without giving a time period.  “It’s still a pretty nice growth to have in a category,”
Rasmussen said. “On top of that, you can still hopefully add
some value” by selling premium brands and building market
share, he said.  Carlsberg ranked 10th in China’s beer market last year with
a 1.5 percent share, according to data from Euromonitor. China
Resources Enterprise Ltd., the maker of Snow beer with  SABMiller
Plc (SAB) , had the largest share with 22 percent.  The Danish brewer has a stake of about 30 percent in
 Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132)  in western China and has said it may
increase its investment.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Hah in Beijing at 
 chah@bloomberg.net  