-- McDonald’s August Same-Store Sales Rise 3.7%
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-09-11T20:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/mcdonald-s-august-sales-trail-estimates.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13
months rose 3.7 percent in August, driven by growth in  China  and
Australia.  Analysts projected an increase of 3.9 percent, the average
of 17 estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. Sales in the
company’s Asia Pacific,  Africa  and Middle East region climbed
5.7 percent last month,  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s
said today in a statement. Analysts estimated a gain of about 4
percent for stores there.  Chief Executive Officer  Don Thompson  has tried to lure
diners with value lunches and dinners in China amid a slowing
economy and more competition from local brands. McDonald’s,
which gets about 22 percent of its revenue from the Asia
Pacific, Africa and the Middle East unit, plans to open as many
as 250 stores in China this year.  “They’re working on more value right now everywhere in the
world, including China,”  Larry Miller , an Atlanta-based analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets , said in an interview. “It’s just kind
of the environment we’re in.”  McDonald’s comparable-store sales increased 3 percent in
the U.S. and 3.1 percent in Europe. Analysts estimated gains of
3.1 percent and about 3.3 percent, respectively, according to a
survey by Consensus Metrix, which is owned by Wayne, New Jersey-
based Kaul Advisory Group.  McDonald’s fell 0.1 percent to $91.20 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have slid 9.1 percent this year.  Japan Sales  Same-store sales fell 2.5 percent in Japan last month.
Comparable-store sales are an indicator of a retailer’s growth
because they include only older locations.  “Strong results in Australia and China along with the
positive impact from the shift in the timing of Ramadan were
partially offset by ongoing weakness in Japan,” McDonald’s said
in the statement.  McDonald’s rivals have stepped up marketing of lower-priced
food in the U.S. as restaurants compete for customers. While the
Big Mac seller has tried to lure diners with a menu priced at $1
to $2,  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s KFC chain recently began advertising
$1.29 snack-sized chicken sandwiches.  Confidence among American consumers fell in August by the
most in 10 months as households grew more pessimistic about
employment and the economic outlook.  Yum, which also owns  Pizza Hut  and Taco Bell, is based in
Louisville, Kentucky, and has about 37,900 stores worldwide.  Europe Pressure  McDonald’s also is facing pressure in Europe, where it gets
about 40 percent of its  revenue , as consumers cut spending amid
government austerity measures there. In some European markets,
McDonald’s has advertised less expensive items, such as smaller
sandwiches in  France , to draw budget-conscious consumers.  Economic  confidence  in the euro area slumped last month as
leaders struggled to rein in the sovereign-debt crisis. An index
of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area
dropped in August to the lowest in three years, the European
Commission in Brussels said last month.  “Positive results in the U.K., France and Russia were
slightly offset by performance in Germany and certain markets in
Southern  Europe ,” McDonald’s said in today’s statement.  The company has more than 33,700 stores globally, of which
about 20 percent are company owned and operated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  