-- Chile Economists Raise CPI Forecast on Improved GDP Outlook
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-09-11T11:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/chile-economists-raise-cpi-forecast-on-improved-gdp-outlook-1-.html
Chilean economists today raised
their forecast for inflation in 11 months on an improved outlook
for economic growth this year, according to a central bank
survey.  Annual inflation will accelerate to 3 percent from 2.6
percent in August, according to the bank’s monthly poll of
economists, compared with last month’s forecast of 2.9 percent.
Gross domestic product will grow 5 percent this year, up from
the August forecast for a 4.9 percent gain.  Policy makers will keep the key  interest rate  unchanged at
5 percent for at least 23 months, according to the survey. While
policy makers are working under the base scenario that borrowing
costs will remain unchanged in the short term, they are ready to
adapt if circumstances warrant a change, bank President Rodrigo Vergara said Sept. 7.  “The probability of extreme events occurring abroad hasn’t
declined and could have very significant consequences,” Vergara
told an economic forum in Santiago. “The policy board carefully
is following the evolution of the external and internal
macroeconomic scenario and its impact on inflation.”  Chile’s peso at 475.11 per  U.S. dollar  was little changed
at 8:41 a.m. Santiago time from yesterday. The peso, which is
the best performer against the dollar among global currencies
tracked by Bloomberg so far this year, will trade at 485 in two
months, according to today’s survey.  Chile’s economy expanded 5.3 percent in July from the
previous year after climbing 5.4 percent in the first six months
of 2012. Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in August, less than
forecast by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Analysts today
forecast 0.6 percent inflation in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 