-- Chile Peso Hits 12-Month High on Copper Gain, Vergara Comments
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-09-11T18:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/chile-peso-hits-12-month-high-on-copper-gain-vergara-comments.html
Chile ’s peso rose to a 12-month
high as copper advanced and after central bank President Rodrigo
Vergara damped speculation policy makers would start buying
dollars in the foreign-exchange market.  The peso, the best-performing currency in  Latin America 
this year and the biggest winner in the world after the
Hungarian forint, appreciated 0.2 percent to 474.41 per  U.S.
dollar , the strongest closing level since September 2011.
Copper, Chile’s biggest export, rose as high as $3.7125 a pound
in  New York . International investors in the peso forwards market
cut bets against the peso to  a two-week-low  $9.5 billion on
Sept. 7.  Vergara indicated he was against trying to weaken the peso
after it reached levels similar to those that sparked last
year’s intervention, telling senators Sept. 5 that such moves
have a “significant cost” and “could lead to confusion.”  The signals “were that the central bank wasn’t looking to
step in at these levels and that has helped the peso to break
lower,” said  Clyde Wardle , a currency strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in New York.  The peso may appreciate to between 450 and 460 per dollar,
a level that would provoke a central bank intervention, Leonardo Suarez, chief economist at Larrain Vial SA, wrote today in a
note to clients. The bank may buy $60 million a day and as much
as $15 billion in total, Suarez wrote. The bank is more likely
to start buying dollars than to impose  capital controls , Suarez
wrote.  Finance Minister Felipe Larrain indicated in an interview
today in London that he would rely on fiscal measures to slow
the peso’s gains.  Target Rate  The central bank has maintained its benchmark  interest rate 
at 5 percent since January even as regional peers have lowered
rates. It will continue to do so for the next two years,
according to a survey of economists published today by the
central bank.  The two-year swap rate rose one basis point today to 4.88
percent. Two-year breakeven inflation fell five basis points to
2.96 percent after the lower house of Chile’s Congress approved
legislation to make the government’s fuel-price stabilization
program, known as Sipco, more flexible.  “More than anything it’s speculation about the effect
Sipco could have on the price of gasoline,” said Patricio Aliaga, a trader at Scotiabank in Santiago.  Premium gasoline prices would rise by 17.4 pesos a liter
and lower-grade gasoline would increase by 8.9 pesos without the
new legislation, Deputy Finance Minister Julio Dittborn said
yesterday in an e-mailed statemenmt. The Senate is scheduled to
vote on the changes tomorrow.  -- With assistance from Randall Woods in Santiago and Karen
Eeuwens in  London . Editor: Dennis Fitzgerald  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  