-- China’s Stocks Drop Most in a Week on Concerns About Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-11T07:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/china-s-stock-index-futures-decline-after-three-day-advance.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging down
the benchmark index by the most in a week, on concern the
economic slowdown is deepening after auto sales missed analysts’
estimates and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  cut its growth estimates.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (600585)  and Sany Heavy Industry Co. led
declines for infrastructure-related companies on speculation the
shares are overvalued after both companies rallied 16 percent in
three days. FAW Car Co., which makes passenger cars in China
with Volkswagen AG, sank 2 percent after passenger-vehicle sales
trailed analysts’ estimates for a second month in August and the
government increased gasoline and diesel prices for the second
time in about a month.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.7 percent to
2,120.55 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 0.6 percent to
2,311.89. The  Shanghai  gauge had rallied 4.8 percent over the
past three days after the nation’s top planning body approved
new roads, railways and urban infrastructure.  “The market needs a break here and investors want to see
how the government will implement these announced infrastructure
investments,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “Investors will also gauge if these measures
will be effective in halting the decline in economic growth.”  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 3.6 percent this year on
concern the government isn’t loosening monetary policy or
introducing stimulus policies fast enough to counter the
slowdown in the economy. The index is valued at 9.7 times
estimated earnings, compared with the 17.4 average since
Bloomberg began compiling the weekly  data  in 2006.  Xi’s Absence  Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s absence for more than a week
from public events fueled speculation about the health of the
leading candidate to succeed President  Hu Jintao  in a once-in-a-
decade leadership change. Secrecy surrounding China’s
leadership, combined with the ouster of Politburo member  Bo
Xilai , have left investors with limited information on who’ll be
overseeing the world’s second-biggest economy.  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, slid 3.1 percent
to 14.98 yuan. It had jumped 16 percent over the past three
days. Sany Heavy, the largest Chinese machinery maker, lost 1.5
percent to 10.07 yuan after surging 16 percent over the past
three days.  Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. (600720)  sank 2.7 percent to 11.31
 yuan . Citic Heavy Industries Co., the heavy machinery unit of
China’s largest conglomerate, retreated 2 percent to 3.94 yuan.  Construction Stocks  Construction-related stocks had rallied over the past week
as China approved plans to build 2,018 kilometers (1,254 miles)
of roads. A plan to build highways, sewage-treatment plants and
other projects came after the National Development & Reform
Commission, the country’s top economic planner, backed subway
projects in 18 cities. The measures are efforts to ensure that
China’s economic slowdown doesn’t worsen.  Further fixed-asset stimulus will only postpone China’s
problems, Bill Smead, chief executive officer of Smead Capital
Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Data released yesterday and over the weekend showed
industrial output grew at the slowest pace in three years and
imports and exports missed analysts’ estimates, increasing bets
that the government will increase fiscal or monetary stimulus.  China ’s new local-currency loans were 703.9 billion yuan
($111 billion) in August, the People’s Bank of China said on its
website today.  New loans compare with the median estimate of 600 billion
yuan in a Bloomberg News survey of 32 analysts. The figure was
540.1 billion yuan in July and 548.5 billion yuan a year
earlier.  Growth Outlook  Macquarie cut its 2012 growth forecast for China to 7.7
percent from 8.1 percent, saying it sees the slowdown continuing
into the third quarter and limited room for monetary expansion
next year amid inflationary pressure.  Banks and brokerages including Barclays Plc, JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Nomura Holdings Inc. and Daiwa Securities Group Inc. have
cut forecasts for China’s 2012 growth this week.  FAW Car sank 2 percent to 7.30 yuan. Beiqi Foton Motor Co.,
the biggest commercial-vehicle maker, declined 0.9 percent to
6.43 yuan.  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (601238)  lost 2.3 percent to
5.94 yuan.  Wholesale deliveries, including multipurpose and sport
utility vehicles, gained 11 percent to 1.22 million units last
month, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in
a statement yesterday. That compares with the 1.24 million mean
estimates of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gasoline Price Increase  The maximum at which gasoline can be sold to motorists rose
by 550 yuan ($87) a metric ton and diesel by 540 yuan today, the
National Development and Reform Commission said in a statement
on its website yesterday.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said it expects a “bumpy rebound” for
Chinese stocks as policy “visibility” improves steadily before
the nation’s 18th party congress. Valuations also make equities
attractive, analysts Minggao Shen and Ben Wei wrote in a note
dated yesterday.  Investors should stay defensive on China’s stocks, Heather Hsu, head of China A-Share research at Fortune-CLSA, said at a
press briefing in  Hong Kong  yesterday. Earnings for Chinese
companies in the third quarter may be worse than the previous
quarter, she said.  About 59 percent of Shanghai Composite companies missed
earnings estimates in the second quarter, while 41 percent beat,
according to data on 241 profit results compiled by Bloomberg.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 16.2
today, compared with this year’s average of 17. About 8 billion
shares changed hands in the gauge yesterday, 2.6 percent higher
than the daily average this year.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong slid 0.2 percent today. The  Bloomberg China-
US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, fell 1 percent in  New York  yesterday.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  