-- Chinese Defense Stocks Rally on Island Dispute: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-09-11T03:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/chinese-defense-stocks-rally-on-island-dispute-shanghai-mover.html
Chinese defense-related companies
advanced in  Shanghai  after Japan’s cabinet approved the purchase
of islands in the  East China Sea  also claimed by China.  North Navigation Control Technology Co. (600345) , which makes rocket
and missile control systems, surged 7.8 percent to 8.15  yuan  at
11:23 a.m. local time, heading for the biggest gain since April.
Xi’an Aircraft International Corp., which makes bombers, rose
1.9 percent to 7.56 yuan, extending a four-day, 5.6 percent
advance. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1 percent.  Japan’s cabinet approved today a plan for the government to
buy the islands, known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in
Chinese, from a private owner for 2.05 billion yen ($26.2
million). China has denounced the move, with the state-run
Xinhua News Agency quoting Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday saying
the country won’t yield on sovereignty issues as he reiterated
ownership of the islands.  “Investors are very imaginative and are speculating more
orders for these companies,” after Japan’s action, Jiangtao Wu,
an analyst at Northeast Securities Co. in Shanghai, said in
Shanghai by phone.  Japan’s move defies Chinese warnings that nationalizing the
islands would violate China’s sovereignty over an area with oil
and gas reserves. Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  met
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  at a summit in Russia on Sept. 9 in
a bid to address the situation as both sides seek to bolster
domestic support ahead of leadership contests this year.  Any unilateral action by Japan is invalid, Chinese Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said yesterday. Japan hopes the
purchase of islands doesn’t affect overall ties with its Asian
neighbor, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said today.  The islands have been an irritant to China-Japan relations,
highlighted by a 2010 collision between a Chinese fishing vessel
and Japanese Coast Guard ships that hurt ties for months.
Sovereignty over the area gives the holder control of undersea
natural gas and oil fields and the two countries signed a joint
development agreement in 2008 that has yet to be implemented.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  