-- China New Loans Exceed Estimates as Wen Counters Slowdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-11T09:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/china-new-loans-703-9-billion-yuan-in-august-topping-estimates.html
China ’s  new lending  was the highest
of any August on record as the government tries to reverse an
economic slowdown that threatens to cost jobs and undermine
support for the Communist Party.  New local-currency lending was 703.9 billion  yuan  ($111
billion) last month, the People’s Bank of China said today in
Beijing. That was more than the 600 billion yuan median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 32 economists and 540 billion yuan
in July.  The pickup in lending follows interest-rate cuts in June
and July, government approvals for subway and road projects and
a warning from the labor ministry that the slowdown is starting
to hit the job market. Data earlier this week showed imports
fell in August and industrial output rose the least in three
years, building the case for more stimulus.  “The data suggests that China is managing to boost the
funding necessary to implement stimulus measures,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB in Hong Kong, said in a note today. “This bodes well for a
clearer recovery of growth momentum” in the fourth quarter, he
said.  Chinese stocks fell after auto sales rose less than analyst
estimates and Macquarie Group Ltd. cut its forecast for full-
year economic growth. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index
slid 0.7 percent.  Reserve Requirements  Besides cutting  interest rates , the PBOC lowered banks’
reserve requirements three times from November to May. Analysts’
estimates for new local-currency loans ranged from 540 billion
yuan to 843 billion yuan. Banks extended 548.5 billion yuan of
loans in August 2011.  Aggregate financing, which includes bank lending, off-
balance sheet loans and bond and stock sales, increased 16
percent in August from a year earlier to 1.24 trillion yuan,
central bank data showed today. The figure was 1.04 trillion
yuan in July. The PBOC introduced the measure, also known as
total social financing, last year to have a clearer picture of
credit creation in the economy.  “The increases in TSF and bank loans reinforce our belief
that the government’s policy stance has become more proactive,”
said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  Hong Kong . He forecasts a rebound in fourth-quarter economic
growth to 8.8 percent.  M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , rose 13.5 percent
in August from a year earlier, compared with the 14 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Medium-to-long-term loans increased as a proportion of new
lending to non-financial companies last month, rising to 29
percent of new loans, compared with 26 percent in July.  Bond Issuance  Net issuance of corporate bonds was 258.4 billion yuan in
August, more than double the 89.8 billion a year earlier, the
data showed.  The economic slowdown is starting to hit the job market,
Xin Changxing, a labor vice minister, said this week as the
party and Premier  Wen Jiabao  prepare for a once-in-a-decade
leadership change.  China’s  economy  grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace in three years, as  Europe ’s debt crisis limited
exports and property curbs at home damped domestic demand.
Economists at UBS AG, ING Groep NV and Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc forecast full-year growth of 7.5 percent, which would be the
weakest since 1990.  About a quarter of investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers surveyed Sept. 4 said they expect Chinese
markets to be among the worst performers over the next year, the
highest negative reading the country has received in the
quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll since January 2010.  China’s biggest lenders, including  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s largest by market value, posted
slower profit growth in the second quarter as a sluggish economy
curtailed demand for financial services and more borrowers
defaulted on debt.  Combined earnings of China’s five biggest banks increased
13 percent to 203.6 billion yuan in the quarter, compared with
33 percent a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  