-- China’s U.S. Debt Holdings Aren’t Threat, Pentagon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-09-11T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/china-s-u-s-debt-holdings-aren-t-threat-pentagon-says.html
China’s holdings  of more than $1
trillion in  U.S. debt  and the prospect that it might “suddenly
and significantly” withdraw funds don’t pose a national
security threat, according to a first-ever Pentagon assessment.  “China has few attractive options for investing the bulk
of its large foreign exchange holdings out of U.S. Treasury
securities,” given their extent, according to the report dated
July 20 and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  China is the second-largest holder of  U.S. government debt 
after the  Federal Reserve . Acting at the direction of Congress,
the Defense Department studied the rationale behind the
investments and whether “the aggressive option of a large sell-
off” would give China leverage in a political or military
crisis. China’s debt holdings have been cited as a sign of U.S.
vulnerability by Republicans in this year’s election campaign.  “Does the America we want borrow a trillion dollars from
China? No,”  Mitt Romney  said Aug. 30 in accepting the
presidential nomination at the Republican convention in Tampa,
Florida.  China’s holdings of U.S. government securities were $1.164
trillion as of June, according to Treasury Department data
released Aug. 15. China has increased its holdings this year, as
the American economy stalled and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
deepened.  ‘Financial Weapon’  Chinese commentators have occasionally suggested using the
debt holdings to pressure the U.S. on its pro-Taiwan policies. A
senior People’s Daily editor wrote in an August 2011 editorial
that “now is the time for China to use its ‘financial weapon’
to teach the U.S. a lesson if it moves forward” with additional
arms sales to the island democracy, according to the Pentagon
report.  “Attempting to use U.S. Treasury securities as a coercive
tool would have limited effect and likely would do more harm to
China than to the United States,” according to the report,
which was sent to congressional committees by Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta . “As the threat is not credible and the effect
would be limited even if carried out, it does not offer China
deterrence options” in a diplomatic, economic or military
situation, the Pentagon found.  The Pentagon’s conclusions were backed by analysts such as
 David Ader , head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The Chinese “are very astute money managers and they would
recognize that the damage of doing that would have negative
consequences for them and for global trade, which is already in
a difficult place,” Ader said in an interview.  ‘Side Issue’  While the total size of the U.S. debt “and trend of the
debt is a national security risk,” China’s holdings “are a
side issue,” Derek Scissors, a China analyst for the  Heritage
Foundation  in  Washington , said in an e-mail.  Still, “if deterrence breaks down and a conflict starts,
China is going to attack the U.S. bond market and accept the
ensuing financial losses,” he said.  The Pentagon consulted with the Treasury and State
departments and the Director of National Intelligence in
compiling the report, said Pentagon spokeswoman Major Catherine
Wilkinson.  “Chinese officials often act as if they are doing the U.S.
a big favor by buying U.S. debt, and sometimes officials suggest
that this policy could be easily changed to punish the United
States,” Wayne Morrison, an Asia trade specialist with the
nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service .  “In fact, the Chinese are acting out of their own self-
interest,” Morrison said in an e-mail. “They have to buy U.S.
dollar assets as long as they are intervening in  currency
markets  to hold down the value of the RMB against the dollar,”
he said, referring to China’s currency, the  renminbi .  China Selling  China decreased its Treasury holdings last year with little
apparent impact in the market, Treasury data show. The world’s
most populous country reduced its position in Treasuries in the
first yearly decline since Bloomberg began tracking the data in
2001.  The holdings declined 0.7 percent, or by $8.2 billion, to
$1.15 trillion last year. The decline was much steeper in the
second half of the year when China’s stake plunged 12 percent,
or by $163 billion, from an all-time high of $1.31 trillion in
July 2011, the data show.  During that period, 10-year Treasuries rallied as the U.S.
credit rating was reduced by  Standard & Poor’s  to AA+ from AAA
and the European sovereign debt crisis worsened, pushing the
yield to 1.88 percent from 2.80 percent.  Foreign investors held 50.3 percent of the $10.52 trillion
in outstanding Treasuries as of June, government data show.
That’s down from April 2008, when they reached 55.7 percent of
the $4.64 trillion in U.S. marketable debt.  Shelby, Clinton  Both Democrats and Republicans have raised concerns in the
past about the risks of China and other countries holding a
large proportion of U.S. Treasury debt.  Senator  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican, said in a
February 2006 interview that China at some point may be able to
influence U.S. economic policy because of its holdings. “What
if they dumped their bonds all at once?” he said.  When Democratic Senator  Hillary Clinton  of New York, who is
now Secretary of State, was running for president in 2007, she
wrote Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to say the amount of U.S. debt held by investors abroad
meant “we can too easily be held hostage to the economic
decisions being made in Beijing, Shanghai and Tokyo.”  Short-Term Disruptions  A sudden and large reduction of  China ’s holdings “could
cause short-term” secondary market disruptions and interest-
rate increases for Treasury debt issues, according to the
Pentagon report.  It also “would impose significant costs on China,” as the
supply of U.S. Treasuries increased and the value of China’s
holdings fell sharply, the Pentagon found.  Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in New York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed, said other buyers would step in if China
eliminated or reduced its U.S. holdings.  “In an environment like today, if Treasuries were to sell
off 50 basis points in the 10-year sector, you’d see a lot of
demand from domestic and non-traditional foreign investors,
including other central banks, which would step in to purchase
at lower prices and somewhat higher yields,” Jersey said.  A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Pentagon said in its report that the Fed also is
“fully capable of purchasing U.S. Treasuries dumped” by China
and “reducing the economic impact.”  A Chinese move to “suddenly and significantly” reduce its
Treasury holdings “would fundamentally change the international
finance and business community’s perception of China as a
reliable and respected economic and financial partner,” the
Pentagon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  