-- Chrysler Models for Next 2 Years Boost Dealers’ Faith
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-09-11T22:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/chrysler-models-for-next-2-years-boost-dealers-faith.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , provided dealers a preview of its model
lineup for the next two years, increasing confidence that the
automaker can continue market-share gains, dealers said.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  and Chrysler’s
seven brand chiefs presented models on Sept. 10 in  Las Vegas 
intended to carry the automaker through 2014, including the
Chrysler Town & Country and Dodge Grand Caravan, plus Alfa
Romeo’s 4C sports car and Giulia sedan, said the dealers, who
asked not to be identified because the meeting was private.  Vehicles with better fuel economy will strengthen Chrysler
and close out the five-year plan Marchionne laid out in 2009,
when the company had less than 9 percent of the U.S. auto
market. Chrysler has boosted its share to 11.4 percent this year
through August after introducing 16 new or refreshed models in
the 19 months after it emerged from a U.S.-backed bankruptcy.  “There’s going to be more faith in whatever plan is put in
front of them” compared with when Chrysler revealed its five-
year plan, said  Dave Sullivan , a product analyst at AutoPacific
Inc. “You’re going to want to own a Chrysler because it has the
technology or the style or the fuel economy that you’re looking
for, and not just the monthly payment.”  Other products planned within two years include a new
Chrysler 100 small car, a redesigned 200 sedan, and two new
small Jeep sport-utility vehicles, one of which is the
replacement for the outgoing Liberty. While Chrysler has
examined whether to keep two minivans or go with one, it showed
two this week, the dealers said.  Standing Ovation  The dealers interviewed praised the presentation for the
broad scope of changes to Chrysler’s lineup, which included
updates to existing products, expansion of model lines and
improvements to fuel economy. The redesigned 200 received a
standing ovation by the crowd of 6,000 attendees, the dealers
said.  Dealers who attended account for more than 90 percent of
Chrysler’s sales in the U.S., the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
company said Sept. 10 in a statement. The vehicles shown to
dealers “represent our firepower for the years to come,”
Marchionne said in the statement.  Rick Deneau, a company spokesman, declined to comment about
what models were shown to dealers.  Marchionne, who is also CEO of Turin, Italy-based Fiat, has
said Chrysler is deciding whether it still needs two entries for
the U.S. minivan market, which the company has led for almost
three decades. Then-CEO Lee Iacocca introduced the Dodge Caravan
four years after Chrysler’s 1979 government bailout.  Minivan Comeback  Minivans are mounting a comeback this year after shrinking
to 472,398 U.S. sales last year from 1.37 million in 2000, the
segment’s peak year. Minivan deliveries, dominated by Chrysler,
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co., climbed 19 percent this
year through August to 370,647, according to researcher Autodata
Corp.  Dealers said it wasn’t made clear at the presentation
whether the company will still have two minivan models in 2014.  Alfa Romeo’s Giulia sedan will be based on the same
platform as the Dodge Dart compact car that began selling in the
U.S. this year. Fiat was issued a trademark for the 4C name with
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in April, according to a
release posted on the U.S. Federal News Service.  Alfa’s Return  The timing for Alfa Romeo’s return is in part dependent on
Chrysler and its dealers completing the process of filing
letters of intent to become sellers of the brand, and may be
completed by early 2014, according to one of the dealers.  “They’re going to have to rebuild the Alfa brand here and
essentially start from scratch again,” Sullivan, the analyst
for Tustin, California-based AutoPacific, said in a telephone
interview. “Even if they were to have cars tomorrow, it doesn’t
mean the brand is going to be successful in days, or a month, or
in six months. There are a lot of other things that have to
happen in order to make the brand successful.”  The redesigned 200 will be offered with a nine-speed
transmission, the dealers said. The transmissions are scheduled
to begin production by the first half of 2013, Mircea Gradu,
vice president of transmission powertrain and driveline
engineering, said in July. They are usable in “essentially
any” front-wheel drive platform in Chrysler’s lineup, including
the minivans, he said.  Minivan Sales  Minivans represent a significant portion of Chrysler’s
sales. The Town & Country and Grand Caravan accounted for 15
percent of the automaker’s 1.37 million deliveries in the U.S.
last year, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based
Autodata.  Chrysler sold a combined 172,001 Town & Country and Grand
Caravan minivans this year through August, a 25 percent increase
from a year earlier, according to Autodata. The gain trails the
29 percent sales rise by Honda’s Odyssey while topping the 5.5
percent increase by Toyota’s Sienna.  “We are less than two years away from having an almost
completely rejuvenated product lineup compared to what we could
offer customers when we began this journey in June 2009,”
Marchionne said in video highlights of his  speech  to dealers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  