-- Citigroup Said to End MSSB Fight With Morgan Stanley Overnight
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n ,   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-09-11T20:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/citigroup-said-to-end-mssb-fight-with-morgan-stanley-overnight.html
Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
executives raced overnight to end a two-month dispute over the
value of their jointly owned brokerage, hashing out a deal that
sent shares of both banks higher when markets opened today.  Perella Weinberg  Partners LP, an investment bank hired to
provide an independent valuation for Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney, set off the flurry of talks yesterday by delivering a
verdict below $13.5 billion after U.S. markets closed, people
with direct knowledge of the matter said. The figure was so low
-- in the bottom third of a range between Morgan Stanley’s $9
billion estimate and Citigroup’s $22 billion -- it triggered a
contractual clause pushing the price on a 14 percent stake down
even further.  After months of debate over the unit’s earnings potential
and the brokerage industry’s future, the overnight effort
yielded an agreement for Morgan Stanley to buy the rest of the
business in pieces through 2015 at a fixed valuation of $13.5
billion. The accord avoided repeated fights in future years over
what the unit is worth and helped Citigroup lock in a price
higher than Perella’s current assessment.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, and
Morgan Stanley CEO  James Gorman , 54, both praised the deal in
statements for providing “certainty” as they finish the unit’s
sale in coming years. “The more we put the past behind us, the
more we can focus on our future,” Pandit said.  Talks Expanded  Morgan Stanley climbed 3.9 percent to $17.25 today in  New
York . Citigroup advanced 2.6 percent to $32.66. Spokesmen for
the New York-based banks said they couldn’t comment.  The banks had tried and failed to bridge their differences
during talks in late August, according to one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the negotiations weren’t
public. As the month ended, the firms announced that the value
would be set on Sept. 10. After Perella delivered the valuation
yesterday, Gorman called Citigroup’s leadership about 5:30 p.m.,
the person said.  Investment bankers for both sides convened at Morgan
Stanley’s headquarters around 7 p.m. to work out a resolution,
one of the people said. Morgan Stanley’s contingent was led by
Gorman and mergers chief Robert Kindler, who squared off with
Citigroup securities-division Chairman Edward “Ned” Kelly, the
people said.  Peter Weinberg  and Gary Barancik oversaw Perella
Weinberg’s involvement, one person said.  Pandit monitored the talks from Citigroup’s headquarters on
Park Avenue, one person said.  While the talks were initially supposed to determine the
price Morgan Stanley would pay for a 14 percent stake, the sides
soon began discussing a price for Citigroup’s entire 49 percent
holding, that person said. Morgan Stanley’s hand was
strengthened by Perella Weinberg’s valuation. The basic terms of
a deal were hashed out within hours and passed to lawyers to
draw up the legal paperwork, another person said.  Keeping Tabs  Morgan Stanley’s Gary Shedlin, a former Citigroup
investment banker, supported Kindler in the negotiations, while
Kelly was backed up by Citigroup investment bankers including
David Head, the person said.  The two banks formed  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney in 2009 in
a deal negotiated by Kelly following Citigroup’s $45 billion
bailout by U.S. taxpayers. Morgan Stanley paid $2.75 billion for
a 51 percent stake and the right to buy the rest over time.
Morgan Stanley announced in May that it would exercise its
option to buy a 14 percent piece, increasing its stake to 65
percent.  Accounting Charge  The original agreement spelled out a formula for setting
the valuation. First, the gap between the banks’ estimates would
be divided into thirds. If Perella’s estimate fell in the middle
portion, the transaction price was to be set at that level. If
it were in the upper or lower third, the final price would be
the average of Perella’s estimate and the closest bank estimate,
according to a procedure Morgan Stanley outlined in a May
filing. The rules were supposed to discourage the sides from
trying to artificially skew the valuation.  Because Perella’s appraisal was in the bottom third, the
formula would have produced a valuation of less than $11.5
billion, one of the people said.  Citigroup today said it expects to take a $4.7 billion
pretax charge in the third quarter because the $13.5 billion
valuation is lower than the carrying value on its remaining
stake. The expense may have been greater, had the bank failed
last night to negotiate a higher valuation for the 14 percent
stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 