-- Coca-Cola Masala Gets $5 Billion to Catch Pepsi in India: Retail
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-09-11T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/coca-cola-masala-gets-5-billion-to-catch-pepsi-in-india-retail.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  is spicing up its
struggle with  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  for dominance in India, the company’s
fastest growing major market.  The world’s biggest soft-drinks maker is reviving RimZim, a
“masala soda” flavored with cumin and other spices shelved
after its 1993 takeover of local rival Parle Group. Coke is
bringing back old brands and expanding distribution networks as 
part of a $5 billion drive in India, where its sales per capita 
are one-seventh the global average.  Coca-Cola has struggled to replicate the global success of
its eponymous cola, which trails Pepsi in India as well as Thums
Up -- another Parle acquisition. Brands appealing to local
tastes and investment in Parle’s old bottling and logistics
systems are crucial to meet Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent ’s target of doubling  worldwide revenue  this decade.  “To be first to reach out to the entire mass of India is a
virgin opportunity,” said Ankur Bisen, associate vice
president, at  Technopak Advisors Pvt ., a Gurgaon, India-based
firm that advises consumer companies. “There are still many
pockets that most of these soft drinks have not gone to.”  Dilapidated infrastructure means Coca-Cola is only reaching
about one in five, or 1.7 million, of the potential outlets.
That’s higher than PepsiCo, which says it has 1.2 million and
wants double that in five years. Coke says it aims to be in at
least one in three outlets within three years.  India’s 1.2 billion people on average consume 12 Coca-Cola
beverages a year, compared with a global figure of 92. With
about 350 million people aged under 15 -- more than the combined
populations of Brazil and  Mexico  -- and the changing lifestyle
that goes with economic growth and urbanization, the potential
for the Indian beverage industry is “unlimited,” said  Arun Kejriwal , a director of advisory firm Kejriwal Research &
Investment Services Pvt. in Mumbai.  $7.5 Billion  India’s market for soft drinks is expected to expand to
$7.2 billion in 2015 from $3.1 billion in 2010, according to
Euromonitor International.  China ’s will rise to $79 billion from
$40.2 billion in the same period, the London-based researcher
estimates.  Markets outside the U.S. are increasingly important as
consumption of fizzy drinks there declines. The volume of
carbonated soft drinks sold in the U.S. fell 1 percent in 2011
to about 9.27 billion cases, the lowest level since 1996,
according to trade publication Beverage Digest.  About 80 percent of  operating income  at Coca-Cola came from
outside  North America  last year. PepsiCo got 55 percent of its
 pretax income  outside the U.S., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Indian Sales  Coca-Cola  said  in July that Indian sales by volume in the
second quarter of this year jumped 20 percent. Its share of the
Indian carbonated-beverage market rose to 60 percent last year,
from 55 percent in 2005, Euromonitor data shows. PepsiCo’s share
declined to 37.2 percent from 41 percent.  Atlanta, Georgia-based Coca-Cola quit India in 1977 after
the government demanded companies reveal ingredients in their
products -- which would have forced Coke to hand over its secret
cola formula. It returned in 1993, four years behind PepsiCo.
Both companies have been dogged by accusations that their drinks
were contaminated with pesticides and their bottling operations
depleted water tables.  PepsiCo hasn’t ceded ground easily. Gautham Mukkavilli, who
heads its  India  business, estimates  sales  grew “double digits”
in 16 of the past 22 quarters. Like its competitor, PepsiCo is
boosting distribution and relaunching brands purchased in the
1994 takeover of 105-year-old Indian soft-drinks maker Duke &
Sons Ltd. for an undisclosed amount.  Pepsi has re-introduced Duke’s Masala Soda brand, and is
testing a spiced lemonade under its 7-Up brand called Nimbooz
Masala Soda, Mukkavilli said.  National Network  Still, in Parle, Coca-Cola acquired 54 bottlers and a
national distribution system. Duke was focused on the western
state of Maharashtra, said Harish Bijoor, whose Harish Bijoor
Consults Inc. in Bangalore advises companies on brands.  Coke CEO Kent on a June visit to  New Delhi  said the company
and its local partners plan to spend $5 billion in India by
2020, part of which will be on new trucks, refrigerators and
bottling plants.  The emphasis will be on Coke’s “distribution network, to
make it stronger, and on its advertising and marketing, so that
it can reach more people,” said Sananda Mukhopadhyay, an
analyst at  Netscribes Inc ., a consultancy company.  PepsiCo has spent $1 billion in India over the past four
years and hasn’t announced any new investment.  Thums Up  Parle also gave Coca-Cola India’s two favorite drinks at
that time. Sales of Thums Up, a cola with a stronger flavor and
more carbonation than others, grew 15 percent in 2011, the
company said in its annual report, and had a 5.9 percent  market
share . Maaza, a mango drink, accounted for 5.5 percent of non-
alcoholic beverage sales after an 11 percent jump last year.  Thums Up finally lost its top spot last year -- to Coca-
Cola’s Sprite, which held a 6.1 percent share of the market.
Leveraging off its bigger distribution network, Sprite outsells
7-Up by more than two-to-one.  Coca-Cola is now preparing to  resurrect  a lime beverage
acquired with Parle called Citra -- selling it at a price 30
percent below Sprite’s to take on cheaper local brands.  Coca-Cola’s trademark Coke held a 3.2 percent market share
in India, behind Pepsi’s 5.4 percent, according to  Euromonitor .  The company’s standard-bearer accounted for 49 percent of
worldwide sales by volume, according to Coca-Cola’s annual
report for 2011. That’s down from 51 percent in 2009. Growing
concerns over obesity and diabetes are also shifting consumers
to juices and less sugary drinks globally.  Nostalgic Taste  Six decades after Coca-Cola first branched out into new
beverages with its orange-flavored soda Fanta, the company has
more than 500 brands worldwide, tailored to local tastes,
according to its website.  “Rimzim, I loved it!” said Nikhil Kumar, 29, New Delhi-
based managing director at The Storytellers Pvt., a public-
relations company. “For me and my friends, it will be
nostalgic, it’ll bring back some memories. It’s a really good,
typical Indian drink.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  