-- College Is No Place for Remedial Education
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2012-09-11T23:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/college-is-no-place-for-remedial-education.html
More than 2 million U.S.  college 
students this fall will be spending a good bit of their time
reviewing what they were supposed to learn in high school or
even earlier. They are taking “remedial” education courses.  A recent  study  issued by ACT Inc., a testing organization
measuring “college readiness,” found that less than one-third of
graduating high-school seniors met benchmark standards for
science, and a majority failed to meet them for math. Even in
English and reading, a large minority of students were below a
level that would mostly earn a grade of C or better in college-
level work.  The results are depressing. In science, most students don’t
come close (within three points) of meeting the ACT benchmark
standards. Yes, it is often pointed out, some population groups
are less prepared than others: Only 5 percent of black students
meet all four ACT criteria. But for white students, for every
high-school graduate who meets the benchmarks, there are two who
don’t. The student at least partially unprepared for college is
the rule, not the exception.  To deal with the dismal preparation of many high-school
students, colleges expand “remedial” courses in subjects such as
math and English. The problem is that these courses do a bad job
of correcting these deficiencies, even if you  don’t believe  that
test scores are the most reliable way to determine college
readiness.  Broken System  Complete College America, a group promoting better college
academic success rates, concluded in a recent  study  that
“remediation is a broken system.”  It is a big broken system. Most students entering community
colleges are enrolled in at least one remedial course, while at
four-year schools about a fifth of all students are. The study
estimates that fewer than 10 percent of those entering remedial
courses at community (two-year) colleges graduate within three
years, and almost 65 percent of those at four-year institutions
have no degree within six years (compared with about 44 percent
for students not taking remedial courses). At a typical
university, the people who teach the remedial courses most
likely aren’t star professors known for their ability to make
complex concepts clear; more often they’re lowly paid adjunct
instructors or graduate students.  What to do? We know that high-school education in the U.S.
is subpar by international standards, and that several decades
of reform efforts have had only modest effects. Public education
needs more competition and choice, and barriers to change --
such as outmoded teaching seniority rules and nonmerit
compensation structures -- need to be removed. Coordination
between those who determine high-school curriculums and college
faculty who know what students need to be well-prepared is often
nonexistent.  The challenge is to force colleges to face their own
responsibility. Administrators will note that remedial college
classes have existed for as long as there has been higher
education in the U.S. But they should be ashamed of their role
in protecting these  failed programs  for decades. One remedial
education professor called it “a silent contract of fraud.”  Complete College America favors ditching most remedial
courses and putting subpar students into regular classes -- but
with “just in time” tutoring that helps students master the
relatively advanced materials taught in college survey courses.
This approach may not work, but testing its effectiveness is
worthwhile.  Dropout Costs  The bigger problem is that colleges admit students unlikely
to succeed in the first place. Taking in subpar students leads
to a “dumbing-down” of the curriculum for everyone. That may
be why studies (such as  “Academically Adrift”  by Richard Arum
and Josipa Roksa) found little evidence that students were
learning a whole lot or mastering critical-thinking skills in
their college years.  U.S. colleges should not take hundreds of thousands of ill-
prepared students and put them through ineffective remedial-
education programs only to see them fail to graduate while
running up significant college-loan debt. Instead, they should
be encouraged -- through the  tightening  of federal loan policies
and other accountability incentives -- to become more selective
in their admission practices and reject students who show on
tests, such as the ACT readiness exams, that they are not ready
for college work.  Many of these academically marginal students might excel in
non-college-degree vocational programs that  teach skills  in
relatively high-demand jobs, which pay reasonably well. In
today’s economy, why is a bachelor’s degree in marketing more
valuable than training in high-tech manufacturing?  If the desire to give everyone a shot at the American dream
trumps all of these arguments, however, at least consider
outsourcing remedial teaching. There are for-profit companies
that have provided  supplemental learning  to high-school students
for years. Tie part of their compensation to college-performance
improvements shown by the students in their programs.  Colleges aren’t geared to teaching secondary education to
marginal students. This work should be handled by specialists
with some track record. The young people stuck in this
dysfunctional system deserve better than what they are getting.  (Richard Vedder directs the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity and teaches economics at Ohio
University. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  bolder plan to revive the
housing market  and on  Somalia’s new president ;  Margaret Carlson 
on Republican efforts to  suppress the vote ; Clive Crook on why
 Germany’s currency nostalgia  is off the mark;  Peter Orszag  on
the  money wasted in health care ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  Hoover
haunts Romney  but not Ryan.  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 