-- College Dream Dashed for Children of the Less-Schooled
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-09-11T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/college-dream-dashed-for-children-of-the-less-schooled.html
The U.S. has long touted its record
of sending disadvantaged children to college. That pride is now
misplaced, a study found.  The odds that a young person in the U.S. will go to college
if their parents haven’t -- 29 percent -- are among the lowest
of developed countries. That’s according to a report released
today by the Paris-based  Organization for Economic Cooperation &
Development .  The results indicated the challenge of one of President
 Barack Obama ’s economic and educational goals: increasing
college attainment in the U.S. relative to other countries. The
U.S. ranks 14th among 37 countries in the percentage of 25- to
34-year-olds with higher education. A generation ago, the U.S.
ranked among the top in the world.  “The odds that a young person will be in higher education
if his or her family has a low level of education are
particularly small in the U.S.,”  the report said.  Declining economic mobility in the U.S. has been the
subject of social science research that challenges one of the
mainstays of the American dream -- children bettering their
parents. The issue,  particularly for the middle class, lies at
the heart of this year’s presidential campaign between Obama and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  In the study, the U.S. ranked below all countries except
Canada and  New Zealand  in sending the children of less educated
parents to four-year colleges.  Education Inequity  The evidence suggests a culprit: inequity among elementary
and high school students, such as the concentration of
immigrants and other disadvantaged citizens in lower-quality
schools, according to Andreas Schleicher, the international
organization’s deputy director for education.  Rising college tuition doesn’t seem to account for the
difference, though U.S. student-loan levels could, Schleicher
said in a briefing with reporters. Higher education debt has
reached $1 trillion, raising alarm among families.  The U.S. still has a leg up in higher education because of
its older population. In the U.S., 42 percent of 25- to 64-year-
olds have a college degree, a percentage lagging only  Canada ,
 Israel ,  Japan  and  Russia .  With other countries making gains and less advantaged
families left behind, the U.S. faces a risk that could damage
its international competitiveness, Schleicher said.  In the U.S., “there are real challenges in terms of social
and economic mobility,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 