-- Colombia’s Peso Strengthens for Fifth Day Ahead of Fed Meeting
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-09-11T19:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/colombia-s-peso-strengthens-for-fifth-day-ahead-of-fed-meeting.html
Colombia’s peso rose for a fifth
day on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will announce additional
measures to stimulate the world’s biggest economy.  The peso climbed less than 0.1 percent to 1,796.85 per  U.S.
dollar , extending its winning streak to the longest since April.
The peso has jumped 7.9 percent this year, the best performance
after the Chilean peso among the six most-traded currencies in
Latin America.  “There’s a lot of optimism on what may come out of the
Fed,” said Julian Marquez, an analyst at brokerage Interbolsa
SA. “For now, the market is in a wait-and-see mode.”  Global stocks rose before a two-day meeting starting
tomorrow in which the Federal Open Market Committee will discuss
additional measures to stimulate the  U.S. economy . Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 31 he wouldn’t rule out steps to lower
an  unemployment rate  he described as a “grave concern.”  To stem the peso’s rally, Colombian President  Juan Manuel
Santos  said Sept. 7 that the government will keep buying dollars
in the spot market and urged the central bank to increase its
own purchases of the greenback.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said today he is
concerned about the peso’s rally and that the government has “a
lot of unused ammunition” to stem the gains. Last week he said
the Treasury will continue to supplement the central bank’s
dollar purchase program and that it won’t announce the size of
its purchases.  Economic Expansion  “There’s not much the government can do to stem the peso’s
appreciation,” Marquez said. “Strong investment flows continue
to come in and the economy is expanding at a relatively strong
pace, making Colombia attractive.”  The government forecasts the economy will grow 4.8 percent
this year. It expanded 5.9 percent in 2011 as domestic demand
and record foreign investment helped drive the fastest economic
expansion since 2007.  Colombia’s central bank bought today $25.1 million in the
 spot market , up from the minimum of $20 million a day the bank
has said it will buy until at least Nov. 2. Banco de la
Republica said on Aug. 24 that it would boost dollar purchases
to $700 million by the end of September, or an average of $28
million a day.  The yield on 10 percent peso-denominated debt due July 2024
was little changed at 6.53 percent, according to the central
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  