-- Croatia Must Revamp Companies to Keep Rating Outlook, Fitch Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-09-11T12:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/croatia-must-revamp-companies-to-keep-rating-outlook-fitch-says.html
Croatia, next in line to join the
European Union, needs to restructure state companies even if it
temporarily boosts unemployment,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Fitch raised the Adriatic Sea nation’s outlook Sept. 5 to
stable from negative, citing the government’s progress in
meeting spending-cut demands and reducing the  budget deficit 
during a recession. It affirmed the long-term foreign-currency
rating at BBB-, on par with EU members Latvia and  Bulgaria .  Revamping state companies “may result in a higher level of
unemployment, but hopefully part of the workforce will be
absorbed by the private sector when private investment will kick
off following EU accession,” Michele Napolitano, associate
director at Fitch’s emerging- Europe  sovereign team in  London ,
said yesterday by phone.  Governments across Europe have collapsed in a wave of
protests against austerity measures that pushed economies from
 Romania  to  Spain  into recession and drove up unemployment amid
the euro area’s three-year-old sovereign-debt crisis.  Croatia, set to become the bloc’s 28th member next July, is
struggling with a recession that pushed the jobless rate to 17.5
percent last month while the budget deficit last year reached 5
percent of gross domestic product.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
downgraded Slovenia last month as the need for additional
capital at state-owned lenders such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d. is likely to further burden state finances. All three
rating companies kept a negative outlook on the country.  Croatian Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ’s eight-month-old
 government  wants to reduce the former Yugoslav republic’s
spending by 4 billion kuna ($700 million) by lowering subsidies
to state companies and cutting public wages as it integrates
with the West.  Selling Debt  Finance Minister Slavko Linic said Aug. 5 that he will
continue austerity measures and sell state assets to build on
the Fitch upgrade and persuade other rating companies to follow
suit. An improved outlook will build up investor confidence in
the country and allow the government to seek to sell
international bonds in March or April next year, he said.  The fiscal consolidation measures will trim the budget
deficit to 2.9 percent of economic output this year compared
with a previous forecast for a 3.8 percent shortfall, according
to Linic.  The challenge for  Croatia  is to further reduce the gap and
implement structural reforms against a backdrop of prolonged,
low economic growth, Napolitano said. Fitch forecast yesterday
in a statement that the nation’s economy may shrink as much as
1.7 percent this year as exports slow because of weakness in its
main EU trading partners.  ‘Credible’ Plan  “The government in six months created a budget framework
more tailored for a low-growth trajectory, which is what
countries with low-growth trajectories need to do,” Napolitano
said. “It improved tax compliance and initiated changes in the
legal framework that should make it easier to cut public
expenditures in the future. They also have a credible deficit-
reduction plan.  Linic last month also revised the country’s growth outlook
to stagnation, compared with a January forecast of 0.8 percent
growth, saying the country faces renewed worsening of the
economic crisis abroad. Premier Milanovic said in January it
plans to entice growth by luring 8 billion kuna of funds from
international lenders and the EU into energy and infrastructure
projects.  ‘Right Approach’  ‘‘The government is taking a right approach to growth by
focusing its efforts on attracting investment, and trying to use
funds from international institutions and EU funds,’’ Napolitano
said. ‘‘Our feeling is that the government is aware that there
is no time to relax, that it is ‘aware that this is only the
start of a very long process, and that significant slippage
against fiscal targets would have a rating impact.’’  Croatia needs to reduce public debt and achieve sustained
economic growth for an upgrade in its rating outlook, which
probably won’t happen for a ‘‘couple of years,’’ he said.  Public debt will rise to 51.7 percent of GDP this year and
52.9 percent in 2013, from 46.7 percent in 2011, the government
said on Aug. 2, citing EU rules requiring to list guarantees for
its shipbuilding industry as public debt. A drop to 52.6 percent
is expected in 2014 with a further decrease to 51.5 percent in
2015.  Croatia is rated an equivalent Baa3 at Moody’s, the lowest
investment grade, and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Jasmina
Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  