-- Cruzeiro Soars Amid Speculation Banks Making Purchase Bids
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-09-11T20:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/cruzeiro-soars-amid-speculation-banks-making-purchase-bids.html
Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA  soared the
most in two months amid speculation  Brazil ’s deposit insurance
fund is receiving bids to buy the bank and save it from
liquidation.  Shares climbed 21 percent to 1.93 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, paring this year’s slump to 86 percent.
The deposit insurance fund, which has managed Cruzeiro since
policy makers ordered its intervention in June, received bids
from lenders  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and Grupo BTG Pactual, Agencia
Estado reported after the close of trading yesterday, citing
unidentified people.  “It looks like there are two banks interested in taking
over Cruzeiro,” Luiz Campos, an emerging-market portfolio
manager at Dinosaur Securities LLC, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “There’s a rumor that Bradesco and
BTG are bidding, but there’s no official confirmation.”  Bradesco, BTG Pactual and Cruzeiro do Sul didn’t
immediately comment on Agencia Estado’s report when contacted by
 Bloomberg News  today.  The deposit insurance fund is facing a deadline tomorrow to
find a buyer or liquidate the bank. The fund is also seeking to
buy back two of Cruzeiro’s six outstanding dollar bonds at
losses ranging from 39 percent to 74 percent. It said on Aug. 29
that more than 75 percent of investors had accepted the offer.  “It’s hard to say if the deal will go through,” Paulo Hegg, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based multi-family office Blue
Star Private, said in a phone interview. “The names being
speculated are BTG and Bradesco, but nothing official. It’s in
no one’s interest that the bank is liquidated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  