-- Deal on Sept. 11 Museum Is Reached, N.Y.’s Cuomo Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/deal-on-sept-11-museum-is-reached-n-y-s-cuomo-says.html
An agreement that will allow
completion of  New York ’s Sept. 11 museum without spending
additional public funds was reached hours before today’s 11th
anniversary of the World Trade Center terrorist attack, Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  and Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  The accord ensures that the Port Authority of New York and
 New Jersey  will restart construction “very soon and will not
stop until the museum is completed,” Bloomberg said late
yesterday in a statement. The deal protects taxpayers from
bearing additional costs, Cuomo said in a statement.  The agreement reduces the influence of the  National Sept.
11 Memorial & Museum Foundation , led by Bloomberg. Decisions on
policy and events will be shared by the foundation board with a
 task force , a working group and an advisory committee. The
members will be representatives of the Port Authority, the
governors of New York and New Jersey, the memorial board and the
mayor.  “We have made extraordinary progress at Ground Zero and
today’s agreement is yet another milestone in our work to
finally complete the site as a place where people from around
the world can come to work, visit and remember,” Cuomo said.  Bloomberg and Cuomo have clashed over costs for finishing
the project. With the agreement, the  Port Authority  estimates
its exposure for delays and overtime has been reduced to $150
million from about $300 million, according to the memorandum of
understanding.  The accord calls for major events such as today’s
anniversary to be governed by a “working group” with
representatives appointed by the governors, the Port Authority
and the city, which will present plans to the board. Unresolved
disputes will go to another panel, an advisory board, likewise
appointed.  Financial Disclosure  The memorial foundation will disclose its finances to the
Port Authority and provide a security deposit equal to six
months of estimated utility expenses, according to the
agreement. The foundation pledges to find enough money for
ongoing operations, which the mayor has estimated could run as
high as $50 million a year. The parties agreed to work together
to obtain an annual federal operating subsidy.  “The delays were understandably frustrating for many,
particularly the families, friends and loved ones of all the
9/11 victims,” New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said in a
statement.  A better agreement would be to hand over responsibility for
the site to the National Park Service, said Sally Regenhard, a
member of the 9/11 Family Steering Committee, a group of
families that has opposed some policies regarding the museum and
memorial in  Lower Manhattan .  Losing ‘Integrity’  “The complete lack of professional management at the
9/11MM has resulted in Ground Zero losing its entire historical
integrity, becoming an 8-acre recreational area for fun and
amusement,” Regenhard said by e-mail, referring to the museum
and memorial.  Regenhard’s son, Christian, was a probationary firefighter
with the New York City Fire Department who perished in the
collapse of the Twin Towers.  “It does not address all of the fiscal questions that have
plagued  Ground Zero  and the simplest solution is to give the
responsibility to the National Park Service to operate it,”
Regenhard said of the agreement. “If the National Park Service
takes it over, we’ll get fiscal responsibility. Here, we have
not seen fiscal responsibility.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  