-- Deutsche Bank to Review Pay, Bonuses, Boost Profitability
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-09-11T11:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/deutsche-bank-aims-for-return-on-equity-of-at-least-12-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank by assets, will cut costs by 4.5 billion euros ($5.8
billion) and review pay practices to boost profitability amid
higher  capital requirements  and Europe’s debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank will seek to increase its after-tax return on
equity to at least 12 percent by 2015, the Frankfurt-based
lender said in a statement today, from 8.2 percent in 2011. The
company will incur 4 billion euros of costs to achieve its
annual savings target by 2015 and plans to eliminate more jobs.  “The medium-term economic recovery and regulatory outlook
is challenging, hence we need to significantly improve our
operating performance and efficiency,” co-Chief Executive
Officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen said in the statement.
“It is not enough to adapt our strategy to customers’ changing
demands; we also have to secure our competitiveness.”  The bank said it will extend the period for deferred bonus
payouts to senior management and appoint an external committee
to review compensation. Jain, 49, and Fitschen, 64, are
outlining their strategy in Frankfurt today after taking over
from  Josef Ackermann , 64, in May. Investment banks are fighting
to buoy profits as record-low  interest rates  and a drop in
trading and deal-making curb revenue.  Deutsche Bank  rose  1.7 percent 32.38 euros by 1:28 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading, bringing the gain this year to 9.9 percent.  Lower Profitability  Deutsche Bank’s after-tax return on average active equity,
a figure it uses to measure profitability, fell to 7.4 percent
in the first half from 8.2 percent in 2011. The measure reached
20.4 percent in 2006, before the financial crisis led regulators
to demand that banks set aside more capital.  To help reverse the slide in profitability, Deutsche Bank
announced in July that it will eliminate as many as 1,900 jobs.
The cuts, mostly outside  Germany , will include 1,500 at the
investment bank and support areas. Fitschen said today there
will be more job reduction beyond those announced, though the
number and location have not been decided.  Deutsche Bank follows rivals in recalibrating profit goals.
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  reduced its after-tax ROE goal to “more
than 15 percent” from a previous target of more than 18 percent
in February last year.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Antony Jenkins  said yesterday that the London-based bank is
seeking returns above its 11 percent to 11.5 percent cost of
equity.  UBS AG (UBSN)  said in November that it’s targeting an after-tax
ROE of 12 percent to 17 percent starting in 2013.  Capital Laggard  Deutsche Bank plans to reduce regional back-office
activities and centralize procurement, as well as cut down on
investment in information technology platforms. Those steps will
account for almost 40 percent, or 1.7 billion euros, of the
planned savings, according to the statement. The banks will also
sell about 40 properties.  Global regulators are forcing banks to increase capital
buffers to prevent a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bailouts that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Deutsche
Bank’s capital levels trail those of Barclays of  London  and
Zurich-based Credit Suisse and UBS, data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries show.  Tougher rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , known as Basel III, that call for lenders to hold
more reserves will begin taking effect at the start of 2013 and
be fully implemented by 2019. Banks worldwide will be required
to hold common equity of at least 7 percent of risk-weighted
assets by 2019, and firms deemed systemically important, such as
Deutsche Bank, will need more.  ‘Tremendous Pressure’  The German bank would be the least capitalized of seven
European wholesale banks at the end of this year if 2019 rules
were applied, Credit Suisse said in a note yesterday, citing
company disclosures and estimates by the brokerage.  “We are under tremendous pressure to reduce risk-weighted
assets,” Jain said.  Deutsche Bank plans to boost its core tier 1 capital level
under full Basel III requirements to at least 8 percent by the
end of the first quarter of 2013, and more than 10 percent by
March 31, 2015, the company said today.  The bank plans to cut Basel III risk-weighted assets by 135
billion euros to boost  capital ratios , including about 100
billion euros from the investment bank. The securities unit will
aim for Basel III risk-weighted assets of less than 200 billion
euros by 2015.  The de-risking process will be “very rapid,” Jain told
reporters at the press conference. The bank plans to achieve 45
billion euros in reductions by the end of the first quarter and
has already cut 14 billion euros in the first two months of the
current quarter, incurring some trading losses, he said.  Even so, Jain said investment-banking revenues were solid
in July and August.  Deutsche Bank also said it merged asset and wealth
management with its exchange-traded-funds business to build an
“efficient platform for future growth by eliminating as much
duplication as possible.” The bank said that it wants to
increase its pretax profit at the unit to 1.7 billion euros in
2015 from 800 million euros in 2011. The lender aims to reach 1
trillion euros of assets under management by 2015 at the unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  