-- Deutsche Bank Credit Traders Said to Leave on Cost Cuts
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-09-11T16:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/deutsche-bank-credit-traders-said-to-leave-as-lender-cuts-costs.html
Three  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  credit
traders including Brad Visokey and a debt salesman left the firm
this week as Europe’s biggest bank by assets pledged to cut
costs and review pay practices amid higher  capital requirements .  Visokey, who traded credit-default swaps tied to lenders
and automakers, and Robert Lam, who handled swaps on insurance
companies, left the bank’s  New York  office yesterday, said two
people familiar with the matter who asked not to identified
because they haven’t been announced. Christopher Park, a vice
president in credit trading, and James Bertoni, an associate
salesman, also left, people familiar with those moves said.  The departures follow at least 11 other exits by Deutsche
Bank debt traders in New York since the beginning of 2011 as the
lender caps cash bonuses, reduces staff and boosts capital
reserves. Nicholas Pappas, the former co-head of flow credit
trading in  North America , left last week, and Antoine Cornut,
who oversaw flow-credit trading in the Americas and Europe,
departed in July.  Visokey, a director who also traded bank and auto company
bonds, and Lam, an associate, declined to comment, as did  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman.  Deutsche Bank will cut costs by 4.5 billion euros ($5.8
billion) as it aims to increase its after-tax return on equity
to at least 12 percent by 2015, it said today in a statement.
The Frankfurt-based lender said in July that it will eliminate
1,900 jobs, including 1,500 at the investment bank and support
areas, by year-end as Chief Executive Officers Anshu Jain and
Juergen Fitschen face declining revenue from the unit.  Cutting Assets  The lender also said today that it plans to cut about 100
billion euros of risk-weighted assets from its investment bank
by 2015 as it tries to comply with the so-called Basel III
capital rules established by global regulators. Since the
financial crisis of 2008, capital requirements on some credit
products have been increased by the regulators.  Visokey joined Deutsche Bank in 2004 from Greenwich Capital
Markets Inc., according to  records  maintained by the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. Lam started in 2008, the records
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  