-- Dollar Falls Before Fed Considers Added Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-11T21:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/dollar-slides-against-most-peers-amid-fed-stimulus-bets.html
The dollar fell against all of its
16 most-traded counterparts before the  Federal Reserve  starts a
two-day meeting tomorrow amid speculation it will buy bonds to
boost the economy.  The U.S. currency declined to its lowest level in almost
four months versus the euro after Moody’s Investors Service said
the country’s Aaa rating may be cut if it doesn’t reduce its
ratio of debt to gross domestic product. The 17-nation euro
gained after  Germany ’s top constitutional court said it will
proceed with a ruling on the country’s role in the European
Stability Mechanism bailout fund.  “The dollar is in a bad place right here,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in New York. “The atmosphere has shifted against it very
quickly. A more accommodating Fed, diminished tail risk out of
 Europe  and now this ratings downgrade risk add to the mix of
negatives that are engulfing the dollar.”  The dollar fell 0.8 percent to $1.2855 at 5 p.m. New York
time, touching the lowest level since May 14. The greenback slid
0.7 percent to 77.77 yen, reaching the weakest level since June
1. The euro rose 0.1 percent to 99.97 yen.  Chart Levels  The euro may strengthen to a four-month high against the
dollar, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The 17-
nation currency could appreciate to $1.2975 to $1.3000 if it
closes above the key resistance level from $1.2830 to $1.2850,
 MacNeil Curry , chief rates and currencies technical strategist
in New York at the firm, wrote to clients today.  The shared currency moved above its 200-day moving average
of $1.2835 for the first time since Oct. 31.  The implied volatility of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies touched 7.81 percent, the lowest since October
2007, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . A decrease
makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark lending
rates more attractive as the risk in such trades is that market
moves will erase profits.  Canada’s dollar strengthened for a fourth day, climbing to
a 13-month high versus its U.S. counterpart, on optimism
measures by policy makers in the U.S. and Europe will reduce
volatility.  The loonie, as the currency is named after the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.5 percent to 97.30
cents per dollar. It touched 97.14, the strongest since Aug. 4,
2011.  Kiwi Rises  New Zealand’s so-called kiwi advanced as Fitch affirmed the
country’s AA rating, citing its strong governance and business
environment. The kiwi rose 1.1 percent to 81.74 U.S. cents and
added 0.4 percent to 63.56 yen.  BNP Paribas SA added a short trading position on the dollar
versus its New Zealand counterpart. The greenback will
depreciate to 84.70 cents against kiwi, Kiran Kowshik and  Steven Saywell , London-based currency strategists at the firm, wrote
today in a note to clients. BNP Paribas placed a stop for the
trade at 79.65. A short position is a bet an asset will fall and
a stop order is automatically triggered at a set price level.  The kiwi-dollar cross is “due for a catch-up with the
performance of broader equity markets,” they wrote. “Of the
commodity currencies, the  New Zealand dollar  stands out as being
under-owned from a positioning perspective.”  British Pound  The  British pound  rose to the strongest level in almost
four months versus the dollar after a report showed the U.K.
 trade deficit  shrank in July as exports soared, adding to signs
the economy is emerging from recession.  Sterling gained 0.5 percent to $1.6070 after trading at
$1.6084, the strongest since May 15.  The Federal Constitutional Court is due to decide tomorrow
on Germany’s participation in the European Stability Mechanism,
a 500 billion-euro ($639 billion) fund that offers loans to
 member states  and may buy their bonds to lower borrowing costs.  A plaintiff in the case had asked for a delay after the
 European Central Bank  last week pledged unlimited funds to buy
euro-area  government bonds  as it seeks to tame the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis. The bid won’t change the ruling date, the
court said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Everybody is very anxious to see what decision we will
get from the court,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The most likely path is the German court
ruling in favor of the ESM. Investors are also pricing in the
probability of QE going forward.”  Moody’s Rating  Moody’s, which placed a negative outlook on the U.S.’s Aaa
grade in August, said in a statement today that the rating would
likely be cut to Aa1 if no policy is passed to address a
mounting debt to GDP ratio.  The U.S. currency declined before Fed policy makers gather.
They will keep their key  interest rate  at 0.25 percent,
according to all 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
announcement on Sept. 13.  The dollar won’t depreciate as much following any potential
monetary stimulus as it has in the past, according to  Daniel Katzive , director of global foreign exchange research at Credit
Suisse Group AG. The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of securities from
2008 to 2011 in two rounds of its quantitative-easing strategy.  “Global growth is less strong in this round of QE than it
was in the previous two,” Katzive said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “You’re
not going to get these big flows into  emerging markets  that tend
to result in dollar-reserve accumulation and diversification
away from the dollar.”  The  Dollar Index , which  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, declined 0.6 percent to 79.888, after touching
79.794, the lowest since May 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  