-- Euro Rises to 4-Month High as Court Clears Bailout Path
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-12T21:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/dollar-is-near-4-month-low-versus-euro-before-fed-meets.html
The euro rose to its highest level
in four months against the dollar after a German court cleared
the way for ratification of  Europe ’s permanent bailout fund,
boosting demand for the shared currency.  The 17-nation euro rose for a second day versus the yen as
the court dismissed motions seeking to block the fund, while
setting a cap of about 190 billion euros ($245 billion). The
dollar fell versus most of its 16 major peers before the  Federal
Reserve  starts a two-day meeting today amid bond-purchase
speculation. South Africa’s rand weakened to its lowest level of
the year against the euro as domestic labor tensions escalated.  “The German constitutional court decision was widely
anticipated, but it was yet another hurdle cleared in easing the
stresses in peripheral markets, which were responsible for a lot
of the euro’s losses in the first half of the year,”  Robert Lynch , head of currency strategy for HSBC Holdings Plc in New
York, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch
Money” with Sara Eisen.  The euro appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.29 at 5 p.m. in New
York after rising to $1.2937, the strongest since May 11. The
common currency gained 0.5 percent to 100.42 yen. The yen fell
0.1 percent to 77.86 per dollar, after reaching the strongest
level yesterday since June 1.  German Courts  The German announcement “helps erase a key source of
uncertainty for the single currency,”  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a
unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) , said in a telephone interview.
“Adding to the euro’s firmer tone is expectation that the Fed
is only days away from employing more stimulus.”  The rand reached its lowest level against the euro since
Dec. 21 after mediators failed to persuade striking worker
representatives to return to their jobs and begin wage talks.
The strike may spread to surrounding mines, which may drive
platinum futures to a record high.  The rand lost 1.9 percent to 8.3346 per dollar after
falling earlier as much as 2.6 percent, its biggest drop since
May 30. The South African currency declined 2.2 percent to
10.7512 per euro after falling as much as 2.8 percent.  Brazil ’s real dropped from a three-week high as policy
makers intervened in the foreign-exchange market after four
straight days of gains threatened exporters.  The currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 2.0171 per  U.S.
dollar  after the central bank auctioned reverse currency swaps.
It earlier touched 2.0150, the strongest intraday level since
Aug. 21, the last time the swaps were sold.  Real Strength  The real will strengthen about 15 percent toward 1.75 per
U.S. dollar by the end of next year as eased concern Europe’s
credit crisis will threaten global growth boosts demand for
high-yielding assets, Bluford Putnam, chief economist at
exchange operator CME Group Inc., said in an interview.  The Australian dollar rose to a three-week high versus the
greenback amid Fed stimulus speculation and after Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled  China  has room to add economic stimulus.  “Be it monetary or fiscal, we still have ample strength,”
Wen said at the  World Economic Forum  in Tianjin yesterday. A
fiscal stabilization fund of 100 billion  yuan  ($15.8 billion) is
available for “preemptive” measures, he said. China is
Australia’s biggest trading partner.  The Australian currency gained 0.3 percent to $1.0466 after
reaching $1.0506, the strongest level since Aug. 23. The so-
called Aussie climbed 0.4 percent to 81.48 yen.  European Finance  All other countries in the euro area had already ratified
the European Stability Mechanism when the German court announced
its decision. The ESM is a 500 billion-euro fund that offers
loans to euro-zone members and may buy their bonds to lower
borrowing costs.  The euro has strengthened 2.6 percent in the past month the
best performer of the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar dropped 2.4
percent and the yen weakened 1.8 percent.  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said moves in the yen
yesterday were speculative and the government was ready to act
against unacceptable changes in the currency’s value.  “The yen’s move from yesterday has been clearly
speculative, and we won’t accept such moves,” Azumi told
reporters in  Tokyo  after the yen gained 0.7 percent yesterday.
“We will definitely take bold actions if needed.”  The yen has climbed more than 7 percent against the dollar
since mid-March and any further monetary loosening in the U.S.
has the potential to fuel further gains.  Fed Plans  The Fed is projected to announce a third round of bond
purchases tomorrow, according economists in a Bloomberg survey,
while also extending the duration of its zero-interest-rate
policy into 2015. Two rounds of purchases totaling $2.3 trillion
have failed to revive the labor market, which Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month is a “grave concern.”  “The dollar is the least favored currency,” said Stuart Frost, a  fund manager  at RWC Partners Ltd. in  London , which
oversees $4 billion. “There will be hints of QE from the Fed.
The message will be there is a possibility of QE3 in the future
but not at this stage. It will be extremely dovish.”  Frost would consider buying the dollar if it weakens to
$1.30 per euro, he said.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against those of six U.S. trading
partners, dropped 0.2 percent to 79.697.  Downside risks remain intact since the dollar gauge has
fallen below the key zone between 79.74 and 80, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The index has a deeper target of 78.60, the
six-month low it reached in May, Niall O’Connor, a New York-
based technical analyst at the firm, wrote today in a note to
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  