-- Gundlach Considers Stock Funds to Expand DoubleLine’s Mix
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/doubleline-may-add-equity-funds-to-bond-offerings-gundlach-says.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , the top-
performing bond manager who built DoubleLine Capital LP into a
$40 billion fixed-income shop since he co-founded the firm less
than three years ago, said he may add stock funds to the lineup.  “I like the way equities are out of favor and I like doing
things when they’re unpopular,” Gundlach said yesterday in a
telephone interview after a presentation discussing his views on
the markets and the economy. “Equities are a superior
investment to bonds for an inflation hedge and I like the
ability to diversify and broaden the firm.”  DoubleLine, which is based in  Los Angeles  and was founded
by Gundlach and President Philip Barach in December 2009,
oversees more than $40 billion in assets. The firm may bring in
teams within a few months that could manage a mutual fund that
invests in U.S. stocks and a long-short equity hedge fund,
Gundlach said.  Investors have favored fixed-income mutual funds since the
2008 global financial crisis. They pulled $116 billion from U.S.
stock funds in the 12 months ended July 31 while depositing $170
billion into taxable bond funds, according to data from research
firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
largest bond fund, started branching into equities almost three
years ago. The Newport Beach, California-based firm offers four
main stock strategies: deep value, emerging markets, dividends
and long-short.  Bill Gross , Pimco’s founder and co-chief
investment officer, said in his September  investment outlook 
that returns from both stocks and fixed income will be stunted.  Gundlach’s $31.9 billion  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) 
returned 7.2 percent this year through Sept. 10, beating 97
percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fund had $1.4 billion in net deposits in July, Morningstar
estimated. DoubleLine’s funds attracted $21.9 billion over the
past 12 months, according to Morningstar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  