-- Just-Returned U.S. Congress Looking for Exit Strategy
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-09-12T15:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/durbin-says-senate-democrats-aiming-for-sept-21-recess.html
Two days after returning from a
five-week recess, leaders in Congress are discussing an exit
strategy that would leave decisions about the George W. Bush-era
tax cuts and automatic spending reductions until after the Nov.
6 election.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said party leaders want to recess by Sept. 21
and return in November.  “That would be optimal,” he said yesterday in an
interview.  Such a schedule would depend on working with Republicans to
enact a six-month stopgap measure to keep the federal government
operating in the new fiscal year starting Oct. 1, Durbin said.  Republicans in the House and Senate said yesterday that
they too were aiming for Congress to leave  Washington  by the end
of next week to resume campaigning at home.  Lawmakers had tentatively planned to be in session through
Oct. 5. An earlier departure underscores that neither party is
ready to reach consensus on major legislation before the
election.  Public approval of Congress’s performance fell to 10
percent, tying a record low set in February, according to a
Gallup poll released Aug. 14. The Aug. 9-12 telephone survey of
1,012 adults had a margin of error of plus or minus four
percentage points.  Defense Spending  In November, lawmakers will try to reach a bipartisan deal
on extending the George W. Bush-era tax cuts, which expire Dec.
31, and averting $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts set to
take effect in January. Congress will consider a Defense
Department spending measure, and decide whether to extend a
payroll tax cut into 2013 and head off an expansion in the reach
of the alternative minimum tax.  They also face a Dec. 31 deadline to reauthorize
wiretapping of suspected terrorists that the U.S. government
began without court warrants after the Sept. 11 attacks.  “The political weather is so hot now that we need a
cooling-off period, and that cooling-off period will take place
between now and the election,” Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa
Democrat, said today in an interview.  Maine Republican Senator  Olympia Snowe , who is retiring
after this year, said Congress has wasted valuable time by not
addressing the nation’s most pressing fiscal issues.  ‘Stalling, Obfuscating’  “We’ve lost two years in the life of America just
stalling, obfuscating, delaying, denying,” Snowe told
reporters. “That’s a tragedy for America. We certainly can do
far better.”  If Congress leaves Washington by Sept. 21, lawmakers this
year will have been in session fewer than 10 days in the three
months before the election. It would be the earliest pre-
election adjournment since 1960, when lawmakers headed home
Sept. 1, according to the Senate Historical Office.  “There’s not much appetite to stay around here and do
anything,” Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat who isn’t
seeking re-election, said in an interview. “So it doesn’t
matter much whether we’re here or we’re not. Things are not
getting done.”  Farm Programs  In addition to acting on the government funding measure,
H.J.Res. 117, lawmakers this month must decide how to address
farm programs that expire Sept. 30.  The Senate in June passed a farm bill designed to save
$23.6 billion over a decade, cutting  food stamps  by about $4
billion. The full House hasn’t voted on a five-year farm bill
approved by the House Agriculture Committee on July 12.  It may be time to start considering a one-year extension of
current farm programs, Representative  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma
Republican and chairman of the agriculture panel, said yesterday
in an interview. Legislative days are becoming “fewer and fewer
every moment,” he said.  Even that extension may encounter difficulty. Before the
August recess, House Republican leaders dropped plans to vote on
a one-year proposal because it didn’t have enough support.  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the top Democrat on the
Agriculture Committee, said in an interview yesterday that he
“won’t go for” a one-year extension.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said regarding a Sept. 21 target departure date, “The important
thing is to make sure that the necessary resources are there for
the government to continue operating.”  The House will consider the stopgap funding measure
tomorrow, Cantor said. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, said his chamber will take up the House version
as long as it isn’t revised.  Reid “has indicated to us that the continuing resolution
would be the last item of this work period, before we reconvene
after the election for a very, very busy period with a lot of
important things to be done,” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  