-- Dutch Voting With Poll Showing Liberals and Labor Are Tied
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-09-12T12:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/dutch-campaign-ends-with-liberals-labor-race-even-poll-shows.html
Dutch voters are casting ballots in
today’s election, with the campaign’s final poll showing
Diederik Samsom’s opposition  Labor Party  in a virtual tie with
Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s  Liberal Party .  The Labor Party, which calls for easing budget-deficit
cutting to boost growth, would take 34 seats, while the Liberals
would win 35, a TNS NIPO poll showed yesterday. Labor was eight
seats behind the Liberals a week ago. The survey of 1,917 people
had a margin of error of two to three seats.  Results matching the polls may yield a return of the grand
coalition that governed for eight years until 2002, making
unlikely a shift in direction in Dutch backing for German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s austerity-first approach toward the
euro-area financial crisis.  “The most likely outcome remains a centrist, pragmatic
coalition, which clearly is the preferred option in Brussels and
Berlin,” according to the London-based research institute Open
 Europe . “The Dutch elections are therefore unlikely to
radically change the immediate political dynamics of the
eurozone crisis in the short-term.”  Neither of the leading parties’ preferred partners would
have enough seats to allow a majority in the 150-seat parliament
in  The Hague , according to the poll.  ‘Tight Race’  “It is obvious that this has become a very tight race
between Labor and the Liberals,” TNS NIPO said in a statement
with the survey, describing the vote as “too close to call.”  The poll showed anti-immigrant leader  Geert Wilders ’
Freedom Party would get 17 seats, down from 24 currently; the
Christian Democrats would fall to 12 from 21; the Socialists
would gain 21 from 15 and D66 would get 13, up from 10.  Polling stations opened at 7:30 a.m. and turnout at around
2:00 p.m. was 27 percent, polling firm Ipsos Synovate said. A
first exit poll will be released by Ipsos Synovate shortly after
voting ends at 9 p.m. Preliminary results are expected around
midnight. The result may be as close as in 2010 when Labor lost
the election to the Liberals with a difference of 80,770 votes
from a total of 9.4 million. Turnout in 2010 was 75.4 percent
out of a total of 12.5 million eligible voters.  Rutte has backed Merkel as she staved off calls to provide
more aid to cash-strapped southern European countries. At the
same time, he has drawn criticism from some opposition parties
for helping out  Greece  while cutting back pensions and health-
care spending. Samsom is willing to extend Greece’s financial
lifeline while Rutte won’t back a third aid package.  ‘Paris, Berlin’  “It is wrong to assume that this crisis will be solved by
a choice between Paris or Berlin,” Samsom said in a televised
debate yesterday. “Europe is not about axes, Europe is about
cooperation. Otherwise you will never get out of this crisis.”  Elections were called after Rutte’s Cabinet resigned on
April 23, when Wilders, who had been backing a minority
government of Liberals and  Christian Democrats , withdrew support
over proposed spending cuts and tax increases. Rutte won backing
from opposition parties for an austerity package three days
later.  Under the Dutch electoral system, shares of the vote
translate directly into seats in the lower house, with 0.67
percent of the nationwide vote enough for a seat. That can lead
to a glut of parties in parliament, meaning it could take months
for a coalition to be formed.  As one of the euro area’s four countries with a top AAA
grade, demand for Dutch debt survived the collapse of Rutte’s
government with investors focused on the nation’s relative
fiscal strength as a haven from Europe’s market turbulence.  The Dutch economy may shrink this year, according to the
median of 11 economist forecasts gathered by Bloomberg. An
unemployment rate of 6.5 percent, the highest in seven years, is
still the second-lowest in the euro area after  Austria .  The Netherlands yesterday sold 2 billion euros ($2.6
billion) of 10-year bonds at the lowest yield in at least five
years, signaling investor confidence in the country’s budget
discipline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Frankfurt at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  