-- The Republicans’ Keep-Down-the-Vote Strategy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-09-11T22:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/the-republicans-keep-down-the-vote-strategy.html
There is a huge voting problem in
the U.S., but it isn’t the one Republicans are spending many
millions of dollars to correct.  The issue is that not enough people vote: Usually only
about three in five  of those eligible . Republicans are working
frantically to ensure that even fewer do, an anti-get-out-the-
vote effort aimed at disenfranchising Democratic-leaning groups:
the poor, the young (particularly students) and minorities. Make
it hard enough, the theory goes, and they won’t vote.  A chilling glimpse at voter suppression efforts came  this
week from   Common Cause  and Demos, two progressive public-
interest groups. Called “Bullies at the Ballot Box: Protecting
the Freedom to Vote Against Wrongful Challenges and
Intimidation,” the report analyzes laws in 10 pivotal states.
Its first paragraph quotes the leader of the Tea Party-
affiliated True the Vote campaign saying the group’s goal is to
make voting “like driving and seeing the police following you.”  Voter suppression has been going on for some time, but with
the advent of the  Tea Party , it has become more frenzied. In the
George W. Bush administration,  Karl Rove  pursued voter fraud
with zeal, and  a pattern  emerged: U.S. attorneys who didn’t
follow his suggestion to bring more such cases got fired. Since
then, dozens of states have either enacted or are considering
laws that suppress the vote.  Fake Mustaches  Courts have struck down some, such as the U.S. District
Court in  Ohio  that  invalidated  a state law that would have
restricted early voting, but many remain on the books. Even
bland, good-government groups such as the League of Women Voters
are getting involved: The league’s Indiana chapter sued the
state to nullify its voter ID law ( the league lost ).  There are a variety of ways to curtail voting -- shorter
voting hours, selectively understaffed precincts (in 2004, there
were 12-hour lines in Gambier, Ohio, home of Kenyon College),
poll watchers with broad rights to bring challenges -- but the
most prevalent is tighter voter ID requirements. According to
the Brennan Center for Justice at  New York  University School of
Law, “ as many as  11 percent of eligible voters do not have
government-issued photo ID.”  The main effect of such laws is to discourage
impersonators: the guy who shows up with a fake mustache and
sunglasses waving utility bills, trying to pass for a neighbor
he knows isn’t voting.  By all means, let’s stop this guy. It won’t take much
effort. Although Republicans would have you believe there are
thousands of people like him, according to various
investigations (including exhaustive ones by the Brennan
Center), there are almost none.  For instance, a commission investigating the charge that
dead people had voted in  South Carolina  found no such thing.
People die every year, and every year they’re removed from the
voter rolls. There was no zombie vote.  Let’s look at what was uncovered by a huge purge in
 Florida , where Republican Governor  Rick Scott , sympathetic to
Tea Party complaints, started an investigation. “We’ve gotta
make sure U.S. citizens’ right to vote is not diluted,” he  said
in July .  A governor’s gotta do what a governor’s gotta do. That
included casting a wide and expensive dragnet that caught
180,000 suspicious names (how many ending in “-ez,” we don’t
know). Of those, 177,400 were citizens, many military veterans.
Of the 2,600 remaining, one, Josef Sever, was nailed, pleaded
guilty and awaits sentencing.  Sever  doesn’t fit  the profile of the felon that Republicans
are seeking to stop. He’s a Canadian citizen of Austrian descent
and a gun nut whose animating issue was the right to bear arms.  ‘No Landslide’  One of the favorite quotes of advocates of voter
suppression comes from Joseph P. Kennedy, who is said to have
sent a telegram to his son John F. before the 1960 West Virginia
presidential primary: “Dear Jack: Don’t buy a single vote more
than is necessary. … I’ll be damned if I’m going to pay for a
landslide!”  Never mind that the quote is  almost certainly apocryphal .
The days of vote-buying, if they ever existed, are long gone.
There are specific laws on the books that send to jail (or
deport) impersonators at the local precinct. Those laws are
bolstered by more general ones targeting  identity theft . It’s
pretty tough for a person to get away with masquerading these
days.  The misplaced focus on voter ID also detracts from
attention we should be paying to more common, and consequential,
problems: pamphlets giving the wrong date to vote, missing
ballot boxes, voting machines that don’t work. Republican groups
such as  True the Vote  are working to sign up volunteers on
Election Day to challenge voters as they show up -- a poll tax
measured not in dollars but in intimidation.  I like to vote. I get time off to do so, there’s rarely a
line at my fully staffed precinct, and there are no strangers
staring at me as if I’m from Mars (or  El Salvador , for that
matter). But if I were Hispanic and had some unpaid parking
tickets, or had a mother who was illegal, I would be tempted to
stay home.  That’s exactly what the Republican governors and
secretaries of state instigating these efforts -- and they’re
all Republicans -- are counting on. The battle over who gets to
vote and how easily is not only legal but also, obviously,
political. It could even determine the outcome of Election Day.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  bolder plan to revive the
housing market  and on  Somalia’s new president ; Clive Crook on
why  Germany’s currency nostalgia  is off the mark;  Peter Orszag 
on the  money wasted in health care ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  Hoover
haunts Romney  but not Ryan; Richard Vedder on  getting rid of
college remedial education .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 