-- Health Law Means IRS Quagmire, Former Commissioner Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-11T15:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/health-law-means-irs-quagmire-former-commissioner-says.html
The U.S. health care law’s process
for providing insurance subsidies to  middle-income  families will
produce a “burdensome, costly and frustrating quagmire,” a
former Internal Revenue Service commissioner told a
congressional committee.  The subsidies, structured as tax credits, are the main
method in the 2010 law of helping Americans obtain health
insurance. They will be delivered through exchanges --
government-run markets that will connect people with insurance
and cover part of the cost through federal payments to insurers.
Such exchanges will be operated by states and the  Department of
Health  and Human Services.  The exchanges, which will use income and household data to
determine eligibility, will be performing a function that the
IRS should be doing instead, former IRS Commissioner Fred Goldberg told a panel of the House Ways and Means Committee
today.  “There is no chance the exchanges will get it anywhere
near right,” he said.  Goldberg was IRS commissioner in President  George H.W.
Bush ’s administration from 1989 through 1991 and was the
Treasury Department’s top tax policy official in 1992. He is now
a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in
 Washington .  Affordable Care  The insurance subsidies are a core piece of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act that will take effect in
2014. At today’s hearing,  Steven Miller , an IRS deputy
commissioner, described the subsidies as the agency’s “most
substantial” implementation effort and said the process is
going well so far.  “We have the processes and structures in place to
succeed,” Miller said.  Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican,
said the IRS’s duties under the health care law are requiring
the agency to do much more than its core tax collection
function.  In many cases, taxpayers will qualify for subsidies in 2014
based on income they report on their tax returns for 2012, which
will be the most recent full year of income data.  Poverty Level  Insurance subsidies will be available for people making up
to four times the federal  poverty  level, or $92,200 for a family
of four under this year’s standard. The subsidies, in the form
of tax credits, will be paid directly to insurance companies.  On 2014 returns filed in early 2015, taxpayers will
reconcile their actual income against the 2012 income they used
to determine eligibility.  Goldberg’s written testimony described a number of
situations that would cause taxpayers to have different
circumstances in 2014 than in 2012 -- such as forming a
business, losing a job, becoming disabled or getting a
promotion.  “Life’s changes do not follow the bookkeepers’ calendar,”
he said.  Taxpayers who receive bigger subsidies than they should
have will repay at least some of the money to the government.
Republicans want them to pay back all of the extra subsidy.  Taxpayers who would qualify for larger subsidies under
their actual 2014 income will receive the extra benefit as a  tax
cut . Goldberg said in his written testimony he expects taxpayers
to claim credits that are too large, either through fraud or
because there are economic incentives to do so.  Given his concern about the exchanges run by HHS and the
states, he contended the IRS should have more authority, more
enforcement tools and should charge interest and penalties for
overstating tax credits.  “Decades of IRS experience make clear that the citizens
will want our questions answered and our issues resolved
promptly, properly and” in clear ways, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  