-- Legg Mason’s Fetting Steps Down as Peltz Standstill Ends
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-09-11T20:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/legg-mason-ceo-fetting-to-step-down-oct-1-sullivan-interim-ceo.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the  money manager 
under pressure from activist investor  Nelson Peltz , said Mark R. Fetting will step down as chairman and chief executive officer
after failing to end almost five years of client redemptions.  Fetting will leave on Oct. 1, two months before a
standstill agreement with Peltz expires. Joseph A. Sullivan,
head of global distribution, will become interim CEO while the
board searches for a permanent  successor  and lead independent
director W. Allen Reed will become non-executive chairman, the
Baltimore-based company said today.  Fetting, 56, has struggled to end client withdrawals and
reverse a 65 percent decline in the company’s share price since
he was named CEO in 2008. Fetting has cut jobs, restructured
expenses at investment units and bought back shares since the
2009 investment in Legg Mason by Peltz, who is known for pushing
companies to increase their value by reducing costs or splitting
up. While looking for a new CEO, Legg Mason may explore selling
some of its investment units,  Jeffrey Hopson , an analyst at
Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis , said in an interview.  “Peltz is a big shareholder and I just think this reflects
him thinking there is a lack of underlying progress,” Hopson
said. “A more likely scenario is to consider a breakup of the
company.”  Shares Rise  Legg Mason rose 5.4 percent to close at $26.85 in New York.
The  stock  has increased 3.2 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a gain of 24 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s  20-
member index of custody banks and asset managers.  Peltz, whose Trian Fund Management LP is Legg Mason’s
biggest shareholder, joined the company’s board in October 2009
under an accord that prohibits him from increasing his voting
stake or forcing a sale or merger of any investment affiliates.
That agreement ends Nov. 30. Peltz helped spur Cadbury Plc’s
2008 spinoff of  Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc. (DPS)   “We have a constructive relationship with Trian that we
expect to continue,” said  Mary Athridge , a spokeswoman for Legg
Mason.  Legg Mason, which shot to prominence in the previous decade
as home to famed stock-picker  Bill Miller , has seen assets fall
from a peak of $1 trillion in 2007 to $636 billion at the end of
July because of market losses and investor redemptions.  The asset manager owns multiple investment units with
different strategies, including fixed-income manager Western
Asset Management and equity managers such as ClearBridge
Advisors, Legg Mason Capital Management and Royce & Associates.
The company also owns hedge fund-of-funds manager Permal Group.
Each affiliate operates independently and has revenue-sharing
agreements with the corporate parent.  Quarterly Loss  Legg Mason posted its first  quarterly loss  in the three
months ended June 30 since 2009 because of expenses to
restructure debt. While long-term redemptions slowed to the
weakest pace in five years amid deposits into bond funds,
clients continued to pull money from higher-fee stock funds,
pushing investment advisory fees down 11 percent.  Fetting completed a plan in the quarter ended March 31
designed to save $130 million to $150 million a year through a
combination of job cuts and moving certain technology functions
to investment units. Since January 2008, he’s cut almost 500
jobs.  “A lot of the heavy lifting in terms of balance sheet
restructuring and improving the cost structure of the holding
company has already been done,” Robert Lee, an analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. in New York, wrote in a note today.
“A fundamental restructuring of the company is problematic at
best and not so easily achieved” because of the firm’s revenue-
sharing agreements.  Board Disappointed  Last year, Fetting’s disclosure that some costs tied to
sharing revenues with the  Western Asset  bond unit would delay
his goal of lifting profitability disappointed board members
including Peltz, people familiar with the firm said at the time.  Fetting and Chief Financial Officer Pete Nachtwey told
analysts and shareholders in May 2011 that Legg Mason’s bond
unit will keep a larger portion of its revenue, as performance
rebounded and redemptions abated. The unit previously paid some
of its quarterly revenue to the parent company to cover costs
from a bailout of money-market funds it inherited through the
December 2005 acquisition of Citigroup Inc.’s investment unit,
which was integrated into the bond division.  Nachtwey said today at the Barclays 2012 Global Financial
Services Conference that Legg Mason may have the opportunity to
revisit revenue-sharing agreements it has in place with its
investment units and to ensure “perfect alignment” between the
parent and possible new affiliates by allowing them to share in
the equity.  No Caretaker  “It’s possible that with some restructuring of the revenue
shares with our existing affiliates we can do something there as
well,” he said.  Discussions about Fetting  stepping down  had been going on
for “a while,” and he and the board came to a mutual decision,
Nachtwey said today. The company is in no rush to start the
search for a successor and will press ahead with its strategy
under Sullivan, he said.  “This is not a caretaker” leadership, Nachtwey said.
“Having said that, sometimes fresh blood is helpful.”  Fetting took over from Legg Mason’s founder, Raymond
“Chip” Mason, in January 2008, after stock funds managed byMiller trailed rivals for two years in a row and money funds
acquired from Citigroup suffered losses on mortgage-related
investments. The funds had invested as much as $10 billion in
structured investment vehicles that plunged as investors shunned
mortgage-linked debt in 2008.  Chip Mason  Mason started Mason & Co. in 1962 and eight years later
merged it with Legg & Co., whose predecessor firm was founded as
a regional brokerage in 1899. Mason expanded the asset-
management side of the business by making  acquisitions  such as
the 1986 purchase of bond investor Western Asset, the 2001 deal
for small-cap manager Royce & Associates and the 2005 pickup of
hedge-fund manager Permal Group Ltd.  Mason led the firm’s largest deal by swapping Legg Mason’s
brokerage business for Citigroup’s investment unit. Citigroup’s
bond and money funds were folded into Western Asset, while its
stock funds were organized into a new unit called ClearBridge
Advisors.  Fetting, who was previously responsible for Legg Mason’s
mutual funds and managed accounts, spent his first year as CEO
bolstering the money funds, booking $1.69 billion in after-tax
costs to remove the securities from the portfolios.  “He’s done a phenomenal job leading us through an
incredible crisis,” Nachtwey said today.  $1 Trillion  After ridding the funds of the troubled debt in early 2009,
Fetting said he would turn to reversing the redemptions that
started in late 2007 and intensified with stock and bond fund
losses amid the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008.  That task proved more difficult as woes at the firm’s money
funds coincided with sub-par performance at stock funds,
including those led by famed stock-picker Miller. Bond funds
managed by the Western Asset Management unit also lagged behind
peers after investing in riskier securities before the 2008
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  