-- Egypt’s Shares Jump to Highest Since Uprising on FDI Optimism
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-09-11T14:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/egypt-s-shares-jump-to-highest-since-uprising-on-fdi-optimism.html
Egypt’s shares surged to the
highest level since the first days of last year’s uprising as
prospects of foreign direct investment from the U.S. and oil-
rich Gulf Arab states boosted investor confidence.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, climbed to the highest level
since April 2011.  Ezz Steel (ESRS) , Egypt’s largest producer of the
material, jumped to the highest since July 2011. The benchmark
 EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  climbed 1.6 percent to 5,697.48 at the close in
Cairo, the highest since Jan. 26, 2011.  Egypt’s benchmark has surged 57 percent this year, making
it the best performer among 92 gauges tracked by Bloomberg. The
measure rose 3.4 percent in the last four days as U.S. and Saudi
Arabian businessmen held meetings with government officials in
Cairo to discuss investment opportunities. Qatar pledged last
week $18 billion of investments in the North African country and
Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said Egypt seeks to complete talks
for a $4.8 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund  by
the end of November.  “FDIs are the name of the game,” said Ashraf Akhnoukh,
Cairo-based senior manager for  Middle East  and North Africa
markets at Commercial International Brokerage Co. Investors are
looking at pledges from Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the IMF and
interpreting it as a sign that “Egypt is a safer investment
environment even though we may not be that stable yet,” he
said.  Egypt Raised  Last year’s revolt ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  after a
three-decade reign and prompted the Egyptian Exchange to halt
trading for about two months. The benchmark index tumbled 49
percent in 2011.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded Arab
investment bank, raised Egyptian equities today to overweight
from neutral, citing increased political stability and improved
prospects for external financing. CIB and carmaker  GB Auto (AUTO)   were
added to the investment bank’s Middle East and North Africa Top
20 list.  CIB rose 1.3 percent to 32.88 Egyptian pounds. Ezz Steel
advanced 4.4 percent to 10.41 pounds. GB Auto climbed 4.5
percent to 25.9 pounds, the highest close in a year.  Shares valued at about 944 million ($155 million) exchanged
hands today, the highest level since June 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  