-- Help Somalia’s New President: Cut Off Aid
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-11T22:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/help-somalia-s-new-president-cut-off-aid.html
A surprise candidate, Sheikh Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud, has won Somalia’s first freely contested
 presidential election . The bigger surprise will be if his
government proves any less corrupt or incompetent than the one
it is replacing.  Somalia is the world’s premier basket case, with a
stranglehold atop Foreign Policy magazine’s annual  Failed States
Index . It’s home base for the pirates of the  Indian Ocean , an
intermittent haven and recruiting ground for al-Qaeda, and the
cradle of al-Shabaab, a jihadist sect that kills aid workers,
conscripts children and until recently controlled the capital,
Mogadishu, and most of the south of the country.  Somalia is also a place with great promise. It stands at a
crucial trade crossroads, the portal between Arabia and  East
Africa  (there’s a reason for those pirates). Despite the lack of
a functional government for two decades, it has a bare-bones
agricultural economy and even exports livestock. And it has oil
-- maybe lots of oil: Up to  110 billion barrels  underground and
offshore estimated to be recoverable.  Mohamoud, a 56-year-old academic and civil-society
advocate, was elected not by the Somali people but by the
country’s 275-member Parliament, which itself was formed in
recent weeks though a corrupt, nepotism-ridden process dominated
by tribal leaders and members of the outgoing Transitional
Federal Government.  It’s promising that, in the final runoff, Mohamoud defeated
the transitional president, Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, who
oversaw a regime in which $7 out of every $10 of international
aid ended up  lining some power-broker’s pocket . (The unofficial
national motto is “Maxaa igu jiraa,” meaning “What’s in it
for me?”) Yet he will probably have less influence than the new
Parliament speaker, Mohamed Sheikh Osman Jawari, an Islamist
lawyer who was a minister under the dictator Mohamed Siad Barre
in the 1980s.  Predatory Government  We don’t know much about either man, which is probably
fine, because the new government is likely to be just as
irrelevant as the old one, which Bronwyn Bruton, a Somalia
expert with the  Atlantic Council’s Ansari Africa Center , rightly
calls a “predatory institution” that feasted on hundreds of
millions of dollars of Western aid. Tax collection is virtually
nonexistent; foreign aid is the only revenue source. The  army is
ragtag ; a United Nations-sanctioned force of 17,000  African
Union  troops known as  Amisom  keeps al-Shabaab at bay.  Worst of all, there is no civil society, no economic
structure, no legal or law-enforcement system, no education
infrastructure, no forums for conflict resolution, and so on.  Perhaps the best news for Somalia is that it is of
increasingly little relevance in the West’s fight against
Islamic terrorism. Al-Shabaab is a spent force, now  holed up  in
the port of Kismayo under shelling by the Kenyan navy. The
African Union seems intent on maintaining its presence, and at
less than $500 million a year -- a  third of which  comes from the
U.S. -- Amisom is a relatively inexpensive lid on the powder
keg. Al-Qaeda has been pretty much wiped out, and U.S. drones
are ready should it re-emerge. Even piracy is on the decline,
thanks largely to new  security measures  by shipping companies.  With the local war on terrorism winding down, perhaps the
war on poverty can begin. There is no chance of political self-
sufficiency or security until the country has a functioning
economy. Americans -- the State Department, nongovernmental
groups and businesses -- can best help by ending the welfare
handouts to the central government and shifting aid and
investment directly to projects that change the lives of average
Somalis. With al-Shabaab mostly gone, a good first step would be
for UN agencies and charity groups, which decamped from country
after a rash of kidnappings, to get their peaceful boots back on
the ground.  Smarter Aid  Turkey  has taken the lead on smart  development , not just
pledging $300 million for projects including a children’s
hospital and refugee camp, but also sending Turkish contractors
and workers and their families to live in Mogadishu, bypassing
corrupt aid-delivery mechanisms and ensuring that the projects
will get completed. Turkey has reopened its embassy, hosted in
June an international conference on Somalia’s future, created
regional development offices to foster business links, and begun
 twice-weekly flights  from Istanbul to Mogadishu on  Turkish Air. (THYAO) 
The  Chinese energy  giant  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and smaller Canadian and
Australian companies are already  forging oil deals  with the
Somali government and that of the semiautonomous region of
Puntland.  The U.S. could send a strong diplomatic message about the
premium it puts on stability and self-sufficiency by recognizing
the breakaway region of Somaliland as an independent state. The
former British protectorate of 3.5 million people in the
northeast corner of Somalia has been autonomous and relatively
stable since 1991, surviving on remittances from its diaspora
and fees from handling export shipments for landlocked  Ethiopia .
The benefit of recognition is that Somaliland would be able to
negotiate trade deals with foreign states. The downside is that
it would be eligible for its own foreign aid. As we’ve seen in
Somalia proper, that can do a lot more harm than good.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  bolder plan to revive the
housing market ;  Margaret Carlson  on Republican efforts to
 suppress the vote ; Clive Crook on why  Germany’s currency
nostalgia  is off the mark;  Peter Orszag  on the  money wasted in
health care ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  Hoover haunts Romney  but not
Ryan; Richard Vedder on  getting rid of college remedial
education .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 