-- Emanuel No Boss Daley as Teachers School Him With Strike
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-09-11T17:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/emanuel-no-boss-daley-as-teachers-school-him-with-strike.html
Rahm Emanuel ’s mayoral campaign
message was subtle yet unmistakable: Vote for me and you won’t
get another  Richard M. Daley , who in 22 years bought labor
peace, helping to drain cash reserves and create crushing union-
pension liabilities.  Sixteen months into Emanuel’s first term, the teachers
union in the third-largest U.S. city has proved him right in a
way he didn’t intend. The new mayor has taken a tougher line and
finds himself presiding over something his predecessor never did
-- a strike locking more than 350,000 students out of their
classrooms.  The walkout, the first by teachers in the city since 1987,
has put Emanuel in a squeeze. The school district he oversees
faces a deficit that may reach $1 billion, and resolving the
dispute by giving in to the union risks embracing the kind of
financial behavior he campaigned against.  “The problem is he doesn’t have the resources,” said  Dick Simpson , a former city alderman and now head of the political
science department at the  University of Illinois  at Chicago.
“If it isn’t settled soon, Rahm looks like he’s not as
competent as the Chicago mayoral tradition requires.”  City voters have a history of exacting retribution against
first-term Democratic mayors who preside over debacles. They
turned out Michael Bilandic in 1979 after he was blamed for
mishandling the response to a blizzard that year. Four years
later, they booted Jane Byrne, who clashed with firefighters in
a 23-day strike in 1980.  Crucial Support  Organized labor is a critical component of Democratic
support in the city, and national union officials have come to
the defense of the Chicago Teachers Union and its 26,000
members. AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said Emanuel’s
contract proposal “does not provide the elements necessary to
ensure success for Chicago’s students or educators.”  Emanuel also failed to get support from one of his
prominent former colleagues in Congress, where he served before
becoming President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff. Rather than
choose sides in the dispute,  Dick Durbin , the Senate’s No. 2
Democrat, said, “Chicago’s students deserve better.”  “Instead of getting an education, these kids are being put
in the middle of a fight between adults,” Durbin, of  Illinois ,
said in an e-mailed statement from  Washington .  ‘Up to Rahm’  Teachers and school support staff picketed again today as
negotiations continued. A couple dozen strikers walked the
sidewalk outside Chicago Public Schools headquarters in the Loop
business district.  “It’s up to Rahm how long we are going to be here,” said
Susan Hickey, a school social worker and a member of the union’s
bargaining team. “People are resolved to get a quality day and
a quality education for children.”  The union originally sought a 29 percent raise over 24
months while the board proposed 2 percent annual increases under
a four-year contract. The district boosted the offer to a 16
percent raise over the four years and can’t give more, said
Board President David Vitale.  Speaking yesterday at a church providing emergency child
care during the strike, Emanuel urged the union not to punish
students with the walkout.  “Don’t take it out on the kids of  Chicago  if you have a
problem with me,” he said.  Daycare Disasters  The strike has sent parents rushing to find child care,
though the impact on businesses has been muted, at least so far.  “If this takes more than a week, then there’s going to
have to be changes,” said Brian Battle, director of trading at
Performance Trust Capital Partners, a broker-dealer that has
about 150 people working in its Chicago office. “You can wing
it for a couple of days, but the duration of the work stoppage
is what’s going to determine our reaction.”  Emanuel has few options for addressing the strike,
financial analysts and others who know Chicago’s budget standing
say.  While the city is forecasting its smallest budget gap since
2009 -- $369 million in fiscal 2013 -- a richer union contract
may increase the separate deficit already projected to reach $1
billion in next year’s budget for the school system, which
Emanuel controls.  ‘No Money’  “The city has no money to give,” John Kenward, a  Standard
& Poor’s  analyst, said from his Chicago office. The school
district would “have to cut costs somewhere else to provide
sweeter benefits.”  The Chicago Teachers’ Pension Fund had 60 percent of the
assets needed to meet forecasted obligations, down from 67
percent a year earlier, according to its June 30, 2011, annual
report.  “It will be more difficult to find more money since they
don’t have any more reserves to tap into,” said Laurence Msall,
president of the Civic Federation of Chicago. “A big drain for
Chicago Public Schools is the $1 billion deficit next year, much
of it driven by the pension system.”  Chicagoans have long memories for strikes that interrupt
services. When firefighters struck in 1980, resentments over the
dispute lingered for many years, Simpson said.  Daley, who was first elected in 1989, tried to lengthen the
school day and change teacher work rules during his tenure, yet
ended up surrendering on those issues and giving instructors
raises. When money was more plentiful, the mayor could call
unions into his office and strike a deal. That, Simpson said, is
not so easy now.  Hard Feelings  Hard feelings were evident during the strike’s first day.
John Cusick, a fifth-grade teacher and the union delegate at
William H. Ray Elementary School in Hyde Park, said he and his
colleagues resent what they see as Emanuel’s attacks.  “I’m a public servant, too -- why isn’t our story told?”
said Cusick, whose school sits a block from the University of
Chicago Lab Schools, a private institution where Emanuel sends
his children and where Obama sent his when he lived in Chicago.
“All we hear about education in America is teachers are bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  