-- Emerging Stocks Gain on Stimulus Expectations
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-11T21:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/emerging-stocks-gain-on-stimulus-expectations.html
Emerging-market stocks gained for a
fourth day amid expectations that U.S., Chinese and Indian
central banks will act to stimulate their economies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.3 percent to 973.09
at 5:01 p.m. in New York for its longest streak of gains in a
month. Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose as homebuilder  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) 
surged to a five-month high after saying it’s considering
selling a stake in its Alphaville unit. Equity gauges in Chile,
Hungary and Poland advanced. India’s  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  climbed the
most in Asia on speculation the government will cut borrowing
costs.  The Federal Open Market Committee will discuss additional
measures to stimulate the U.S. economy at a two-day meeting
starting tomorrow while Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the
country has “ample strength” to take monetary or fiscal steps
to meet its economic goals. Germany’s Federal Constitutional
Court said it will issue a ruling tomorrow on whether to allow
the country to ratify the 500 billion-euro ($643 billion)
European Stability Mechanism.  “With the ECB announcement last week, the likelihood the
Fed will do something on Thursday and some possibility China
will do the same, there is quite a lot of potential stimulus on
the table,”  John Lomax , an emerging-markets strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in a phone interview from London. “When
you’ve seen that collection of announcements, particularly on
the monetary side, emerging markets have responded strongly over
a period of time.”  The MSCI gauge has rallied 3.6 percent from a six-week low
on Sept. 5 after China unveiled new spending plans for roads and
subways and the European Central Bank announced a bond-buying
program to support growth in the European Union, which purchases
about 30 percent of exports from nations in the MSCI gauge. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index added 0.3 percent to 1,433.56.  Brazilian Utilities  The Bovespa rose to a three-week high as President  Dilma Rousseff  took steps to force power utilities to cut rates that
manufacturers say are the fourth-highest in the world in a bid
to make them more competitive.  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais ,
Brazil’s largest utility by market value, fell 10 percent.  Hungary’s BUX Index rose for an eighth day, gaining 1.5
percent as  INA Industrija Nafte (INARA)  d.d., a Croatian oil refiner
controlled by  Mol Nyrt (MOL) , said it discovered a “significant” oil
well near Vinkovci, eastern Croatia. Mol rose 3.7 percent to a
five-month high. Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  added 0.8 percent and
Chile’s IPSA rose 0.4 percent.  ‘Grave Concern’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 that the weak
U.S. jobs market was a “grave concern.” A gauge of market
expectations for additional stimulus rose to a record 99 percent
in August, according to Citigroup Inc.  Wen said China has full confidence it will meet its
economic goals for the year and signaled it may use a 100
billion yuan ($16 billion) fiscal stabilization fund to “propel
stable  economic growth .” Germany’s top constitutional court
rejected a last-minute effort to delay a ruling over the euro
zone bailout fund, saying it would issue its decision tomorrow.  India’s  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the biggest
mortgage lender, climbed 2.5 percent to a two-year high as the
Sensex rose 0.5 percent. An increase in fuel costs is
“unavoidable,” oil minister S. Jaipal Reddy said today, a move
that would help pare the fiscal deficit and prompt the central
bank to ease monetary policy.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s largest software
maker, advanced 1.5 percent to a record and  Bharat Petroleum
Corp. (BPCL) , the second-biggest state-owned refiner, rallied the most
in three weeks.  Forecast Cut  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  declined 0.7 percent as
Macquarie cut its 2012 growth forecast for China to 7.7 percent
from 8.1 percent, saying it sees the slowdown continuing into
the third quarter and limited room for monetary expansion next
year amid inflationary pressure.  Gafisa jumped 13 percent and  Anhanguera Educacional
Participacoes SA (AEDU3)  added 1.1 percent as the company was raised to
buy from hold by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Micex slipped 0.1 percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said Russia, the only major emerging-market country that hasn’t
cut rates this year, is set to increase borrowing costs to
arrest accelerating inflation.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries declined five basis points to 295,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  