-- Emerging Stocks Fall From Two-Week High on China, Europe Concern
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-09-11T12:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/emerging-stocks-fall-from-two-week-high-on-china-europe-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell from a
two-week high amid concerns that  China ’s economic slowdown is
deepening and Europe will struggle to contain its debt crisis.   FAW Car Co. (000800) , which makes cars in China with Volkswagen AG,
sank 2 percent after Chinese passenger-vehicle sales trailed
analysts’ estimates for a second month in August and the
government increased gasoline and diesel prices.  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) ,
India’s biggest iron-ore exporter, slumped 6.2 percent after the
state of Goa halted mining of the material. Russia’s M icex Index 
fell for the first time in five days and the ruble weakened.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.1 percent to
969.42 as of 12:55 p.m. in London, snapping three days of gains.
Macquarie Group Ltd. cut its 2012 forecast for China’s economic
growth. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said late yesterday
he won’t allow the  European Central Bank  to stipulate how the
nation narrows its budget deficit as a condition for buying its
bonds. Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court is due to rule
tomorrow on the nation’s participation in Europe’s rescue fund.  “Estimates for China’s growth are being trimmed down,”
Kim Dae Young, a Seoul-based fund manager at KB Asset Management
Co., which manages about $26 billion in assets, said by phone
today. “Investors are cautious ahead of the pending decision in
Germany.”  Countries in the MSCI index send about 30 percent of their
exports to the European Union on average, according to the World
Trade Organization.  Banks Drop  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  declined 0.7 percent, while
the Micex slipped 0.2 percent and South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa
All Shares Index retreated 0.7 percent. The Czech  PX Index (PX)  lost
0.8 percent for the biggest decline among emerging-market equity
gauges tracked by Bloomberg.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of east European,
Middle Eastern and African credit-default swaps declined two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 209. The extra yield
investors demand to own emerging-market bonds over U.S.
Treasuries declined one basis point to 298, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Gauges of raw-materials, financial and industrial stocks
were the biggest  drags  on the MSCI  emerging-markets  index. The
developing-nations gauge has advanced 5.8 percent this year,
trailing a 10 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of developed
countries.  Macquarie cut its 2012 growth forecast for China to 7.7
percent from 8.1 percent, saying it sees the slowdown continuing
into the third quarter and limited room for monetary expansion
next year amid inflationary pressure.  Leadership Transition  Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s absence from public
events for more than a week has also fueled speculation about
the health of the leading candidate to succeed President  Hu Jintao  in a once-in-a-decade leadership change.  Since speaking at the Party School of the Communist Party
on Sept. 1, Xi canceled a Sept. 5 meeting with U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton . After foreign journalists in Beijing were
told the same day that Xi would meet Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt on Sept. 10, the event wasn’t included in an
official agenda distributed Sept. 7. The foreign ministry said
yesterday no such meeting was planned.  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. slumped 2.2 percent in Hong
Kong. Dongfeng Motor Group Co., which produces cars with Nissan
Motor Co. in China, slipped 0.6 percent.  Wholesale deliveries, including multipurpose and sport
utility  vehicles , gained 11 percent to 1.22 million units last
month, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said.
That compares with the 1.4 million mean estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sesa Goa slumped to the lowest level since January
following a ban on all mining in the western state that accounts
for more than half of the nation’s overseas iron-ore sales.
 Sterlite Industries India Ltd. (STLT) , which is set to be merged with
Sesa Goa, retreated 4.6 percent.   SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest maker of computer
memory chips, dropped 1.4 percent in Seoul. The company may post
an operating loss of 72 billion won ($64 million) in the third
quarter, Shinhan Investment Corp. said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  