-- Hoover May Haunt Romney, but Not Ryan
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-09-11T22:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/herbert-hoover-may-haunt-romney-but-not-ryan.html
Herbert Hoover  will spook  Mitt Romney  yet. That’s the hope of Democrats and worry of
Republicans in the 50-odd days left in this presidential
campaign.  At a time when everyone hopes the  economy  will finally be
changing for the better, the very mention of the businessman who
was president when the economy turned so bad has the capacity to
unnerve. The specter of the 31st president may haunt the Romney
campaign, but not necessarily for the reasons usually mentioned.  The common reference is to the “ businessman’s curse .”
Hoover first came to politics because of a spectacular record in
business. As a mining engineer in the gold-standard years, he
increased world growth by literally increasing the supply of
gold on which growth was based. Like Romney today, Hoover
derived satisfaction from large comprehensive projects, and like
Romney he often served as a consultant and dealmaker.  Bain & Co. and  Bain Capital , with their penchant for hiring
Stanford graduates, might have hired the energetic Hoover, had
he graduated in the Class of 1995 instead of the Class of 1895,
which happened to be the new university’s first class. Yet
somehow under the businessman Hoover, business died: The stock
market fell 90 percent and unemployment rose to 20 percent.
Electing businessman Romney, the contention goes, would risk a
repeat.  Embrace Austerity  This argument, comparing resume to resume, seems contrived.
But there is other history related to Hoover that does haunt
this election. Many voters today who have no idea when Hoover
served as president, let alone where he went to school, believe
that in coming years the  federal budget  should be cut, recession
or not. That is why the Republicans dared to pick Representative
 Paul Ryan  as their vice-presidential nominee. The voters know
Ryan’s middle name is Budget. They liked it when he said “we
have to stop spending money we don’t have.” In other words, it’s
time for government austerity.  But since  Ronald Reagan ’s time, austerity has been a
pejorative. Every Republican consultant worth his salt has
counseled party candidates to avoid the phrase “austerity” and
to speak about “growth.” Part of this practice has to do with
political reality: “Austerity” sounds negative, and in the past
candidates who have spoken more positively have won. This is the
“Morning in America” insight. The basis for Republican
skittishness about austerity is the evidence that Hoover’s
austerity made the 1930s Depression great.  As it happens, however, that evidence does not exist.
Hoover failed to practice austerity in the most literal sense,
cutting government size. Federal expenditures had been dropping
before he came to office, even during recessions. But they  rose
vigorously  during his presidency, from $2.9 billion in fiscal
1929 to $4.8 billion for fiscal 1932.  Many government policies, including those advocated by
Hoover, contributed to the deepening of the Great Depression.
Those policies included procyclical tightening at the Federal
Reserve, tight credit, federal pressure on businesses to keep
wages up despite declines in profits, and tariff increases. But
federal austerity in budgeting wasn’t one of them.  Franklin Roosevelt , Hoover’s opponent in 1932, assailed the Republican
incumbent as a big spender who conducted an “orgy of inflation.”  Hoover spent decades underscoring his aversion to stark
austerity and pure laissez-faire policy. His contempt for
laissez-faire came out well before the Great Depression, in a
1922 book, “American Individualism.” Hoover, then commerce
secretary, announced that the U.S. had already  abandoned  this
 policy , and he deemed private property a fetish. After his
defeat in 1932, Hoover took pains to note that as president he
had sought the opposite of austerity, as Robert P. Murphy at the
Ludwig von Mises Institute has pointed out.  Hoover’s Curse  Andrew Mellon  at Treasury, he allowed, might advocate fire
sales and liquidation, he wrote, but “other members of the
administration, also having economic responsibilities” --
Treasury Undersecretary Ogden Mills, Roy Young of the  Federal
Reserve  Board, Commerce Secretary Robert Lamont and Agriculture
Secretary Arthur Hyde -- “believed with me that we should use
the powers of government to cushion the situation.”  As long as Republican leaders suggest -- out of assumed
knowledge, political expedience or intellectual laziness -- that
“Hoover austerity” and “Hoover laissez-faire” were real, and as
long as they suggest that those policies caused the Great
Depression, the same leaders will have a hard time bringing
themselves to showcase Ryan’s cutbacks. You can bet your copy of
“American Individualism” that Romney speechwriters are
calibrating the candidate’s words to be sure they don’t sound
too austere.  Ryan, however, does see some virtue in government
austerity, and understands that austerity isn’t always an
alternative to growth, but may rather be a cause of growth.
There the rift between Romney and Ryan that Democrats pray for
may emerge. That, in turn, will confuse and put off voters. They
hesitate to get behind a party that hasn’t made up its mind on
the basics of the business cycle.  But it’s also possible that with Ryan comes revision. The
Republican strategists may finally widen their horizons beyond
Reagan, and abandon some superstitions and confusions. With
enough courage on Ryan’s part, that shift in historical outlook
may happen even in the next 50 days. In that case, Hoover won’t
have spooked the Republicans after all.  And Ryan will have freed the party from an old ghost.  ( Amity Shlaes , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the director
of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush Institute and the
author of the forthcoming “Coolidge.” The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  bolder plan to revive the
housing market  and on  Somalia’s new president ;  Margaret Carlson 
on Republican efforts to  suppress the vote ; Clive Crook on why
 Germany’s currency nostalgia  is off the mark;  Peter Orszag  on
the  money wasted in health care ; Richard Vedder on  getting rid
of college remedial education .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  