-- Merrill Lynch Race-Bias Case Dismissal Upheld on Appeal
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-11T18:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/merrill-lynch-race-bias-case-dismissal-upheld-on-appeal.html
Merrill Lynch & Co. won an appeal
upholding a federal judge’s dismissal of the second of two race-
bias lawsuits filed against it by black financial advisers.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Chicago today affirmed U.S.
District Judge Robert Gettleman’s decision last year to throw
out the complaint filed against Merrill Lynch and  Bank of
America Corp . The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender
acquired the securities firm for $33 billion in 2009.  The lead plaintiff in both cases, Nashville,  Tennessee ,
stock broker George McReynolds, alleged the bank and firm
devised a discriminatory retention bonus plan when the
acquisition was made public in 2008. McReynolds first accused
Merrill Lynch of discriminating against its African-American
financial advisers in a 2005 federal court lawsuit that is
pending in Chicago.  “It is not enough to allege, as the complaint does, that
the bonuses incorporated the past discriminatory effects of
Merrill Lynch’s underlying employment practices,” U.S. Circuit
Judge Diane Sykes wrote for the the unanimous three-judge panel.  “The disparate impact of those employment practices is the
subject of the first lawsuit, and if proven, will be remedied
there,” Sykes said.  In the 2005 case, McReynolds claimed Merrill Lynch’s past
practices and procedures favored white financial advisers over
their black counterparts, impairing their ability to earn
comparable incomes.  Class Action  Gettleman in 2010 denied a motion by McReynolds and 16
other advisers for certification of the case as a class action,
or group lawsuit. That decision was reversed in February by a
different panel of judges at the same U.S. appeals court that
issued today’s decision.  Allowing class treatment would prevent courts from having
to decide in individual trials whether the firm’s practices were
unlawful, U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner wrote for that
unanimous three-judge panel.  The bank is seeking U.S. Supreme Court review of that
decision, said  Bill Halldin , a Merrill Lynch spokesman. In a
phone interview, he said the firm was pleased with today’s
ruling.  Advisers, Trainees  In a July 13 order, Gettleman certified a class of “all
African-Americans employed by Merrill Lynch at any time since
July 10, 2004, as financial advisers or financial adviser
trainees” in the U.S. retail brokerage unit of the firm’s
Global Private Client division.  No trial date has been set for that case, plaintiffs’
lawyer Suzanne Bish said today in a phone interview.  Today’s decision came on an appeal filed after Gettleman
had denied the class certification request in the first
McReynolds case and before the appellate reversal, she said.
That later ruling lessened the significance of the second suit’s
dismissal.  “We’re thrilled that our plaintiffs will have the
opportunity to recover those same retention bonuses,” said
Bish, an attorney at the  Chicago  law firm Stowell & Friedman
Ltd.  The cases are McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch, 11-01957, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago), and
McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Inc., 05-
cv-06583, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  