-- Leslie Goes Ashore in Newfoundland With Rain, Gusty Winds
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-09-11T13:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/leslie-goes-ashore-in-newfoundland-with-rain-gusty-winds.html
Post-Tropical Storm Leslie went
ashore in southern Newfoundland with hurricane-force wind gusts
and heavy rain, the  Canadian Hurricane Centre  said.  The storm was about 43 miles (69 kilometers) northwest of
Argentia, Newfoundland, on Placentia Bay at about 9:30 a.m.
local time, according to the agency. Wind gusts of 77 miles per
hour were recorded east of the storm’s core.  “That is going to continue for the next two to three
hours,” said Dan Pydynowski, a meteorologist at  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. “They are getting battered
with wind and rain now, but by this afternoon the sun will be
back out.”  Leslie, the 12th named storm of the 2012 Atlantic season,
has completed its transition to a post-tropical system,
according to the Canadian Hurricane Centre.  Tropical storms tend to be more compact and symmetrical and
draw strength from warm ocean waters. A normal nor’easter draws
strength from upper-level winds, is more spread out and doesn’t
have a tight structure, Pydynowski said.  Leslie “is forecast to remain a large and powerful cyclone
over the North Atlantic for the next two or three days,” the
U.S. National Hurricane Center said earlier today.  2010 Strike  Hurricane Igor, which raked the area in September 2010,
washed out roads, isolated towns and killed one person there.  Korea National Oil Corp.’s 115,000-barrel-a-day North
Atlantic Refinery is at the head of Placentia Bay in Come By
Chance, Newfoundland.  “We’re keeping an eye on the storm and seeing what it
brings,” said Gloria Slade, communications manager for the
plant. “For now, we’re working through it.”  Marine Atlantic said it was canceling ferries between  Nova
Scotia  and Newfoundland, the  Associated Press  reported.  Elsewhere, a low-pressure system midway between the Cape
Verde Islands and the Lesser Antilles that’s moving west-
northwest at 15 mph to 20 mph is being given a 90 percent chance
of growing into a tropical system within two days, the NHC said.  Also in the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Michael was about
1,135 miles west of the Azores packing 65 mph winds and
“weakening fast,” the center said. It’s no threat to land.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in  London  at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in  New York  at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 