-- Leslie Damages Buildings, Cuts Power in Newfoundland
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-09-11T15:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/leslie-damages-buildings-cuts-power-in-newfoundland.html
Post-Tropical Storm Leslie knocked
out power, toppled trees, tore off roofs and flooded roads as it
passed across eastern Newfoundland.  Wind gusts of as much as 81 miles (130 kilometers) per hour
are possible for the next few hours as rain from the storm
tapers off, the  Canadian Hurricane Centre  said in a bulletin at
about 11 a.m.  New York  time.  “Many large trees have fallen, there are power outages for
much of  St. John’s  and the Avalon Peninsula, roofing materials
and windows have been ripped out of some buildings,” the agency
said.  The pounding will probably continue until midday, said Dan
Pydynowski, a meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania .  “They are getting battered with wind and rain now, but by
this afternoon the sun will be back out,” he said.  Leslie was about 130 miles north-northwest of St. John’s
with maximum winds of 70 mph, according to an  11 a.m. advisory 
from the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. The U.S.
center has stopped issuing updates on the system because it
isn’t tropical in nature anymore.  The storm had begun to lose the characteristics that define
tropical systems when it made landfall near Fortune,
Newfoundland, earlier today.  Tropical Systems  Tropical storms tend to be more compact and symmetrical and
draw strength from warm ocean waters. A nor’easter, by
comparison, draws strength from upper-level winds, is more
spread out and doesn’t have a tight structure, Pydynowski said.  Leslie’s tropical storm strength winds of at least 39 mph
now reach out 345 miles from its core. The range yesterday was
205 miles.  Hurricane Igor raked  Newfoundland  in September 2010,
washing out roads, isolating towns and killing one person there.  Korea National Oil Corp.’s 115,000-barrel-a-day North
Atlantic Refinery is at the head of Placentia Bay in Come By
Chance, Newfoundland.  “We’re keeping an eye on the storm and seeing what it
brings,” said Gloria Slade, communications manager for the
plant. “For now, we’re working through it.”  Elsewhere, Tropical Depression 14 with top winds of 35 mph
formed in the Atlantic about 1,210 miles east of the Lesser
Antilles, according to the U.S. center. The storm is expected to
 grow into a hurricane , named Nadine, within the next three days.  Pydynowski said computer models suggest the system will
remain in the mid-Atlantic and never threaten  North America .  Also in the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Michael weakened about
1,090 miles west of the Azores. Its top winds are now 45 mph,
down from 65 mph earlier, the center said. It’s no threat to
land.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 