-- ESM Ruling Won’t Be Delayed, Germany’s Top Court Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-09-11T09:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/esm-ruling-won-t-be-delayed-germany-s-top-court-says.html
Germany ’s top constitutional court
rejected a last-minute bid to delay a case over the European
Stability Mechanism, clearing the way for a ruling on the 500
billion-euro ($640 billion) bailout plan tomorrow.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe said today it
would issue its ruling on the ESM as scheduled at 10 a.m.
tomorrow, without further comment on the bid to delay the case
by lawmaker Peter Gauweiler. He argued the court should delay
the ruling after the  European Central Bank  pledged unlimited
funds to buy  government bonds .  Germany hasn’t ratified the ESM treaty and if it can’t join
the mechanism won’t be created, and other bailout measures might
be thrown into doubt. Last week, ECB President  Mario Draghi 
announced the central bank was ready to buy unlimited quantities
of short-dated government bonds of nations signed up to rescues
from the ESM or the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility it is designed to replace.  “It’s no surprise the court won’t change its plan,” said
 Christoph Ohler , a professor of European law at  Jena University .
“You cannot directly sue over the acts of European institutions
in a German court, so it’s difficult to introduce these
arguments in this case.”  The judges will rule tomorrow on whether Germany may ratify
the ESM, the final hurdle for the plan to rescue indebted euro-
area member states. The euro gained 0.3 percent against the
dollar to trade at $1.28 as of 11:07 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Gauweiler, a conservative lawmaker from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, didn’t immediately reply to
an e-mail seeking comment.  Schaeuble Confident  The decision to press ahead with the ruling will probably
bolster the German government’s faith that the bailout facility
will get the court’s backing. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told students last week he was confident the ESM would
be approved.  “ Europe  won’t collapse on Sept. 12,” Franz Mayer, a law
professor at Bielefeld University, said in an interview last
week. “In the end, the court will allow Germany to ratify the
ESM, but there will probably be some strings attached.”  Schaeuble, a lawyer by training, told students in
Strasbourg on Sept. 3 he sees “no constitutional issues” with
the ESM.  So far, the court has cleared each step of European
integration. Last year, the judges approved the Greek bailout
and the EFSF, while saying Germany may not agree to take over
unlimited future liabilities incurred by other EU member states.  Markets Afraid  “The bigger issue than the actual ruling is what extra
language the court will add to the reasoning on where the limits
are in the future,” said Mayer. “The markets seem to be quite
afraid the judges may spoil certain options for the future, like
collectivization of debt within the  euro zone .”  The cases were filed after German lawmakers approved the
ESM and the Fiscal Pact, a treaty designed to impose budget
discipline on EU member states. About 37,000 people signed up to
endorse a constitutional complaint filed by political group
“Mehr Demokratie e.V.” Other plaintiffs include opposition
party Die Linke as well as Gauweiler.  The court has chosen six cases for tomorrow’s ruling. At
this stage, the judges only have to decide whether to halt
ratification of the treaties while reviewing the suits more
closely.  Future Risks  The judges may make parliament take steps to assess future
liabilities, Ohler said. This could include taking into account
how much the ECB’s new bond purchase program may cost German
taxpayers, he said.  “Court cases are about things in the past, and the court
isn’t likely to interfere with what has been decided by the
lawmakers,” said Ohler. “Rather, they will tell them what to
do in the future: making sure that Germany keeps its financial
autonomy.”  In previous cases over EU bailouts, the court took only
hours or days to reject preliminary motions, while taking more
than a year to decide on the overall legal issues.  In the current ESM cases the judges held a one-day hearing
in July on the preliminary bid and took two months to
deliberate. The extended time period indicates the court may try
to tackle most legal issues at once, said Axel Kaemmerer, a
professor at Bucerius Law School in Hamburg.  “The judges will have to address the key question to what
extent does Germany relinquish its financial autonomy, how much
power is left to decide on financial actions it will have to
take in the future,” Kaemmerer said.  ‘Elementary’ Decisions  The plaintiffs argue the treaties undermine the autonomy of
Germany’s parliament and democratic self-rule. They rely on last
year’s top court ruling which, while clearing the rescue
measures in place at the time, said parliamentary decisions
about taxing and spending are a central part of self-government.
Members of parliament are representatives of the people and must
remain in control of “elementary” budgetary decisions, the
judges said.  Last week’s ECB bond buying announcement is unlikely to
change the court’s decision, Mayer said. Previous ECB bond
purchases were discussed in earlier cases, which didn’t lead the
court to rule against bailout measures, Mayer said.  The ESM requires its members to shoulder the burden of
nations that don’t pay their share. Those rules could be
critical issues in tomorrow’s ruling, according to Kaemmerer.  “That’s a vulnerable flank,” he said. “There’s a risk
that the court will find those rules don’t concretely specify
what Germany has to pay in the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 