-- EU Backs Tougher Ship-Fuel Sulfur Limits, Enacting IMO Accords
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-09-11T10:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/eu-backs-tougher-ship-fuel-sulfur-limits-enacting-imo-accords.html
The European Union set stricter
limits for sulfur in ship fuel, enacting International Maritime
Organization agreements to fight air pollution.  The European Parliament voted to reduce sulfur in fuel used
by all vessels in EU waters other than the  Baltic Sea , the  North
Sea  and the English Channel to 0.5 percent in 2020 from as much
as 3.5 percent currently. The assembly also incorporated an  IMO
accord  that will lower sulfur in fuel used by all ships in the
Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the English Channel to 0.1 percent
in 2015 from 1 percent now.  “I really hope that these new rules will be a boost to
greener shipping in  Europe ,” said Satu Hassi, a Finnish member
who steered the draft legislation through the 27-nation EU
assembly today in Strasbourg, France. The bloc’s national
governments have already signaled support for the law after
blocking a more ambitious crackdown on maritime pollution that
the Parliament initially sought, making their final approval a
formality in coming weeks.  The EU is curbing sulfur-dioxide emissions blamed for
illnesses including asthma, bronchitis and heart disease and
environmental damage such as the disintegration of buildings.
Ship emissions of sulfur dioxide in EU areas will surpass
European land-based discharges of the pollutant by 2020 without
further action, according to the bloc.  Parliament and member-state negotiators reached an accord
on the new limits in May. At the time, the assembly’s
representatives including Hassi abandoned tougher restrictions
urged by its environment committee because of governments’
concerns about industry costs projected as high as 11 billion
euros ($14 billion) a year.  Sulfur Limit  In February, the Parliament’s environment committee
recommended setting a 0.1 percent sulfur limit for fuel used by
passenger ships operating between EU ports as of 2020 compared
with a current limit of 1.5 percent.  The new EU legislation excludes that recommendation as well
as an environment committee proposal to reduce sulfur in fuel
used by all ships in EU waters other than the Baltic Sea, the
North Sea and the  English Channel  to 0.5 percent in 2015 and 0.1
percent in 2020.  As part of the political compromise in May abandoning those
two targets and endorsing the 0.5 percent limit in 2020, the
Parliament and national governments pledged in return to ignore
a possible IMO move to delay this standard until 2025.  Passenger Ships  The final version of the new EU legislation waters down not
only the recommendations of the Parliament’s environment
committee but also the initial draft law by the European
Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, in  July 2011 . Like the
environment committee, the commission proposed that the sulfur
limit for fuel used by passenger ships operating between EU
ports be lowered to 0.1 percent in 2020.  The provisions of the new law incorporating the two IMO
standards for sulfur in ship fuel uphold the commission
proposal.  The tougher standards proposed in July last year would
bring health benefits of between 15 billion euros and 34 billion
euros a year, according to the commission. The annual costs for
the shipping industry would range from 2.6 billion euros to 11
billion euros, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  