-- EU Endorses Energy-Savings Law Amid Push on CO2 Permits
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-09-11T10:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/eu-endorses-energy-savings-law-amid-push-on-co2-permits.html
The European Union approved tougher
energy-saving rules while pursuing a separate plan to limit
their impact on demand for allowances to discharge carbon
dioxide in the world’s biggest emissions-trading market.  The  European Parliament  endorsed a draft law that will
require energy distributors to save 1.5 percent of their sale
volumes annually. The legislation will also force central
governments in the 27-nation EU to refurbish at least 3 percent
of their buildings to higher efficiency standards every year.  “It’s good news for jobs in  Europe ,” said Claude Turmes,
a Luxembourg member who steered the measures through the 754-
seat Parliament today in Strasbourg,  France . The bloc’s national
governments have already signaled support for the law, making
their final approval a formality in coming weeks.  In parallel, the European Commission is pressing ahead with
a plan to counter an oversupply of CO2 permits in the EU
emissions-trading market after a 37 percent drop in prices in
the past year. The commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm in
Brussels, is preparing a proposal to postpone sales of an as-yet
unspecified number of allowances starting in 2013.  Parliament and member-state negotiators struck an agreement
on the energy-efficiency draft legislation in June, when the
assembly abandoned a campaign to enshrine in the law the EU’s
right to set aside a certain number of CO2 allowances because
governments refused to accept such a link. Greater energy
efficiency has the potential to curb demand for emission
permits, whose price decline in the third year of the euro-area
debt crisis has reduced incentives for power plants and
factories to switch to cleaner fuels.  No Changes  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  facilitated the
climb-down by the Parliament in mid-year by pledging at the time
to come forward with measures on her own to address the
oversupply of CO2 allowances.  The commission presented the draft energy-efficiency law in
2011 without proposing any changes to the emissions-trading
system, which imposes pollution quotas on more than 11,000
installations owned by companies including  Electricite de France
SA , Europe’s biggest power generator, and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
the region’s largest oil company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  