-- EU Recruits ECB to Lead Supervisors in Bank-Crisis Fight
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-12T13:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/eu-recruits-ecb-to-lead-national-regulators-in-bank-crisis-fight.html
The European Union unveiled
 proposals  for euro-area bank oversight that require
unprecedented cooperation between the  European Central Bank  and
national regulators.  The Frankfurt-based ECB should expand its role as
financial-system guardian by becoming the top-level supervisor
of every lender in the 17-nation currency bloc, EU officials
said in interviews. At the same time, the central bank would
depend on national regulators for day-to-day supervision and
ensuring that banks comply with European rules, according to the
proposals.  “Mere coodination is no longer adequate. We need to move
to common supervisory decisions” within the euro area, European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  told the European Parliament
today in Strasbourg,  France .  EU leaders called for a single bank supervisor in June as a
condition of allowing  euro-area banks  direct access to the
zone’s firewall funds. Germany’s top constitutional court today
cleared the way for the 500 billion-euro ($644 billion) European
Stability Mechanism to become operational later this year.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the EU
needs to be conservative on how quickly it can establish the new
system. “On the timetable, we shouldn’t raise expectations we
can’t meet in the end,” Schaeuble said in an e-mailed statement
today. “That’s the only way we can win back the necessary
confidence that the citizens, the financial markets and all
other stakeholders need.”  Frankfurt Headquarters  Schaeuble said the ECB won’t be able to monitor all euro-
area banks overnight. EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel
Barnier  concurred, saying the ECB will work with national
regulators rather than dictating all operations from its
Frankfurt headquarters.  Barnier also said the plans don’t jeopardize London’s role
as a leading financial services center. The banking union
proposals are designed so that non-euro countries can join if
they wish, he said, declining to say which nations may consider
such a move.  EU taxpayers have provided 4.5 trillion euros in capital
injections, guarantees and other forms of support to their
lenders since 2008, exacerbating strains on public finances that
have led  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,  Spain  and Cyprus to seek
external aid.  New System  Today’s proposals include safeguards for the U.K. and the
other nine nations that don’t use the euro to protect them from
being drowned out by their neighbors during rulemaking. The
plans aim to phase in the new system by Jan. 1, 2014, and all 27
EU members will need to sign off.  “What’s good about this proposal is it puts some distance
between the cops and the gangsters,” Philippe Lamberts, a
lawmaker in the European Parliament, said in a telephone
interview. “There initially won’t be that coziness between
banks and their regulator that has encouraged the regulator to
turn the other way.”  “The euro crisis turns around the ECB,”  Carsten Brzeski ,
senior economist at ING Group in Brussels, said in a telephone
interview. “Somehow this is the only institution which is
regarded to be able to solve the crisis. At the same time, it
will also mean there’s a risk the ECB will be overburdened by
tasks.”  National Regulators  ECB President  Mario Draghi  and the Brussels-based European
Commission want the single supervisor to be the first step in
separating bank backstops from national balance sheets. The
Europeans’ long-term vision also includes cross-border  deposit
guarantees  and pooled funds to stabilize troubled lenders.  Today’s proposals would grant the ECB the power to impose
sanctions including fines on banks that refuse to apply its
decisions, according to the  draft texts . The central bank may
also carry out raids on lenders’ offices.  Draft legislation says the central bank should be able
to apply sanctions that are “effective, proportionate and
dissuasive.” The ECB would be able to impose monetary fines as
high as 10 percent of a firm’s total annual turnover, or of up
to twice the gains from a rules breach.  The Spanish government welcomed the EU proposal, calling it
“very positive” in an e-mailed statement. Germany’s ruling
 Christian Democrats  said the ECB should concentrate on
systemically relevant banks in a pilot phase of its new
supervisory role. “Only then can we draw conclusions how to
procede,” the group said in an e-mailed statement.  ECB Umbrella  The  Christian Social Union , the CDU’s sister party in the
federal parliament, said in a separate statement that it will
challenge the plan to include Germany’s Sparkassen savings banks
and cooperative banks under the ECB umbrella.  Germany’s BDB private banking group, which represents
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , welcomed the commission’s
plan to include all banks under ECB oversight, saying in an e-
mail today that the banking crisis that kicked off in 2008
showed the capacity of smaller lenders such as IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG to foment crisis.  “These proposals mark the latest step in what will be a
very long and tortuous process of discussion and argument,”
said  Richard Reid , research director for the London-based
International Centre for Financial Regulation, in an e-mail.  Monetary Policy  If the proposals are enacted, the ECB would add bank
supervision to its current roles setting  monetary policy  and,
along with the commission and the  International Monetary Fund ,
taking part in the so-called troika that administers bailouts.  The draft supervision law gives the ECB power over the
granting and withdrawing of  banking licenses  in the euro area,
as well as over bank capital requirements. The central bank
would also be able to instruct lenders to carry out internal
stress tests, and take so-called early intervention measures for
lenders at risk of financial difficulties, according to the
officials.  “The ECB is being leaned on in every direction, from
 crisis management  to medium-term institution building,” Mujtaba
Rahman, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New York , said in an e-
mail. “It’s unclear whether they are going to be able to
successfully navigate these new tasks, especially as it puts the
bank in the middle of a difficult conversation between creditor
and debtor states.”  Day-to-Day Oversight  National regulators would implement ECB decisions and carry
out day-to-day oversight of banks. They would also retain
responsibility for consumer protection issues.  Under the draft proposals, the ECB would be expected to
answer questions from the European Parliament on its supervisory
decisions. It also would present an annual report to members of
the assembly and finance ministers.  The plans foresee that the ECB would coordinate euro area
policy positions in the European Banking Authority. The London-
based EBA drafts financial rules that apply across the 27-nation
EU, leading to calls from the U.K. that the authority’s rules
should be changed to prevent the authority from becoming
dominated by the euro area.  The EBA would set up independent panels to rule on disputes
between regulators, under the plans.  A majority including both
euro-area and non-euro-area regulators would be needed to strike
down its decisions.  A U.K. Treasury spokesman, who couldn’t be cited by name in
line with government rules, said that the U.K. would ensure that
the supervisory law didn’t damage the EU’s common market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 