-- Mantel, Self Join Debut Novelists on Man Booker Shortlist
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-09-11T11:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/levy-mantel-moore-self-on-man-booker-prize-shortlist.html
Hilary Mantel and two first-time
novelists were among six finalists for the Man  Booker Prize  for
Fiction, the U.K.’s most prestigious literary award.  Sponsored by hedge-fund manager Man Group Plc., the contest
brings the winner a prize of 50,000 pounds ($80,000) and the
promise of an almost certain increase in book sales.  “These are very different books but they all show a huge
and visible confidence,” Peter Stothard, chairman of the judging
panel and editor of the Times Literary Supplement, told
journalists at Man Group’s  London  headquarters. It was one of
the strongest years for fiction in more than a decade, he said.  Mantel was tapped for “Bring Up the Bodies” (Fourth
Estate), the second installment of her trilogy about the life of
 Henry VIII ’s fixer, Thomas Cromwell. Its predecessor, “Wolf
Hall,” won the 2009 prize. No U.K. writer has ever won twice.  Jeet Thayil made the final cut with his first novel,
“Narcopolis” (Faber), a tale of gangsters, eunuchs and poets in
an opium-riddled Bombay. He was joined by Alison Moore for her
debut “The Lighthouse” (Salt Publishing), the startling story of
a doomed walking holiday.  Notable omissions in the early stages of this contest
included boldfaced names Martin Amis and Zadie Smith, and a bevy
of previous winners: Ian McEwan, John Banville, Pat Barker and
Howard Jacobson.  Novels, Novelists  “We were considering novels not novelists, texts not
reputations,” Stothard said.  The other finalists are: Tan Twan Eng for “The Garden of
Evening Mists” (Myrmidon Books); Will Self for “Umbrella”
(Bloomsbury); and Deborah Levy’s “Swimming Home (And Other
Stories),” which was initially turned down by conventional
publishers and released instead by a company that relies on
public grants and private subscriptions. It is now published by
Faber & Faber.  “Umbrella” follows the story of Audrey Death, a feminist
who falls victim to an epidemic of encephalitis lethargica.  Levy’s story takes place over a single week in which a
group of beautiful, flawed tourists in the French Riviera come
loose at the seams.  The contest is designed to celebrate the best novel written
by a citizen of the British Commonwealth or the Republic of
Ireland and published this year, and has grown to dominate the
U.K. literary calendar since it was first awarded in 1969.  Rimington’s Readability  The chairman of last year’s judging panel, Stella Rimington, expressed a preference for books with “readability.”
The ensuing brouhaha spurred publishing grandees to talk of
establishing an alternative award.  That remains to be realized and the 2011 Man Booker Prize
ultimately went to the most establishment of finalists,  Julian Barnes .  The 2012 winner is scheduled to be announced at a black tie
dinner in London’s medieval Guildhall on Oct. 16.  “How did we decide?” Stothard said. “The answer is by
argued literary criticism. There really isn’t any other way. It
was the power and depth of the prose that settled most of the
debates.”  His fellow judges include historian Amanda Foreman and
“Downton Abbey” star Dan Stevens, who said he’d been reading on
set during the filming of the television show’s third season.  Information:  http://www.themanbookerprize.com   To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 