-- Texas Instruments Trimss Quarterly Sales, Profit Forecast
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/texas-instruments-narrows-third-quarter-profit-sales-forecasts.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, forecast third-quarter sales and profit
that may beat the low end of analysts’ estimates, defying
predictions that a weaker economy would crimp orders.  Profit will be 38 cents to 42 cents a share on revenue of
$3.27 billion to $3.41 billion, the Dallas-based company said
yesterday in a statement. Analysts on average had predicted
earnings of 38 cents on sales of $3.34 billion in the current
period, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  At the midpoint of the forecast, revenue would be little
changed in the current quarter from the previous period. Sales
usually rise because manufacturers are ramping up production for
year-end holiday shoppers. While demand remains below normal,
the report indicated that Texas Instruments is holding its own
even as some regions recover slowly from an economic slump, said
Tore Svanberg, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “We can safely say revenue growth is below seasonality,”
said Svanberg, who recommends buying Texas Instruments shares.
“But the fact that they haven’t changed forecast suggests
things are quite stable, so even though we are below seasonal
demand, at least things aren’t getting worse.”  The chipmaker said revenue and profit were boosted by a $60
million insurance benefit from last year’s earthquake in  Japan ,
as well as cost cuts. Still, demand in all segments except for
wireless is “tracking below expectations,”  Ron Slaymaker , vice
president of  investor relations , said on a conference call
yesterday. Orders, a measure of future sales, will decline in
the quarter, he said.  Weakening Economy  Texas Instruments is the largest maker of a type of chip
that runs the electronics in devices ranging from home
appliances to military hardware, making its earnings and
forecasts an indicator of activity across the industry.  In July, the company had forecast a profit of 34 cents to
42 cents a share on revenue of $3.21 billion to $3.47 billion.  Texas Instruments  shares  were little changed in extended
trading following the announcement. They had fallen less than 1
percent to $28.58 at yesterday’s close in  New York , leaving the
stock down 1.8 percent this year.  The company gets 15 percent to 20 percent of its sales from
chips that go into personal computers, according to Chris Caso,
an analyst at Susquehanna International Group. On Sept. 7,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest maker of computer processors, cut its
third-quarter sales forecast, citing declining corporate demand
for PCs in a weakening economy.  Taking Account  Previous targets may have already taken sufficient account
of sluggish activity, Caso said.  “It’s very weak out there,” said Caso. “But I don’t
sense it’s getting a lot worse.”  Slaymaker declined to say whether orders showed any sign of
improvement or stabilization so far in September.  Texas Instruments is in the phone market via its OMAP
processors used in smartphones and it supplies other chips that
provide wireless connectivity. OMAP is also key to the company’s
attempts to get into the market for tablet computers.  Customers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which uses Texas
Instruments OMAP processors in some of its Kindle e-readers and
tablets, may struggle if  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  brings a cheaper, smaller
version of its iPad to market later this year, according to
Tristan Gerra, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.  “As soon as the iPad mini launches, people are going to
move back to that device,” said Gerra.  Apple hasn’t commented on plans for a smaller tablet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  