-- FirstRand Profit Rises 34% as It Captures Consumer Spending
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-09-11T10:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/firstrand-profit-rises-34-as-it-captures-consumer-spending-1-.html
FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , South Africa’s
second-biggest financial-services company, said fiscal full-year
profit rose 34 percent as  consumer lending  was boosted by
unsecured credit and low  interest rates .  Net income from continuing operations rose to 12.64 billion
rand ($1.54 billion) in the period ended June 30 from 9.44
billion rand a year earlier, the Johannesburg-based company said
in a statement today. Diluted normalized earnings climbed 26
percent to about 2.26 rand a share, while the dividend rose by
the same margin to 1.02 rand a share.  With consumers still spending, “the most significant
driver of earnings was the very strong operational performances
from  First National Bank  and WesBank,” the lender said. As
South Africa’s economy slows, the group has been trying to
“outperform the macro environment,” by adding customers and
using technology, Chief Executive Officer Sizwe Nxasana said in
a telephone interview today.  FirstRand has simplified its business by selling its
insurance assets and targeting African expansion, and last month
agreed to buy a 75 percent stake in Merchant Bank Ghana Ltd. for
746.2 million rand. Like other South African banks including
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , FirstRand’s bad loans rose in the
period, while it achieved a 20.7 percent return on equity. Core
operating costs grew 10 percent.  Best of the Banks  FirstRand’s results are the best of the big four banks,
according to Patrice Rassou, a FirstRand investor who helps
oversee about $41 billion as head of equities at Sanlam
Investment Management in  Cape Town . An increase in profit from
vehicle financing was “a stormer,” while equity trading was
disappointing at the investment banking unit, RMB, he said.  The bank has been the best performer of South Africa’s four
largest in the  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index (JBNKS)  this year, having
gained 32 percent compared with the average rise of 16 percent.
The stock rose as much as 1.5 percent and was 0.3 percent higher
at 27.33 rand as of 10:57 a.m. in Johannesburg trading.  “Achieving a sustainable return on equity and cost-to-
income ratio will remain a balancing act between investment and
cost management,” the bank said. “FirstRand expects to
continue to produce good organic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  