-- Fish Oil Pills Don’t Fix Heart Ills in 24-Year Data Review
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-09-12T16:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/fish-oil-pills-don-t-fix-heart-ills-in-24-year-data-review.html
Looks like a fish oil pill a day
won’t keep the doctor away.  Scientists who reviewed data from about 68,000 patients
gathered in 20 trials over the past 24 years found that men and
women taking fish oil supplements didn’t lower their risk for a
bevy of ills including heart attacks, strokes and death.  Diverging recommendations about the benefits of fish-oil
supplements, which contain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids,
can “cause confusion in everyday clinical practice about
whether to use these agents for cardiovascular protection,”
Moses Elisaf and his colleagues from the  University of Ioannina 
in  Greece  wrote in the study.  The scientists concluded that the use of fish-oil pills is
unnecessary to ward off  heart disease , a finding that
contradicts other studies that said the supplements were
beneficial.  The paper, published in the  Journal of the American Medical
Association  yesterday, belongs to a form of research known as a
meta-analysis, which evaluates data from previous investigations
without doing new clinical work.  The patients involved were largely of European descent and
took an average of 1.5 grams (0.05 ounces) of omega-3
supplements a day for a median of two years.  Walnuts and Flaxseed  The  American Heart Association   recommends  eating fish at
least twice a week. It advises patients with  chronic heart
disease  to consume one gram of omega-3 fatty acids a day,
preferably through their diets. Some patients may need to take
fish oil supplements to reach that threshold in consultation
with their physicians, according to the AHA.  Studies including an Italian one dubbed  GISSI  have found
fish oils to be beneficial.  Humans can’t make omega-3 fatty acids from scratch, but
need them for healthy brain function as well as growth and
development. These acids can be found in fish as well as in
foods such as walnuts and flaxseed.  The JAMA study is misleading because the analysis included
people who had suffered heart attacks or strokes, and failed to
account for the effect of cardiovascular drugs that the subjects
had taken, according to  GOED , a  Salt Lake City , Utah-based
industry group representing companies that make and market
omega-3 fatty acids. Members include  BASF SE (BAS) ,  Croda
International Plc (CRDA)  and  Omega Protein Corp. (OME)   “The totality of the scientific evidence justifies the use
of omega-3s for both people with diagnosed cardiovascular
disease and those trying to prevent cardiovascular disease,”
Adam Ismail, GOED’s executive director, said in a  statement .  The study’s authors reported that they had no financial
conflicts of interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  