-- Fortescue Lender Said to Extend Loan Marketing to Month-End
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-09-11T07:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/fortescue-lender-said-to-extend-loan-marketing-to-month-end-1-.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ’s
lender, Bank of America Corp., extended the syndication deadline
of a $1.5 billion loan until the end of the month, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  Australia ’s third-biggest iron-ore producer held a
teleconference last week to reassure existing and possible new
lenders about the company’s financial position in light of
spending cuts and a drop in prices of the metal, another person
familiar with the matter said at the time.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch agreed to underwrite the
loan, according to a stock exchange filing from Fortescue last
month. The facility matures in December 2013 and is split
equally into a term part and a revolving credit portion.  Fortescue  stock  fell to a three-year low of A$2.81 ($2.91)
last week amid concern the company faces lower profits and may
need to raise capital after iron-ore prices slumped.  China 
President  Hu Jintao  said Sept. 8 that economic expansion in
China, the world’s biggest buyer of the metal used in steel-
making, faces “notable downward pressure.” The shares have
since recouped some of the decline, closing at A$3.37 in Sydney
today.  Yvonne Ball, a spokeswoman for Perth-based Fortescue,
declined to comment today on the syndication deadline.  Fitch Ratings  revised the Australian miner’s outlook to
negative from stable on Sept. 5 to reflect the “increasing
pressure on liquidity and covenants that Fortescue is facing as
a result of a precipitous fall in iron-ore prices.”  Companies typically have two types of covenants on their
debt; maintenance-based and incurrence-based ones. The former
are more typical for loans, and are tested at specific periods,
for example, semi-annually or at the end of each quarter, even
if an issuer doesn’t raise any new debt.  Incurrence-based covenants are put in place only when a
company gets new borrowing and are generally applied to non
investment-grade bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  