-- French, Belgian Bonds Rise Before German Court’s Aid-Fund Ruling
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-09-11T16:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/german-10-year-bunds-advance-as-schaeuble-doubts-spanish-bailout.html
French and Belgian bonds led gains
by  Europe ’s so-called semi-core  government securities  before
 Germany ’s Constitutional Court rules tomorrow on the legality of
Europe’s bailout fund, underpinning demand for safer assets.  French 10-year yields dropped to the lowest level in a week
after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he was opposed
to Europe setting budget cuts for the country as a condition for
assistance. Dutch bonds rose as the country sold 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) of 10-year securities before elections tomorrow.
 Switzerland  sold three-month bills at a negative yield.  “There are a few events on the horizon that have the
potential to turn the direction of the market,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in London. “Investors
will remain reasonably comfortable holding safe assets until we
get more of an indication of how things are going to play out.”  The French  10-year yield  dropped eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 2.17 percent at 4:48 p.m.  London  time
after falling to 2.16 percent, the lowest level since Sept. 3.
The 3 percent bond due in April 2022 rose 0.70, or 7 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 107.12.  Belgium’s  10-year yield  declined 10 basis points to 2.58
percent, and the Dutch 10-year rate fell three basis points to
1.86 percent.  Debt Ratings  French government debt is rated Aaa at Moody’s Investors
Service, the highest level, while Belgium’s bonds are ranked
Aa3, the fourth-highest. Spanish bonds are rated Baa3, one step
above junk.  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court said it will proceed
with its ruling tomorrow on the nation’s participation in the
500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism. A bid by German
lawmaker Peter Gauweiler to get the hearing delayed after the
 European Central Bank  pledged unlimited funds to buy government
debt was rejected today.  The fund will offer loans to euro-member states and may buy
their bonds to lower borrowing costs. If Germany can’t ratify
the ESM treaty and join, the mechanism won’t be created and
other bailout measures might be thrown into doubt.  Spanish two-year note yields rose four basis points to 2.92
percent after touching 3.04 percent. Two-year Dutch notes
yielded 0.10 percent.  Rajoy said yesterday he won’t allow the European Union or
the ECB to set budget rules as a condition for buying the
country’s bonds. He pledged that  Spain  will meet its deficit-
reduction targets for this year and next, and defended the
government’s right to set spending limits on individual
policies.  Spain Uncertainty  There’s “some uncertainty in the market remaining ahead of
key decisions,” said  Patrick Jacq , a senior fixed-income
strategist at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in Paris. “Spain doesn’t want to
go to a complete, full adjustment program.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in Berlin
yesterday that progress made by Spain since it implemented
reforms means it doesn’t need to apply for a full bailout,
according to two party officials who participated in a private
briefing.  German bonds returned 2.6 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
government securities advanced 1.3 percent, while Italy’s debt
earned 14 percent.  The Netherlands sold July 2022 bonds at an average yield of
1.846 percent today, according to the nation’s debt agency.
That’s the lowest level since Bloomberg began collecting the
data in 2007.  Dutch Vote  The nation may vote to return a Liberal and Labor Party
coalition at tomorrow’s parliamentary elections, pairing parties
that have clashed on both domestic and European policies and
adding to concern lawmakers across the region will fail to agree
on how to resolve the debt crisis. Labor Party leader Diederik Samsom is willing to extend Greece’s financial lifeline while
Liberal Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  won’t back a third aid
package.  Volatility on French bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Austria and Belgium, according to
measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread
between two-year and 10-year securities and credit-default
swaps.  Switzerland sold 931 million francs ($992 million) of 91-
day bills with an average yield of minus 0.3 percent. That
compares with a rate of minus 0.35 percent at a previous auction
of similar-maturity securities on Aug. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  