-- German Confidence in ESM Ruling Not Shaken by Last-Minute Motion
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-09-11T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/german-confidence-in-esm-ruling-not-shaken-by-last-minute-motion.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told students last week he was confident the country’s
role in the European Stability Mechanism would be approved by
its highest court. Morgan Stanley’s Elga Bartsch says there is a
40 percent chance he is wrong.  The Federal  Constitutional Court , scheduled to rule
tomorrow in Karlsruhe on whether Germany may ratify the ESM, is
the final hurdle for the 500 billion-euro ($640 billion) plan to
rescue indebted euro-area member states.  “ Europe  won’t collapse on Sept. 12,” Franz Mayer, a law
professor at Bielefeld University, said in an interview. “In
the end, the court will allow Germany to ratify the ESM, but
there will probably be some strings attached.”  Germany is the only country that hasn’t ratified the ESM
treaty and if it can’t join, the mechanism won’t be created and
other bailout measures might be thrown into doubt. Last week,
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  announced the ECB
was ready to buy unlimited quantities of short-dated government
bonds of nations signed up to rescues from the ESM or the
temporary European Financial Stability Facility the ESM is
designed to replace.  Gauweiler Motion  The ECB’s Sept. 6 announcement prompted Peter Gauweiler, a
German lawmaker who is one of the plaintiffs in the suit, to ask
the court in an emergency bid to stop the government from
signing the ESM unless the ECB repeals that decision. The judges
should at least delay tomorrow’s ruling if they cannot take such
a decision until then, Gauweiler argued.  The Constitutional Court said yesterday it is reviewing the
bid and will announce today how to handle the motion. Even after
Gauweiler’s latest attempt, the government remained confident
that court will approve the ESM.  “We remain convinced of the ESM’s constitutionality,”
Steffen Seibert, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman,
told a regular government press conference in Berlin today. “We
feel good as we approach Wednesday and hope that the court will
see it the same way.”  Schaeuble, a lawyer by training, told students in
Strasbourg on Sept. 3 he sees “no constitutional issues” with
the ESM. Morgan Stanley’s Bartsch sent her research to clients
last month. It was one of dozens of notes analysts issued in
advance of the ruling.  Greek Bailout  So far, the court has cleared each step of European
integration. Last year, the judges cleared the Greek bailout and
the EFSF, while saying Germany may not agree to take over
unlimited future liabilities incurred by other EU  member states .  “The bigger issue than the actual ruling is what extra
language the court will add to the reasoning where it may
comment on where the limits are in the future,” said Mayer.
“The markets seem to be quite afraid the judges may spoil
certain options for the future, like collectivization of debt
within the  euro zone .”  The new cases were filed after German lawmakers approved
the ESM and the Fiscal Pact, a treaty designed to impose budget
discipline on EU member states. About 37,000 people signed up to
endorse a constitutional complaint filed by political group
“Mehr Demokratie e.V.” Other plaintiffs include opposition
party Die Linke as well as Gauweiler, a conservative lawmaker
from Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc.  The court has chosen six cases for tomorrow’s ruling. At
this stage, the judges only have to decide whether to halt
ratification of the treaties while reviewing the suits more
closely.  Legal Issues  In the Greek bailout and the EFSF cases, the court took
only hours or days to reject preliminary bids, while taking more
than a year to decide on the overall legal issues.  In the ESM cases the judges held a one-day hearing in July
for the preliminary bid and took two months to deliberate. The
extended time period indicates the court may try to tackle most
legal issues at once, said Axel Kaemmerer, a professor at
Bucerius Law School in Hamburg.  “The judges will have to address the key question to what
extent  Germany  does relinquish its financial autonomy, how much
power is left to decide on financial actions it will have to
take in the future,” Kaemmerer said.  ‘Elementary’ Decisions  The plaintiffs argue the treaties undermine the autonomy of
Germany’s parliament and democratic self-rule. They rely on last
year’s top court ruling which, while clearing the rescue
measures in place at the time, said parliamentary decisions
about taxing and spending are a central part of self-government.
Members of parliament are representatives of the people and must
remain in control of “elementary” budgetary decisions, the
judges said.  Last week’s ECB bond buying announcement is unlikely to
change the court’s decision because it’s likely the judgment has
been drafted, Mayer said. The judges may address the issue in
the written judgment. Previous ECB bond purchases were discussed
in earlier cases, which didn’t lead the court to rule against
bailout measures, Mayer said.  The ESM requires its members to shoulder the burden of
nations that don’t pay their share. Those rules could be
critical issues in tomorrow’s ruling, according to Kaemmerer.  “That’s a vulnerable flank,” he said. “There’s a risk
that the court will find those rules don’t concretely specify
what Germany has to pay in the end.”  Like Mayer, Kaemmerer thinks the court will approve
ratification and address problems by requiring the government to
take additional steps. This could include ordering the
government to spell out how it interprets critical clauses, he
said.  Some plaintiffs, including “Mehr Demokratie e.V.” and Die
Linke, have argued the court must order Germany to make a
legally binding pledge that it may terminate the fiscal pact.
They say the pact’s debt limits go beyond what the nation’s
constitution requires and unduly limits political leeway.  Fiscal Pact  Allowing termination of the fiscal pact would risk
“turning it into a mockery,” said Mayer, who represented the
Bundestag, the lower house of parliament, in last year’s bailout
case.  Because the ESM and the Fiscal Pact are changing the
principles of government, the plaintiffs argue they could only
be approved by a referendum. Both Mayer and Kaemmerer don’t
expect the tribunal to heed that claim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 