-- Germany With Zero Yield Beats U.S. Since Crisis: Riskless Return
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-09-11T22:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/germany-with-zero-yield-beats-u-s-since-crisis-riskless-return.html
German bunds have proven better
than Treasuries since the start of the global financial crisis
five years ago as U.S. stimulus measures and record deficits
keep investors wary of a resurgence of inflation.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows bunds are the
best performing sovereign securities among Group of Seven
nations since June of 2007, returning 8.4 percent after
adjusting for volatility and comparing returns in local
currencies. Treasuries, traditionally sought by investors
worldwide during times of turmoil, have gained 7.4 percent
during the same period, also lagging behind Canadian, French and
U.K. debt on a risk-adjusted basis.  Investors are willing to own bunds at zero yields as
Europe’s debt crisis reduced the supply of the safest assets,
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  cuts debt and the Bundesbank demands
that measures taken by the  European Central Bank  to stem the
region’s debt crisis don’t add to  money supply .  U.S. government
debt  topped $16 trillion in August for the first time, and
Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may join  Standard &
Poor’s  in downgrading the U.S.’s credit rating. Investors
anticipate the  Federal Reserve  will add stimulus as soon as
tomorrow.  “The difference between the U.S. and Germany is the
relative explosion of the U.S. fiscal policy that doesn’t seem
to have a solution,” said Jürgen Odenius, chief economist at
Prudential Financial Inc.’s Prudential Fixed Income unit in
Newark, New Jersey, which oversees $335 billion in bonds.
“Germany’s fiscal position is in great shape.”  Safest Assets  Germany’s budget will be close to balance at a shortfall of
0.4 percent of GDP next year, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a report on the world economy published July 16. That
compares with a forecast deficit of 6.8 percent in the U.S., the
world’s biggest economy. The difference means Germany will
probably cut its debt to 80.1 percent of GDP next year from 82.2
percent while U.S. debt is expected to jump to 110.7 percent of
GDP from 106.7 percent of GDP in 2012, the IMF said.  “When you look at other matters of fiscal responsibility
it’s easy to argue that Germany is and has just been flat out
running their country better than the U.S., to the point where
that makes a difference in demand,” said  Andrew Brenner ,  head
of international fixed income at National Alliance Securities
capital markets group in New York.  The risk-adjusted return isn’t annualized. It’s calculated
by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree of daily
price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. A
higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Lower Volatility  Germany debt ranked top because it had below average
volatility when compared with other members of the G-7, which
also includes Japan and Italy. Volatility averaged 4.89 for
bunds over the past five years, versus 5.24 for the group of
developed nations, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the  U.S.
debt  market, volatility was 5.52.  Treasuries, which produced a total return of 40.7 percent
since June 2007 as measured by Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Master Treasury Index, have only outperformed Japanese and
Italian debt on a risk-adjusted basis. Bunds are up 41.3 percent
during the period, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  To some extent, the outperformance of bunds over the past
five years reflects a shrinking supply of safe assets that are
denominated in euros, as the sovereign debt crisis that started
in Greece, Portugal and Ireland spread to Spain and Italy.
Investors fleeing those countries for safer assets helped drive
German bund yields to record lows, with two-year yields dropping
to negative 0.097 percent on Aug. 2 and benchmark 10-year yields
falling to an all-time low of 1.127 percent on June 1.  Fleeing Greece  “With sovereign balance sheet deteriorating there aren’t
many places to go, so investors choose Germany,” said David Hoffman, co-portfolio manager who oversees $28.5 billion in debt
at Brandywine Global Investment Management in Philadelphia, said
in telephone interview Sept. 10. “At some point, Germany ends
up holding the bag for the saving of Europe, but for now they’ve
been the most popular safe haven.”  Investors are emboldened by a German  budget deficit  that’s
projected to be 0.8 percent of gross domestic product this year,
compared with a 3.2 percent shortfall for the euro region,
according to IMF data. Germany’s current account surplus, a
broad measure of trade, is predicted to be 5.2 percent of GDP,
compared with the euro-region average of 0.7 percent.  Bundesbank Opposition  Germany’s fiscal policies have bolstered returns on bunds
even as austerity measures pushed by Merkel threaten to plunge
the region further in into recession. The 17-nation region is
forecast to shrink 0.5 percent this year, while the  U.S. economy 
probably will expand 2.2 percent, Bloomberg surveys show.  Bunds beat Treasuries also over three years, the riskless
return ranking shows, though they lost the top spot to Canadian
bonds. Since the start of this year, French and Italian
 government bonds  did best as European leaders took steps to
contain the debt crisis.  Yields on 10-year bonds have risen from close to record
lows after ECB President  Mario Draghi  endorsed buying debt.
Policy makers agreed Sept. 6 on an unlimited bond-purchase
program aimed at regaining control of  interest rates  in the euro
area and fighting speculation of a breakup of the single
currency. The purchases will be fully sterilized, meaning that
the overall impact on the money supply will be neutral.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann criticized the ECB’s
bond-buying plan the same day, saying it is “tantamount to
financing governments by printing banknotes.” The Bundesbank,
which is required to carry out ECB policy decisions, didn’t say
it would stand in the way of bond purchases.  Tightening Cycle  “Things are still far from being clear in Europe though,
especially because the fiscal side is so muddled,” said  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit
Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed. “And until they are clear, bund yields will stay low.”  The relative strength of the U.S. economy, by contrast, has
hurt Treasuries relative to Germany debt even as Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and the central bank purchased $2.3 trillion of
debt from 2008 to 2011. Fed policy makers meeting today and
tomorrow are set to consider further easing to shore up the
world’s largest economy. Unlike the ECB, the Fed wants to add
more cash to the economy.  “There is also a sense that the U.S., having addressed its
problem early, is more likely to embark on a tightening cycle
sooner than the euro region where growth will stay low for a
long time,” said Jack Kelly, who helps oversee $250 billion at
Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh.  Moody’s Threat  The  U.S. budget deficit  will reach $1.1 trillion this year,
according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office . That
would be down from last year’s $1.3 trillion, in part because
 tax revenue  has risen by almost 6 percent and spending is down
by about 1 percent this year.  The fiscal strains may be exacerbated as the U.S. risks
lapsing into recession next year if lawmakers and President
Barack Obama can’t break an impasse over the federal budget, and
if the George W. Bush-era tax cuts expire, according to a report
by the CBO published on Aug. 22 on what’s become known as the
fiscal cliff.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may lower the
U.S.’s credit rating to Aa1 from Aaa if an agreement on the debt
ratio isn’t reached. S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit
rating for the first time in August 2011.  Even with the downgrade, Treasury yields fell to record
lows as investors sought the most liquid of assets while seeking
to preserve capital as U.S. growth slowed and Europe’s debt
crisis worsened.  Shrinking Supply  A Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows the number of
issues in its AAA index fell to 3,599 from 5,331 in 2007.  The global supply of the highest-quality securities, as
measured by ratings companies, is poised to fall by as much as
$4 trillion, according to the IMF. Reforms such as the Dodd-
Frank financial-overhaul law and global regulations set by the
Bank for International Settlements require institutions to hold
more top-graded debt.  Lenders have an added incentive to buy both bunds and
Treasuries after the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
proposed rules in 2011 that banks increase available capital to
bolster the cushion against potential losses and better measure
and control their risk.  “At the end of the day, both nations represent the safest
and deepest bond markets around the globe,” said Gary Pollack,
who helps manage $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at
Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York.
“There is a lot of uncertainty ahead for both countries, but
market confidence in the U.S. and Germany’s economy and policy
makers still remains high, for now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  