-- Germany’s Currency Nostalgia Is Badly Off the Mark
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-09-11T22:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/germany-s-currency-nostalgia-is-badly-off-the-mark.html
Let’s hope Germany thinks hard
about  George Soros ’s  proposal  that it should lead the euro
system or leave it. The more carefully Germans study this
choice, the more eager they will be to make the present system
work.  Many German voters are understandably sick of their euro
adventure. The next phase of  crisis management , following the
 European Central Bank ’s promise last week to buy the bonds of
struggling economies, will demand new fiscal outlays from German
taxpayers and  expose  them to greater risk of losses later. Their
growing resentment of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  -- and soon
Spain and  Italy , whose appetite for assistance is vastly bigger
-- calls into doubt  Europe ’s efforts to stem the crisis and
threatens the euro’s viability.  Germans might reconsider their nostalgia for the deutsche
mark, though, if somebody -- their own government, for instance
-- had bothered to spell out the alternatives to the bailouts.
Maybe Soros’s intervention will help that to happen.  Up to now, the obvious alternative to keeping Greece and
the others afloat within the euro system has been for them to
leave or be ejected. This used to be unthinkable but isn’t any
longer. The doomsday option has become a bargaining chip that
weak and strong countries alike are trying to use.  Irreversible Mistake  Europe’s governments made a big and irreversible mistake
when they accepted that a euro breakup was possible. This
further undermined the system and made the European emergency
harder to manage. Still, ejecting the weak remains unlikely
because everyone understands it would cause immense damage, and
would start an unraveling that might be hard to stop.  Ejecting the strong is a better idea. It isn’t a new one,
by the way. In a column for Bloomberg more than a year ago, Anil Kashyap of the University of Chicago Booth School of Business
argued that Germany and a small group of other strong performers
should break away to form an uber-euro. Kashyap and  Kenneth Griffin , of Citadel LLC, an investment firm, then wrote an
 article  for the  New York  Times saying Germany should go it alone
and gradually reintroduce the deutsche mark.  There’s a big difference between those two ideas --
dividing the euro system into two multinational blocs, and
letting Germany gradually bring back the deutsche mark. Consider
the second, which presumably has the greater appeal for German
voters who miss having a currency all their own under the
guardianship of the Bundesbank.  Resurrecting the deutsche mark has one main thing in common
with ejecting the weaklings, and one decisive difference. What
they have in common is a currency realignment that would improve
the weaklings’ competitiveness -- boosting their exports,
encouraging inward investment, and helping them to grow. True,
the improvement in Greece’s competitiveness, say, would be much
bigger if Greece left the system than if Germany did. (If Greece
exited, its labor costs would fall relative to costs in  France ,
 Finland  and other countries, whereas if Germany left, Greek
labor costs relative to France and the others would be
unchanged.) Nonetheless, Germany’s exit would help the  Greek
economy .  The crucial difference is that Germany’s exit would not
require wholesale redenomination of financial contracts and the
mayhem that would result. Suppose Greece is kicked out. With
their rapidly devaluing drachmas, Greeks would be unable to
settle their euro-denominated debts. Contracts would have to be
recast or repudiated, inflicting large and uncertain losses on
creditors. And the question immediately arises: Which weakling
will be next to go?  Weak Links  If Germany brought back the deutsche mark, it would have
both its strong creditor status and a rapidly appreciating
currency, so its euro-denominated contracts could all be left in
place. As Kashyap and Griffin explained, “Germany would be able
to reintroduce the mark without altering the form of any current
asset, liability or contract. For example, euros deposited in
German banks would remain euro-denominated. So would outstanding
German sovereign and corporate debt now denominated in euros.”  There would still be complications, to put it mildly. (One
of many questions: What becomes of the  enormous surpluses  the
Bundesbank has built up at the ECB as a part of the bank’s
settlement process, called Target2?) Nonetheless, a German exit
would improve the weaklings’ competitiveness without the risk of
contagion or of instantly throwing the entire euro system into
turmoil -- without starting, as  Barry Eichengreen  called it,
“the mother of all financial crises.”  What’s the catch? Unforeseen complications aside, mainly
this: The counterpart of growing exports and higher employment
across the rest of the euro system would be falling exports and
higher unemployment in Germany. The new deutsche mark would
probably appreciate enough to push Germany into a deep
recession.  That’s why Germans should ponder Soros’s suggestion, and be
careful what they wish for. They look at the euro system and see
only impositions. But surrendering the deutsche mark (and before
that, fixing their currency’s value relative to other European
currencies) gave them an export performance and enormous
balance-of-payments surpluses that they otherwise wouldn’t have
enjoyed.  And let’s not forget those surpluses were recycled as
unsafe lending to Europe’s weaklings. It takes bad lending as
well as bad borrowing to build a debt crisis. The bailouts that
German taxpayers resent so bitterly were necessary partly to
protect  Germany ’s undercapitalized banks from the consequences
of their own actions. So far, the division of the burden of
adjustment between bad borrowers and bad creditors has been much
to Germany’s advantage. The Irish economy was crushed to keep
creditors whole. Ask the Irish who has been treated unfairly.  Germany’s economy is an impressive performer, to be sure,
but the Germans’ posture of moral superiority in this crisis is
false. If a sense of shared responsibility -- to say nothing of
the European solidarity Germany has been prating about these
past decades -- isn’t enough to bind Germany to its neighbors,
maybe naked self-interest will do the trick. Think about it,
Germany. Resurrect the deutsche mark, and do the rest of Europe
a favor. You’ll be the biggest loser.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a  bolder plan to revive the
housing market  and on  Somalia’s new president ;  Margaret Carlson 
on Republican efforts to  suppress the vote ;  Peter Orszag  on the
 money wasted in health care ;  Amity Shlaes  on why  Hoover haunts
Romney  but not Ryan; Richard Vedder on  getting rid of college
remedial education .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  