-- German Bailout, Regulating Libor, Matsushita: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-11T12:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/german-bailout-limits-regulating-libor-matsushita-compliance.html
Two German plaintiffs trying to
stop the euro region’s future permanent bailout fund said they
expect the nation’s highest court to set limits on Germany’s
liabilities and tie its approval to popular consent.  Former German Justice Minister Herta Daeubler-Gmelin,
another plaintiff, said she hopes that shifting rights away from
Germany’s lower house of parliament will only be allowed after
the country’s voters have approved it or the  European Parliament 
has been given more competencies.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe, Germany, is
due to rule tomorrow on the plaintiffs’ challenge to the
European Stability Mechanism. The 500 billion-euro ($639
billion) ESM, designed to bail out indebted euro-area member
states, is a cornerstone of efforts to save the currency.  German lawmaker Peter Gauweiler’s emergency bid to postpone
the top civil court’s ruling on part of the European Union’s
bailout of indebted euro-area countries is unlikely to succeed,
law professors said.  Gauweiler’s challenge, which argues the court must block
the European Stabilization Mechanism after the European Central
Bank pledged unlimited funds to buy government bonds, was under
review by the court yesterday. While the judges may say today
how they will proceed, they probably won’t delay a ruling on the
ESM scheduled for tomorrow, said law professors Franz Mayer and
Christoph Ohler.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Basel Group Faces ‘Now or Never’ Chance on Bank-Liquidity Rule  Global financial regulators begin three days of talks today
that may pave the way for a deal on liquidity rules that lenders
and the European Central Bank warn could stifle the economic
recovery.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision will attempt to
overcome divisions within its ranks as it races to meet a self-
imposed January deadline for reviewing the liquidity coverage
ratio, or LCR, three people familiar with the discussions have
said. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has warned the measure risks
choking off bank lending, while some other regulators, including
in the U.S., say that diluting the LCR risks rendering the
standard meaningless, according to the people.  “It’s now or never for the LCR,” Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner of Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics
Inc., said in an e-mail. “If Basel can’t cobble together an
agreement on it that is more than papered-over differences, the
U.S. and U.K. will implement their own rules, the EU will stand
down and the global liquidity framework may well dissolve.”  The 212 largest global banks would have had a collective
shortfall of 1.76 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) as of June 2011
in the assets needed to meet the LCR, according to figures
published by the Basel group based on a draft version of the
standard. Lenders have warned that full compliance with the LCR
would force them to cut loans to businesses and households.  The LCR, which would force  banks  to hold enough easy-to-
sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze, was drawn up by
the Basel committee as part of a package of measures in response
to the 2008 financial crisis. It is scheduled to become binding
as of Jan. 1, 2015.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , has said that the U.S. should consider withdrawing from the
Basel committee and that the rules it sets are “anti-
American.”  The LCR is one of the main items on the agenda of the Basel
meeting, which begins today in Istanbul, according to the
people. The Basel group declined to comment on the talks.  For more, click here.  Finance Lobbyists Press for Libor Regulation, Resist Replacement  Lobbyists for the banking and asset-management industries
are pushing for greater regulation of Libor and are resisting
pressure to replace the benchmark in the wake of the rate-
rigging scandal.  Firms and employees who contribute to interest rates should
be regulated, the  Investment Management Association , the  Global
Financial (DLLR)  Markets Association and the  International Capital
Market Association  said in separate submissions to the Financial
Services Authority’s review of the rate. Replacing Libor with an
alternative rate or significantly changing how it’s calculated
would be too disruptive and should be avoided, they wrote.  FSA managing Director Martin Wheatley is reviewing how the
London interbank offered rate is set. The London interbank
offered rate, overseen by the London-based British Bankers’
Association, is the basis for more than $300 trillion of
securities worldwide.  Wheatley, who started consulting with banks and users of
Libor last month, is scheduled to present his findings to the
Treasury by the end of September. Separately, Bank of England
Governor Mervyn King yesterday said global central bankers will
set up their own separate inquiry into Libor.  The benchmark is determined by a daily poll carried out on
behalf of the BBA by Thomson Reuters Corp. that asks banks to
estimate how much it would cost to borrow from each other for
different periods and in different currencies. At least a dozen
firms are being probed worldwide over allegations they
manipulated the rate to profit.  For more, click here.  Hungary Probably Has to Drop Central Bank Tax, Matolcsy Says  Hungary probably can’t include the central bank in a new
financial-transaction tax, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said
yesterday after the government last week confronted
international lenders on conditions for aid.  The government can probably include the State Treasury and
interbank transfers in the scope of the transaction levy, which
will still finance payroll-tax cuts even if the Magyar Nemzeti
Bank needs to be exempted, Matolcsy told a parliamentary hearing
in Budapest yesterday. The country needs a credit line from
lenders even though it opposes some of the criteria demanded for
the aid, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  added afterward.  For more, click here.  Brazil Publishes Changes to Income Tax on Investment Funds  Brazil has published changes to its law relating to income
tax on investment funds, according to the official gazette
yesterday.  Earlier, Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  said she’ll
seek new tax cuts while maintaining fiscal discipline in a bid
to fuel faster growth in Latin America’s biggest economy.  Brazil will push banks to lower lending rates and cut
electricity rates for producers and households, Rousseff said
Sept. 6 in a national address.  CFTC Cancels Sept. 12 Meeting on Customer Fund Protection Rule  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission canceled a
meeting to consider rules for protecting customer funds held by
futures commission merchants after agency Chairman  Gary Gensler 
injured himself over the weekend.  Gensler “fell at his home in suburban Washington yesterday
and suffered a few cracked ribs,”  Steven Adamske , the agency’s
spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday. “The meeting scheduled
for Wednesday has been canceled, and the subject matters will be
handled” in a non-public vote, Adamske said.  Compliance Action  BlackRock Fined $15.2 Million by U.K. FSA Over Client Money  A U.K. unit of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  was fined 9.5 million pounds
($15.2 million) for failing to properly protect client money
over a three-and-a-half-year period.  BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Ltd. didn’t take
reasonable care to identify and protect client money and didn’t
have trust letters for some of its money-market deposits with
third-party banks, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said in
a statement today. The average daily balance affected was more
than 1.36 billion pounds,  according to the regulator .  The errors in setting up trust letters were a result of New
York-based BlackRock’s acquisition of the unit, which was
previously Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Ltd., according to
the FSA. BlackRock reported the failings to the regulator and
received the FSA’s standard 30 percent discount for cooperating.  “The situation that led to this settlement was not
deliberate and no clients suffered any losses as a result of the
error,” Jonathan Mullen, a spokesman for BlackRock, said in an
e-mailed statement. “Still, we regret this instance where our
U.K. procedures regarding money-market deposits for a number of
our clients were not consistent with applicable standards.”  The regulator said last week it is planning to require
banks, brokerages and other companies to better protect clients’
funds, particularly when their investment firm fails. The plans
include overhauling rules on the treatment of margin assets
posted by failed companies for their derivatives trades and
amount to “the most radical change in the client-assets regime
in over 20 years,” the FSA said.  The FSA plans include that an investment company could
divide up its clients’ money into various ring-fenced “sub-
pools,” so not all its clients would face the same losses in
the event of insolvency, the regulator said.  The agency stepped up enforcement of client-money rules
after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  The New York-based bank’s former U.K. unit failed to
segregate billions of dollars of client funds from its own
accounts, leaving creditors with competing claims that resulted
in years of litigation. The issue has resurfaced in the
administration of MF Global Holding Ltd.’s U.K. unit.  AIG to Buy $5 Billion of Stock in $18 Billion Treasury Offering  The U.S. Treasury said it’s offering to sell $18 billion in
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  shares, and that the bailed-
out insurer plans to buy back as much as $5 billion.  The U.S. also will give underwriters a 30-day option to
purchase as much as an additional $2.7 billion in common stock
from the department to cover over-allotments, if any, Treasury
said yesterday in a statement.  AIG may be free of its U.S. government stake by end of 2013
as the insurer accelerates asset sales and improves earnings,
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said in an interview
with Barron’s last month.  The U.S. government obtained an ownership interest in AIG
through the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  SEC May Rule on Facebook Plan in Fourth Quarter, Nasdaq CFO Says  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  said the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may rule next quarter on its proposal to compensate
companies that suffered losses in  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s public debut.  Nasdaq OMX’s $62 million plan would pay companies that lost
money after the May 18 Facebook initial public offering, which
led to order cancellations after the IPO cross took longer than
planned. Member brokers who accommodated customers for losses
will get paid first, Nasdaq said in July.  Courts  CFTC Seeks to Delay Peregrine’s $123 Million Distribution  The Peregrine Financial Group Inc. trustee should delay
distribution of $123 million to customers of the defunct futures
brokerage until after testing customer accounts, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.  The tests are essential because Peregrine collapsed amid a
fraud and theft of money by its founder, Russell Wasendorf Sr.,
the CFTC said Sept. 9 in a filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Chicago. The regulator asked the judge not to approve the payout
until all the accounts of intended recipients are validated.  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 liquidation on July 10, hours
after the CFTC sued accusing the firm and Wasendorf of
misappropriating more than $200 million in customer funds.  The CFTC said it had consulted with the trustee, Ira
Bodenstein, about ways to perform validity tests of commodity
customer accounts to ensure money didn’t go to any claimant who
may have been involved in the theft of customer money.  The commission wants the trustee to complete the validity
testing and “work on the implementation of the mechanics of the
distribution” before the court authorizes the distribution,’’
it told the judge handling the liquidation.  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-27488, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  SEC Ordered to Defend Negligence Case Over Stanford Ponzi Scheme  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission must defend a
negligence lawsuit alleging that the agency failed to act
appropriately after concluding that R. Allen Stanford was
operating a Ponzi scheme, a judge ruled.  Investors Carlos Zelaya and George Glantz may proceed with
a claim that agency examiners determined four times before 2009
that Stanford was running a Ponzi scheme, U.S. District Judge
Robert Scola Jr. ruled in federal court in Miami. Stanford is
serving 110 years in prison for his $7 billion fraud.  The lawsuit claims the SEC had a “nondiscretionary duty”
to report Stanford to the Securities Investor Protection Corp.,
which compensates victims, after examinations in 1997, 1998,
2003 and 2004. The SEC sued Stanford in February 2009, alleging
a “massive fraud” at Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank.  The judge ruled that the next stage of the litigation may
be more appropriate for the SEC to raise the agency’s argument
that it hadn’t concluded before 2009 that Stanford was running a
Ponzi scheme. Investors still face several legal hurdles.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  The case is Zelaya v. United States, 11-cv-62644, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  Interviews  Gramm Says No Institution Should Be Too Big to Fail  Former U.S. Senator  Phil Gramm , a Texas Republican who
helped write the 1999 law that enabled the creation of financial
institutions such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. ,
talked about the outlook for the 2012 presidential election and
the banking industry.  He spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Notable Passing  Japanese Banking Minister Matsushita Is Found Dead at His Home  Japanese Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita
has died, an aide at his regional office said. He was 73. Police
are investigating the possibility of suicide, a police spokesman
said.  Matsushita was found dead at his residence in Tokyo
yesterday, Etsuko Horita, a staff member at his regional office
in Kagoshima prefecture on the southwestern island of Kyushu,
said by phone. Tokyo Metropolitan Police received an emergency
call at 4:59 p.m. yesterday, the spokesman said. Matsushita may
have left a note, Kyodo News reported, citing the police.  Matsushita, a lawmaker from the junior government coalition
partner the People’s New Party, was appointed to the post by
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in June. After taking the role, he
vowed to deepen the Financial Services Agency’s probe into an
insider trading scandal that embroiled  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,
Japan’s biggest brokerage.  Nomura’s top two executives, Chief Executive Officer
Kenichi Watanabe and Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata,
resigned in July after the FSA found that employees leaked
information on share sales managed by the firm. In August, the
agency ordered Nomura to improve its compliance.  A month into the role, Matsushita asked an advisory panel
at his agency to examine stiffer penalties for insider trading,
including bigger fines for traders and disciplinary action
against leakers of non-public information. He was also
overseeing an application by state-backed Japan Post Bank Co. to
begin retail and commercial lending next April, a move that
Moody’s Investors Service said would be to the detriment of
regional banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 