-- Ghana May Hold Key Rate as Cedi Gain Eases Inflationary Pressure
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-09-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/ghana-may-hold-key-rate-as-cedi-gain-eases-inflationary-pressure.html
Ghana ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark rate unchanged after the local currency
stemmed a decline, helping to ease pressure on inflation in West
Africa’s second-biggest economy.  The  Bank of Ghana , led by acting Governor Kofi Wampah, is
expected to hold its policy rate at 15 percent, according to six
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. One analyst expects a cut of
50 basis points. The decision will be announced at 11 a.m.
tomorrow in Accra, the capital.  The bank raised the key rate by 2.5 percentage points this
year, increased Treasury-bill sales and ordered lenders to hold
reserves in the local currency in a bid to shore up the cedi,
which has weakened 14 percent against the dollar since January.
The currency strengthened 1.1 percent in August, its first
monthly gain this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given that the cedi has stabilized and even appreciated
lately, the need for an incremental policy rate hike has
reduced,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed response
to questions yesterday. “Inflation remains in single digits and
increased only marginally in recent months.”  Consumer prices were little changed at 9.5 percent in July
from 9.4 percent a month earlier. If August inflation, which
will be released an hour before the monetary policy decision,
slows to below 9 percent, the bank may decide to lower the
lending rate to 14.5 percent, Angus Downie, head of economic
research at Ecobank Transnational Inc., said by phone yesterday.  “I think we will see a small rate cut based on the
combined factors of slowing inflation and the appreciation of
the cedi, despite pressure building up on the fiscal side,” he
said.  In July, Finance Minister  Kwabena Duffuor  raised his 2012
budget deficit target to 6.7 percent of gross domestic product
from 4.8 percent as fuel subsidies and wage increases for civil
servants leads to higher expenditures than earlier forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  