-- Glencore Nears Xstrata Deal Prize as Qatar Takes Back Seat
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-09-12T16:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/glencore-may-near-xstrata-deal-prize-with-qatar-taking-back-seat.html
Ivan Glasenberg, the billionaire
chief executive officer of  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , may be
nearing a long-sought takeover of Xstrata Plc as all sides
signal a willingness to reach a deal that would be this year’s
biggest merger, according to people familiar with the situation.  Xstrata is open to Glencore’s revised 22 billion-pound ($35
billion) offer, announced Sept. 10, and may soon recommend its
support to shareholders, the people said. The proposal would
force Xstrata CEO  Mick Davis  to depart within six months. Davis
and Glasenberg are friends and rivals whose relationship dates
to the 1970s, when they met in  South Africa , their home country.  Qatar Holding LLC, the sovereign wealth fund that compelled
commodities trader Glencore to increase its offer for Xstrata,
is unlikely to intervene forcefully in any talks, and will rely
substantially on the views of Xstrata’s board, two of the people
said, asking not to be identified discussing a private matter.
Qatar owns about 12 percent of the mining firm.  “It’s unlikely that Glencore would’ve announced the
revised terms without the support of Qatar,” said  Richard Knights , a London-based analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. “We
think Xstrata’s board is likely to support it.”  At stake is a long-contemplated combination that would
couple Glencore’s globe-spanning trading operations with
Xstrata’s coal, copper, and zinc  mines , creating the fourth-
largest mining firm. The combined company would be a vertically-
integrated commodities giant, with an interest in the
production, transportation and trading of everything from the
food on consumers’ plates to the metal used for their utensils.  Enforced Departure  After Qatar objected to the original terms announced in
February, Glencore raised its all-share bid by 9 percent,
increasing the proposed exchange ratio of its own shares for
each of those in Xstrata to 3.05 from 2.8.  The trading firm also said that apart from forcing the
departure of Davis, 54, it was “content” with retention
bonuses designed to safeguard the loyalty of executives,
totaling $278 million under the previous terms, and with Xstrata
chairman  John Bond  taking the same role in the combined group.
Glasenberg, 55, would become CEO, replacing Davis within six
months under the new proposal. The original deal called for
Davis to lead the company for at least three years and
Glasenberg, Glencore’s largest shareholder with a  stake  valued
at $6.5 billion, would have been deputy CEO.  While the proposed merger may still fail and Xstrata
continues to evaluate Glencore’s proposals, the concessions and
the sweetened offer have allayed many of its concerns, said one
of the people. Xstrata’s board has set a deadline of Sept. 24 to
respond formally to the proposal.  Qatar Talks  “It’s going to be very hard for the Xstrata board to say
no,”  Andrew Keen , an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London ,
said by phone. “The probability is leaning towards a yes
vote.”  A Glencore spokesman declined to comment. An Xstrata
spokeswoman and Qatar spokesman also declined to comment.
Xstrata fell 1.8 percent to 993.60 pence, while Glencore
declined 1.3 percent to 359.60 pence at the close in London.  The revised offer followed an overnight negotiation late
last week between Glasenberg and Qatari prime minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Al-Thani, who is also the chairman of the
fund. The Middle Eastern country has become an increasingly
visible player in the commodities sector, with recent
investments in  Brazil ’s AUX gold-mining business and a resources
fund managed by Barclays Plc, along with the Xstrata stake,
which has quadrupled in size since February.  Marc Rich  Calling for Davis’s ouster is a significant reversal for
Glasenberg, a hard-charging trader who can often be seen jogging
before dawn in London’s Hyde Park. At an industry function on
June 7, Glasenberg said he was “happy not to have the CEO job.
Mick can do it great.”  The two men met at Wits University in Johannesburg, where
Davis was a lecturer and Glasenberg a student. Both qualified as
accountants, after which their paths temporarily diverged.  Glasenberg joined commodity trader  Marc Rich  & Co., founded
by the former fugitive U.S. financier, in 1983. After a stint as
a coal trader, he ran the company’s coal department. Management
bought out founder Marc Rich in 1994 and renamed the company
Glencore. Glasenberg became CEO in 2002.  BHP Role  Davis was hired in 1994 as finance director of South
African miner Gencor Ltd., which eventually became part of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  He left in 2001 to join Xstrata, which sold shares
to investors in London the following year. Under his leadership,
Xstrata increased its market value almost 100-fold, becoming a
30.5 billion-pound business with more than 70,000  staff  in 20
countries.  A successful merger of Glencore and  Xstrata (XTA)  would be the
second-largest mining deal ever, lagging only behind Rio Tinto
Group’s $38 billion acquisition of Canadian metals firm Alcan
Inc. in 2007. Global mining deals swelled to $98 billion last
year, the highest level since 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, as demand for commodities from developing nations
and the deteriorating quality of mineral reserves push producers
to seek greater economies of scale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  