-- Gold Advances on Outlook for Further Stimulus From Fed
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-09-11T18:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/gold-advances-on-outlook-for-further-stimulus-at-fed-meeting.html
Gold rose for the third time in
four sessions as prospects for more U.S. stimulus from the
 Federal Reserve  spurred demand for the metal as a store of
value.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  may
consider asset purchases at its two-day meeting staring
tomorrow. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled last month that a
third round of so-called quantitative easing may be needed to
reduce joblessness. Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in
Karlsruhe will decide tomorrow whether to halt the country’s
participation in the 500 billion-euro ($640 billion) European
Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s permanent bailout fund.  “More and more people are gravitating toward the metal in
anticipation of events over the next 48 hours,”  Adam Klopfenstein , the senior market strategist at Archer Financial
Services Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “The
market is already pricing in a QE3, and uncertainty over the
European vote is helping gold.”  Gold futures for December delivery added 0.2 percent to
settle at $1,734.90 an ounce at 1:38 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Bullion touched a six-month high on Sept. 7 after U.S. job
growth in August trailed estimates, adding to speculation that
the Fed will announce more stimulus measures this week.  The metal surged 70 percent from the end of December 2008
to June 2011 as the Fed kept borrowing costs at a record low and
bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing.  Assets in gold-backed exchange-traded products expanded to
a record 2,480.43 metric tons yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Silver futures for December delivery fell 0.2 percent to
$33.566 an ounce in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  