-- Gulf Gasoline Rises to Pre-Hurricane High as Refineries Restart
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-09-11T17:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/gulf-gasoline-rises-to-pre-hurricane-high-as-refineries-restart.html
Gulf Coast  gasoline rose to the
highest level this month as refineries remained shut or at
reduced rates in the wake of Hurricane Isaac.  Three refineries are still restarting after Isaac, a
Category 1 hurricane, made final landfall in Louisiana on Aug.
29. The weather system caused flooding and power losses, closing
seven refineries, representing 13 percent of Gulf Coast
capacity, and reduced rates at other plants.  The premium for reformulated, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast rose 2.75 cents to 20 cents a gallon versus futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:01 p.m. New
York time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is the
highest level since Aug. 27. Prompt delivery rose 3.81 cents to
$3.2367 a gallon.  Restarts at  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s Meraux and St. Charles
refineries are progressing as planned,  Bill Day , a spokesman for
the San Antonio-based company, said in an e-mail. “The crude
unit at Meraux remains shut for repairs,” he said.  Motiva Enterprises LLC expects to need another week to
start units at its Convent, Louisiana, refinery.  The 255,000-barrel-a-day plant has been hampered by
floodwaters and mechanical issues that prevented the fluid
catalytic cracker from being restarted, two people familiar with
operations said yesterday. The refinery shut Aug. 28 in advance
of Hurricane Isaac.  Motiva expects to return its Norco, Louisiana, refinery to
normal operating rates by Sept. 15, according to two people
familiar with the plant’s operation. The 250,000-barrel-a-day
refinery, shut Aug. 30, is increasing production, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  