-- Iberdrola to Keep Dividend as Galan Resists Atomic Tax
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-12T14:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/iberdrola-to-keep-dividend-as-galan-resists-atomic-windfall-tax.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the worst performer
among European  utility stocks  in 2012, will maintain its
dividend by cutting costs and increasing foreign profit as it
begins to reduce debt as much as 20 percent, the chairman said.  To avoid new expenses,  Spain ’s largest utility will fight a
government plan for a so-called windfall profit tax on nuclear
energy,  Ignacio Galan  said in an interview yesterday. The moves
help ensure it pays the 33.7 euro-cent dividend next year, which
currently gives a 9.5 percent yield, he said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is struggling to wring more
money from energy companies as he tries to avoid a second
bailout. That has driven yields up and share prices down for
domestic power utilities. Galan, 61, said he would sue the
government should it levy a new tax on hydropower and atomic
energy because singling them out for punishment among various
types of generation is illegal.  “We already have about 300 legal actions against this
government, so why not?” Galan said. “European legislation
will not allow different taxation for different technologies.”  Iberdrola increased first-half  profit  from outside Spain by
74 percent to 1.36 billion euros ($1.75 billion). That offset a
44 percent slump in earnings from its home market after Spain
cut payments for power businesses by 1.7 billion euros this
year, hurting Bilbao-based Iberdrola and rivals  Endesa SA (ELE)  and
EON AG. Domestic power demand has fallen with Spain’s recession.  “Our dividend is more dependent on our  international 
business than the Spanish one,” Galan said. “2012 is going to
be a very good year.”  The stock rose as much as 2.9 percent in  Madrid  today and
traded 2.7 percent higher at 3.66 euros at 3:49 p.m. local time,
outpacing the benchmark Ibex’s 1 percent gain.  Reduce Debt  Iberdrola, whose  net debt  is about 27.7 billion euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, plans to reduce
borrowings over the next two years by 15 percent to 20 percent,
Galan said, without commenting on possible asset sales. He said
any new Spanish regulations that erode income will be matched by
cost cuts, to defend the company’s dividend and shares.  “Iberdrola has got to mind its debt levels,” said Shai Hill, a power industry analyst at Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd.
in  London . New rules that curb Spanish earnings would raise the
question of “What are they going to sell?” Hill said.
“They’ve probably got to do something pretty dramatic, like
exit  Latin America , exit the U.K. or list Scottish Power,” the
U.K. unit.  Job Cuts  The company has already eliminated 400 jobs, 10 percent of
the workforce of its regulated business in Spain, and lowered
subcontracting by 50 percent, after the government chopped
income from its electricity transmission business in March.  “If the government reduces our revenue, we will respond by
reducing costs,” said Galan, who was trained as an engineer.
“Every action has a reaction.”  The stock, down 26 percent this year, has been depressed by
a “substantial overhang,” or potential sell-off, by
shareholder  Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA , UBS AG
said in an Aug. 30 note. The construction company placed much of
its holding, which was almost 15 percent, with an investment
bank in April, UBS said, rating the stock a  buy .  Iberdrola, which sold 750 million euros of 2017 notes this
week, is looking to bolster its balance sheet as the
government’s financial problems disrupt access to financial
markets for Spanish companies.  The yield on the utility’s October 2018 bonds reached 7.35
percent in June and had dropped to 4.8 percent by yesterday,
according to Bloomberg data. The yield fell to 4.47 percent
today.  Overseas Earnings  Iberdrola, also the world’s biggest owner of wind parks,
will earn enough in foreign markets to defend its payment to
shareholders, Galan said. The company’s  Scottish Power  unit is
the third-biggest power distributor in the U.K., and its 2008
acquisition of Energy East Corp. made it the biggest Spanish
investor in the U.S.  “International profits are of course helpful, but 2013
will be far less positive in the international business than
2012 and this will bring in our view pressure on the dividend
again,” Javier Garrido, a power industry analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Madrid, said in a note. “Iberdrola management
would make the message more credible by re-basing the dividend
to a more realistic level.”  Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria has said he plans to
tap power companies to close a 6 billion-euro annual shortfall
in the country’s electricity system.  Tariff Deficit  The struggle to close the so-called tariff deficit, which
has generated more than 24 billion euros in debt that’s
guaranteed by the government, opened a rift in Rajoy’s
government last month when Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
blocked Soria’s plans to raise 2.6 billion euros a year in new
taxes on power companies.  That plan would have reduced Iberdrola’s net income by 440
million euros a year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a July 12
research report.  “The government is always making noise and doing nothing
in terms of the energy reform,” Galan said, when asked about
the possibility of a new windfall profit tax on nuclear and
hydropower. “In the worst case, we would have to pay out the
money and then get it back through the courts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd White  in Madrid at 
 twhite@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net . 