-- Idaho Law Found to Unduly Burden Women Seeking Abortions
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-09-11T20:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/idaho-law-fouond-to-unduly-burden-women-seeking-abortions.html
An  Idaho  woman can challenge a
state law making it a crime to have an abortion, said a federal
appeals court that also reversed an order barring enforcement of
the statute.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  San Francisco  said the law
couldn’t be enforced against Jennie Linn McCormack, an
unemployed mother of three who became pregnant in 2010 while
unmarried. It ruled that a lower court erred when it issued a
preliminary injunction blocking the Idaho law that makes it a
felony for a woman to purposely abort a pregnancy unless the
procedure is performed in the first trimester by a doctor.  The ruling is the first time a federal appeals court has
found it unconstitutional to criminalize abortions performed
before a fetus is viable, said  Richard Hearn , McCormack’s
attorney. The court also barred prosecutors from charging
McCormack with violating another part of the law that outlaws
second-trimester abortions, he said.  The 1973 law makes violations punishable by as long as five
years in prison and a fine of as much as $5,000. McCormack is
the first woman to be prosecuted under the law, Hearn said.  If McCormack wins her lawsuit, the law couldn’t be enforced
against other women, Hearn said in a phone interview. The state
could seek further review of the appeals court ruling, he said.  Prosecution Dropped  McCormack allegedly used a prescription drug, obtained from
a physician through the Internet, to induce an abortion in 2010,
the court said. She was charged by  Bannock County  prosecutors
with violating Idaho’s law. The criminal case was dismissed, and
McCormack sued to overturn the statute.  McCormack is likely to succeed on the merits of her case
because the law “imposes an undue burden on a woman’s ability
to terminate her pregnancy,” a three-judge panel of the appeals
court ruled today.  Kriss Bivens Cloyd, a spokeswoman for the Idaho attorney
general’s office, said state lawyers were reviewing the ruling
and declined to comment further.  The case is McCormack v. Hiedeman, 11-36010,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 