-- Hillary Clinton, Greenspan Toast Kati Marton Memoir: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-11T14:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/hillary-clinton-greenspan-toast-kati-marton-memoir-d-c-.html
Standing under the portrait of an
18th-century French aristocrat, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton spoke with the man rumored to be her replacement next
year: Senator  John Kerry , Massachusetts Democrat.  The champagne reception at the Tudor-style home of French
Ambassador Francois Delattre last night honored “Paris: A Love
Story,” a memoir by journalist  Kati Marton , widow of U.S.
diplomat  Richard Holbrooke .  It took a few moments for Clinton to remember her first
trip to Paris. “I think it was 1973,” she said, drumming her
fingers against her cheek.  She sported her much-criticized blond ponytail, while her
deputy chief of staff, Huma Abedin, wore long strands of pearls
and an Hermes handbag.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  needed some
help from his wife, NBC news anchor Andrea Mitchell, to recall
their last trip to Paris. They took in the French Open many
years ago, but said another visit is overdue.  Other guests included Samantha Power, special assistant to
President Barack Obama for multilateral affairs and human
rights. She spoke with Hubert Vedrine, one of French President
 Francois Hollande ’s right-hand men.  Francophone Kerry joked that he and Delattre had better
speak in English, because “we’d both get into trouble”
otherwise.  Memoir in hand, Hungarian Ambassador Gyorgy Szapary said he
enjoyed speaking Hungarian with Marton, who is Hungarian-
American.  Old Friend  A teary Marton thanked everyone for coming, especially
Clinton, who offered warm words of congratulations and support
for her old friend.  “It’s not chick lit, it’s human lit,” Marton said about
her book, which charts the beginning and the end of her
relationships in Paris. First with her former husband, the late
ABC news anchor Peter Jennings, with whom she had children, and
later with Holbrooke.  It was “not an easy book to write, and not an easy book to
read,” she said.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology ,
 Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 