-- Minnesota Song Downloader Must Pay $222,000, Court Says
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-09-11T20:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/minnesota-song-downloader-must-pay-222-000-court-says.html
A Minnesota woman accused by the
music industry of illegally downloading songs was ordered to pay
$222,000 in damages, after an appeals court overturned a lower-
court ruling that had reduced the amount.  The St. Louis-based  U.S. Court of Appeals  said in an
opinion today that the record companies, which appealed the
district court’s decision to assess $54,000 in damages against
Jammie Thomas-Rasset, were entitled to the larger amount. The
case has been tried before three juries.  U.S. District Judge Michael Davis in July 2011 reduced the
third jury’s $1.5 million damage award to $54,000, or $2,250 for
each of 24 recordings infringed. The music labels appealed to
reinstate the first jury’s award of $222,000. The U.S. also
appealed, to defend the assessment of damage awards under the
federal Copyright Act.  “The evidence against Thomas-Rasset demonstrates an
aggravated case of willful infringement by an individual
consumer who acted to download and distribute copyrighted
recordings,” the court said. “We conclude that the  record
companies  are entitled to the remedies that they seek on
appeal.”  Record companies say they have lost billions of dollars in
revenue due to the Internet distribution of songs without
payment to the artists and copyright holders. They have sued
file-sharing sites such as Lime Wire LLC as well as individuals.  Association ‘Pleased’  “We are pleased with the appellate court’s decision and
look forward to putting this case behind us,” the  Recording
Industry Association of America,  the record companies’ trade
group, said in an e-mailed statement.  Thomas-Rasset was sued in 2006 and accused of downloading
1,702 songs without authorization from the file-sharing website
 Kazaa  and making them available for free to other computer
users. For the case, the judge approved a sample of 24 songs to
reduce the time and expense of researching copyrights.  Andrew Mohraz, a lawyer for Thomas-Rasset, didn’t
immediately respond to a message seeking comment.  Three juries reached verdicts in favor of the record
companies. The judge granted a second trial after the first
because of an improper jury instruction. A third trial was set
after the record companies refused to accept the judge’s
reduction of the jury’s $1.92 million award in the second trial.  Parallel Case  The case parallels one in Massachusetts federal court. A
college student, Joel Tenenbaum, was accused of downloading and
distributing thousands of songs without paying for them. A jury
set a $675,000 penalty against the defendant and the district
court upheld that award last month.  The Minnesota suit was brought by labels owned by the
world’s four largest recording companies,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s  Sony
Music Entertainment , Access Industries Holdings Inc.’s Warner
Music Group Corp.,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s EMI Group.  The downloaded songs included Journey’s “Don’t Stop
Believin’,” Richard Marx’s “Now and Forever,” Def Leppard’s
“Pour Some Sugar on Me,” and  Green Day ’s “Basket Case.”  The appeals case is Capitol Records v. Thomas-Rasset, 11-
2820, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit ( St. Louis ).
The lower-court case is Capitol v. Thomas-Rasset, 06-01497, U.S.
District Court, District of Minnesota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 