-- Intel Demonstrates Power-Sipping Haswell Chip Due in 2013
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-09-11T20:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/intel-demonstrates-power-sipping-haswell-chip-design-for-2013.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the largest
semiconductor maker, demonstrated a power-sipping design called
Haswell that is aimed at making the company’s chips more
effective in portable computing devices.  “It was designed with mobility in mind,” Intel Executive
Vice President David Perlmutter said at a company conference
today in San Francisco. Intel uses the annual three-day
Developer Forum to show off the technology it seeks to induce
computer makers to adopt.  Intel is under pressure to sign up buyers for its chips
after trimming its third-quarter sales prediction last week amid
a slump in personal-computer demand. The revised outlook adds to
evidence of a shift toward smartphones and tablets, areas where
Intel has struggled to win orders.  The company’s answer is to produce chips that can get by
with less power even as they run software faster. The company is
betting that it can drum up demand for a type of slimmed-down PC
known as an Ultrabook, which Intel considers an alternative to
mobile devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  Convertible Designs  There are 70 Ultrabook designs on the market and, among
those that will go on sale soon, 40 will have touch screens,
Intel Vice President Kirk Skaugen said in a separate briefing.
Intel research shows that convertibles -- machines that can be
flipped from a notebook form factor to use as a tablet -- are
gaining the most attention from potential purchasers, he said.  “More are launching with touch in the next month than are
in the entire marketplace right now,” he said. “There’s more
innovation coming to the PC market in the next 12 months to 18
months than there’s been in the last 10 years.”  Intel is sticking to its prediction that 40 percent of
consumer laptops shipped will be Ultrabooks by the end of the
year, Skaugen said. The goal is aggressive and contingent on a
strong holiday shopping season, he said.  The  Santa Clara , California-based chipmaker so far has
failed to parlay its success in PCs into market-share gains in
chips for phones. The first smartphones built around Intel chips
debuted in India and Europe this year.  “People are highly skeptical of any diversification
effort” by Intel, said  Tristan Gerra , a San Francisco-based
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. While Intel wants to focus on
the capabilities of its new products, investors are more
concerned about diminishing near-term PC-market growth, he said.  Tablets Prevail  Tablet sales will exceed notebook sales by the second half
of 2013, according to an estimate by Piper Jaffray Cos. The
iPad,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Nexus 7 and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire
all run on chips made with technology from  ARM Holdings Plc. (ARM)   Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  has chosen Intel, along with ARM technology
licensees  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA) , to help it introduce tablets that use the newest version
of Windows software, which will debut in October.  Intel said last week that third-quarter sales will be $12.9
billion to $13.5 billion, down from a prior projection of $13.8
billion to $14.8 billion. Analysts on average had estimated
sales of $14.2 billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  That new forecast demonstrates uncertainty about the
prospects for Windows 8 and which type of device will succeed,
according to Baird’s Gerra.  Intel shares rose less than 1 percent to $23.34 at the
close in New York, leaving the stock down 3.8 percent this year.
Market researcher Gartner Inc. predicts the PC market will grow
2 percent to 372.3 million units in 2012. Next year, the market
will expand 12 percent to 415.5 million units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  