-- Lion Air Challenges AirAsia With Malaysian Low-Cost Carrier
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2012-09-11T09:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/lion-air-challenges-airasia-with-malaysian-low-cost-carrier.html
PT Lion Mentari Airlines will set
up a low-cost carrier in  Malaysia , challenging  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the
region’s biggest discounter, in its home market.  Malindo Airways will begin flights in May and may have
about 100 planes within a decade, Ahmad Johan, president of
National Aerospace & Defense Industries Sdn., told reporters in
Kuala Lumpur today. National Aerospace will own 51 percent of
the new airline, with Indonesia-based Lion Air holding the rest.  The carrier pits  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s record customer against the
biggest buyer of Airbus SAS narrow-body planes as Lion Air and
AirAsia compete for budget travelers in  Asia . The region’s total
air-travel may grow 6.4 percent a year through 2031 because of
economic growth, according to  Boeing .  “We are looking at selling tickets at AirAsia’s pricing or
may be lower,” Lion Air President Director Rusdi Kirana said
today. Malindo Air plans to fly to countries including  Thailand ,
China, India, Japan and Australia, besides offering services
within  Indonesia  and Malaysia, he said.  Lion Air signed a record order for 230 Boeing 737s in
February, which was worth $22.4 billion at list prices. The
deal, which also included 150 options, was Boeing’s biggest in
terms of dollar value and plane numbers. The carrier flies to
more than 36 destinations within Indonesia and overseas,
according to its  website .  100 Planes  The airline has forecast passenger growth rates of 15
percent a year as it adds more planes. Its fleet may expand to
470 planes by 2025, Kirana said in November. The carrier has 100
planes now. Malindo Air will draw its fleet from planes Lion Air
Group has ordered, including the 787s for possible Europe
flights, Kirana said today.  Shares of AirAsia sank 2.7 percent to 3.19 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur trading, the lowest close since Oct. 10. The carrier has
grown into Asia’s biggest discount airline since its takeover by
 Tony Fernandes  and partners in 2001. The carrier, based in
Sepang, Malaysia, has subsequently set up ventures in the
Philippines, Japan, Thailand and Indonesia.  The airline last year ordered 200 Airbus A320neo aircraft
valued at $18 billion in the biggest order for the French
planemaker. It may sign a deal for as many as 100 more A320s at
the Berlin Air Show, which starts today, Chief Executive Officer
Aireen Omar said last month.  Jetstar, the budget arm of Qantas Airways Ltd., is also
building up a network of low-cost carriers across Asia. The
airline already has ventures in Singapore, Vietnam and Japan,
and it’s setting up another in  Hong Kong .  Batik Air, Lion Air’s long-haul carrier, will begin
operations in March with six Boeing 737s and five 787s, the
company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  