-- Lion Air Takes Fight to AirAsia’s Malaysian Home: Southeast Asia
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-09-12T09:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/lion-air-takes-fight-to-airasia-s-malaysian-home-southeast-asia.html
PT Lion Mentari Airlines, the
Indonesian carrier that placed a record order with Boeing Co.
this year, is extending its challenge in Southeast Asia’s budget
travel market to  Malaysia , the home of rival  AirAsia (AIRA)  Bhd.  Lion Air-backed Malindo Airways will sell tickets at prices
matching “or maybe lower” than AirAsia’s, Lion Air President
Director Rusdi Kirana said in Selangor near Kuala Lumpur
yesterday. It will begin services in May and plans to fly to
countries including  Thailand ,  China ,  India ,  Japan  and  Australia ,
besides operating in  Indonesia  and Malaysia.  Lion Air’s Malaysia entry follows AirAsia Group Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes ’ decision to relocate to
Jakarta in June to focus on regional expansion. The move pits
Boeing’s record customer against the biggest buyer of Airbus SAS
narrow-body planes as the two carriers compete for budget
travelers. AirAsia fell 5.3 percent to 3.02 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur today, the biggest drop on the MSCI Emerging Market Index.  “Lion Air may be doing this more in response to AirAsia
expanding into its own turf in Indonesia,” said K Ajith, head
of regional aviation at UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd.  UOB-Kay Hian has a sell rating on AirAsia and cut its price
target to 2.92 ringgit from 3.30 ringgit today, according to
report from the Singapore-based brokerage.  Boeing Fleet  “Malindo boasts big plans,” Wong Chew Hann and Chai Li Shin, analysts at Kuala Lumpur-based Malayan Banking Bhd., wrote
in a report today. “AirAsia is vulnerable as people are easily
seduced by low fares.”  Malindo Airways may have about 100 planes within a decade,
Ahmad Johan, president of National Aerospace & Defence
Industries Sdn., told reporters yesterday at an event attended
by Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak. National Aerospace, in
which Malaysia’s finance ministry holds a minority stake and a
golden share, will own 51 percent of the new airline, with Lion
Air holding the rest.  Lion Air signed an order for 230  Boeing (BA)  737s in February,
worth $22.4 billion at list prices. The deal, which also
included 150 options, was Boeing’s biggest in terms of dollar
value and plane numbers. The carrier flies to more than 36
destinations in Indonesia and overseas, according to its  website .
The region’s total air travel may grow 6.4 percent a year
through 2031, spurred by economic growth, according to  Boeing .  Passenger Growth  Malindo will draw its fleet from aircraft ordered by Lion
Air Group, including 787s for possible Europe flights, Kirana
said yesterday. Lion Air has forecast annual passenger growth
rates of 15 percent as it adds more planes. The parent’s fleet
may expand to 470 planes by 2025, Kirana said in November, from
100 planes now.  AirAsia has grown into  Asia ’s biggest discount airline since
its takeover by Fernandes and partners in 2001. The carrier,
based in Sepang, Malaysia, has since set up ventures in the
 Philippines , Japan, Thailand and Indonesia. The airline and its
partner PT Fersindo Nusaperkasa said in July they would acquire
Indonesia’s Batavia air for $80 million.  Last year, AirAsia ordered 200 Airbus A320neo aircraft
valued at $18 billion in the biggest order for the plane maker.
It is close to signing a deal for as many as 100 more A320s,
Chief Executive Officer Aireen Omar said last month.  Malindo Airways “will go all out for market share at the
expense of profitability by undercutting prices,” Joshua Ng, an
analyst at RHB Research Institute Sdn., wrote in a note
yesterday. “AirAsia, on the other hand, may also want to nip
the competition in the bud by dropping fares. This will result
in a full-scale price war.”  SilkAir, Scoot  Lion Air will face a tougher market in Malaysia than
AirAsia has to contend with in Indonesia, UOB-Kay Hian’s Ajith
said. “Domestic demand in Malaysia isn’t growing as much as the
demand in Indonesia. Lion Air isn’t going to gain much market
share.”  Both airlines also compete with the budget or regional arms
of flag carriers including  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and  Qantas (QAN) 
Airways Ltd. Singapore Air has responded to the rising
competition from discount carriers by expanding its regional
unit SilkAir, which has ordered 54 Boeing 737 planes, and
starting budget long-haul operator Scoot.  Jetstar, the budget arm of Qantas, is building up a network
of low-cost carriers across Asia. The airline already has
ventures in Singapore, Vietnam and Japan, and is setting up
another one in  Hong Kong .  The airline will boost services to Malaysia, Thailand and
Myanmar with the arrival of a 17th A320 aircraft, Jetstar said
in an e-mailed statement today.  “Malindo Airways’ significance as a threat to AirAsia
depends very much on how quickly and sizeable it can scale up
its operations,” RHB Research’s Ng said. “Over the longer term,
its survival also depends on its ability to beat or at least
match AirAsia’s extremely low cost structure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  