-- Iran Lowers OSPs Relative to Saudi Arabia: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-09-17T01:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/iran-lowers-oil-prices-relative-to-saudi-arabia-asia-crude.html
(Corrects Gunvor domicile in last paragraph of story
published Sept. 11.)  Iran  lowered the price of its oil
to customers in Asia compared with Saudi Arabian grades for next
month, bringing down the relative cost of its light grade to the
lowest level in more than five years.  National Iranian Oil Co. set Iran Light for October at a
premium of 10 cents a barrel to  Saudi Arabia ’s Arab Light, down
from 19 cents in September and the smallest spread since June
2007. Iran Heavy will be priced at a 15 cent discount to Saudi’s
Arab Medium, down from a 9 cent discount. Forozan will be a 10
cent premium to the medium grade, falling from 12 cents.  “Iran’s latest batch of official selling prices are quite
revealing in that NIOC has decreased prices for October-loading
barrels relative to competing Saudi Arabian crude,” Geneva-
based JBC Energy GmbH said in a report today. “The lower prices
could be seen as an indication that the Iranians are
experiencing difficulties in selling their crude, something that
would seem logical given the lack of Japanese and South Korean
buying seen in July, the first month of the EU ban on insuring
Iranian vessels,”  Iranian oil exports dropped 66 percent in July from a year
earlier to less than 1 million barrels a day as the U.S. and the
European Union tightened sanctions, according to a Sept. 5
report by Rhodium Group, citing customs data. Rhodium estimates
exports at about 940,000 barrels a day, compared with 1.7
million barrels a day in June and 2.8 million in July 2011, the
New York-based economic research group said Sept. 5 in an e-
mailed report.  Kuwait Petroleum Corp. set the October price for its  export
oil  grade to  Asia  at 35 cents a barrel below the average of Oman
and Dubai oils, the state-run company said in a faxed statement
yesterday. That’s up from a 50 cent discount this month.  KPC has kept its export grade priced at a 20-cent discount
to Saudi Arabia’s Arab Medium for four months.  Dubai Timespreads  Dubai crude’s backwardation, when near-term deliveries are
more expensive than later supplies, rose by 11 cents, the second
day of increases. Spot prices were $1.30 a barrel  more  than
levels for cargoes two months later, the biggest difference
since July 11, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd.  The price difference, known as a timespread, is 53 percent
wider so far in September. An increasing  backwardation  signals
strengthening demand from refineries for prompt crude amid
tightening supplies.  PV Oil Corp.,  Vietnam ’s state-run oil-marketing company, is
seeking to buy as many as two 600,000 barrel cargoes of low-
sulfur crude for delivery at its Dung Quat refinery from mid-
October to mid-November, according to two people who participate
in the market, asking not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak to the media. Bids are due today.  MRPL Results  OAO Rosneft is offering two 95,000 metric-ton cargoes of
Russian Sokol crude for loading in November, according to two
traders who participate in the market. The offer closes tomorrow.  BP Plc and Trafigura Beheer BV sold crude cargoes for
loading in October and November to India’s Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd., said three traders who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  BP sold 600,000 barrels of Dubai crude to the unit of
 India ’s biggest state-run explorer for loading in the second
half of October, they said. Mangalore Refinery paid a premium of
about $1.25 a barrel to benchmark Dubai crude prices on a free-
on-board basis, the traders said.  Trafigura sold the refiner a similar amount of Oman crude
for loading in the first half of November for about $2.50 a
barrel more than benchmark Dubai crude prices on a cost and
freight basis.  Profits from processing a barrel of benchmark Dubai crude
into fuels such as diesel and gasoline priced in the regional
trading hub of Singapore averaged $4.47 during the last five
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day
average is $5.62.  Brent-Dubai  The October Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures
the European oil’s premium to the Mideast marker, rose 10 cents
to $3.15 a barrel, according to data from London-based PVM. The
November EFS gained 5 cents to $3.16.  Oman oil for November rose 11 cents to settle at $113.07 a
barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  Gunvor Group Ltd. bought the only Dubai partial cargo sold
today, according to a survey of people who monitor the Platts
pricing window. The Cyprus-based trading company paid SK
Innovation Corp. $113.10 a barrel for the 25,000-barrel lot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  