-- Hiring Plans by U.S. Employers Are Little Changed, Manpower Says
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/hiring-plans-by-u-s-employers-are-little-changed-manpower-says.html
Hiring plans among U.S.
corporations in the fourth quarter are little changed from the
previous three months, indicating scant improvement in the labor
market, a private survey found.  Milwaukee-based  ManpowerGroup (MAN)  said today its employment
index for October through December held at 11 on a seasonally
adjusted basis. A year earlier the measure was at 8. The share
of those looking to hold the line on headcount rose to 72
percent in the fourth quarter from 71 percent in the previous
three months.  Some 17 percent of companies surveyed said they expected to
add workers, down from 21 percent who said so in the previous
survey. A global economic slowdown and the so-called looming
fiscal cliff of automatic tax increases and government spending
cuts may be making employers hesitant to expand.  “There’s little demand out there,” said Jeff Joerres,
ManpowerGroup president and chief executive officer. “It’s
tepid. Given the current environment, they’re not going to be
doing a lot of increasing but they’re not going to be doing a
lot of decreasing” headcount, Joerres said in an interview.  Before adjusting for seasonal differences, the report also
showed that 9 percent of employers, the biggest share since the
first quarter, said they expect to reduce hiring in the final
three months of 2012.  Manpower’s employment measure subtracts the percentage of
employers planning to cut jobs from those looking to hire and
adjusts the results for seasonal variations.  Labor Department figures last week showed the economy added
96,000 jobs in August, fewer than the forecast, while the
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.1 percent as more people left the
workforce.  While all 13 industries reported a positive outlook for
hiring plans, education and  health services  was the only
industry that saw an increase from the previous three months.  Manpower interviewed more than 18,000 employers in the U.S.
The survey is conducted quarterly, and the margin of error for
all the data is plus or minus 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  