-- Irish Start Bank Charm Offensive as Germany Signals Reservations
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-09-11T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/irish-start-bank-charm-offensive-as-germany-signals-reservations.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  is stepping up his campaign for a deal on the nation’s
legacy banking debt, stopping in Paris, Berlin and  Rome  before
finance ministers gather in Cyprus this week.  Noonan is meeting today with French counterpart  Pierre Moscovici  before talks with  Germany ’s Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble . Tomorrow, he visits  Italy ’s Vittorio Grilli and then
flies to Cyprus for a meeting of European finance ministers.  Ireland’s  debt  level has more than tripled over the last
five years, in part because of the cost of saving the nation’s
financial system. While European leaders in June opened the door
for the euro-region’s rescue funds to directly recapitalize
banks, Schaeuble has already signalled his reservations to
giving the Irish a better deal.  “Noonan and other Irish officials are on a proper charm
offensive here,” said Eoin Fahy, an economist at Kleinwort
Benson Investors in Dublin. “There is a real deal to play
for.”  Irish borrowing costs have fallen since the June 29
commitment, which Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  hailed as a “seismic
shift” in policy with the potential to ease the burden on
taxpayers. Ireland’s government has injected or pledged 64
billion euros ($81.9 billion) to save the nation’s banks, after
a real-estate bubble burst in 2008.  Noonan said yesterday in an interview in Westport in
Western Ireland that European finance ministries are in favor
“at a level of principle” on striking an accord, though details
still need to be agreed.  Yields Fall  The yield on the benchmark October 2020 bond stood at 5.62
percent yesterday, having fallen from 7.13 percent just before
the June gathering of euro-area leaders. In the wake of the
European pledge, Ireland sold bills and bonds for the first time
in almost two years, and yesterday laid out plans to auction
another 500 million euros of securities tomorrow.  “There’s some room for the market to be disappointed” if
an accord didn’t meet expectations, Craig Beaumont, the
International Monetary Fund mission chief for Ireland, said on a
call with reporters on Sept. 10.  Already, some slippage has crept in. While the European
Commission said in July that proposals on Ireland would be
presented to euro-area finance ministers in September before a
final decision in October, an accord probably won’t be ready by
then, two people with direct knowledge of the talks have said.  Spanish Banks  European leaders are focusing on a deal to resolve  Spain ’s
banking crisis first, and Irish officials also need to counter
concerns among German policymakers about an Irish agreement.  The IMF said this week Ireland would “significantly reduce”
its financing needs in the coming years if it could replace
about 30 billion euros of so-called promissory notes used to
bail out former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. with long-term  government
securities  or a euro-area bailout fund loan.  Ireland could lower its debt level if the permanent euro-
area rescue fund invested directly in the nation’s banks, the
fund said. Five of the six biggest domestic banks have been
taken over by the government.  Topped Up  “We will have to avoid a headline like ‘Aid
programme for Ireland Topped Up’ because then investors in
California or  Shanghai  might not understand that this top-up is
a reward for Ireland, but might be tempted to conclude that what
was agreed two years ago for Ireland was not enough,” Schaeuble
told the Irish Times in the article published on Aug. 24.  In the meantime, Ireland is pressing ahead with its return
to credit markets. The National Treasury Management Agency,
based in Dublin, plans to sell 500 million euros of three-month
treasury bills on Sept. 13.  The NTMA sold 500 million euro of three-month bills at a
yield of 1.80 percent on July 5, returning to debt markets for
the first time in almost two years.  “We would expect that the bills will price around the 1.50
percent mark, which is an improvement on last time and helped by
the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying program announcement
last week,” said Liam Dunne, a fixed-income analyst with
Dublin-based securities firm Merrion Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  