-- Japan Extends Asian World Cup Qualifying Lead as Socceroos Lose
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-12T00:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/japan-south-korea-extend-leads-in-asian-world-cup-qualifying.html
Japan  beat  Iraq  1-0 to extend its
group lead in  Asia ’s final qualifying stage for the 2014 soccer
 World Cup  as Australia was upset 2-1 by Jordan. South Korea
stayed top of its pool after a 2-2 tie at Uzbekistan.  Ryoichi Maeda  scored in the 25th minute for Asian champion
Japan last night in Saitama. The Japanese top Group B with  10
points  as they seek a fifth straight appearance at the four-
yearly championship.  Hasan Mahmoud converted a 48th-minute penalty kick and Amer
Deeb added the other goal as Jordan beat a Socceroos team rated
62 places above it in FIFA’s world ranking to move into second
place with four points. Archie Thompson scored for Australia,
which is tied with Iraq and Oman with two points as it seeks to
qualify for a third straight World Cup.  “We’ve got to keep believing and stay positive,”
Socceroos captain  Lucas Neill  told Fox Sports. “There’s plenty
of points to play for, but if we perform like we did tonight
it’s going to be difficult.”  Lebanon sprung another upset by beating Iran 1-0 in Group A,
ending the Iranians’ 10-game unbeaten run in 2014 qualifying.
Sanjar Tursunov’s 59th-minute goal gave Uzbekistan the home draw
with South Korea, which has seven points after three games. Iran,
Qatar and Lebanon have four points apiece.  The winners and runners-up from each four-team group take
the region’s four direct berths at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil,
with the third-place teams playing off for the right to take on
South America’s fifth-ranked nation for another spot.  The next round of matches is scheduled for Oct. 16, when
Australia faces Iraq in Doha and Iran hosts  South Korea .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  