-- Japanese Stock Futures Little Changed on Fed Policy, Yen
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-09-11T23:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/japanese-stock-futures-little-changed-on-fed-policy-yen.html
Japanese  stock   futures  were little
changed as speculation the  Federal Reserve  will boost stimulus
measures to spur growth weakened the dollar to a three-month low
against the yen.  American depositary receipts of carmaker  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , which gets a quarter of its revenue in  North America ,
dropped 0.3 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those
of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , Japan’s largest construction machinery maker,
added 2.1 percent after a preliminary report showed the nation’s
machine tool orders fell at a slower pace in August. ADRs of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s biggest mining company and oil
producer, rose 0.8 percent as crude gained.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 8,810 in Chicago yesterday compared with
8,800 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at  8,800
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index added 0.4 percent after Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao
signaled there’s more room for fiscal and monetary policy to
support growth. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained 0.4 percent in
Wellington.  “The market is getting confident that governments won’t
let economies get worse, as expectations are mounting in the
U.S. for more monetary easing and China expands public
investment,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo
at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “The market won’t see a clear
direction as investors are still sitting on the fence.”  Relative Value  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 1.8 percent this quarter
through yesterday as expectations of further stimulus measures
overshadowed signs of a global economic slowdown. The Asian
benchmark traded at 12.4 times estimated earnings, compared with
13.9 times for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  and 12 times for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The index rose 0.3 percent in New York yesterday before
the Federal Open Market Committee starts a two-day meeting today
to discuss additional measures to stimulate the U.S. economy.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 he wouldn’t rule
out steps to lower an unemployment rate he described as a
“grave concern.”  Additional stimulus measures by the Fed may be a mixed
blessing for Japanese stocks as they buoy investors’ risk
sentiment while weakening the dollar against the yen.  The yen reached 77.70 per dollar yesterday, the highest
level since June 1. A stronger yen cuts the value of overseas
earnings at Japanese exporters when repatriated.  U.S. Rating  Separately, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may
join Standard & Poor’s in downgrading the U.S. credit rating
unless Congress next year reduces the percentage of debt-to-
gross-domestic-product during budget negotiations.  Chinese stocks traded in New York gained after Wen said
China still has “ample strength” with fiscal and monetary
policy to meet its economic goals for the year. Wen spoke
yesterday at the  World Economic Forum  in the Chinese city of
Tianjin.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York rallied 1.7 percent to 89.42
yesterday, the highest closing level since Aug. 28.  In Japan, a government report today is forecast to show
machinery orders gained 2 percent in July, compared with a 5.6
percent increase in June, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Machine tool orders dropped 2.6 percent in August after
falling 6.7 percent in July, the Japan Machine Tool Builders’
Association said in a preliminary report yesterday.  Separately, South Korea’s jobless rate was unchanged at 3.1
percent in August, the government reported today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 