-- Japanese Stocks Decline on Mounting Greece Aid Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-11T06:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/japanese-stocks-decline-on-mounting-greece-aid-concern.html
Japanese  stocks  dropped as  Greece ’s
struggle to qualify for aid heightened concern about the euro-
area debt-crisis, overshadowing speculation central banks will
take more action to boost economic growth.  Makita Corp., a power-tool maker that gets 42 percent of
its sales in  Europe , slid 1.9 percent. Panasonic Corp. retreated
1.7 percent as the electronics company’s credit ratings were cut
by Moody’s Investors Service. Toyota Motor Corp. led declines
among automakers after Japanese car sales in  China  slowed amid
heightened political tensions between the nations.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  slid 0.7 percent to 8,807.38
at the close of trading in  Tokyo . Volume was 17 percent below
the 30-day average. The broader  Topix (TPX)  Index declined 0.7 percent
to 732.26, with more almost two shares falling for each that
rose. Stocks also fell amid opposition to the European Stability
Mechanism, a bailout fund for the euro region.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty around the
implementation of policy in Europe,” said  Stephen Halmarick ,
Sydney-based head of investment markets research at Colonial
First State Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150
billion. “The German constitutional court ruling on ESM is
obviously a key risk over the next few days and there’s talk
about Greece struggling to come out with budget cuts.”  The Topix dropped 16 percent from this year’s peak on March
27 through yesterday on concern Europe’s debt crisis is
deepening and as growth slows in China and the U.S. The gauge
trades at 0.9 times book value, compared with 2.2 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. A number below one means companies can be bought for less
than the value of their assets.  Rescue Fund  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court is due tomorrow to
rule on the country’s participation in the European rescue fund,
while Greek politicians meet amid an impasse on spending cuts
needed for a bailout. Investors are also waiting to see if the
 Federal Reserve  will take steps to boost the economy at a
meeting this week after U.S. jobs growth trailed estimates.  Shares linked to Europe fell. Makita lost 1.9 percent to
2,752 yen. Nintendo Co., a gaming-console maker that relies on
the region for 34 percent of its revenue, slid 0.7 percent to
8,740 yen.  Futures on the  S&P 500  fell 0.2 percent today. The gauge
lost 0.6 percent in  New York  yesterday as Greek Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras met officials from the nation’s creditors after
failing to secure agreement from coalition partners on spending
cuts needed to secure a rescue.  Panasonic slid 1.7 percent to 534 yen after its long-term
rating was cut to Baa1 from A2 by Moody’s, which cited weak
earnings and higher debt. The electronics maker joins Sony Corp.
and Sharp Corp. in restructuring as a strong yen erodes earnings
and amid competition with South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co.  Automakers Slide  Carmakers declined after their sales in China slowed last
month after a dispute over an island soured diplomatic ties.
Chinese auto sales in August rose 11 percent from a year earlier,
missing estimates.  Toyota retreated 1.7 percent to 3,170 yen. Nissan Motor Co.
slid 0.9 percent to 741 yen.  The  Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index (VNKY)  gained 3.3
percent to 19.25, indicating traders expect a swing of about 5.5
percent during the next 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  