-- China Sends Patrol to Islands at Center of Japan Dispute
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-09-11T09:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/japan-replaces-ambassadors-to-china-south-korea-amid-disputes.html
China deployed patrol boats near a
disputed island chain after  Japan  strengthened its assertion of
control over them, escalating a standoff between the world’s
second and third-largest economies.  The official Xinhua News Agency said two ships from the
China Marine Surveillance reached waters around the East China
Sea islands today. Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
government earlier reached a deal to buy the islands, known as
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, from a private owner
for 2.05 billion yen ($26.2 million).  Chinese denunciations of the move come as the ruling
Communist Party prepares for a generational leadership change
this year. The standoff is one of several territorial disputes
both countries have with neighbors over resource rich waters,
and maritime spats were a focus of last week’s Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok,  Russia .  “China sees it as a pretext for Japan to reaffirm its
sovereignty of the islands, and the Chinese leadership cannot
afford to be seen as being complacent in light of this,” said
Stephanie Klein-Ahlbrandt, the Beijing-based North East Asia
project director for the  International Crisis Group . “We will
see more tensions over this disputed area, with higher risk for
skirmishes or incidents that could be hard to de-escalate.”  Embassy Protest  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei today accused
Japan of stealing the islands, and Defense Ministry spokesman
Gen Yansheng said in a statement posted on the ministry’s
website that the military’s determination “to defend the
country’s territorial sovereignty is unwavering.”  Protests over the Japanese move occurred in at least three
Chinese cities today, Xinhua said. Demonstrators in the eastern
city of Weihai demanded a boycott of Japanese goods, while about
10 protesters gathered at the Japanese Embassy in Beijing and
“several people” shouted slogans outside the Japanese
Consulate in Guangzhou, it said.  Japan’s nationalization of the chain follows an April
proposal by Tokyo governor and  China  critic Shintaro Ishihara to
buy and develop them. While Noda’s government has stressed that
the purchase will prevent such plans and sought to minimize the
impact of the move, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao yesterday
reiterated his country’s claims and said it would make no
concessions on the issue.  Maintain Relations  “We want to maintain the Senkakus peaceably and stably,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said today in announcing
the cabinet approval of the deal. “We hope this won’t affect
overall Japan-China relations.” At a later press conference,
Fujimura said the Japanese Coast Guard hadn’t confirmed the
presence of Chinese ships, adding that any such patrol shouldn’t
enter Japanese waters.  The boats fall under China’s State Oceanic Administration,
making them law enforcement vessels, Klein-Ahlbrandt said.  “Their use is a welcome alternative to naval vessels,
because they are seen as less threatening and skirmishes between
them less severe,” she said. “At the same time, however, the
extensive use of law enforcement vessels lowers the threshold of
entry into confrontation.”  Noda met Chinese President  Hu Jintao  at the APEC summit on
Sept. 9 to discuss the situation. U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  at the same forum said countries in the region
needed to cool their tempers on the territorial disputes.  Pull Back  “A healthy and stable China-Japan relationship is
important to China, and also vitally important to Japan,” the
state-run People’s Daily newspaper said in a commentary today.
“We urge the Japanese government to understand the situation
and pull its horse back from the cliff.”  A separate spat with South Korea over islands known as
Takeshima in Japan and Dokdo in Korean has also escalated since
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  visited them in August.
South Korea’s head trade negotiator said last month it would be
difficult to resume talks with Japan over a free trade agreement
until the issue is resolved.  The Japanese Foreign Ministry today announced that the
ambassadors to China and  South Korea  would be replaced. Career
diplomat Shinichi Nishimiya will replace Uichiro Niwa as envoy
to China, while Kouro Bessho will take over from Masatoshi Muto
as ambassador to South Korea, the Foreign Ministry said.  Niwa, the first private-sector appointee to become envoy to
China, has been at the center of the tensions. His car was
blocked and the Japanese flag attached to it ripped off by
assailants last month, days after protests erupted in China
following reciprocal visits to the islands by activists on both
sides. He was cautioned by Noda’s government after he said
Ishihara’s plan would result in an “extremely grave crisis” in
bilateral ties.  Japan’s Foreign Ministry will send the head of its Asian
and Oceanian affairs bureau to China today to exchange views on
the bilateral dispute,  Kyodo News  said, without citing anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  