-- Katie Couric Show Draws Largest Audience in Decade in Debut
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-11T20:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/katie-couric-s-daytime-show-opens-with-highest-ratings-in-decade.html
“Katie,” the ABC-distributed
program featuring former CBS news anchor  Katie Couric , attracted
the largest audience in a decade for a new daytime talk show.  The show produced a 2.8 rating in its debut yesterday,
according to Nielsen data supplied by the producers. That was
the biggest audience for a new daytime talk show since “Dr.
Phil” in 2002, they said. A ratings point equals 1 percent of
the 114.7 million U.S. TV homes.  The debut marked a strong start of the fall daytime season
for stations owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, many of which
carried  Oprah Winfrey  before she left broadcast TV for cable.
“Katie” ranked first or second in its time period in each of
the top 15 U.S. markets, including No. 1 finishes in  New York 
and Los Angeles, ABC said today in a statement.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, rose 0.1
percent to $51.56 at the close in New York. Shares of the
Burbank, California-based company have gained 37 percent this
year. An all-time  closing high  of $51.86 was reached Sept. 6.  Couric, 55, who anchored the “CBS Evening News” for five
years after being on NBC’s “Today” for 15 years, is executive
producer of the show with  Jeff Zucker , former chief executive
officer of NBC Universal. The program is distributed by Disney-
ABC Domestic Television.  “Katie” averaged bigger audiences than debut episodes of
daytime competitors “Steve Harvey,” which drew a 1.5 rating on
Sept. 4, a 1 rating by “Jeff Probst” and a 0.8 rating for
“Ricki Lake,” Disney said, citing preliminary Nielsen data.  Couric’s show also outdrew the 1.3 rating for the second-
year premiere of “Anderson,” featuring CNN anchor  Anderson Cooper , Disney said, citing Nielsen data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  