-- King Succession Race Heats Up as Osborne Reveals BOE Hiring Plan
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-09-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/king-succession-race-heats-up-as-osborne-reveals-boe-hiring-plan.html
Applicants to replace  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King  will have until Oct. 8 to inform
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  that they’re
interested.  Osborne told Parliament yesterday that he will start the
search for a successor this week and promised a fair and open
process. The Treasury will place an advertisement in the
Economist magazine on Sept. 14, beginning a three-month
recruitment process involving interviews with senior civil
servants who will draw up a shortlist for Osborne to consider.  “Mervyn King has been an outstanding governor of the
bank,” Osborne told the House of Commons in London. The search
for his replacement will be “conducted with a fair and open
competition.”  Osborne’s task to replace King when he retires at the end
of June has been complicated after the Libor scandal embroiled
several potential candidates including the former front-runner,
Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker . The new governor
will be given sweeping powers over financial stability, bank
regulation and monetary policy if lawmakers approve legislation
currently making its way through Parliament.  King, 64, is retiring after completing the maximum tenure
of two five-year terms. His successor, who will serve a single
eight-year term, will face a panel comprised of Treasury
Permanent Secretary Nicholas Macpherson, Second Permanent
Secretary Tom Scholar and David Lees, chairman of the bank’s
court. Treasury Committee lawmakers from the House of Commons
will also question the governor before the job commences.  Decision Chain  The shortlist of candidates will be presented to Osborne,
who will recommend his choice to Prime Minister  David Cameron .
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  from the junior coalition
Liberal Democrat Party will also have a say in the matter. Queen
Elizabeth II then gives formal approval on the final choice.  The job ad calls for someone who can inspire “confidence
and credibility both within the bank and throughout financial
markets.” It leaves open the door for candidates from private
sector financial institutions.  “The successful candidate will have experience of working
in, or with, a central bank or similar institution; or will have
worked at the most senior level in a major bank or other
financial institution,” the advertisement will say, according
to the Treasury.  Tucker is no longer the front-runner for the post,
according to odds provided yesterday by Paddy Power Plc showing
him in third place after Financial Services Authority Chairman
 Adair Turner  and former chief U.K. civil servant  Gus O’Donnell .
Tucker’s odds are at 5/2, meaning a successful 2-pound ($3) bet
would win a 5-pound profit.  No Comment  A spokesman for the Bank of England declined to comment on
whether Tucker or any other central bank official will apply.  Tucker, 54, denied he had put pressure on  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to
lower its Libor submissions or come under political pressure to
do so after the bank released details of a 2008 phone call with
 Robert Diamond , then head of its investment division.  His testimony to lawmakers on July 9 also stoked criticism
of oversight failures at the central bank after he said that
when concerns about Libor rates were raised at a meeting of
bankers and regulators in 2007 it “didn’t set alarm bells
ringing.”  The most outspoken critic of banks among the potential
candidates has been Turner, 56, who said in 2009 many of the
activities carried out by financial-services companies were
“socially useless.” In July, he signaled his interest in the
job, saying in an interview that he would “obviously not rule
myself out.” Turner is the favorite with odds of 7/4, according
to Paddy Power.  Gus O’Donnell  O’Donnell, 59, has also refused to rule himself out and is
placed second-favorite with Paddy Power at 9/4. “When they do
advertise it, I’ll make up my mind whether I want to apply or
not,” he said in an interview after he joined  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  as an adviser in June.  Banking figures that have been linked to the Bank of
England role include  Stephen Green , the former chairman of HSBC
Holdings Plc who is now U.K. trade minister, and ex-Barclays
Chief Executive Officer  John Varley .  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  signaled last month
that he isn’t a candidate. Asked on the BBC’s “Hardtalk”
program whether he would be interested, he said he’s “very
focused” on his current posts and “interested in who they
pick” to replace King. Questioned on whether his answers meant
“a no or a never consider the job?” he said: “It’s both.
How’s that?”  A Bank of Canada spokesman referred to Carney’s previous
comments on the matter.  “There’s a general impression that whoever gets appointed
needs to be as pure as Caesar’s wife,” former Bank of England
policy maker  Charles Goodhart  said in a Sept. 4 interview,
referring to  Julius Caesar ’s comment that his wife must be above
suspicion. “In the present climate, and after all the events of
the past five to six years, it’s actually quite hard to find a
Caesar’s wife.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  