-- Knight Says Loss May Spur Curbs on ‘Knuckleheads’ Errors
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-09-11T19:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/knight-ceo-says-ibm-reviewing-processes-after-error.html
A trading loss that almost sent
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  into bankruptcy may spur regulatory
changes to protect against future errors by “knuckleheads,”
Knight Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said.  Knight was rescued by an investor group after a computer
malfunction caused a $440 million trading loss on Aug. 1. The
mistake resulted from Knight software that wasn’t properly
installed as the market maker prepared for a new  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
program meant to attract retail investors, Joyce said.  Regulators and market participants may examine whether
trading curbs that focus on sudden price moves for individual
stocks and exchange-traded funds should also consider volume,
Joyce said. A review of the so-called clearly erroneous
execution policy, which spells out when trades can be canceled
by exchanges, is also likely as the securities industry assesses
the Knight error, he said.  “There’s no reason to put a firm at risk because some
knucklehead or series of knuckleheads at the firm made a big
mistake,” Joyce said today at a Barclays Plc conference in New
York. “If there’s an error, you should be able to fix an
error.”  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  was hired to review
Knight’s development process and is expected to deliver a report
to Knight’s board in the next three months, Joyce said today.  Clients Return  While the company’s share of volume in equities and ETFs
plunged on the day of the Aug. 1 error, “Knight has largely
regained market share, and we did it within two weeks,” Joyce
said. Resolving trading problems and getting new financing is
“all for nothing if the clients don’t return,” he said.  The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based company received a $400
million cash infusion through the sale of convertible equity a
week after the trading loss. Shares outstanding nearly doubled
to 181.7 million as  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , one of the brokerages
which arranged the bailout, converted almost all of its
preferred stock this month.  Knight had $510 million in  cash  as of Aug. 31, up from $365
million on June 30, according to today’s presentation. The
company chose equity over debt because it would result in “a
much healthier balance sheet,” Joyce said.  ‘Deeply Embarrassed’  Joyce, who is also chairman of Knight, said he was “deeply
embarrassed” his company’s Aug. 1 fiasco added to mishaps such
as Nasdaq Stock Market’s botched initial public offering of
Facebook Inc. that helped fray retail investors’ confidence in
markets. A software bug that went undetected led Knight to
generate orders “unrestricted by volume caps,” he said.  More than 90 percent of clients using Knight’s market-
making and broker-dealer services are again trading with the
firm,  Chris Allen  and Joe Recendez, analysts at  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR) , wrote in a Sept. 5 note. More than 70 percent of
institutions have also returned, with more expected after
“internal credit reviews” are conducted this month, they said.  Knight shares  rose  1.1 percent to $2.70 today in New York
trading. The stock is down 74 percent since the day before the
software error.  Trading curbs implemented after the May 6, 2010, flash
crash in which the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  plunged 9.2
percent before recovering, temporarily halt stocks if they fall
10 percent within five minutes. Joyce said regulators may
consider extending the so-called single-stock circuit breakers
to securities experiencing unusual trading volume.  “I do think we will have a regulatory review of volume
circuit breakers and a regulatory review of how one handles an
error,” Joyce said. “Make no mistake -- this was an error.”  NYSE ‘Hamstrung’  While the  New York  Stock Exchange was willing to consider
canceling more trades for stocks listed on its market during
Knight’s problems on Aug. 1, the Securities and Exchange
Commission nixed the idea due to transaction-voiding rules
enacted after the May 2010 plunge, Joyce said. The regulations
“hamstrung” NYSE, he said.  Kill switches, or mechanisms that enable an exchange or
broker to shut off all trading from a firm, are also likely
prospects as regulators and industry participants review
problems such as the Knight technology glitch, Joyce said. He
cautioned that stopping all trades from a firm when a problem
occurs in one business segment could hurt clients operating
through another unit.  ‘Biggest Issue’  Long-held industry concerns about “regulatory risk” and
the damage that government agencies can do to the businesses of
banks and brokers may have been supplanted by fears of
operational risk like the incident that nearly crippled Knight,
Joyce said.  “I was mistaken,” Joyce said. “Regulatory risk was not
our biggest issue.”  Knight will announce a new chief risk officer soon,
according to Joyce. The person will be responsible for market,
credit and operational risk, and the company will add staff to
support the changes being made, he said. Financial firms need to
focus on operational-risk issues at the board, management and
governance levels, he said.  At the same time, trading mistakes can’t be eradicated
completely by efforts to avoid errors, Joyce said.  “I don’t know if there’s any great way you can unearth
somebody’s mistake ahead of time,” Joyce said. “People do
stupid things and it’s sad and I wish we could regulate against
that, but I don’t see that completely happening.”  Knight will soon shift to thinking strategically about the
company’s businesses after fixing problems identified in the
wake of the August loss, Joyce said. He added that the company
aims to be smarter and stronger after what he described as the
“most dramatic” event in Knight’s history.  “The present moment is a good one to reassess not just
technology but all of Knight’s operations and offerings,” Joyce
said. “Everybody will have to go through a bit of a burden of
proof to make sure that the businesses they have are utilizing
capital properly and that priority No. 1 remains taking care of
our clients properly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  