-- Korea Seen Cutting Rates to Spur Growth as Election Looms
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-09-12T03:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/korea-seen-cutting-rates-to-spur-growth-as-election-looms.html
South Korea’s  weakest inflation  in
12 years may encourage the central bank to cut  interest rates 
tomorrow for the second time this year, as Europe’s debt crisis
hurts exports and fuels pressure for stimulus across Asia.  Fifteen of 16 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  say the
seven-day repurchase rate will fall to 2.75 percent from 3
percent.  Indonesia  and the Philippines may keep their benchmarks
unchanged at record lows tomorrow after price gains accelerated,
separate Bloomberg News surveys show.  South Korea’s finance ministry this week announced 5.9
trillion won ($5.2 billion) of spending and tax relief to shield
an economy already showing some resilience to the global
slowdown, with  unemployment  at an eight-month low according to a
report released today. The government’s efforts to spur growth
before a December election to replace President  Lee Myung Bak 
may encourage the central bank to act in tandem.  “The Bank of Korea knows that it makes sense to cut rates
now so that it’s moving hand-in-hand with the government’s
stimulus moves,” said Sun Yoo, chief economist at Woori
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  Asian stocks rose today after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said that
China had ample room for fiscal and monetary measures and as
investors speculate that the  Federal Reserve  will do more to
support the  U.S. economy . The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.1
percent as of 10:50 a.m. in Tokyo.  South Korea’s jobless rate was at 3.1 percent in August,
unchanged from the previous month, Statistics  Korea  said today
in Gwacheon, south of Seoul. That was less than economists’
median forecast of 3.2 percent.  ‘Sluggish’ Growth  At the same time, the nation’s expansion is “sluggish”
because of deterioriations in exports and manufacturing and the
limited scale of fiscal stimulus means the central bank is under
pressure to ease, according to a note today from DBS Group
Holdings Ltd., a bank in  Singapore .  Gross domestic product  grew 0.3 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, down from 0.9 percent in
the first quarter.  Consumer prices  increased 1.2 percent from a
year earlier in August, the least since the year 2000, held down
by government subsidies for child care.  “The  Bank of Korea  was concerned by a review of growth in
June that showed slack opening up in the economy,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore,
who expects a rate reduction. “On the fiscal side, the
government wants to fully employ all the budgeted money that’s
available to prevent any slippage in  job creation , ahead of
elections.”  Dictator’s Daughter  Park Geun Hye, whose father ruled South Korea as dictator
for 18 years, is the presidential candidate of the ruling New
Frontier Party, while software mogul Ahn Cheol Soo is a possible
contender for the opposition.  “The European crisis is lasting longer than expected and
economies both in advanced and developing countries show
sluggishness at the same time,” Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan
said this week. “As such, our economic recovery is being
delayed and worries over possible weakness in our economic
resilience seem to be growing.”  Besides Europe’s sovereign-debt woes, persistent
unemployment in the U.S. is restraining global demand and China
is yet to reverse a slowdown.  South Korea ’s latest fiscal stimulus, including measures to
boost the housing market and car sales, “will hardly beat
waning consumer and business sentiment,” Kim Hyeon Wook, an
economist at SK Research Institute and a former adviser to the
Bank of Korea’s  monetary policy  committee, said after details
were announced.  Indonesian Rates  In Indonesia, inflation unexpectedly accelerated in August
on rising food costs. In the Philippines, central bank Deputy
Governor Diwa Guinigundo said Sept. 7 that policy makers will
probably raise inflation forecasts for 2012 and 2013, suggesting
the bank may pause after three interest-rate cuts this year.
“Monetary policy remains appropriate at this time,” he said.  Bank Indonesia  will hold its  reference rate  at 5.75
percent, according to all 22 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its benchmark at
3.75 percent, according to 16 of 20 analysts.  New Zealand , also announcing a monetary policy decision
tomorrow, will leave its key rate at 2.5 percent, a separate
survey indicates.  Japan, India  Elsewhere in Asia, Japan’s machinery orders rose more than
economists forecast in July, while an Australian sentiment index
for September rebounded.  India  may report industrial production
climbed in July, a Bloomberg survey showed.  European industrial output probably extended a seven-month
slump in July from a year earlier, according to a separate
survey. France, Germany and Spain are among economies in Europe
that will release consumer-price data for August.  A U.S. report on mortgage applications is due today from
the  Mortgage Bankers Association , a Washington-based trade
group. The Labor Department will release import price data and
the Commerce Department may say inventories at U.S. wholesalers
rose in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  