-- Netanyahu Urges ‘Red Line’ Regarding Iran’s Nuclear Work
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-11T15:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/netanyahu-urges-red-line-regarding-iran-s-nuclear-work.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said that unless the U.S. and others draw a “red line” 
regarding Iran’s nuclear work, they will have no right to set a 
“red light” against possible Israeli action.  In  Washington , U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said
today that Iran remains at least a year away from being able to
make a nuclear weapon and the U.S. could strike “whenever we
have to” in order to keep Iran from becoming a nuclear power.  “We have the forces in place to be able to not only defend
ourselves, but to do what we have to do to try to stop them from
developing a nuclear weapon,” Panetta said on the CBS “This
Morning” show.  Netanyahu spoke two days after Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in an interview with  Bloomberg Radio  that the U.S.
is “not setting deadlines” on negotiations with Iran. State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday that it’s
“not useful” to set deadlines or “red lines.”  “The world tells  Israel , wait, there’s still time, and I
say, ‘Wait for what, wait until when?’” Netanyahu told
reporters in  Jerusalem  today. “Those in the international
community who refuse to put a red line before Iran don’t have
the moral right to place a red light before Israel.”  Israeli Strike  Netanyahu and Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  have indicated
that, as Iran proceeds with its nuclear work and negotiations
stall, Israel is considering a strike against the country’s
atomic facilities. While Iran says its nuclear program is for
peaceful purposes, Israel and the U.S. say the Islamic Republic
is trying to build an atomic weapon. Iran’s leaders have
rejected Israel’s right to exist.  “Netanyahu’s comments are a direct response to the Clinton
remarks and those of other U.S. officials in recent weeks,”
said  Gerald Steinberg , a professor of political science at Bar
Ilan University outside  Tel Aviv . “Netanyahu is either setting
the stage for an Israeli strike if and when it takes place, or
providing the U.S. administration with a rational for a much
stronger position on Iran, in order to prevent such action.”  Panetta said today that the U.S. has “pretty good
intelligence” about Iran’s nuclear activities and that it would
take time for Iran to make a nuclear weapon “once they make a
decision to do it.”  “It’s roughly about a year right now, a little more than a
year,” he said. “We think we will have the opportunity, once
we know that they’ve made that decision, to take the action
necessary to stop it.”  U.S. Capabilities  Asked about the U.S. ability to strike  Iran ’s underground
Fordo uranium-enrichment facility, Panetta said, “Without going
into the particular capabilities we have, we think we’ve got the
ability to be able to strike at them effectively if we have
to.”  Clinton said economic sanctions are pressuring Iran and the
U.S. still considers negotiations “by far the best approach.”
Netanyahu said that “as of now, we can clearly say that
diplomacy and sanctions have not worked. They have hit the
Iranian economy, but they haven’t stopped the Iranian nuclear
project.”  While the U.S. and Israel share the goal that Iran not
obtain an atomic weapon, Clinton said in the interview that
there is a difference in perspective over the time horizon for
talks. Nuland said at a State Department briefing yesterday that
the U.S. is in close consultation with Israel and cited remarks
by President  Barack Obama  that “unequivocally, we will not
allow Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon.”  Gabi Ashkenazi, a former Israeli chief of staff, said
Israel shouldn’t jeopardize ties with Washington.  ‘Strong Bond’  “I strongly recommend that we preserve our strong
relationship with the  United States ,” he said at a conference
in Tel Aviv today. “Our strong bond is not only imperative to
us from a security perspective, but also economically.”  The UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency reported last
month that Iran raised the uranium-enrichment capacity at its
underground Fordo facility and increased stockpiles of medium-
enriched uranium, a step short of nuclear-bomb material.  The agency said at the time that it “is unable to provide
credible assurance about the absence of undeclared nuclear
material and activities in Iran, and therefore to conclude that
all nuclear material in Iran is in peaceful activities.”  The  Associated Press , citing unnamed diplomats, reported
today that the Vienna-based IAEA has received new intelligence
that Iran has moved further toward the ability to build a
nuclear weapon by advancing its work on calculating the
destructive power of an atomic warhead.  Oil Sales  In the past week, Clinton has been to  China  and  Russia ,
speaking with leaders of both nations to seek unity in their
Iran stance. Afterward, she said China and Russia agree that
Iran must not acquire a nuclear weapon.  Germany  and the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council -- the U.S., the U.K.,  France , China and Russia -- have
conducted three rounds of talks with Iran since April. Even with
pressure from new U.S. and European Union sanctions on energy,
trade, banking and shipping, the discussions have failed to
persuade Iran to suspend aspects of its atomic program.  Clinton has said that Iran, which depends on oil for more
than half of its government revenue, is losing billions of
dollars from lost oil sales due to sanctions.  Iranian oil exports dropped 66 percent in July from a year
earlier, to less than 1 million barrels a day, as the U.S. and
the EU tightened sanctions, according to a Sept. 5 report by
Rhodium Group, citing customs data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  