-- News Corp. Appoints Paul Cheesbrough New Technology Chief
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-09-11T20:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/news-corp-appoints-new-technology-chief-amid-digital-expansion.html
News Corp., the media company run
by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , named Paul Cheesbrough as chief
technology officer, part of an effort to expand its online
products.  Cheesbrough will set News Corp.’s technology strategy,
develop digital products and help manage the company’s planned
transition into two separate businesses, according to a
statement today. Cheesbrough most recently worked as chief
information officer for the company’s U.K. newspaper division
where he spearheaded development of the online subscription
product for the  Times newspaper  in  London .  Cheesbrough’s new role combines responsibilities once held
by outgoing Chief Digital Officer  Jonathan Miller  and the
current Chief Technology Officer  John McKinley , who is leaving
News Corp. to run a technology startup, Nathaniel Brown, a
company spokesman said.  News Corp. is preparing for broader organizational changes
next year after announcing a plan in June to break up  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s publishing and entertainment divisions into separate
companies. Murdoch will remain chairman of both businesses and
chief executive officer of the entertainment division.  Cheesbrough has led the digital subscription business at
News Corp.’s U.K. newspapers, specifically for the Times, which
had more than 100,000 online subscribers as of this past June,
he said in an interview last month.  Digital Strategy  Part of his strategy includes enlisting Times reporters to
drive online subscriptions, through methods such as allowing
them share links to their articles with specific constraints, he
said. In one example, a reporter can share one of their articles
through their Twitter account that would allow the first 10,000
viewers to read the article for free. Subsequent clicks would
lead to a sign-up page to subscribe to the Times.  Times also plans to unveil an online classifieds business
for the luxury car market soon.  “For us, the future of the print business is really about
that customer relationship,” Cheesbrough said in the interview.  News Corp., based in  New York ,  rose  0.8 percent to $24.35
at the close. The shares have gained 36 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  