-- NYSE Euronext Retail Program Executes 6 Million Shares a Day
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-09-11T22:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/nyse-euronext-retail-program-executes-6-million-shares-a-day.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  is trading about 6
million shares a day through a pilot program aimed at attracting
retail investors, according to Michael Geltzeiler, the exchange
operator’s chief financial officer.  While 6 million shares isn’t a “big number,” the program
is “off to a good start,” Geltzeiler said today at a Barclays
Plc conference in New York. Average daily U.S. equities volume
was 6.5 billion shares in the first eight months of this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s not a huge initiative,” Geltzeiler said. “It’s an
interesting strategic initiative. It’s a business we feel we
ought to be able to play in and the SEC is allowing us to.”  The 12-month pilot program approved by the Securities and
Exchange Commission began Aug. 1. It allows exchanges to compete
with wholesalers or securities firms owned by Citigroup Inc. and
UBS AG that execute orders for individual investors sent from
retail brokers. Executions through the retail liquidity program
must occur at least a tenth of 1 cent better than the best price
at which other market participants can trade.  Transactions across 281 companies involving almost 2.7
million shares with an average of $0.0016 in price improvement
per share took place through the program on Aug. 9, the company
said in a  statement  the next day. The average trade size in the
program was about 2,300 shares, compared to less than 300 in
NYSE-listed companies at the exchange operator.  Brokers supplying orders for retail clients on NYSE include
high-frequency firms Hudson River Trading LLC, Getco LLC, RGM
Advisors LLC, Tradebot Systems Inc. and two units of Virtu
Financial LLC, according to NYSE Euronext.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  