-- Loan Foe Ryan Sought Riskier Practices on Electric-Car Aid
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-09-11T21:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/loan-opponent-ryan-sought-riskier-practices-on-electric-car-aid.html
Republican vice presidential
nominee  Paul Ryan  pressed the U.S. Department of Energy in 2008
to write rules for electric-car loans that could have risked
almost as much federal money as was lost when Solyndra LLC went
bankrupt.  Ryan, a  Wisconsin  congressman, who has called the
department’s lending programs “corporate welfare,” suggested
in a letter co-written with three other lawmakers from the state
-- all Democrats -- that money for approved auto loans be
released in full up front.  That policy would have later allowed Fisker Automotive
Inc., which Ryan on Sept. 4 called an example of President
 Barack Obama  “spending money on favorites,” to draw its entire
$529 million loan before it produced any cars. The department,
which provided money in installments instead, last year froze
all but $193 million of Fisker’s credit after the company fell
short of production targets for its first model, the Karma. The
letter made no mention of any specific company. Fisker’s loan
was approved in April 2010.  The funding request complicates the image that Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has tried to project for his
running mate as a fiscal watchdog who’s focused on trying to cut
the  federal budget .  Seeking ‘Flexibility’  Ryan’s suggestion “makes for reckless decisions, and
taxpayers always lose when you circumvent normal process,” said
Autumn Hanna, senior program director at Taxpayers for Common
Sense, a watchdog group. “It does seem like something that
doesn’t go along with how Paul Ryan has aligned himself with
 federal spending  in general and issues at DOE.”  Brendan Buck , a Ryan spokesman, said the letter isn’t in
conflict with Ryan’s budgetary philosophy and that what he
proposed was a better option than the federal Troubled Asset
Relief Program, or TARP, a bailout mechanism created in 2008.  “Nothing in the letter suggests reduced or revised
threshold for qualifying funds,” Buck said in a statement.
“The flexibility related solely to funding after a company had
been approved as a viable recipient. Congressman Ryan believed
redirecting these pre-existing funds to aid the American  auto
industry  was a better solution than what the White House
ultimately did -- use TARP to pick winners and losers.”  Ryan, 42, chairman of the House Budget Committee, is the
architect of Republicans’ fiscal blueprint that would cut
emergency disaster aid, Medicare and welfare and end Energy
Department loan programs to help reduce U.S. spending by $5.3
trillion below Obama’s proposed budget through 2022.  Safety Net  Ryan, along with Representative Tammy Baldwin and Senators
Russ Feingold and  Herb Kohl , all Wisconsin Democrats, wrote the
Oct. 28, 2008, letter as the Energy Department was establishing
rules to implement the Advanced Technology Vehicles
Manufacturing  loan program , created in a 2007 law signed by
Republican President  George W. Bush . The lawmakers suggested 11
criteria for then-U.S. Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman to use to
determine which companies got loans.  Herbert Allison , a former Treasury Department official who
reviewed Energy Department lending after the collapse of solar-
panel maker Solyndra, has called the agency’s ability to cut off
funding the program’s safety net for taxpayers.  “DOE has robust tools for protecting itself against taking
on elective risk,” Allison wrote in a January report. “Since
the middle of 2010, all new commitments for loans and guarantees
contain strong covenants that give DOE powerful tools to control
the amount of additional risk it assumes.”  ‘Corporate Welfare’  Solyndra, based in Fremont, California, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  a year ago after receiving a $535 million
Energy Department loan guarantee. The company’s failure sparked
hearings and congressional criticism.  The vehicle program is one of three Energy Department loan
funds that Ryan in his 2013 U.S. budget  blueprint  described as
“corporate welfare.” He has called for eliminating green-
energy subsidies, including the $16 billion that remains in the
$25 billion vehicles fund.  Besides Fisker, loans have gone to  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Nissan
Motor Co. and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  to develop electric cars, and to
closely held Vehicle Production Group LLC to produce wheelchair-
accessible vans. Three of the five companies have received all
or virtually all of their money, said  Damien LaVera , a
department spokesman.  Ford, Tesla  Ford said in an Aug. 3 U.S. regulatory  filing  that it has
drawn down all of its $5.9 billion. Tesla has received about
$462.6 million of its $465 million loan, or more than 99
percent, it said in an Aug. 2 filing.  Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based VPG has drawn all but
$477,500, also more than 99 percent, of its $50 million loan,
Joe Vecchiolla, the chief financial officer, said in an e-mail.  Nissan, which received a $1.4 billion loan, doesn’t
disclose how much it has used, said  Katherine Zachary , a
spokeswoman. Nissan, based in Yokohama, Japan, doesn’t trade in
the U.S. and isn’t required to file financial information with
U.S. regulators.  Fisker’s frozen loan money was tied to its plan, since
stalled, to reopen a closed  General Motors Co. (GM)  plant in
Wilmington, Delaware, to produce a second model to be called the
Atlantic.  Fisker would have had a U.S.-produced electric car near
production had it gotten its full loan up front, Roger Ormisher,
a spokesman, said in an interview. The $103,000 Karma, which is
assembled in  Finland , has been recalled three times since
December for battery and other defects.  ‘On Track’  “We’d have been on track on getting the Atlantic into
production and having that car ready for the global market and
establishing even more American jobs than we have,” he said.
“The taxpayer could have gotten their money back quicker.”  Ryan in a Sept. 4 interview on  CBS News  criticized the
loans to Fisker and Solyndra, both of which were made after
Obama took office.  “If you take a look at the president’s policies -- he said
he calls them investments -- it’s borrowing money and spending
money through  Washington , picking winners and losers, spending
money on favorites, you know, people like Solyndra or Fisker,”
Ryan said.  The Wisconsin lawmakers’ 2008 letter was sent the same
month GM announced it would close its assembly plant in
Janesville, Wisconsin, Ryan’s hometown.  Retooling Plants  The lawmakers asked Bodman to give priority to retooling
existing auto assembly plants, facilities that are on
automakers’ lists to close and those that were oldest,
“reducing the carbon footprint associated with new production
facilities.” It didn’t mention GM or the Janesville plant.  “These benchmarks will provide ancillary guidance for
ATVMLP applicants and staff alike,” Ryan and his colleagues
wrote in the letter, which was sent while Bush was president.  Kohl, through spokeswoman Lynn Becker, didn’t respond to a
request for comment. Baldwin, through Senate campaign
spokeswoman Meghan Roh, didn’t respond either. Feingold, who is
no longer in office, didn’t respond to a request through
Progressives United, the group he leads that advocates for more
disclosure of campaign contributors.  Blaming Obama  In his Aug. 29 speech accepting the vice presidential
nomination, Ryan blamed Obama for not saving the Janesville
plant, which employed about 1,200 union workers making sport-
utility vehicles. GM announced its decision before Obama was
elected and production was almost fully shut down two months
later, before the president took office.  The Obama campaign accused the lawmaker of hypocrisy.  “While criticizing the president for a Bush-era clean
energy loan program that is part of a portfolio expected to
support more than 60,000 jobs, Ryan hypocritically demanded
upfront payments to companies under the same program,” Danny Kanner, a spokesman for the president’s re-election campaign,
said in a statement. “Congressman Ryan is just not being
straight with the American people.”  That Ryan signed a letter advising the Energy Department
how to craft the loan program isn’t “a sign that a member
violated any pledge to be a fiscal conservative, although, as
has already been the case for numerous members of Congress, they
may wish at a later date that they had not signed such letters
to avoid any potential accusations of hypocrisy,” said Tom Schatz, the president of the Washington-based Citizens Against
Government Waste.  Record Matters  “The most valid expression of a members’ stand on issues
is his or her voting record; there is no ‘rating’ for signing
letters to agencies,” he said, noting that Ryan voted in 2007
against creating the loan program.  Ryan, Feingold, Kohl and Representative Gwen Moore, a
Wisconsin Democrat, later sent a letter to  Steven Rattner , who
headed Obama’s auto task force, asking that an advanced-vehicle
loan be used to help a Chrysler Group LLC engine plant in
Kenosha, Wisconsin, that was closed during the company’s
bankruptcy. Kenosha is in Ryan’s congressional district.  “At a time when unemployment is at an all-time high in the
U.S., every effort must be made to promote American jobs and use
Americans’ tax dollars prudently,” the group wrote in the May
7, 2009,  letter . “We strongly encourage you to work with
Chrysler to use this available funding to re-tool the Kenosha
engine plant.”  Neither GM nor Chrysler received electric-vehicle loans.
Both companies withdrew their applications before the Energy
Department made decisions on the requests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  