-- Obama Commemorates Sept. 11 Victims With Moments of Silence
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-09-11T21:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/obama-pays-tribute-to-sept-11-victims-at-white-house-pentagon.html
President  Barack Obama  led the
nation in a moment of silence today to observe the 11th
anniversary of the worst terrorist attack on U.S. soil, and he
promised the families of the almost 3,000 people killed that
their loved ones will never be forgotten.  Obama, joined by first lady  Michelle Obama  on the South
Lawn of the White House, marked the time on Sept. 11, 2001, that
American Airlines Flight 11 smashed into the North Tower of the
World Trade Center in  New York  City.  They took part in a similar service later at the Pentagon,
which was hit by another hijacked airliner, killing the 59
passengers and crew and 125 people on the ground.  “As painful as this day is and always will be, it leaves
us with a lesson that no single event can ever destroy who we
are, no act of terrorism can ever change what we stand for,”
Obama said at the Pentagon.  Obama and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  also paid tribute
to the military, the resilience of the U.S. public and the
nation’s unity in response to the attack.  Eleven years ago, terrorists attacked “our economy, our
commerce, our military might and our democracy,” Panetta said
at the Pentagon ceremony. In attacking U.S. strengths, the
terrorists “unleashed our greatest strength: the spirit and the
will of Americans to fight for their country,” Panetta said.  Victims’ Families  Obama directed part of his remarks to the families of Sept.
11 victims.  “No matter how many years pass,” Obama said, “no matter
how many times we come together on this hallowed ground, know
this: that you will never be alone. Your loved ones will never
be forgotten.”  Later, the president stopped at a section of Arlington
National Cemetery reserved for veterans of the wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan , before heading to visit wounded members of the
armed services at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center
in nearby Bethesda,  Maryland . Ohama visited with 36 combat
veterans who suffered injuries and awarded two Purple Hearts.  Mitt Romney , the Republican candidate for president,
addressed a conference of the National Guard Association of the
 United States  in Reno,  Nevada , where he said the world remains
dangerous and full of unpredictable threats.  Turbulent Time  “On Sept. 10, 2001, we had no idea that America would be
at war in Afghanistan,” Romney said. “In December of 2010, we
had no idea that a Tunisian street vendor would inspire a
revolution that would topple three dictators. We live in a time
of turbulence and disruption.”  Early in his remarks, Romney said that in recognition of
the Sept. 11 anniversary he wouldn’t focus on differences
between his plans and Obama’s on defense and foreign policy.  Vice President Joseph Biden, joined by Interior Secretary
 Ken Salazar , traveled to Somerset County,  Pennsylvania , for
ceremonies at the Flight 93 National Memorial to honor the
passengers and crew who died when their hijacked United Airlines
plane slammed into the ground outside Shanksville.  Tom Kean and Lee Hamilton, the chairmen of the commission
convened to investigate how the U.S. failed to detect plotting
for the Sept. 11 attacks, said the terrorism threat persists.
They called for the government move ahead on some of the panel’s
recommendations that still aren’t fully implemented, including a
national broadband network for emergency personnel.  “We owe it to the American people to keep our attention
riveted on ensuring we are taking every step to keep the country
secure,” the two men said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  