-- Obama’s Rejection of Deficit Package Doesn’t Reflect Plan
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-09-11T20:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/obama-s-rejection-of-deficit-package-doesn-t-reflect-plan.html
An explanation President  Barack Obama  gave in a book released today for declining to embrace a
bipartisan panel’s deficit-reduction plan misrepresents the
commission’s majority recommendation.  Obama is quoted in “The Price of Politics” telling author
 Bob Woodward  that he didn’t endorse proposals from the
commission led by former Senator  Alan Simpson , a Republican, and
former Bill Clinton White House chief of staff Erskine Bowles
because they “involved eliminating the home mortgage deduction,
health-care deduction, charitable deduction, etc.”  The commission’s proposal wouldn’t have eliminated the tax
breaks, though it would have reduced their value to taxpayers.  “There are places where we disagreed with the commission’s
recommendations, specifically where they gut the home mortgage
interest, charitable giving, and health care deductions and risk
additional tax increases on middle class families,”  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, said in an e-mail response
to a question about the discrepancy.  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow at the  Tax Policy
Center , a non-partisan Washington research group that examined
the impact of the panel’s proposal on the tax break for
homeowners, said “it would hardly be gutted” under the
commission’s plan.  “Most middle-income households currently claiming the
mortgage interest deduction would see a small tax increase but
would retain most of the value of the deduction,” Williams
said.  Tax Overhaul  The majority of the panel  recommended  an overhaul in the
 tax code  that would have raised revenue while reducing tax
rates. In order to accomplish that, it recommended cutting back
tax breaks.  Though the panel offered two options on how the overhaul
could be accomplished, it suggested leaving the decision on
which breaks to eliminate to Congress and the president.  An “illustrative” option the panel included in its report
would have scaled back the value of tax breaks for mortgage
interest, employer-provided health care and charitable giving,
though it wouldn’t have eliminated them. In addition to raising
new revenue to lower the deficit, income tax rates would be
lowered, with the maximum rate dropping to 28 percent from the
current 35 percent.  ‘Zero Option’  The panel also included a “zero option” in which all tax
breaks were eliminated and the maximum  tax rate  lowered to 23
percent.  “The zero option was meant as a starting point for reform.
You start there and add things back,” said Marc Goldwein, who
was the commission’s associate director and is now senior policy
director at the Committee for a Responsible  Federal Budget , a
Washington-based advocacy group.  The “illustrative” option, intended to provide an example
of a workable package of changes to the tax code, would have
altered the charitable and  mortgage  interest deductions to a 12
percent tax credit, reducing the value of the tax break to most.
Taxpayers also only would have been allowed to deduct charitable
contributions after they exceeded 2 percent of their adjusted
gross income.  Health Care  Tax breaks for employer provided  health care  also would
have been reduced, though not eliminated. The maximum value for
employer provided health care would have been capped in 2014 at
the 75 percentile of premiums, meaning the bottom three-quarters
of taxpayers would have been allowed to exclude the full value
of employer-paid coverage. For taxpayers whose employer-paid
premiums were higher, they would have been taxed on the
difference.  The value of the cap would then have been frozen and phased
out entirely by 2038.  “I find it difficult to see a plan that would be
politically palatable that reduced the rates significantly that
didn’t go after these popular deductions,” Goldwein said.
“Maybe you can get away with preserving one of them in its
entirety but it’s hard to exempt more than one of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  