-- Obama Caught Between Schools Reform, Striking Teachers
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-09-11T17:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/obama-caught-between-schools-reform-striking-teachers.html
A strike by Chicago teachers
creates a political hazard for President  Barack Obama , as he
counts on the support of organized labor while trying to appeal
to independent voters who tend to favor some of the education
policies central to the conflict.  The walkout, which is keeping more than 350,000 students
out of classrooms for a second day today, also draws attention
to the continuing debate over public-employee unions and the
cost of their benefits to taxpayers. The Chicago school system
has a deficit of about $700 million.  The strike puts Obama between the  American Federation of
Teachers , which endorsed his re-election in February, and his
former chief of staff,  Rahm Emanuel , who as mayor of Chicago
oversees the school district. Obama’s Education Secretary Arne Duncan is the former chief executive officer of Chicago’s
schools. The president has used federal funds to advocate  tying 
teachers’ evaluations to student performance, measures opposed
by the union.  “This is a tough issue for him with, on one side, the
labor unions and the other the reform advocates,”  Julian Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs at  Princeton
University  in  New Jersey , said in an interview. “He didn’t want
to be involving this issue in the fall campaign.”  Pay Raise  Chicago teachers say the city’s proposals on evaluations
are a major disagreement in their talks, along with cuts to
benefits and training. Teachers originally sought a 29 percent
raise over two years, while the board proposed 2 percent annual
increases under a four-year contract. The district boosted the
offer to a 16 percent raise over the four years of the contract
and can’t give more, said Board President David Vitale.  Voters have not been kind to public-service unions in the
past year. A union-backed recall of Republican Governor  Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin , who led a drive to curtail collective-
bargaining rights for teachers and other public employees, was
rejected by voters in June. On the same day in  California ,  San
Jose  and  San Diego , passed referendums opposed by organized
labor to restructure public-employee pensions.  Romney Comments  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  moved quickly
to tie Obama to the strikers.  “I think the president ought to stand up and say that we
ought to put the kids first in this country and the teachers’
union goes behind,” Romney said on the nationally syndicated
Hugh Hewitt radio show. “ I think we ought to help the kids,
help their parents, help the teachers, but the teachers’ union
is opposed to many of the reforms in education that we know are
critical to the success of our kids.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday
that Obama’s “principal concern is for the students” and their
families. He declined to say whether Duncan might get involved.  “We hope that both sides are able to come together to
settle this quickly and in the best interests of Chicago’s
students,” Carney said.  Negotiations between the 30,000-member union and Chicago
Board of Education resumed today. The strike is the third-
largest by public-sector workers since 1993, when the Bureau of
Labor Statistics began keeping records. About 47,000 employees
of Los Angeles County went on strike in 2000, while 35,000  New
York  transit workers walked out in 2005, according to U.S. Labor
Department data.  Obama Campaign  Emanuel yesterday put on hold his plan to spearhead
fundraising for Democratic political-action committees as he
focuses on settling the strike, Thomas Bowen, director of
Emanuel’s own political-action committee, said yesterday.  “This feeds into the image of the unions, particularly in
the public sector, being greedy, and it undermines their support
among the general public,” Randel Johnson, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s senior vice president for labor, immigration and
employee benefits, said in an interview.  “It will be fascinating going into the election with Obama
seen as being too close to the unions,” Johnson said.  Independent voters generally support teachers, though have
reservations with teachers’ unions that provide strong job
protections, said Richard Lee Colvin, an independent education
consultant and a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson National
Fellowship Foundation in Princeton.  Illinois Budget  “People think test scores ought to be a part of teachers’
evaluations,” Colvin said in an interview. “It’s clear that
people don’t think school teachers are owed a job.”  Benefits for public workers have been blamed for budget
woes in  Illinois  as well as the city. The  Chicago  teacher’s
pension fund had 59.7 percent of the assets needed to meet
forecast obligation to retirees, as of June 30, 2011, the the
latest annual report.  The Chicago teacher dispute may also reveal disenchantment
with Obama among some union members.  “Unions have endorsed President Obama but the rank-and-
file teachers across the nation are so frustrated and angry
about these education policies, privatization of the
education,” John Cusick, a striking fifth-grade teacher and
union delegate at Chicago’s William H. Ray Elementary School in
Hyde Park, said yesterday.  Election Impact  Cusick, whose school is a block from the private University
of Chicago Lab Schools, where Emanuel’s children attend,
volunteered and donated to Obama’s prior campaigns, though
doesn’t plan to this year. A similar loss of support may hurt
Obama in other states with many union members, such as
 Pennsylvania ,  Ohio , and  Minnesota , he said.  “I sent $2,300 last time, which is a lot of money for a
public school teacher, but I believed,” Cusick said. “And on
many levels I’m glad. At the same time I haven’t sent a dime
this time. And I know that’s true for some of my friends and
colleagues.”  Obama’s “Race to the Top” education proposals include
grants for states that raise educational standards and linking
teacher evaluations to student performance, which is opposed by
teachers unions -- including Chicago’s.  The union says as many as one-third of the city’s educators
could be fired within two years under policies that unfairly
punish teachers by putting too much emphasis on standardized
tests. The teachers are also upset at what they consider unfair
cuts to pay and benefits, while also chafing at job-training
cuts. The schools have no plans to install air-conditioning in
schools, where classrooms can reach 98-degrees in warmer months,
the teachers also complain.  “We must do things differently in this city if we are to
provide our students with the education they so rightly
deserve,” Karen Lewis, president of the Chicago union, said in
a Sept. 9 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  