-- Obama Discusses Iran Nuclear Threat With Netanyahu in Phone Call
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-09-12T02:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/obama-won-t-meet-with-netanyahu-in-u-s-white-house-aide-says.html
President  Barack Obama  discussed
the threat posed by  Iran’s nuclear program  with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , confronting a security issue that
had raised tensions between the two allies.  During an hour-long phone call tonight, Obama and Netanyahu
“reaffirmed that they are united in their determination to
prevent  Iran  from obtaining a nuclear weapon,” the White House
said in a statement.  The conversation between the two leaders came in the midst
of a public disagreement about how to stop Iran from obtaining
nuclear weapons. The call followed a declaration today from
Netanyahu that the U.S. has no “moral right” to restrain
Israel from attacking Iran’s suspected weapons program as long
as it doesn’t set any “red lines” for Iran.  Earlier, the Obama administration labeled as inaccurate
reports in the Israeli press that Obama refused to meet with
Netanyahu during the opening session of the  United Nations
General Assembly  in  New York .  “They’re simply not in the city at the same time,”
National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  The Israeli government was told Obama’s schedule didn’t
allow time for a meeting with Netanyahu, according to an Israeli
official.  Obama and Netanyahu “are in frequent contact” and
Netanyahu will meet with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and
other senior officials during the visit, Vietor said.  Meeting Sought  The Israeli official, who asked not to be identified
because he wasn’t authorized to speak on the matter, said that
Israel approached the White House two weeks ago to see if it
would be possible for Netanyahu to meet Obama, as he has on
every other visit to the U.S.  The response was that the president’s schedule wouldn’t
permit a meeting, the official said today in a telephone
interview. Obama is in the middle of campaigning for a second
term in the Nov. 6 election.  Obama will be at the UN on Sept. 24-25 and Netanyahu won’t
arrive until later in the week, Vietor said. While the
president’s UN schedule “is not finalized yet,” Obama has no
planned bilateral meetings with leaders of other nations, he
said.  While Netanyahu will be in the U.S. for a short time, the
Israeli official said that could have included a trip to
 Washington  to accommodate an Obama meeting.  Vietor said in a subsequent e-mailed statement that
“contrary to previous press reports, there was never any
request for a meeting” between Netanyahu and Obama.  The newspaper Haaretz was among the media outlets in Israel
that reported earlier that the White House rejected a request by
Netanyahu for a meeting.  Iran Concerns  Netanyahu and Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  have indicated
that, as Iran proceeds with its nuclear work and negotiations
stall, Israel is considering a strike against the country’s
atomic facilities. While Iran says its nuclear program is for
peaceful purposes, Israel and the U.S. say the Islamic Republic
is trying to build an atomic weapon. Iran’s leaders have
rejected Israel’s right to exist.  “The world tells Israel, wait, there’s still time, and I
say, ‘Wait for what, wait until when?’” Netanyahu told
reporters in  Jerusalem  today. “Those in the international
community who refuse to put a red line before Iran don’t have
the moral right to place a red light before Israel.”  Netanyahu spoke two days after Clinton said in an interview
with  Bloomberg Radio  that the U.S. is “not setting deadlines”
on negotiations with Iran. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday that it’s “not useful” to set deadlines
or “red lines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  