-- Ohio Asks Appeals Court to Restore State Early-Voting Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-11T16:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/ohio-asks-appeals-court-to-restore-state-early-voting-law.html
Ohio  asked a federal appeals court
to reverse a trial judge’s order to equalize the amount of pre-
Election Day balloting time for all voters.  U.S. District Judge Peter Economus ruled Aug. 31 that state
laws giving Ohioans in the military and living overseas three
more early-voting days than other people violated the
constitutional guarantee of equal protection of law. The case
was brought by President  Barack Obama ’s campaign organization
and the state and national Democratic parties.  State Attorney General Mike DeWine and Secretary of State
Jon Husted yesterday explained the rationale for treating some
voters differently from others in a 74-page brief filed in the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati.  “The Equal Protection Clause does not prevent a government
from applying different rules to those in demonstrably different
circumstances,” DeWine said. Military voters face “special
burdens” not shared by civilians including deployment on short
notice and active-duty travel restrictions, he said.  Obama or Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  must amass at least
270 Electoral College votes to win the Nov. 6 election. Ohio
holds 18 electoral votes, and no Republican has won the office
without also carrying the state.  2008 Outcome  Obama won Ohio in 2008 with 51.5 percent of the ballots
cast.  U.S. courts in August rejected election-related laws passed
by Republican-controlled legislatures in Ohio,  Florida  and
Texas, finding they violated the right to vote.  Legal challenges to laws Democrats say will widely
disenfranchise citizens, such as voter-list purges, early voting
curbs and photo-identification mandates, are pending in
Wisconsin,  Pennsylvania , Colorado, Iowa, Florida and Ohio.  In the Ohio case, Democrats’ written arguments must be
filed by Sept. 17, the appeals court said yesterday.  DeWine and Husted, both named defendants in the suit, are
Republicans. Economus was appointed to the federal bench by
President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat, in 1995.  The case is  Obama for America v. Husted, 12-4055, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  