-- Oil Trades Near Three-Week High on Outlook for Economic Stimulus
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-11T12:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/oil-trades-near-three-week-high-on-outlook-for-economic-stimulus.html
Oil traded near the highest close
in almost three weeks in  New York  amid speculation the U.S. will
add to measures to revive its economy, countering concern that
 Europe ’s bailout plan will falter.  U.S. crude  inventories  probably dropped to the lowest level
since March as more than a third of Gulf of Mexico output
remained shut 10 days because of Hurricane Isaac, a Bloomberg
survey showed. The  Federal Reserve  starts a two-day meeting
tomorrow where it may announce stimulus measures. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said West Texas Intermediate oil may rise to narrow
the gap between the benchmark grade and other regional crudes.  “Prices are likely to break to the upside,” said Michael
Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,
 Denmark , who predicts  Brent crude  will surpass $116 a barrel in
the next week. “Oil fundamentals are balanced. A rise in prices
would mostly be fueled by more money flooding in from the Fed.”  Crude for October delivery was at $96.65 a barrel, up 11
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:19 p.m. London time. The contract rose 12 cents to $96.54
yesterday, the highest close since Aug. 22. Prices are 2.2
percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement slipped 7 cents to $114.74
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $18.08, compared with $18.27 yesterday.  Technical Support  Brent, a benchmark grade for more than half of the world’s
oil, has risen 30 percent since this year’s lowest close on June
22, as a European Union embargo on crude purchases from  Iran 
took full effect on July 1.  Oil in New York has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at around $94.30 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted
declines near this indicator in July and August. Buy orders tend
to be clustered near chart-support levels.  WTI may add $10 a barrel from current levels to attract
crude flows from  Canada  and the Bakken shale formation to
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York-traded
contracts, according to Goldman Sachs. The benchmark grade may
narrow its discount to other crudes as increased railway
capacity reduces an oil glut in the U.S. Midwest, Goldman said
in a report e-mailed today.  Goldman Forecast  “We expect that Bakken and Canadian  crude oil  will need to
continue to flow to Cushing in the fourth quarter 2012, and WTI
prices will need to rise back above Canadian and Bakken prices
in order to motivate these flows,”  David Greely , a New York-
based analyst at Goldman Sachs, said in the report.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said it
considers crude supplies to be “abundant” and that an expected
slowdown in oil demand growth next year may be more severe than
forecast if the global economy deteriorates.  OPEC predicts that the increase in world oil consumption
will decline to 800,000 barrels a day in 2013, from 900,000 a
day this year, according to its monthly market report released
today. The group estimates its 12 members will need to pump an
average of 29.5 million barrels a day next year, or 1.9 million
less than current output levels.  Germany ’s Federal Constitutional Court will rule tomorrow
on the country’s participation in the European Stability
Mechanism, a permanent 500 billion-euro ($638 billion) fund that
offers loans to  member states  and may buy their bonds to cut
borrowing costs. Germany will be the biggest contributor to the
fund with a 27 percent share, according to a statement from the
European Commission.  Asset Purchases  The Fed may announce a third round of asset purchases, or
quantitative easing, after its meeting. The nation, the world’s
biggest oil consumer, added 96,000 workers in August compared
with 141,000 in July, Labor Department figures showed Sept. 7.  U.S. crude inventories probably dropped  2.63 million
barrels  last week, according to the median of eight analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. Gasoline supplies may have slipped 1.65 million
barrels, the survey shows.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release separate stockpile data today. The API collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  