-- Hollande Government Sees Peugeot Job Cuts as ‘Inevitable’
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-09-11T13:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/hollande-government-sees-peugeot-job-cuts-as-inevitable-2-.html
For French President  Francois Hollande ’s government,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s decision to close a
factory and eliminate jobs has gone from “unacceptable” two
months ago to “inevitable.”  Peugeot’s plan to cut 8,000 jobs and shut its Aulnay plant
near Paris, “is not acceptable in its current form,” Hollande
said in a televised interview July 14. Today, a report
commissioned by his Industry Ministry said that given the
moribund European car market and Peugeot’s overcapacity, “the
group must absolutely cut costs” and “the closing of an
assembly line is inevitable.”  The shift marks an about-face for Hollande, who was elected
in May on a pledge to prevent a “parade of firings.” Since
then, the number of unemployed people in France has crossed 3
million to a 13-year high as companies from Air France-KLM Group
to retailer  Carrefour SA (CA)  have announced lay-offs.  “From a shareholder point of view, it’s a good thing that
the government acknowledges Peugeot is facing a fixed-cost
problem,” said Sascha Gommel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG with
a hold recommendation on the shares. “Their initial reaction
was typical. You can see that in any country, when you close a
plant, you immediately have a political backlash.”  Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said in a meeting with
Peugeot union officials today that the company was “facing
severe difficulties and needed to restructure,” according to
Franck Don, a CFTC Peugeot union official.  International Alliances  Peugeot fell  as much as 3.1 percent in Paris trading and
was down 0.05 percent at 6.46 euros as of 3:14 p.m.  The Paris-based company’s automotive division has been
burning through 200 million euros in cash a month for the last
year, Varin said in July as the company reported an 819 million-
euro ($1.05 billion) first-half  net loss .  The government-commissioned report, written by engineer
 Emmanuel Sartorius , criticized Peugeot on many points. It said
the group was late in squeezing out savings between its Peugeot
and Citroen brands, slow to develop international alliances and
is too reliant on the European car market, which accounts for 58
percent of its sales.  “The internationalization strategy started too late,”
Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a Peugeot spokesman, said by phone.
“That’s what Philippe Varin reckoned as soon as he became CEO:
he said the group was too European and too middle-range. That’s
why we’re upgrading and becoming more global.”  Unrealistic Targets  Peugeot invested 250 million euros since 2009 in a Madrid
plant that might have been a better candidate for closure than
Aulnay, according to the report.  “Looking back, the management of PSA lacked realism in
setting its targets,” according to the report. “Until the
middle of the last decade, it was targeting an annual production
of 4 million cars, whereas it never managed more than 3.6
million.”  The Aulnay plant ran at 56.7 percent of its capacity in
2011, with anything under 65 percent considered under-
utilization, according to the report.  The need for Peugeot “to re-organize its industrial
activities and to reduce its workforce is, sadly, not
contestable,” the report concluded.  Peugeot employed  81,324 people in  France  at the end of
2011, out of a worldwide workforce of 122,879.  The company last week was elbowed out of France’s benchmark
 CAC 40 stock index  after its shares declined more than 60
percent in 12 months, giving it a market value of 2.3 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root, at   vroot@bloomberg.net  