-- OPEC Oil Production Rises as Angola and Nigeria Pump More
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-09-11T10:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/opec-oil-production-rises-as-angola-and-nigeria-pump-more.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries boosted crude production last month as
 Angola , Nigeria and Libya pumped more, the group said.  Output from OPEC, which supplies 40 percent of the world’s
oil, climbed to 31.41 million barrels a day in August versus
31.16 million the previous month, OPEC’s Vienna-based
secretariat said in its Monthly Oil Market Report today. The
production level remains above a 30 million barrel target that
the group set at a meeting in December.  Increased production coincided with a 9.2 percent advance
in  Brent crude  on the ICE Futures Europe exchange during August.
The benchmark oil grade rose 0.2 percent to $115.06 a barrel in
London trading today.  Angola’s output rose about 12 percent last month to 1.85
million barrels a day, while  Nigeria  climbed to 2.18 million,
according to the OPEC survey, which cites secondary sources for
its information. Angola’s loading program for July was partly
reduced by an incident at the Girassol field that caused Total
SA to delay some shipments.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, pumped
9.86 million barrels in August versus 9.85 million in July, OPEC
said, citing secondary sources. The kingdom also provided data
to OPEC, which showed production at 9.75 million.  Iraq  retained its position as the group’s second-largest
producer, supplying 3.11 million barrels a day, outpacing Iran
for a third month.  Iran Output Falls  Iran’s crude output dropped 13,000 barrels a day to 2.77
million barrels a day last month, according to OPEC’s survey of
secondary sources. Iran said in its direct communication with
OPEC that it produced 3.75 million in August, which was little
changed from the previous month. Iran had by far the largest
divergence between direct communication and secondary source
production estimates among OPEC members, showing analysts lack
confidence in the country’s official data.  A European Union ban on imports of Iranian oil came into
full effect in July.  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria , Angola,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  