-- Morgan Stanley Prevails as MSSB Value Set at $13.5 Billion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-09-11T18:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/morgan-stanley-prevails-as-mssb-valuation-set-at-13-5-billion.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  agreed to buy the
rest of its brokerage joint venture from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at a
fixed price that values the entire unit at $13.5 billion -- or
about 40 percent less than Citigroup’s estimate two months ago.  Morgan Stanley will pay $1.89 billion for a 14 percent
stake this year and $4.73 billion for the remaining 35 percent
by 2015, New York-based Citigroup said today in a filing. The
lender said it expects to take a $2.9 billion third-quarter
charge, a sum that exceeds the average profit estimate by
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The valuation -- closer to Morgan Stanley’s $9 billion
estimate than Citigroup’s $22 billion -- reflects the venture’s
struggle to boost earnings amid a trading slump and global
economic weakness. Still, the price is “a steal” for  New York- 
based Morgan Stanley, said  David Trone , a JMP Securities LLC
analyst. Both banks’ shares rose as the deal may help avert
future disputes when Citigroup sells its remaining stake.  “Establishing certainty regarding the divestiture of this
business is in the best interests of our shareholders,”
Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit, 55, said in a
statement. “As we have shown, the more we put the past behind
us, the more we can focus on our future, which is in the core
businesses in Citicorp.”  Shareholders React  Morgan Stanley climbed 3.2 percent to $17.14 at 1:56 p.m.
in New York. Citigroup  advanced  2.6 percent to $32.67.  The two banks in 2009 formed the venture, with the most
financial advisers of any brokerage, and Morgan Stanley paid
$2.75 billion for a 51 percent stake and the right to buy the
rest over time. Morgan Stanley agreed to buy the next 15 percent
piece of the brokerage by June and complete the purchase by June
2015.  Citigroup’s charge on a pretax basis was $4.7 billion,
exceeding the $4.4 billion predicted by Ed Najarian, an analyst
at International Strategy & Investment Group Inc. The lender may
post a $2.72 billion profit for the third quarter, according to
the average  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
sale of the 14 percent stake should boost the bank’s Tier 1
common equity ratio under Basel III rules by 0.14 percentage
point, the bank said.  Casts Doubt  The pricing victory for Morgan Stanley also casts doubt on
the prospects of one of its most crucial businesses. CEO  James Gorman , 54, has said the purchase of the whole brokerage is a
key to his strategy of making the firm less reliant on trading
revenue and improving profitability.  A valuation of $13.5 billion suggests a long-term earnings
growth rate of less than 3 percent, assuming a 10 percent
discount rate, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts.
The business, which had 16,934 financial advisers as of June 30,
has struggled to make progress toward Gorman’s goal of a 20
percent pretax profit margin. The unit hasn’t topped 12 percent
since the venture was formed.  The unit has also faced broker complaints about disruptions
caused by a new technology and operations system.  Greg Fleming ,
who runs the business, met with financial advisers in the U.S.
during the past few weeks to assure them the firm is working to
make improvements.  The agreement “allows us to focus completely on bringing
our clients superior service as we continue our work to build
the leading U.S. wealth management platform,” Gorman said today
in a memo to employees.  Remaining Stake  Morgan Stanley also received control of about $5.5 billion
of deposits for no premium, according to today’s statement. The
investment bank will have about $122 billion in deposits once it
owns the entire venture, which will lower funding costs and
increase flexibility, David Russo, the firm’s treasurer, said
last month.  Citigroup estimated in a July 19 regulatory filing that its
49 percent stake was worth $11 billion and said Morgan Stanley’s
bid was 40 percent of that. Because the banks were more than 10
percent apart, they hired Perella Weinberg Partners LP as an
outside appraiser. The banks said today that they reached an
agreement that allows them to avoid repeating that process when
selling additional stakes.  Under the terms of the original agreement, the gap between
the banks’ estimates was to be divided into thirds. If Perella’s
estimate fell in the middle portion, the transaction price was
to be set at that level. If it were in the upper or lower third,
the final price would be the average of Perella’s estimate and
the closest bank estimate, according to a procedure Morgan
Stanley outlined in a May filing.  The brokerage is largely composed of the Smith Barney and
Dean Witter businesses. Gorman said in June that he will change
the name of the unit to Morgan Stanley Wealth Management.  Fleming, 49, last year laid out a plan to improve the
margin to “mid-teens” by the middle of 2013. That included
generating more revenue from deposits, lending and transaction
services and increasing the amount of assets in fee-based
accounts, as well as decreasing integration expenses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  