-- Morgan Stanley Says Fixed-Income Reduction to Deepen
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-09-11T22:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/morgan-stanley-says-fixed-income-reduction-to-deepen.html
Morgan Stanley, which announced in
July that it planned to shrink its fixed-income trading business
amid new capital rules, said today that the reduction will be
bigger than previously forecast.  Morgan Stanley plans to cut the unit’s risk-weighted assets
under Basel III rules by at least 35 percent from the third
quarter of 2011 through the end of 2014, Chief Financial Officer
Ruth Porat said at an investor conference. Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  said in July that the reduction would be at
least 30 percent, prompting analysts including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s Richard Ramsden to call for a bigger cut.  Fixed-income and commodities accounted for $320 billion of
the $500 billion risk-weighted assets as of June 30, Porat said,
providing those figures for the first time. Porat said that the
firm could cut RWAs from the fixed-income division to  $255
billion  by the end of 2014 without drastically reducing revenue
or alienating clients.  “We’re very confident there is upside beyond the plan
summarized here while continuing to invest in these businesses
to maintain a vibrant, profitable, and client-focused fixed-
income business,” said Porat, 54.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s securitized products business, which
includes mortgage securities, provides an example of how the
firm will shrink the business, Porat said. The group’s quarterly
revenue was 8 percent higher in the first half of 2012 than in
2010 and 2011, while it shrank 42 percent on the bank’s balance
sheet, according to Porat’s presentation.  The firm did this by cutting distressed holdings and
unwinding certain derivatives, Porat said.  Morgan Stanley’s interest-rates and foreign-exchange
trading units have generated more than half of fixed-income
revenue over the last six quarters, compared with being smaller
than the contributions from credit, commodities and securitized
products in 2009, Porat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  