-- Orix Plays Hardball With Gotham King After LNR Ouster: Mortgages
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-09-11T13:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/orix-plays-hardball-with-gotham-king-after-lnr-ouster-mortgages.html
Charles Ishay planned to hold on to
895,500 square-feet (83,195 square-meters) of  office space  in
suburban Cleveland after the mortgage servicer LNR Property LLC
agreed to change terms on $135 million of debt taken on during
the 2007 market peak. Orix USA killed that plan.  Orix initiated foreclosure in May against Ishay’s Gotham
King portfolio after ousting LNR as servicer on 138 loans in a
$2.9 billion commercial mortgage-backed securities deal sold by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that included the Cleveland debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Conflicts are growing across the country over whether to
cut deals with borrowers or seize property to recoup cash for
holders of $550 billion in debt tied to everything from mobile
home parks to skyscrapers. Special servicers, which earn fees
for negotiating with delinquent borrowers on behalf of
bondholders, are capitalizing on record defaults by buying
distressed CMBS and then appointing themselves to deal with
landlords.  “The big pipeline of specially serviced loans has been a
cash cow for the special servicers,” said Leo Huang, an
investment manager overseeing commercial real-estate debt at  Old
Greenwich , Connecticut-based Ellington Management Group LLC.
“They have a tremendous amount of discretion in CMBS deals and
we’re not that far into the resolution process. There’s still a
lot to be seen.”  Pleading Landlords  LNR, CWCapital LLC, C-III  Capital Partners  and Midland Loan
Services control 77 percent of servicing rights in the
commercial-mortgage backed  securities market , which pools
property loans and slices them into new securities of varying
risk, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Landlords that can’t make payments have to plead their case
to these firms, who are charged with figuring out the best way
to maximize value for bondholders. Special servicers typically
collect a monthly fee equal to 0.25 percent of a loan’s balance
while working on a problem mortgage and an additional 1 percent
when the mortgage is modified or liquidated, according to
Deutsche Bank AG.  Their decisions will determine recoveries on deals arranged
before the property markets crashed in 2007 when a record $232
billion in commercial-mortgage bonds were sold that year. More
than $75 billion of loans backing U.S. CMBS deals were in the
hands of special servicers as of the first half of 2012,
 Standard & Poor’s  data show.  ‘Market Frustrated’  “The special servicer oversees every aspect to the loan
workout,” said Darrell Wheeler, an analyst at Amherst
Securities Group LP in  New York . They’re “cautious on
information disclosure which can leave market participants many
times frustrated to guess the final outcome.”  Ishay, founder of New York-based investor Gotham Realty
Holdings, needed to alter loan terms after acquiring eight
office buildings for $140.4 million in March 2007, a record for
suburban Cleveland, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc. The
debt was arranged by Lehman and bundled with other mortgages and
sold as bonds, Bloomberg data show.  The value of the properties slumped after the vacancy rate
soared as high as 16.1 percent last year from 1.3 percent in
March 2007, CoStar Group data show. It’s declined to 10.2
percent at the end of the second quarter. The properties were
appraised at $74 million in November.  The  Cleveland  area has the highest foreclosure rate for
office debt among the largest metropolitan areas in the U.S. at
16.3 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Modifying Loan  LNR was prepared to modify the loan by cutting the $135
million mortgage into two, according to a person familiar with
the deal who declined to be identified because the talks were
private. The borrower would make regular payments on the first
portion, while the other piece, known as a hope note, would be
repaid if the value of the buildings recovered by the end of the
mortgage. Ishay would have had to put additional equity into the
properties as part of the deal, the person said.  About 170 mortgages have been modified by slicing the
original mortgage into two parts since 2009, said Amherst’s
Wheeler. The strategy aims to fund investment in properties and
avoid legal expenses while buying time for a recovery. While
this can work, it may also delay inevitable losses, he said.  Orix took control of the Lehman deal from LNR in December,
Bloomberg data show. It foreclosed on Ishay’s Cleveland
properties in May, citing the borrower’s failure to make loan
payments since July 2011, according to court documents.  Bethany Maryland  Orix also started foreclosure proceedings on three
properties known as the Bethany Maryland Portfolio II within the
Lehman bond, Bloomberg data show. The multifamily buildings
backing the $185 million loan are scheduled to be auctioned
today, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Ishay and  Bud Perrone , a spokesperson for LNR, declined to
comment. Elizabeth Daane, general counsel at Orix, couldn’t
immediately provide comment.  Holders of the most junior portion of a commercial-mortgage
bond have the right to throw out the special servicer and
appoint a new one. Five years after  property markets  crashed,
rising losses have wiped out lower-ranking investments, opening
the doors for firms to buy bonds and appoint new servicers.  Some special servicers are seeking to buy pieces of
commercial-mortgage bonds they oversee to thwart attempts by
rival firms to seize control. The targeted bonds may be bought
from 15 cents to 40 cents on the dollar, said Amherst’s Wheeler.  Values on a Markit Group Ltd. CMBX index linked to bonds
originally rated triple-A that were sold during the boom and
have since been cut to junk have risen to 63 cents on the dollar
from 61.7 cents on Aug. 30.  Special servicers have ties to real estate brokers,
property managers and firms that make direct investments in
properties, introducing a host of potential conflicts of
interest to the process.  ‘Wild West’  “Special servicing is ripe for conflict and is essentially
the unregulated Wild West,” said Ed Shugrue, CEO of Talmage
LLC, a CMBS investor and special servicer. “The lack of clarity
on a loan’s resolution and the motivation and compensation of
those directing traffic impairs an investor’s ability to buy the
junior classes of the CMBS capital structure.”  Switching servicers can delay resolving troubled debt,
leading to higher losses for bondholders, S&P analysts including
Timothy Steward wrote in an August report.  The firms have become a coveted asset as delinquencies
surged to 10 percent this year, up from 1.87 percent in 2009.
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  acquired Berkadia
Commercial Mortgage LLC in 2009, while real estate investor
Andrew Farkas’ Island Capital LLC created C-III after buying the
unit from Centerline Holding Co. in 2010.  Preparing Bids  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD) , Cantor Fitzgerald LP, and
 Lennar Corp. (LEN) ’s Rialto Capital Management LLC are preparing bids
for LNR, the largest special servicer, according to a person
familiar with the negotiations, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  Details of ongoing loan workouts aren’t typically disclosed
as special servicers seek to maintain an upper hand in
negotiations with borrowers, said  Richard Hill , a debt
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. That leaves
bondholders in the dark on the most important decisions
determining how losses on their investments may play out.  LNR last month started a  web site  called “Window Into our
Workouts” to address concerns about transparency over how
soured debt is resolved. The site gives users “key terms of
closed loan modifications,” information on foreclosures and
property that are being marketed for sale, Miami-based LNR said
in an Aug. 22  statement .  Proper Approach  The proper approach varies depending on the situation, said
Hill of RBS.  “You’re supposed to foreclose if the property is a dead
man walking,” Hill said. “If it looks like more of temporary
decline in value, and there is a strong record of having a
strong property in a given market,” it might be appropriate to
work with the borrower toward raising occupancy and rents, he
said.  The business is attracting new entrants and smaller firms
as defaults mount, threatening to “overcrowd and complicate an
already complex process,” the S&P analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  