-- German Stocks Advance to 13-Month High Before Ruling
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-11T15:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/most-german-stocks-fall-amid-uncertainty-over-ruling.html
German stocks  climbed to a 13-month
high amid mounting optimism that the top constitutional court
will rule tomorrow in favor of the country’s participation in
the European Stability Mechanism, the region’s permanent bailout
fund.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rose 4.1 percent after unveiling a cost-
saving plan.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  slid after Bank of America
Corp. said the cement maker will not reach its target for a 3
billion-euro ($3.8 billion) profit in the next three years.
 Adidas AG (ADS)  paced losses in European personal and household-goods
shares.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 1.3 percent to 7,310.11 at the close
in Frankfurt, the highest since July 26 last year. The measure
has rallied 22 percent from this year’s low on June 5 as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to preserve
the euro and speculation grew the U.S. Federal Reserve will
announce a third round of bond purchases. The broader HDAX Index
added 1.2 percent today.  “There is a general cautious optimism that the court will
not strike down ESM,”said Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at
IG Index in  London .  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe today
rejected a last-minute bid to delay a case over the ESM, saying
it will issue its ruling as scheduled at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  Fed Stimulus  Investors are speculating that U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will announce a stimulus program at a
two-day meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  starting
tomorrow, Beauchamp said.  Deutsche Bank rallied 4.1 percent to 33.15 euros, the
highest since April 27, reversing earlier losses of as much as
1.6 percent. Europe’s biggest bank by assets said it will target
an after-tax return on equity of at least 12 percent by 2015.  Deutsche Bank also said it will incur a one-time cost of 4
billion euros to achieve savings of 4.5 billion euros annually
by 2015.  Henkel AG, the Dusseldorf-based maker of Persil detergent,
advanced 1.1 percent to 61.85 euros. The company should benefit
from easing commodities prices, given its higher exposure to raw
materials, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said, rating the stock
outperform, equivalent to a buy recommendation.  Solarworld AG, the world’s fourth-largest solar-panel
maker, jumped 8 percent to 1.31 euros, rising for a fourth
consecutive day.  Profit Target  HeidelbergCement dropped 0.3 percent to 43.40 euros, after
earlier falling as much as 2.8 percent. Bank of America said the
world’s third-largest maker of cement will not reach its 3
billion-euro goal for earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the next three years.  Adidas, the world’s second-biggest sporting-goods maker,
retreated 0.5 percent to 63.76 euros as a  gauge  of European
personal and household-goods makers posted the worst decline of
the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Adidas’s reliance on sales in  China  is weighing on the
stock, amid concerns that growth in the world’s second-biggest
economy is slowing, according to Huber. The company gets about 9
percent of its revenue from China.  Puma SE (PUM) , Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, lost
1.1 percent to 234 euros.  Hugo Boss AG (BOSS)  tumbled 8 percent to 70.91 euros, the biggest
drop since Oct. 4, after U.K. rival Burberry Group Plc said it
expects adjusted profit before tax in the current fiscal year to
be at the lower end of analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  