-- Total May Sell Assets to Pay for Higher Project Costs, BoA Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-11T14:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/total-may-sell-assets-to-pay-for-higher-project-costs-boa-says.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
oil company, may have to sell assets to pay for projects
designed to raise production in coming years, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  “We are cautious on the profitability of Total’s project
pipeline and believe extra disposals may be needed to offset
capex inflation,” analysts including Hootan Yazhari and Fiona Maclean wrote in a report published today. The bank added the
company to its “least preferred” list.  Total hasn’t made a decision on whether to sell its French
natural-gas network TIGF, Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said Aug. 31. The company has announced sales of non-
strategic assets without specifying them.  Total has quickened the pace of acquisitions and disposals
in recent years as part of a policy to “actively manage” its
asset portfolio in a bid to boost output. The Paris-based
company is also pushing harder to drill more exploration wells
and add to its reserves.  De Margerie will come under scrutiny for his strategy on
Sept. 24 at the company’s annual investor day.  After a “modest” 3.5 percent dividend increase for the
second quarter, this month’s presentation is expected to turn to
medium-term production growth, steps to cut downstream costs and
portfolio management, according to the bank report.  Elgin Field  Total’s crude output fell 2 percent in the second quarter
because of the shutdown of the Elgin field in the  North Sea 
after a leak, as well as incidents in Nigeria and Yemen. Elgin
and the nearby Franklin fields have been shut since March 25.  The company expects output to rise by an average of 2.5
percent a year from 2012 to 2015. Production growth in the
medium term is “guided to be around 4 percent in 2013-15,”
Bank of America said.  Total has been criticized in  France  because of the
perceived environmental risks of its exploration off the coast
of  French Guiana . The company will also have to pay about 150
million euros ($192 million) in a new French tax on oil
inventories. This comes in addition to a three-month reduction
in retail gasoline prices as part of a government-led effort to
fulfill President  Francois Hollande ’s campaign promise to ease
the burden of  consumer spending  on energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  