-- Housing Programs Are Sorry Tale of Too Much Caution
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-11T22:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/housing-programs-are-sorry-tale-of-too-much-caution.html
The U.S. housing market, left
mostly to its own devices for the past four years, is finally on
the mend.  This is obviously a welcome development, yet it would have
happened sooner if the White House hadn’t been so cautious. Its
approach has relied heavily on voluntary participation by banks
to modify loans. To avoid charges that it is bailing out
reckless borrowers, the government has used overly strict
criteria to determine which ones to help. What’s more, President
 Barack Obama  has been too passive in letting the regulator of
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac   block  those companies from forgiving
debt on the loans they back.  The results have been lackluster -- and have stymied the
broader economy. The government’s two main  programs  have helped
about 2.6 million homeowners, far fewer than the 9 million
expected. And many of the mortgage modifications so far --
mostly reduced monthly payments -- aren’t working very well.
Since 2009, about one in five borrowers helped by the Treasury’s
main program has slipped back into  default .  A few states have been trying to pick up the slack.
Arizona,  California  and  Nevada , all at the center of the real
estate bust, are embarking on more ambitious efforts involving
principal forgiveness. They will pay the full cost of erasing as
much as $100,000 of mortgage debt for struggling borrowers,
including those with loans backed by Fannie and Freddie.  These initiatives draw on the U.S. Treasury Department’s
 Hardest Hit Fund , a $7.6 billion pot of money meant for states
with steep declines in  home prices  or high unemployment. It is
financed by the 2008 Troubled Asset Relief Program. Yes, that
TARP.  Pot Stirring  The state plans risk stirring the political pot in a tight
election year. Yet no new money is being requested, and the
federal deficit won’t rise. In essence, the states are using
already appropriated taxpayer funds to help homeowners pay off
large amounts of shaky mortgage debt, and allowing whoever owns
the loans -- banks, investors, Fannie or Freddie -- to avoid
taking losses on those mortgages.  All homeowners, not just those receiving aid, would benefit
from a faster turnaround in the housing market, and this is why
any political heat is worth taking. To date, the Hardest Hit
Fund has been woefully underused, with just $977 million spent
to assist 107,000 owners. More than  11 million U.S. borrowers 
owe more than their homes are worth.  The state programs could prevent additional defaults and,
if home prices steadily recover, make it possible for some
workers to take jobs in other states and for millions of
households to feel more financially secure. Ultimately,
confidence would increase and  consumer spending  would follow,
leading to more  job creation  and lower unemployment.  As they should, the states are trying to avoid the moral
hazard that comes with bailouts. Nevada, where 61 percent of
borrowers remain underwater, is cutting loan balances by as much
as $50,000 for vetted homeowners who are current on payments.
 Arizona  and  California  are reducing balances by as much as
$100,000 for debtors who can demonstrate financial hardship. In
all three states, recipients must stay in their homes for as
long as five years or else refund the state. The programs are
also restricted to low- and moderate-income borrowers who can
document a drop in income, loss of a job or other hardship.  Some of the criteria are too strict, blunting the programs’
effect. California, for instance,  expects  to use about $800
million to reduce principal for fewer than 9,000 borrowers in a
state where more than 2 million have negative equity. They
should loosen their income cap to help more middle-income
families, too. To make enough of a dent in the number of homes
with negative equity, many more states would need to adopt
principal-reduction programs -- and make their initiatives
similar enough that loan servicers wouldn’t balk at working with
numerous state initiatives.  Bolder Program  A bolder federal program is still warranted. Treasury has
spent just  $5.2 billion  of the almost $50 billion targeted for
housing assistance. It should follow the states’ lead and spend
some of the rest by assuming 100 percent of the cost of
principal reductions for Fannie- and Freddie-backed loans.
Treasury has already offered to pay as much as 63 cents for
every $1 of principal forgiven. Throwing in the last 37 cents
would only slightly increase the cost to Treasury and would save
Fannie and Freddie at least $3.6 billion, their own regulator’s
analysis shows.  Fannie and Freddie are working with the state programs only
because the two companies are getting full compensation for
principal forgiveness -- a condition of their participation.
This week, Freddie issued guidance directing its servicers to
cooperate with the state programs. Fannie is expected to follow
suit.  The state efforts come amid a glimmer of hope in the
housing market. Prices in June increased 0.5 percent from a year
ago, and foreclosures in July dropped to 58,000 from 69,000 a
year ago. Yet trouble spots remain. New-home sales and
construction starts are still below average. Those 11 million
underwater borrowers are in danger of defaulting.  The housing collapse wiped out $7.4 trillion in household
values, a 55 percent decline in nominal housing wealth,
according to a Bloomberg Government analysis. Housing may be
coming back, but truly restoring the market will take far bolder
efforts than the Obama administration has so far mustered.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Somalia’s new president ;
 Margaret Carlson  on Republican efforts to  suppress the vote ;
Clive Crook on why  Germany’s currency nostalgia  is off the mark;
 Peter Orszag  on the  money wasted in health care ;  Amity Shlaes  on
why  Hoover haunts Romney  but not Ryan; Richard Vedder on  getting
rid of college remedial education .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 