-- Ovarian Cancer Test Not Worth Risk, Advisory Panel Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/ovarian-cancer-test-not-worth-risk-advisory-panel-says.html
Healthy women shouldn’t take
screening tests to spot ovarian cancer, a U.S. panel said,
updating and reaffirming its 2004 recommendation against the
procedure.  The  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force  reviewed studies
that have been conducted since its earlier recommendation and
found that ovarian cancer screening using transvaginal
ultrasound and a blood test called CA-125 doesn’t reduce the
number of deaths from the disease, according to the
 recommendation  published yesterday in the Annals of  Internal
Medicine . In particular, a U.S. study last year of 78,216 women
found that those who were screened didn’t have a lower death
rate from the cancer than women who weren’t tested.  “This is very high-quality evidence, it very strongly
supports not screening,” said  Virginia Moyer , chairwoman of the
 task force  and a pediatrician at Baylor College of Medicine in
Houston. “There is a risk of serious harm associated with
screening.”  The group in May advised against using a common screening
test for prostate cancer, called prostate specific antigen. The
risk of excessive treatment from false positive results with the
PSA test isn’t worth the risk and the screening shouldn’t be
used to diagnose the disease, the group said. In November 2009,
the advisory group of doctors said annual mammograms for women
in their 40s have more risks than benefits, and women at average
risk of  breast cancer  should use screening every two years once
they turn 50.  Ovarian cancer will be diagnosed in 22,280 American women
this year, and 15,500 patients will die from the disease,
according to the  American Cancer Society . It is the fifth-most
common cause of cancer deaths in women, the group said.  Accuracy Questioned  “There is currently no sufficiently accurate screening
test proven to be effective in the early detection of ovarian
cancer,” the Atlanta-based organization said in a fact sheet on
its website.  The case against ovarian cancer screening is particularly
clear, Moyer said in a telephone interview. By the time such a
tumor is visible with ultrasound, it is very advanced, she said.  Meanwhile, regardless of the testing method, the “number
of false positives is stunningly high,” she said. As for the
blood test, CA-125 levels are elevated for many other reasons,
including pregnancy and liver problems, she said.  Once an ovarian cancer test comes back positive, “the only
way to find out if there is something real going on is to do
something very invasive like surgery, which in and of itself
carries substantial risk,” Moyer said.  In the previous U.S. study, 1 in 10 women who were screened
got a false positive result and 1 in 3 of those had their
ovaries removed during surgery.  “The problem is that we want to do something,” Moyer
said. In ovarian cancer screening, “unfortunately what we
choose to do does more harm than good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  