-- How Matthew Murray’s Sliding D-Valve Made Us Prosper
-- B y   W i l l i a m   R o s e n
-- 2012-09-11T18:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/how-matthew-murray-s-sliding-d-valve-made-us-prosper.html
Name an inventor, evoke an
invention.  Gutenberg , moveable type. Galileo, the telescope;
Samuel F.B. Morse, the telegraph; Matthew Murray, the sliding D-
valve.  Matthew Murray ?  Lists of history’s great inventions always include the
wheel, fire, the telephone, digital computing, the printing
press, television, the automobile and (surprisingly frequently)
the flush toilet. Depending on the archness of the list maker,
you’ll also find the likes of the transistor radio, birth-
control pills, eyeglasses, the Internet, WD-40, the push-up bra
and the iPhone, which came in at  No. 9  in a 2010 survey.  You won’t find the D-valve on any of them. However, almost
every list is likely to include the steam engine, for which the
sliding D-valve was invented by Murray in 1797. That’s because
the steam engine is one of the most transformative machines in
history -- the power behind the  Industrial Revolution .  Yet the steam engine changed the world in a different way
than we usually believe. For one thing, it didn’t actually drive
the machines of the Industrial Revolution, at least not at
first. Though  Thomas Newcomen ’s first engine appeared in 1712,
it wasn’t until the middle of the 19th century that steam power
overtook waterwheels as Britain’s foremost power source. This is
why Murray’s 10-inch-long valve does a better job of
illustrating the steam engine’s historical importance than
Newcomen’s 40-foot behemoth.  Power Shift  Some historical context: During the 10 millennia between
the introduction of agriculture and Newcomen, all of humanity’s
work -- the textbook definition: force times distance, whether
to pull a plough, turn a wheel or steer a ship -- had been
performed by wind, water or muscle. That’s how the pyramids were
built, and Chartres Cathedral. That’s how the Polynesians
crossed the Pacific, and the Norse sailed the Atlantic.  You can do a lot of work with wind, water and muscle. What
you can’t do is put a price on that work.  This is the main reason why humans were on a Malthusian
treadmill that kept worldwide per-capita annual gross domestic
product between $400 and $650 (in 1990 U.S. dollars) for 5,000
years. Between the death of  Julius Caesar  and the birth of
 Napoleon Bonaparte , the amount increased from a little less than
$500 a year to a little more than $600.  This sort of glacial growth wasn’t due to a lack of
capacity for technological innovation; people who could invent
the compass, gunpowder, telescopes, blast furnaces and aqueducts
weren’t deficient in talent. But no matter how hard they tried,
they could measure only dramatic improvements in the basic
machinery of work: the transformation of windmills from
horizontal to vertical, watermills turned by water passing
beneath, rather than over, or the invention of a collar that
allowed ploughs to be pulled by horses, instead of instead of
less efficient hay burners like oxen. However, given the
variability and site-specificity of wind and water, it’s not so
easy to find things that improve productivity by “only” a few
percentage points.  This is a problem because sustained technological
innovation is incremental: Small improvements that add up over
time.  So it was with steam, which was humanity’s first power
source with a variable cost: the price of a fixed quantity of
coal. Because the earliest steam engines were used exclusively
to pump water out of mines, the most common measurement of
performance was the “duty”: pounds of water that were raised 1
foot by a bushel of coal. A high-performing Newcomen-style
engine typically generated a duty of 5,000 pounds to 9,000
pounds; in other words, a bushel of coal could lift that many
pounds of water. Within 50 years, improved engines were
achieving a duty of 18,900 pounds. By then, they were being used
to run factories (and, soon enough, locomotives) and this made
measuring their efficiency by the amount of water they could
lift somewhat quaint.  James Watt  came up with the alternative of “horsepower,”
which was the standard measure of the amount of weight that one
horse could lift one foot in one minute. His measure of 33,000
foot-pounds a minute or 550 a second is pretty close to the
number we use today.  Which is where Matthew Murray comes in. In 1797, the
journeyman mechanic patented a new steam-engine design, one that
used the D-valve -- so-called for its shape -- to control the
flow of steam. It was lighter than its predecessor, and absorbed
less heat, which meant that steam engines could do the same work
using less coal. And he didn’t just invent the valve; in order
to produce it, he needed to invent a planing machine to smooth
its surfaces.  Operating Costs  A few years later, another mechanic,  William Murdoch , added
a connecting rod, and doubled its efficiency; Murray responded
by attaching the whole works to an egg-shaped gear that shaved a
few more pounds of coal off the machine’s operating costs. By
the end of the 18th century, because of this accumulation of
small improvements, five steam engines using 6,000 tons of coal
annually could do the same work as seven engines using 19,000
were doing before. The world’s first age of sustained,
incremental innovation had begun.  We still live in that era today. No matter how you plot
human welfare, prosperity or inventiveness on a graph --  life
expectancy , GDP, calories per person, innovations -- the world
was stuck in neutral until the steam engine allowed us to
measure the costs and benefits of small improvements in power
production. Worldwide per-capita annual GDP in 1800 -- still
only about $650 in 1990 U.S. dollars -- was more than $1,200 in
1900. By 2000, it was more than $6,000. This wasn’t achieved by
the wheel, the printing press, the moldboard plough or even the
push-up bra. Nor is it attributable to Murray’s D-valve, at
least not by itself.  That’s the point: The steam engine was the first great
invention built, not to endure, but to obsolesce; to be
regularly superseded by new-and-improved successors. Like every
invention since, it was an object lesson in the very great value
of very small improvements.  (William Rosen is the author of “Justinian’s Flea: The
First Great Plague and the End of the  Roman Empire ,” and “The
Most Powerful Idea in the World: A Story of Steam, Industry, and
Invention.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the author of this post:
William Rosen at  bill@justiniansflea.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  