-- Palestinian Premier Fayyad Cuts Fuel Prices Amid Protests
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-09-11T12:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/palestinian-premier-fayyad-cuts-fuel-prices-amid-protests-1-.html
Palestinian Authority  Prime
Minister Salam Fayyad said his government would take steps to
cut the price of fuel and other goods, after hundreds of people
protested against the high cost of living in Ramallah.  Before Fayyad announced the steps, Palestinian National
Initiative party Chairman Mustafa Barghouti had urged
demonstrators to protest until the government resolved the
financial and economic crisis in the  West Bank  and “people get
better  living conditions .”  It was the latest in a series of protests about  living
standards , after delays in payment of civil servants and
increases in fuel prices. Fayyad promised that employees would
get paid tomorrow, with those making less than 2,000 shekels
($505) a month getting their full salary and others half, and
said he plans to reduce value-added-tax to 15 percent from 15.5
percent on Oct. 1.  “The high prices of basic products is not the fault of the
Palestinian Authority, it is a regional and international
problem and this issue is a big challenge to the Authority,”
Fayyad said at the press conference.  He blamed Israel for delaying the handover of taxes it
collects on behalf of the PA, saying that was one of the reasons
for the government’s financial problems.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said at a press
conference in Jerusalem today that his government has been
trying to help the Palestinians deal with their economic
problems.  Economic growth in the West Bank will probably slow to 5
percent this year from 5.7 percent last year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a March report. Gaza’s growth rate is
expected to drop to 9 percent from about 20 percent last year,
according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  