-- Peruvian Bonds Advance as U.S. Stimulus Speculation Spurs Demand
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-09-11T17:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/peruvian-bonds-advance-as-u-s-stimulus-speculation-spurs-demand.html
Peruvian bonds rallied, pushing
yields to a record low, as speculation policy makers in the U.S.
and  Europe  will expand monetary stimulus to boost growth fueled
demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The yield on the Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due in August 2020 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 4.43 percent at 12:37 p.m. in Lima,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.21
centimo to 122.40 centimos per sol.  “There’s strong demand from offshore investors who are
betting the Fed will keep rates low until at least 2015,” said
Walther Benavides, a trader at BBVA Banco Continental in Lima.
European Central Bank bond buying will encourage “investors
looking for higher yields to turn to  Latin America ,” he said.  Peruvian yields dropped before a two-day Federal Reserve
meeting starting tomorrow in which policy makers will discuss
additional measures to stimulate the world’s largest economy.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  set out plans on
Sept. 6 to aid countries where bond yields have soared by buying
unlimited amounts of debt securities with maturities of as long
as three years.  The sol was little changed at 2.6080 per  U.S. dollar ,
according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit. The currency touched
2.6070 on Sept. 3, the strongest level since 1997, data from the
country’s financial regulator show.  Carry trade investors, who buy higher-yielding assets with
funds borrowed from countries with lower  interest rates , are
attracted to Peru “because of the currency’s constant
appreciation, low volatility and low risk,” Benavides said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  