-- Pfizer-J&J Alzheimer’s Drug Shows Promise for Early Use
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-09-11T20:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/pfizer-j-j-alzheimer-s-drug-shows-promise-for-early-use.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
bapineuzumab, an experimental drug that failed to help
Alzheimer’s symptoms in a study, showed signs of reducing
physical damage in the brain, according to a deeper analysis.  The medicine lessened a measure of nerve cell damage in the
brain and the buildup of amyloid plaque, hallmarks of
Alzheimer’s, in people who are genetically predisposed to the
disease, the research found. Test results released last month
showed that bapineuzumab and a similar drug from  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) , solanezumab, didn’t improve patients’ memory or thinking.  Today’s report at a medical meeting in  Sweden  renews hope
that medicines designed to attack amyloid may be beneficial when
given before irreparable harm occurs to brain cells, said Reisa
Sperling, a professor of neurology at  Harvard Medical School .
U.S.-funded  studies  testing the theory in high-risk people are
being planned and may take three to five years to complete.  “The disease begins 10 to 20 years before there are any
symptoms, and now we are better at detecting some of those
changes,” said  Steve Salloway , director of Neurology and the
Memory and Aging Program at Butler Hospital and professor of
neurology at  Brown University  in Providence,  Rhode Island .
“Drugs like this that lower amyloid will probably have their
greatest impact earlier on. We have to test that.”  Pfizer gained less than 1 percent to $24.17 at the close in
 New York  while J&J also rose less than 1 percent to $68.20.
Pfizer has increased 32 percent in the past 12 months, while J&J
has advanced 7.2 percent.  Profit Delayed  Drugs to slow the progression of Alzheimer’s disease could
have created a market worth $20 billion, said  Barbara Ryan , an
analyst with Deutsche Bank, in a June note to clients. It will
take years for additional studies to determine if the drugs
prevent disease when given earlier, eating into their patent
lives. A positive result would create an even larger market as
more people take the medicines for longer.  The research led by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J was
presented at the  European Federation of Neurological Societies 
meeting in  Stockholm . Two additional clinical trials conducted
outside the U.S. by New York-based Pfizer were halted last
month. The companies are still studying a version of the drug
that’s given as a shot, rather than intravenously.  The findings are weak and at best suggestive that targeting
amyloid may be beneficial, said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the
 University of Michigan ’s Ross School of Business, in an e-mail.
While the idea that amyloid is a trigger for Alzheimer’s disease
is popular, it hasn’t been proven, he said.  ‘Slimmest Threads’  “We are so desperate, given the failures in Alzheimer’s,
that we cling to the slimmest threads,” Gordon said. “Trials
that are failures but not total failures are considered
successes.”  There are about 5.4 million Americans with Alzheimer’s
disease, and the number is expected to surge as the population
ages,  according  to the  Alzheimer’s Association . The only drugs
available currently for the condition temporarily treat its
symptoms, rather than slowing or reversing it the brain-wasting
disease.  One study involved about 1,100 people with mild-to-moderate
Alzheimer’s who had a gene known as ApoE4 that puts them at risk
for the condition and leads to increased amyloid buildup.  Patients getting bapineuzumab had significantly less
amyloid in the brain on advanced imaging tests and lower levels
of phospho-tau in their spinal fluid, a marker of nerve cell
injury, said  Sperling , who led one of the studies.  Brain Fluid  The drug didn’t appear to slow brain shrinkage, the study
found. About 15 percent of patients getting bapineuzumab
developed a  condition  marked by fluid leaking into the brain
from blood vessels, compared with 0.2 percent of placebo
patients. Most had no symptoms, and many were able to resume
taking the drug after a break in treatment. Seizures were also
more common in the drug-treated patients.  Six bapineuzumab patients developed cancer and died,
compared with none of those getting a placebo, the study found.
A panel of safety experts reviewed the cancer finding and looked
at the results of other studies as well. No one cancer stood out
and the increased risk ebbed when the data from all the research
was collated, Sperling said.  Bapineuzumab is affecting the brain at the intended target
and may influence the biology of the disease, Sperling said.
Declining levels of phospho-tau, also a chemical sign of
Alzheimer’s progression that is measured in cerebral spinal
fluid, are compelling, she said.  Earlier Treatment  “We have seen that in people who are already in advanced
stages of Alzheimer’s, it’s very hard to move this disease,”
said Maria Carrillo, the Alzheimer’s Association’s director of
medical and scientific relations. “The scientific community is
recognizing that the potential we are looking for, a delay in
the disease progression, may come if we go earlier.”  Doctors are getting new tools that allow them to peer into
the brain to detect  Alzheimer’s disease  based on amyloid buildup
that starts years before symptoms. Amyvid from Indianapolis-
based Lilly won U.S. approval earlier this year to help spot the
protein deposits that previously were found only during autopsy.
General Electric Co., based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , says it
will file for a similar product by the end of 2012.  The researchers haven’t yet analyzed  the data  to determine
whether patients with the mildest symptoms, presumably earlier
in the disease process, fared better than those with moderate
levels of dementia, Salloway said. Additional analysis for
biological markers of the disease also is under way, he said.  Second Study  The second study, involving 1,331 patients without the
ApoE4 gene, included two different doses of bapineuzumab. The
researchers found no differences in amyloid buildup, phospho-tau
or brain volume, Salloway said.  Patients getting the higher dose had lower phospho-tau
levels and there was a trend in the imaging scans for less
amyloid buildup in the brain, Salloway said in a telephone
interview. The risk of fluid buildup and bleeding in the brain
and seizures rose in conjunction with the drug dose, though
there weren’t more cancer deaths in bapineuzumab patients.  While patients in the study were considered to have mild or
moderate  dementia , it’s important to fully understand what that
means, he said.  “It’s mild in the degree of dementia, but it’s not mild in
terms of what is happening in the brain,” he said. “To be
diagnosed with dementia, you have to have significant impairment
and neuronal injury.”  The idea that amyloid triggers a cascade of events that
damage the brain is the leading hypothesis for the cause of
Alzheimer’s disease, said  Ronald Petersen , a neurologist at the
 Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota .  Now researchers need to determine if stopping the amyloid
earlier will improve the health of patients, he said.  “This is encouraging, but the proof is in the pudding down
the road here,” he said in an interview. “Now we need to
determine if it has a biological effect that leads to
prevention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  