-- Philips Chief Cuts Additional 2,200 Jobs as Economy Worsens
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-09-11T08:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/philips-chief-digs-deeper-to-find-383-million-in-extra-savings.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  said
it will eliminate 2,200 additional jobs to wring an extra 300
million euros ($383 million) in savings from the world’s largest
lighting company as economic conditions deteriorate.  The measures, designed to address inefficiency in the
health-care and lighting divisions, bring the cost-cutting
target to 1.1 billion euros by 2014, Amsterdam-based Philips
said today. It’s targeting an extra 50 million euros in savings
for this year, Chief Executive Officer Frans van Houten said.  “I already flagged in July that the economy is in worse
shape than before, and that statement actually is pretty
accurate,” van Houten told reporters ahead of presentations to
investors in  London . “This will make us more agile and
competitive.”  Van Houten , now in his second year at the helm, is
responding to tougher competition and a slowdown in demand
that’s spurred competitors such as  Siemens AG (SIE)  to examine its
cost base. Philips had already targeted 4,500 job losses, and
the latest measures will focus predominantly on lighting and
health care operations in areas including marketing and
information technology.  Philips employed about 121,900 people at the end of last
year, with 44 percent of the total working in the lighting
business and 31 percent in health care, according to its annual
report.  Targets Intact  As part of the cuts, Philips will streamline management and
improve margins by saving on the purchase of raw materials, the
CEO said. The deeper cuts aren’t essential to meet margin goals,
he added. Philips has a target to lift earnings before interest,
taxes and amortization to 10 percent to 12 percent of sale by
2013, on revenue growth of 4 percent to 6 percent.  “Philips is on track to deliver the guidance,
irrespective of the current macro environment,”  said Martin Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “Therefore the
company’s earnings trajectory is primarily in under its own
control.”  Philips rose as much as 27 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 19.3
euros and traded at 19.06 euros as of 10:41 a.m. in Amsterdam.
The inventor of the compact disc has climbed 18 percent this
year, for a market value of almost 20 billion euros. Siemens,
expected to introduce its own purge on costs next month, rose
0.2 percent to 77.86 euros in  Frankfurt .  Spending on research and development, as well as on sales,
will remain intact, van Houten said. The CEO has vowed to change
the culture in the company to speed up the process of bringing
products to the market such as electrical toothbrushes and wake-
up lights.  After transferring an unprofitable television operation to
a joint venture, Philips is reviewing “various business
models” for its $2 billion audio and video consumer electronics
unit as demand for DVD and MP3 music players fade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  