-- Polish Builders Go Bust on Rail Amid Spanish Bidding: Freight
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-09-11T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/polish-builders-go-bust-on-rail-amid-spanish-bidding-freight.html
Poland’s first new rail stretch in
25 years, a two-kilometer link to the Warsaw airport completed
this year, could have symbolized a new track for Polish builders
as competition and costs rose in  road construction .  Instead,  Germany ’s  Bilfinger Berger SE (GBF)  won the contract. It
was one of many rail orders that Spanish, Chinese and Irish
bidders targeted to expand beyond Poland’s 130-billion zloty
($40 billion) road-improvement program. The competition squeezed
margins and business fell as the construction boom for the June
European soccer championships that Poland co-hosted with Ukraine
came to an end.  The rail unit of  Budimex SA (BDX) , Poland’s largest builder,
filed for bankruptcy Aug. 24. According to analyst Andrzej Bernatowicz at broker IDM SA, prospects for its peers aren’t
good either as  Europe ’s crisis continues to drive builders
outside their home markets. Poland’s transport-construction
program, including 38 billion zloty for rail, is Europe’s
biggest, according to the Polish Infrastructure Ministry.  “There’s immense foreign competition, which includes
Spanish companies as their home market shrank,” said Warsaw-
based Bernatowicz in a phone interview. “The pressure on
margins in railway orders is already visible.”  Polimex-Mostostal SA (PXM) , Budimex’s largest competitor, asked
creditors July 24 for an extra four months to repay debts, while
 PBG SA (PBG) , Poland’s third-largest builder, filed for bankruptcy
June 4.  Bankruptcy Trend  Budimex shares have lost 26 percent on the Warsaw bourse
since it said it needed to write down the unit’s value in June.
The  WIGCON Index (WIGCON) , the benchmark indicator for the construction
industry, has fallen 45 percent this year as more than 100
builders went bust after losses on road contracts. The measure
has declined 89 percent since its April 2007 peak, when Poland
and Ukraine were named as co-hosts of the tournament.  Eighteen groups, including  Spain ’s  Obrascon Huarte Lain SA (OHL) ,
Grupo Dragados SA and  Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas SA ,
bid to upgrade a 32-kilometer (20-mile) railway stretch in
western  Poland  in February. A consortium led by Polish builder
Torpol SA won the contract last month. The Polish state railway
will pay 671.2 million zloty for the work, 250 million zloty
less than planned, according to its website.  “I have doubts on whether conclusions have been drawn from
what happened in the road construction industry,” Bernatowicz
said. “Shifting the entire risk to contractors is a problem”
in both road and railway building.  EU’s Fastest  Foreign builders are lured by the fastest forecast growth
in the European Union. While the pace of Poland’s gross domestic
product declined to 2.4 percent in the second quarter from 3.5
percent in the previous period, the  economy , the only one in the
EU to avoid a contraction during the global crisis, will expand
2.7 percent this year, according to the median estimate of 31
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Budimex, a unit of Spain’s  Ferrovial SA (FER) , filed for the
bankruptcy of its PNI Sp. z o.o. unit, citing unprofitable
contracts, less than a year after it spent 225 million zloty to
buy it.  Aside from building new stretches of rail, Poland spent 14
billion zloty on rail upgrades in the last five years. Both
investment programs were co-funded by the EU and the bidders
came from as far away as Turkey and  China .  The competition has reduced project costs. In August 2009
GDDKiA, the country’s road-building agency, said it would pay
3.2 billion zloty, or 2.5 billion zloty less than planned, for
the key 91-kilometer stretch set to link Warsaw with the EU
motorway network after it received 37 bids from builders.  Tournament Building  It’s a far cry from 2010, when Poland was preparing to co-
host the European Championships, the world’s second-biggest
soccer event after the  World Cup . The EU funds were used to
triple the length of Polish highways and builders were reporting
record profits. The combined net income of Budimex, Polimex and
PBG rose to a record 563.1 million zloty in 2010.  By contrast, the combined loss for the first half of this
year was 2 billion zloty. Only Budimex reported a profit, of
22.1 million zloty. Their net debt stood at 3 billion zloty at
the end of June, an increase from a level close to zero in 2009.  While PBG, Polimex and their smaller competitor  DSS SA (DSS) 
failed to pay back their bonds, the yields on Polish government
five-year notes fell to a record low of 4.2 percent last week.
The cabinet is cutting the  budget deficit  and investors are
speculating the central bank may cut  interest rates .  Chinese Cancelation  Not all contracts with foreign companies have worked out
successfully. In June last year Poland canceled a highway-
building contract with China Overseas Engineering Group Co.,
which had experienced delays and failed to pay subcontractors.
The tender it had won was at a price less than half the original
budget.  Poland’s DSS SA was hired to finish the work. Then DSS went
bankrupt earlier this year as building-material costs and its
project-related debt jumped.  Poland, with the most road-accident deaths of any EU
country, has built 1,100 kilometers of highways since 2007,
spending 85 billion zloty through last year. It plans to invest
23.2 billion zloty in 2012, with spending declining to 12.3
billion zloty next year, according to the Finance Ministry
website.  In a country where trains travel at an average speed lower
than before World War II, railway construction investments are
set to more than double next year from 4.1 billion zloty planned
for 2012.  Maximum Speed  Increasing maximum speed on main links to 160 kilometers
per hour is a top priority of the government, which spent 14
billion zloty on upgrading railroads between 2007 and 2011.
That’s only 37 percent of the EU funds that have to be spent by
2015, implying a pace of investment that’s 50 percent slower
than in other industries where EU funds are used.  “Those data are absolutely worrying,” Minister for
Regional Development Elzbieta Bienkowska said at a July 5
seminar on using EU funds in rail investment.  Faster dispersion of funds could help Polish builders, said
Krzysztof Pado, an analyst at BDM brokerage.  “The  construction industry  is very cyclical and usually a
boom comes after a wave of bankruptcies, followed by declining
prices of building materials, services costs and cuts in
overcapacity,” he said in a phone interview. “Those who can
withstand the current problems have a chance to rebound in the
second half of 2013 or in early 2014, when we know what funds
will be available in the next EU budget.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net 
Maciej Martewicz at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net  