-- Portugal Labor Unions Plan Strikes Against Austerity Measures
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-11T18:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/portugal-labor-unions-plan-strikes-against-austerity-measures.html
Portugal ’s two biggest labor
unions, CGTP and UGT, said they planned to call for a series of
strikes to protest austerity measures announced by the
government last week.  Joao Proenca, the head of the UGT union, said the protests
may culminate in a nationwide strike with the CGTP. Both unions
oppose a government plan to increase the social-security rate
paid by workers and withhold some salary payments from state
employees next year.  “UGT’s actions will highlight the difficult situation that
Portuguese workers are going through,” Proenca said in comments
broadcast by SIC Noticias television station.  Prime-Minister Pedro Passos Coelho announced the new
measures on Sept. 7 in a bid to narrow the  budget deficit  and
comply with the terms of the country’s 78 billion-euro ($100
billion) aid plan from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund . UGT and CGTP made their comments after Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar held a news conference earlier today on
the results of the fifth review of Portugal’s bailout program.  Proenca, whose UGT union on Jan. 18 signed a deal with the
government to revamp the labor market, including measures that
make it easier to hire and dismiss workers, said he had no plans
for now to end that agreement.  UGT and CGTP organized the country’s first general strike
in 22 years last year to protest austerity measures by the
previous government. As the country’s borrowing costs surged,
Portugal in April 2011 followed Greece and Ireland in requesting
a bailout.  The government is imposing “sacrifices upon sacrifices to
those that have always fulfilled their responsibilities,”
Armenio Costa, the CGTP’s secretary-general, said in separate
comments broadcast by SIC Noticias. “This is a policy of
disaster that has to end very quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  