-- Portugal Gets More Time to Cut Budget Gap, Raises 2012 Goal
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-09-11T17:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/portugal-gets-more-time-to-cut-budget-gap-raises-2012-goal-1-.html
Portugal was given more time to
narrow its budget deficit as the government set a wider target
for borrowing this year after  tax revenue  missed forecasts and
the economy heads for a third year of contraction in 2013.  The government aims to reach a deficit of 5 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012 instead of the previous goal of
4.5 percent, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said in Lisbon today
after European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
agreed on the new targets. It aims for a deficit of 4.5 percent
in 2013 rather than 3 percent. It will only cut the deficit
below the European Union’s 3 percent limit in 2014, when it
targets a 2.5 percent gap.  Gaspar now projects GDP will shrink 1 percent next year. He
previously estimated GDP growth of 0.2 percent for 2013. He
kept a forecast for a contraction of 3 percent this year.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is battling rising
joblessness and a deepening recession as he cuts spending and
raises taxes to meet the terms of the 78 billion-euro ($100
billion) aid plan from the EU and IMF. As the country’s
borrowing costs surged, Portugal last year followed Greece and
Ireland in needing a bailout.  “Portugal’s economic adjustment program avoided the
bankruptcy of the Portuguese state,” Gaspar said in Lisbon
today at a press conference on the completion of the fifth
quarterly review of the country’s aid program. “The program
opens the way for the return to the bond market, in normal
financing conditions.”  ‘On Track’  The Portuguese government plans to carry out debt market
operations as it aims to regain access to bond markets by
September 2013, said Maria Luis  Albuquerque , the secretary of
state for treasury and finance.  The IMF, EU Commission and  European Central Bank  said in a
joint statement today that the program of measures attached to
Portugal’s bailout is “broadly on track.”  “Overall, this review confirms that the program is making
progress, albeit against strong headwinds,” the so-called
troika said. “Provided the authorities persevere with strict
program implementation, euro-area  member states  have declared
they stand ready to support Portugal until full  market access  is
regained.”  To meet the new deficit targets, the government plans to
increase taxes on real-estate assets valued at more than 1
million euros from this year. For 2013, it plans to raise taxes
on dividends,  capital gains  and private airplanes. It will also
set new rules for awarding  unemployment benefits  and pensions
will be cut, Gaspar said.  Tackling Unemployment  Portugal on Sept. 7 announced plans to raise the social-
security rate paid by workers while curbing the charge on
companies as the government tries to narrow the  budget deficit 
and fight surging unemployment. The social-security rate paid by
public and private-sector employees will increase by 7
percentage points to 18 percent next year, while the rate
companies pay will drop to 18 percent to encourage hiring.  The government forecasts the  unemployment rate  will rise to
about 16 percent in 2013 from 15.5 percent this year. Economic
growth has averaged less than 1 percent a year for the past
decade, placing Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest performers.  Gaspar reaffirmed a plan to complete the sales of airport
operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA and carrier TAP SGPS SA
by the end of this year. In the first quarter of 2013,  Portugal 
plans to start the sale of postal operator CTT-Correios de
Portugal and of a waste-management unit of water utility Aguas
de Portugal, followed by rail freight company CP Carga in the
second quarter.  Debt Path  Portugal’s debt will peak below 124 percent of GDP,
“remains sustainable and will be on a firm downward trajectory
after 2014,” the troika said in their statement.  The IMF in July said it projected Portugal’s debt would
peak at about 118.5 percent of GDP in 2013. The projection
assumed annual economic growth of 2 percent and medium and long-
term borrowing costs of 7 percent when the country regains
access to markets in 2013, declining gradually to 5 percent over
the next four years.  The approval of the conclusion of the fifth review will
allow the disbursement of 4.3 billion euros under the bailout.
That could take place in October, pending approval of the IMF
board and of European officials, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  