-- Putin Moves to Protect Gazprom From EU Pricing Dispute
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-09-11T15:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/putin-moves-to-protect-gazprom-from-eu-pricing-dispute.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
signed a decree giving the government the right to protect its
natural gas-export monopoly,  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , from an anti-trust
inquiry by the European Union.  Putin’s measure bans strategic companies from disclosing
information, disposing of assets or amending contracts without
government approval in case claims are made by foreign states or
entities, the president’s office said in an e-mailed statement
from Moscow today.  The Russian leader on Sept. 9 warned the EU, which relies
on  Russia  for a quarter of its gas needs, that there would be
“losses on both sides” if the issue isn’t resolved. He accused
the 27-nation bloc of trying to shift responsibility for
subsidizing former communist EU members onto Russia by forcing
Gazprom to cut prices for customers in eastern and central
 Europe .  “The government wants to protect Gazprom from the
attacks,” Sergey Vakhrameev, an analyst at IFC Metropol, said
by phone from Moscow. “This is a way of showing the EU that
they should be talking to the government directly, resolving the
issue at a higher level.”  The EU’s competition chief,  Joaquin Almunia , said today
that Gazprom’s long-term supply contracts linking gas prices to
 oil prices  may no longer be justified because of the emergence
of a  spot market  for gas and increased supplies of shale gas.  Competition Rules  Gazprom, the world’s largest gas exporter, faces a
potential $14.5 billion penalty as companies found to violate EU
competition rules can be fined as much as 10 percent of annual
revenue. The European Commission is investigating whether
Gazprom imposed unfair prices by linking gas and oil prices,
preventing gas trading between countries and hindering the
diversification of supply.  Gazprom sees the EU investigation as pressure to reduce gas
prices and it won’t give discounts without Russian government
approval, the company’s spokesman,  Sergei Kupriyanov , told
reporters in Moscow today.  Gazprom  shares  pared losses, closing down 0.6 percent today
in Moscow after earlier dropping as much as 0.9 percent.  Russia’s government will start negotiations in the next few
days with the Brussels-based commission, the EU’s executive arm,
Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  said.  `Win-Win Solution'  “We believe that we should act based on economic
considerations rather than politics, so we need to find a win-
win solution rather than give any preferential treatment to
anyone at the expense of Gazprom’s investment program,” he said
in an interview in  London  today.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission in 
Brussels, declined to comment on the Russian decree.  While Gazprom has yielded to pricing demands from German
and French customers, it has conceded little to countries
further east such as Hungary, Slovakia and  Poland , which are
largely dependent on Russian supplies, according to Patrick Heren, a London-based consultant.  “It clearly puts the energy relationship under further
strain,” Julian Lee, a senior analyst at the London-based
Centre for Global Energy Studies, said by phone. “The European
market is one that Russia has been serving for a very long time.
It has very significant relationships there and it wouldn’t be
in Gazprom’s interests any more than it would be in Europe’s for
that relationship to fall apart completely.”  Concern about dependence on Russian gas in Europe was
heightened after supplies were twice interrupted since 2006 due
to disputes between Russia and Ukraine over pricing and
transport costs. People in at least 20 countries lost heat for
about two weeks in freezing temperatures in January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  