-- Putin’s Asset Sale Plan Spurs Rostelecom Rally: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-09-11T22:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/putin-s-asset-sale-plan-spurs-rostelecom-rally-russia-overnight.html
OAO Rostelecom (ROSYY)  led gains in Russian
stocks traded in New York, surging to the highest level in four
months after President  Vladimir Putin ’s government pledged to
fulfill its assets sale plan.  American depositary receipts of Russia’s biggest long-
distance phone operator, increased 4.8 percent to $24.50
yesterday in New York, the highest level since May 15, following
a 1.3 percent gain in Moscow shares. The  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian companies in New York
and  futures  on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS Index advanced.  Russia will push ahead with its plan to sell state assets
and will look for the right moment for each offering, Deputy
Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  told investors at a conference
in London yesterday. The government plans to sell Rostelecom
after merging it with state-controlled telecommunications
company OAO Svyazinvest by April 2013, according to  Alfa Bank .  “The statement signals the government is serious about
reducing its stakes in some of the country’s most interesting
companies, such as Rostelecom, and investors appreciated that,”
Iouli Matevossov, an analyst at Alfa Bank, said by phone
yesterday from Moscow. “The state is not an efficient owner and
reduction of its stake would allow better efficiency.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 1.3 percent
to $29.15, the highest level since May 2. The RTS Volatility
Index retreated 0.2 percent to 28.77.  Asset-Sale Plan  Russia approved an asset-sale plan on June 7 targeting
revenue of 300 billion rubles ($9.3 billion) this year. The
state plans to sell stakes in OAO Sberbank, the country’s
largest lender, tanker operator OAO Sovcomflot and fertilizer
maker OAO Apatit, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said at a
government meeting at the time.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index increased 0.9 percent
to 99.39, the highest level since May 3.  RTS stock-index futures 
added 0.1 percent to 148,050.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  starts a two-day meeting
today amid speculation it will introduce a third round of asset
purchases. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 that he
wouldn’t rule out more economic stimulus.  The Federal  Constitutional Court  in Karlsruhe decides today
on whether Germany can participate in the 500 billion-euro ($640
billion) European Stability Mechanism, which offers loans to
 member states  and may buy their bonds to cut borrowing costs.  ‘Most Important Factors’  “All eyes are on the Fed and the Constitutional Court in
Germany,” Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alfa  Capital Markets  in
said by phone yesterday from London. “Those are the two most
important factors that will give us a little more clarity.”  Rostelecom jumped in New York while in Moscow the  stock 
rose to 128.53 rubles, or $4.08, the highest since May 3. One
ADR equals six ordinary shares.  VimpelCom Ltd., (VIP)  the world’s sixth-biggest mobile phone
company, rose to a six-month high, climbing 1.7 percent to
$11.73. Deutsche Bank AG cut its recommendation on the shares to
hold from buy, according to an e-mailed report yesterday.  Telenor ASA, which owns 39.5 percent of the  voting rights 
in VimpelCom, said last month that Russian regulators should
drop “immediately” their lawsuit against the company and should
allow VimpelCom to pay 2011 dividends. Russia’s Anti-Monopoly
Service, known as FAS, is disputing the Nordic company’s right
to raise its stake after it bought 11.3 percent of VimpelCom
from Weather Investments II in February.  ‘Not Over Yet’  “The current conflict between Telenor and Altimo is not
over yet,” Igor Semenov, an analyst at Deutsche Bank in Moscow,
wrote in the report. “Even after an eventual resolution of the
current dispute, differences of opinion
on strategic developments between the two shareholders are
nearly guaranteed in the future.”                        OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s largest producer of coal for
steelmakers, jumped 4.7 percent to $7.09, the highest level
since Aug. 10. The company’s Russian  stock  was little changed at
218.80 rubles, or the equivalent of $6.95.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
advanced 0.5 percent to 681.05 yesterday, to the highest level
since May 1.  Crude for October delivery gained 0.7 percent to $97.17 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the
highest settlement since Aug. 22. The five-day increase was the
longest since July 19. Prices are 1.7 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement increased 0.5 percent to
end at $115.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, fell 0.4
percent to $112.37 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  