-- Qihoo Rises as Wen Stimulus Comment Buoys ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-11T20:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/qihoo-rises-as-wen-stimulus-comment-buoys-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in New York
rose, lifting the benchmark index to a two-week high, after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled the government has more room for
fiscal and monetary stimulus measures to boost growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York rallied 1.7 percent to 89.42
yesterday, the highest since Aug. 28.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co
Ltd. (QIHU)  jumped the most in three weeks after its chief executive
officer said the software developer’s new search engine may use
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s advertising system.  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  gained the most
since July as the oil explorer plans to issue bonds to fund its
bid for Canada’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  led gains
on the index.  China still has “ample strength” in either monetary or
fiscal domains to propel economic growth, Wen said yesterday at
the World Economic Forum in the Chinese city of Tianjin, adding
the government has 100 billion yuan ($16 billion) in a fiscal
stabilization fund. Chinese banks’ 703.9 billion yuan new
lending in August exceeded the 600 billion yuan median estimate
of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “China has a tremendous scope to stimulate, and it’s nice
to see the premier reinforce that,”  Alec Young , a global equity
strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said in a telephone interview from
New York. “The better loan numbers and Wen’s comments buy the
Chinese some time, but the market wants to see more aggressive
action from the government before it can feel real comfortable
about Chinese equities.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1 percent to $33.40.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the biggest U.S. shares added
0.3 percent to 1,433.56 amid speculation the Federal Reserve
will act to stimulate the economy and after Germany’s highest
court said it won’t delay its ruling on the euro area’s
permanent bailout fund.  China’s top planning agency last week approved the
construction of new roads, railways and urban infrastructure,
while the People’s Bank of China cut benchmark interest rates in
June and July.  “China has been actively easing in none-traditional ways,
and with smaller adjustments which are certainly positive,”
 Dave Lutz , head of exchange-traded fund trading at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said yesterday from Baltimore. “Going forward,
as we have resolution in the euro zone, we’ll see the market
acting a lot better because a stronger euro makes Chinese
exported goods less expensive to Europeans.”  Qihoo’s American depositary receipts advanced 4.7 percent
to $24.43, the highest level since Aug. 22.  Google Ads  Beijing-based Qihoo, which last month started a search
engine, is considering commercializing the service by
introducing Google’s ads system, CEO Zhou Hongyi said yesterday
according to a  report  by  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s technology news service.
He also said Qihoo’s search engine plans to start an open
platform “soon” to cooperate with other smaller, high-quality
search tools for better results.  ADRs of Cnooc,  China ’s biggest offshore oil explorer,
jumped 4.1 percent to $190.83, the biggest rally since July 17.
The ADRs, each representing 100 underlying shares in Cnooc,
traded 0.7 percent  above  its Hong Kong stock, from a 0.8 percent
discount the previous day.  Cnooc agreed in July to pay $15.1 billion in cash to
acquire Calgary-based Nexen. As the deal is under review by the
Canadian government, Cnooc is in talks with offshore banks for
about $5 billion in short-term loans for fund the purchase, and
is considering eventually replacing that loan with a bond, two
people familiar with the matter said.  Solars Gain  Suntech, the world’s largest solar-panel maker, rose 8.4
percent to 80.5 cents in New York trading.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the
fourth-largest, increased for a second day, up 3.2 percent to
$4.23.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  gained 3.3 percent to $1.27 while  Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  added 5.2 percent to $1.82.  Trina, the Changzhou, China-based company that reported a
fourth quarterly loss last month, is seeking partners to
diversify as a global glut of panels and slowing demand in
Europe spur a shakeup of the industry, CEO Jifan Gao said
yesterday in an interview in Tianjin.  “We’re actively looking for targets. Companies like
Siemens may be a rival, but I also see them as partners for
cooperation,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  