-- Queensland Seeks 2014-15 Surplus in Bid to Regain AAA Rating
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-11T07:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/queensland-projects-2014-15-surplus-in-bid-to-regain-aaa-rating.html
Queensland,  Australia ’s most
indebted state, is aiming to return its budget to surplus in
2014-15 as Premier  Campbell Newman  attempts to win back its AAA
credit rating.  The deficit will be A$10.8 billion ($11.2 billion) in the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, Treasurer Tim Nicholls said in
handing down the Liberal National Party’s first budget since
ending 14 years of Labor rule in a landslide election victory in
March. The state will cut 14,000 public service jobs this fiscal
year, he said.  “We have had to make the hard decisions necessary to get
the great state of Queensland’s finances back on track and back
in the black,” Nicholls  told  the state parliament in Brisbane.
“This afternoon we reset the clock and we break from the
addiction to debt and deficit that characterized Queensland’s
finances under Labor.”  Newman is slashing jobs and services to curb spending that
he said earlier this year risked turning Queensland into an
Australian version of  Spain . His challenge is complicated by
falling commodity prices that threaten to reduce revenues in
resource-rich Queensland, which accounts for about one-fifth of
the Australia’s A$1.4 trillion economy and is the third-biggest
state by population.  The government forecast net borrowings of A$11.2 billion
this fiscal year, up from the estimated A$6.3 billion in
2011-12, the budget  papers  showed.  Coal Royalties  From Oct. 1, the royalty on coal sold for between A$100 and
A$150 per ton will be increased to 12.5 percent, and 15 percent
for greater than A$150 per ton, Nicholls said. The state expects
to raise an extra A$1.6 billion in revenue over four years from
the increase and pledged no further changes to the rates for 10
years.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, said
it was “disappointed” in the size of the royalties increase.
The new rates will directly impact the profitability of the
company’s operations and affect its business decisions on
capital growth allocations in the state, it said.  BHP said yesterday it will halt production at its open-cut
Gregory mine in Queensland and cut almost 300 jobs, the second
coal pit to be shut by the company in the state this year.  Nicholls said the government would increase the first home
owners grant on new homes to A$15,000 from A$7,000 to support
construction.  Credit Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service said in a statement after the
announcement that Queensland “faces considerable challenges in
achieving it budgetary targets.”  Standard & Poor’s  said a near-
term movement in the state’s credit rating is currently
unlikely, adding that “upward movement in the rating may be
possible over the mid-to-long term, following a sustained
improvement in Queensland’s budgetary performance and debt
burden.”  Fitch Ratings said it will respond to the budget later in
the week.  Queensland lost its top credit rating in 2009, after the
Labor state government spent A$54 billion to fix ailing
infrastructure. The state has A$75.5 billion in outstanding
bonds, about A$20 billion more than the next biggest debtor
state, New South Wales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Queensland has been bankrupted -- is on the way to being
bankrupted -- by poor and reckless financial management,”
Newman, a former Brisbane mayor, said in July. “I’m saying that
if we’d failed to act in the way that we are, that Queensland
would ultimately be the Spain of Australian states.”  Yield Spreads  Queensland holds a AA+ score from S&P and  Fitch Ratings ,
the second highest rating, and the equivalent Aa1 ranking from
Moody’s.  The 6.25 percent Queensland note due in 2020 yielded 121
basis points more than Federal government debt, according to
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices. The
equivalent spread on New South Wales notes due in May 2020 is 84
basis points.  A private report today showed business confidence weakened
across most Australian states in August, “with a significant
loss in sentiment recorded in Queensland,” National Australia
Bank Ltd. Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said.  Queensland recorded the biggest fall in  consumer confidence 
in Australia, a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute
survey taken Aug. 6-10 showed.  The state’s jobless rate rose for a second month in August
to 5.9 percent, compared with national unemployment of 5.1
percent, government data released last week showed.  The Liberal National Party won 78 of the Queensland
parliament’s 89 seats in the March state election. The result
was a rebuke to former state premier  Anna Bligh , whose
popularity sank after she raised A$15 billion from selling off
state assets, including a stake in coal-train operator  QR
National Ltd. (QRN)  The government still holds a 35 percent stake in
QR, which has a market value of A$8.4 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  