-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Widened in July as Exports Waned
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/trade-deficit-in-u-s-probably-widened-in-july-as-exports-waned.html
The U.S.  trade deficit  probably
widened in July after shrinking to the lowest level since
December 2010 as a slowing global economy limited demand for
American-made goods, economists said before a report today.  The gap grew to $44 billion during the month from $42.9
billion in June, according to the  median  forecast of 74
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A widening of the shortfall
would be the first since March.  A stagnant  Europe  and weaker economies in  emerging markets 
such as China may start sapping demand for U.S. products, a
source of strength for the expansion in the second quarter. At
the same time, a pickup in crude oil prices may lead to a higher
American import bill.  “Slow growth abroad and deepening recession in Europe”
may “finally put a dent” in U.S. exports, said Guy Berger, an
economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Petroleum prices are putting up some pressure on the
deficit.”  The Commerce Department’s trade report is due at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
gaps of $39.7 billion to $47.1 billion.  Even with the global economic slowdown, U.S. exports have
held up, rising to a record $185 billion in June. A narrower
trade deficit contributed 0.32 percentage point to the 1.7
percent pace of economic growth in the second quarter, according
to Commerce Department figures.  Europe, China  European countries, struggling with a sovereign debt
crisis, and a cooling of the expansion in  China  remain obstacles
to U.S. export growth.  In Europe, the U.K. economy  shrank  0.5 percent in the
second quarter, the weakest performance since the first three
months of 2009, the government reported Aug. 24. Italy’s economy
contracted for a fourth straight quarter in the three months
through June, the government said Aug. 7, as manufacturing
slumped and the euro-area debt crisis intensified.  The Chinese economy has  decelerated  for six straight
quarters. Manufacturing slowed further in August, surveys of
 purchasing managers  showed earlier this month, with one gauge at
its lowest level since March 2009.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty regarding the European
economy, the pace of a general industrial recovery in China as
well as the potential for a fiscal cliff in the  United States ,”
James Shaw, chief financial officer of Minneapolis-based
Donaldson Company Inc., said on an Aug. 27 earnings call.  “So we’ll continue to manage our operating expense levels
cautiously in the near term,” said Shaw, whose company makes
filtration systems.  Oil Prices  On the other side of the trade ledger,  oil prices  may start
to boost the value of imports. The cost of imported petroleum
products  decreased  1.6 percent in July from the prior month,
compared to June’s 9.3 percent drop, the Labor Department said
Aug. 10.  Oil prices have since settled near a four-month high.  Brent
crude  on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  climbed from
an intraday low of $88.49 a barrel on June 22 to a high in
August of $117.03.  A rise in the U.S. import bill may be tempered by slower
consumer and corporate demand. Employers added a fewer-than-
forecast 96,000 jobs in August, Labor Department figures showed
Sept. 7. Average hourly earnings climbed 1.7 percent from August
2011, matching the smallest gain since record-keeping began in
2007.  Fed’s Bernanke  “The stagnation of the labor market in particular is a
grave concern,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
in an Aug. 31 speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Persistently high
unemployment “will wreak structural damage on our economy that
could last for many years.”  Fed officials at their July 31-Aug. 1 meeting were moving
toward additional monetary policy action, according to minutes
of the gathering. Many members of the panel said more stimulus
will be needed “fairly soon” unless the recovery shows signs
of a “substantial and sustainable strengthening.”  Barclays Plc forecasts the  Federal Open Market Committee 
this week will announce monthly purchases of $50 billion to cut
the jobless rate while holding inflation at 2 percent.
Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BNP Paribas,
responding to last week’s report of slowing job growth, also say
they expect an announcement of an open-ended plan on Sept. 13
after a two-day FOMC meeting.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  