-- Rajoy Says Europe Shouldn’t Dictate How Spain Cuts Gap
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-09-11T14:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/rajoy-says-europe-shouldn-t-dictate-how-spain-cuts-gap.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  faced pushback from his visiting Finnish counterpart,
 Jyrki Katainen , over the next steps in fighting the debt crisis.  Katainen, speaking Madrid today before meeting Rajoy, said
 Spain  should try to avoid tapping central bank aid and  Finland 
may press for “concrete measures” to reduce the deficit as a
condition for any support. Rajoy late yesterday said he would
reject specific policy conditions set by the European Union or
the  European Central Bank  for buying the country’s bonds.  Katainen joined German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
in deterring Rajoy from activating the ECB’s bond buying program
as resistance to the plan set out by central bank president
 Mario Draghi  coalesces. The Spanish premier last night pledged
that Spain will meet its targets for reducing its budget
shortfall this year and next and defended his government’s right
to set spending limits on individual policies.  “We all have to work hard in avoiding packages,” Katainen
said when asked about bailout conditions. “The deficit target
is not probably the best possible target. Concrete measures to
improve competitiveness and concrete measures cutting the
deficit and cutting debt development are more important.”  Spain’s 10-year bonds rose, sending the yield down 1 basis
points to 5.69 percent at 3:58 p.m. in  Madrid .  Protecting Pensioners  Rajoy said last night he still aims to protect Spanish
pensioners from suffering cuts in their benefits and may be able
to repair some of the election pledges he’s broken before he has
to face voters again in 2015.  “We need to meet the budget deficit commitment, which is
the most important challenge we have as a country,” he said in
his first television interview since taking office in December.
“I won’t accept them telling us which are the specific policies
where we have to cut or not.”  He said his government still needs time to study the ECB’s
plan to buy bonds of struggling euro-area members before
deciding whether to request aid since the pledge of support has
already lowered Spain’s borrowing costs. The yield on the
country’s 10-year bond fell more than 100 basis points last
week, with most of that decline coming after Draghi laid out his
plan on Sept. 6.  Deficit Slippage  “We’re talking about a game of bluff here,”  Charles
Dumas , chairman of Lombard Street Research Ltd., said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s ‘Surveillance’ with  Tom
Keene . Should Spanish “bond yields head north again because of
no action, then the ECB may find itself forced just to hold the
thing together to do whatever it takes, to use Mr Draghi’s own
words.”  Schaeuble told lawmakers in Berlin yesterday Spain doesn’t
need a full sovereign bailout, according to two party officials
who participated in the briefing. Schaeuble praised Rajoy’s work
on reforming the economy, saying the progress he’s made means
that a full bailout isn’t necessary, said the officials who
asked not to be identified because the briefing was private.  Bond Rally  Spanish bonds rallied last week after Draghi said the
central bank will buy unlimited quantities of sovereign bonds as
long as governments in countries such as Spain and Italy request
aid from  Europe ’s rescue funds and sign up to strict conditions.  Katainen expressed his view on bailout terms at a joint
press conference with the Spanish premier this afternoon when he
said measures to boost competitiveness should also be a
condition of any bailout. Rajoy announced a plan to increase
taxes on short-term  capital gains  at the briefing.   The Spanish leader last night said that breaking a string
of promises he made to voters on taxes and benefits when they
chose him to lead the country in November didn’t undermine the
legitimacy of his government and said he may be able to reverse
policies such as raising  sales tax  and cutting  unemployment
benefits  before the next vote.  “These are measures that can be recovered over the length
of the legislature,” he said. “They gave us a mandate to
recover economic growth for Spain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  