-- RBA Says Officials Acted in Good Faith in Securency Case
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-11T23:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/rba-says-officials-acted-in-good-faith-in-securency-bribery-case.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said
its executives acted with integrity in response to allegations
of bribery at its note printing units amid a new report that a
senior bank official was aware of corruption in 2007.  An assistant governor was told five years ago that the
RBA’s half-owned subsidiary,  Securency International Pty , hid a
A$492,000 ($513,000) payment to a Malaysian arms dealer, the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. and  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  newspapers
reported yesterday, citing documents from the central bank’s
files. The documents contradict Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s
testimony to a parliamentary panel that the bank knew nothing of
the Securency bribery allegations until they became public in
2009, according to the report.  “The Reserve Bank is committed to transparency on these
matters,” the central bank said in a statement on its website.
“The bank’s executives acted in good faith and with integrity.
It is completely without foundation to suggest otherwise.”  Eight former managers and employees at the bank’s  Note
Printing Australia Ltd.  unit and Securency face charges in
relation to the bribing of officials in  Malaysia , Indonesia and
 Vietnam  from 1999 to 2004 to win bank-note printing contracts.
The RBA is facing demands from Greens Party lawmaker  Adam Bandt 
for a public inquiry into the matter, which has resulted in the
first prosecutions under anti-bribery laws enacted in Australia
in 2000.  ‘Growing Cloud’  Bandt said the allegation that an assistant governor was
aware of payments to the Malaysian arms dealer reinforced the
need for an investigation.  “The growing cloud over the Reserve Bank and its
governance will not clear until a full inquiry is conducted,”
Bandt said in a statement after the report.  The RBA reiterated that it is compiling documents relating
to the allegations of bribery and will make them public once it
receives court approvals.  “This work is progressing,” the central bank said in the
statement. “It is important that the legal process is respected
and that the release of any documents is done in a way that does
not jeopardize the right of the accused to a fair trial.”  Further Payments  The Malaysian arms dealer’s company wrote to the assistant
governor demanding further payments and stating that it had
convinced the Southeast Asian nation’s government to award note
printing contracts, according to the report on the Age
newspaper’s website.  Records show the issue was raised at a Note Printing
 Australia  board meeting in September 2007, according to the
report.  Liberal lawmaker Tony Smith, a member of parliament’s
economics committee, said the panel must take up Stevens’s offer
last month to make a special appearance to answer questions and
present documents related to the matter, the newspaper reported.  The bank plans to submit documents, which include a 2007
report from the Freehills law firm that concluded no Australian
laws were broken at Note Printing Australia, to the
parliamentary panel “at the earliest opportunity,” Stevens
said Aug. 24 in his semi-annual testimony before the economics
committee in Canberra.  Securency’s former chief financial officer David Ellery
pleaded guilty to one charge of false accounting and on Aug. 20
was given a six-month suspended sentence after he agreed to
cooperate with investigators and testify at trials of the other
employees.  Note Printing Australia is governed by a board of directors
appointed by the Reserve Bank. Securency’s board has three
directors appointed by the RBA. The central bank said in its
annual report last year that it had replaced its representatives
on the two companies’ boards. The RBA said in November 2010 that
it will sell its stake in Securency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  