-- Treasuries Halt Advance Before $32 Billion 3-Year Sale
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-09-11T06:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/treasuries-halt-advance-before-32-billion-3-year-sale.html
Treasuries halted a gain from
yesterday as investors prepared to bid at a $32 billion 3-year
auction today, which will be followed by sales of 10-year notes
tomorrow and 30-year bonds the day after.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity inflation-linked securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, rose
to a five-month high of 2.40 percentage points yesterday. The
gauge is climbing after data last week showed slower job growth,
boosting speculation the  Federal Reserve  will increase asset
purchases to spur the economy and inflation.  Ten-year  yields  were little changed at 1.65 percent as of
7:08 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
The price of the 1.625 percent security due in August 2022 was
99 26/32. The rate compares with the average of 3.72 percent for
the past decade.  “Yields are unattractive,” said Kei Katayama, who buys
 U.S. government debt  in  Tokyo  for Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.,
which manages the equivalent of $63.1 billion. “There is
gradual, slow growth in the economy.” Daiwa SB is betting
Treasury rates will increase as the economy improves, he said.  Japan ’s 10-year rate was little changed at 0.795 percent.  Treasuries advanced yesterday on signs of slowing economic
growth in  China  and Japan.  U.S. payrolls rose by 96,000 in August, the Labor
Department said Sept. 7, less than the 130,000 median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Wider Spread  The  spread  between 10- and 30-year yields reached 1.18
percentage points yesterday, the most since May. Thirty-year
bonds, because of their longer maturity, are more sensitive to
inflation than shorter-dated Treasuries.  Long-term yields will be higher than short-term rates in
the U.S. and Europe because of reflation, according to  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co.  Bond yield curves will be “very steep” for “a very long
time,” Gross wrote in a Twitter  post  yesterday.  Three-year notes yielded 0.335 percent in pre-auction
trading, versus 0.37 percent at the last sale of the securities
on Aug. 7. The record low  auction yield  was 0.334 percent in
September 2011.  Investors submitted orders to buy 3.51 times the amount of
available debt last month, matching the average for the past 10
sales.  Indirect bidders , the investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 29.7 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 34.1 percent for the past 10 sales.  Debt Sales  The government is also scheduled to sell $21 billion of 10-
year notes tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year debt Sept. 13.  Treasury three-year notes have returned 0.5 percent this
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Ten-
year notes gained 3.8 percent and 30-year bonds advanced 3.4
percent, based on the data.  Investors looking for higher yields than those on
 government securities  should consider U.S. bank debt, Bank of
America strategists Ralph Axel in  New York  and Bin Gao and
Adarsh Sinha in  Hong Kong  wrote in a report yesterday.  The bonds yield 2.10 percentage points more than
Treasuries, with demand for the debt narrowing the spread from
3.84 percentage points at the end of last year, based a Bank of
America index of the securities. U.S. bank debt returned 12
percent this year.  Fed policy makers meet tomorrow and the next day to look
for ways to spur growth.  Trade Report  The U.S.  trade deficit  probably widened in July as a
slowing global economy limited demand for exports, economists
said before a report today. The gap grew to $44 billion from
$42.9 billion in June, according to the  median  forecast of 74
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank has already purchased $2.3 trillion of
Treasury and mortgage-related debt to cap  interest rates  under a
policy known as quantitative easing, or QE. It’s now in the
process of swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with
those due in six to 30 years to put downward pressure on long-
term borrowing costs.  The bank is scheduled to buy as much as $2 billion of
securities maturing from February 2036 to August 2042 today as
part of the program, according to the  website  of the Fed Bank of
New York.  Four government bond dealers predict Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will drop his policy of limited bond purchases and opt
for open-ended buying to cap borrowing costs. Economists at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA and
Deutsche Bank AG say the Fed will tie purchases to economic
performance, not a sum and end-date.  “We’ll get a rally out of that,” said Marc Fovinci, the
head of fixed income in  Portland ,  Oregon  at Ferguson Wellman
Capital Management Inc., which has $3.1 billion in assets.  Inflation isn’t a danger yet, he said. “That risk is
there, but it’s at least many months, if not years, down the
road,” Fovinci said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 