-- Treasuries Drop Before Sale as Moody’s Says It May Cut
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-09-11T15:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/treasuries-snap-advance-before-32-billion-3-year-sale.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for the
first time in three days before a $32 billion auction of three-
year debt as Moody’s Investors Service said it may lower the
U.S. credit rating unless lawmakers agree to reduce debt.  Thirty-year yields climbed toward the highest level in
three weeks as a gauge of  inflation expectations  approached the
most since March. Data last week showed U.S. job growth slowed,
boosting speculation the  Federal Reserve  will increase asset
purchases, or quantitative easing, to encourage growth. Fed
policy makers meet this week.  “This has everything to do with QE and what the Fed says
on Thursday,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading
at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in New York, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade with the central bank. “There’s a 50-50 chance they
do it. We’re going to be in a tight range till then. There’s a
lot of supply. The three-year will come on the screws.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.7 percent at 11:36 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
1.625 percent note due in August 2022 fell 3/8, or $3.75 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 11/32.  The 30-year  yield  climbed five basis points to 2.85 percent
after increasing to 2.86 percent on Sept. 7, the highest level
since Aug. 22.  Moody’s Statement  Moody’s said in a statement it may lower the U.S. credit
rating to Aa1 from Aaa unless budget negotiations during 2013
lead to a reduction of the percentage of debt to gross domestic
product.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. on Aug. 5, 2011,
and has said political and fiscal risks may lead to another cut.
 Fitch Ratings  rated the nation at AAA with a negative outlook.  “We’re a long way from them doing it, so I don’t think it
has much of an impact right now,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “Everybody knows that if we don’t get our house in
order,” the nation will face trouble, he said.  The  difference in yield  between 10-year notes and similar-
maturity inflation-linked debt, a gauge of traders’ expectations
for consumer prices known as the break-even rate, was 2.39
percentage points. The spread widened to as much 2.4 percentage
points yesterday, the most since March 22. It has averaged 2.2
percent this year.  The  spread  between 10- and 30-year yields, called the yield
curve, reached 1.18 percentage points yesterday, the most since
May, before closing at 1.15 basis points. It was little changed
today. Thirty-year bonds are more sensitive to inflation than
shorter-dated Treasuries.  A  yield curve  is a graph that charts the rates of bonds of
a similar type with different maturities. It steepens when
yields on shorter-dated debt fall, those on longer-dated bonds
rise, or when both occur at the same time.  Note Auction  Three-year notes yielded 0.335 percent in pre-auction
trading, compared with 0.37 percent at the previous sale of the
securities on Aug. 7. The record low  auction yield  was 0.334
percent in September 2011.  Investors submitted orders to buy 3.51 times the amount of
available debt last month, a gauge of demand, versus 3.52 times
in July. The average bid-to-cover ratio at the past 10 auctions
was 3.51.  Indirect bidders , the investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 29.7 percent of the notes at the August
three-year auction, compared with 30 percent in July. The
average at the past 10 offerings was 34.1 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 8.4 percent of
the notes, the lowest since April. The figure compares with an
average of 9.9 percent for the past 10 auctions.  Note Returns  Treasury three-year notes have returned 0.5 percent this
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Ten-
year notes have gained 3.8 percent and 30-year bonds have
advanced 3.4 percent, the data show.  The government is scheduled to sell $21 billion of 10-year
notes tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year bonds Sept. 13.  “Demand tomorrow should be fairly good,” said Justin Lederer, an interest rate strategist at the primary dealer
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in  New York . “The bond is always the
questionable auction. Overall demand will be decent.”  Fed policy makers open a two-day meeting tomorrow to look
for ways to spur growth. The central bank has already purchased
$2.3 trillion of Treasury and mortgage-related debt in two
rounds of quantitative easing to spur the economy.  Employers added 96,000 positions in August, versus a
Bloomberg News survey’s forecast of 130,000 jobs, the Labor
Department reported Sept. 7. The  unemployment rate  remained
above 8 percent for a 43rd month.  Fed Purchase  The Fed also is swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its
holdings with those due in six to 30 years to put downward
pressure on long-term borrowing costs. It purchased $1.8 billion
of securities today maturing from February 2036 to August 2042
as part of the program, according to the website of the Fed Bank
of New York.  Four primary dealers predict Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
drop his policy of limited bond purchases and opt for open-ended
buying to cap borrowing costs. Economists at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG say the
Fed will tie purchases to economic performance, not a sum and
end-date.  “We’ll get a rally out of that,” said Marc Fovinci, head
of fixed income in  Portland ,  Oregon  at Ferguson Wellman Capital
Management Inc., which has $3.1 billion in assets.  Inflation isn’t a danger yet, he said. “That risk is
there, but it’s at least many months, if not years, down the
road,” Fovinci said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  