-- Red Sox-Yankees Tickets Prices Plunge as Boston Sinks
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-09-11T14:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/red-sox-yankees-tickets-prices-plunge-as-boston-sinks.html
The  Boston Red Sox ’s worst season
in 46 years means this week’s series against the  New York 
Yankees will be their fans’ cheapest chance to see the historic
rivalry in at least four years, if they can bear to watch.  The price of a ticket sold on the online secondary market
for any of the three games beginning tonight averaged $66.78 in
the seven days through Sept. 10, down about 63 percent from
their peak in June, according to ticket-price aggregator
SeatGeek. That’s the lowest it has cost to see the two teams in
Boston since the firm began compiling data in 2009.  “That’s a steal for a Yankees-Red Sox game,” Will
Flaherty, director of communications for New York-based SeatGeek
said in a telephone interview. “People hold on to their season
tickets so they can see these games, and for brokers, this is
where their investment usually pays off.”  The  Red Sox , in last place in the American League East
Division at 63-78, are on pace for their  worst record since 1966 
in a season plagued by poor pitching, injuries and internal
discord. The club last month began rebuilding for next year when
it sent three players with about $260 million remaining on their
contracts to the  Los Angeles Dodgers  in one of the largest
trades in  Major League Baseball  history, measured by the
contracts of players involved.  “We can understand why the secondary market has fallen,”
Sam Kennedy, the team’s chief operating officer, said in a
telephone interview. “We need to have a team on the field
that’s playing competitive, exciting baseball, and when they’re
not it affects everything.”  The average price for Yankees-Red Sox games was $153.48 in
2009, $141.15 in 2010, $186.79 in 2011 and $140.07 so far this
year.  $19 Seats  Seats for tomorrow’s game at Fenway Park against the first-
place Yankees (79-61) were available at midday yesterday for as
low as $19 from broker Ace Ticket.  The average price of online secondary sales for all
remaining Red Sox home games in the seven days ended yesterday
was $48.86, according to SeatGeek. That’s below their average
initial sale price set by the club at $53.38, the highest in
baseball.  Overall, the price of Sox tickets sold on the secondary
market this year has dropped 15 percent to $78.11, from $92.23
last year. That’s also still the most expensive in baseball. The
Yankees are third highest at $67.91 behind the  Toronto Blue
Jays ’ $69.63.  While prices have slumped and swathes of empty seats
appeared during last weekend’s series against the  Blue Jays , the
Red Sox managed to extend their string of consecutive home
sellouts to 785, the longest regular-season run of sellouts in
U.S. professional sports history, according to Major League
Baseball.  Sox Sellouts  The Red Sox declare a sellout when tickets sold and given
to charities, including those for standing-room-only areas,
exceed the seating capacity of the stadium, a policy followed by
all MLB teams, Kennedy said.  Thousands of tickets for each game are obtained even before
the season begins by brokers seeking to profit by reselling them
online. If those tickets go unsold and unused, they still count
toward a sellout. The Red Sox consider the unused tickets as
“no-shows.”  The club reports a “paid attendance” figure for each game
that reflects tickets sold, also in line with the practice
across MLB, Kennedy said. The team doesn’t disclose actual
attendance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in  Boston  at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  