-- ResCap’s Control of Bankruptcy Extended to Dec. 20
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-09-11T19:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/rescap-s-exclusive-control-of-bankruptcy-extended-to-dec-20.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
bankrupt mortgage unit of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , will retain the
exclusive right to file a reorganization plan until Dec. 20,
less time than the company sought.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn told ResCap today that
to keep control of the reorganization beyond that date, it must
open talks with the official committee of unsecured creditors,
which has complained about a lack of serious negotiations.  “If the debtor wants to maintain exclusivity, it needs to
move forward with negotiations,” Glenn said in court in
 Manhattan .  The company sought a nine-month extension of its exclusive
right to file a reorganization plan that would settle legal
claims related to Ally and mortgage-bond investors. The
creditors’ committee asked for a shorter period and assurances
that negotiations on a new plan will begin.  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy in May with
plans to sell most of its assets and to resolve legal claims
related to mortgage-backed securities. The deal that it cut with
Ally is being investigated by a court-appointed examiner.  ResCap has agreed to accept $750 million from Detroit-based
Ally in return for dropping any legal claims against its former
parent. The company has also proposed settling a fight over
mortgage-backed securities by giving investors the right to
pursue an $8.7 billion claim in bankruptcy.  Both proposals need Glenn’s approval.  The company’s 6.5 percent bonds that mature next year
climbed 2 percent to 26 cents on the dollar following the
ruling, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The bankruptcy case is In re Residential Capital LLC,
12-12020,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 