-- Trina Seeks Partners in Shift Away From Solar-Panel Production
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-11T12:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/trina-seeks-partners-in-shift-away-from-solar-panel-production.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the solar-panel
maker that reported a fourth quarterly loss last month, is
seeking partners to diversify as a global glut of panels and
slowing demand in  Europe  spur a shakeup of the industry.  “We’re actively looking for targets,” Chief Executive
Officer Jifan Gao said in an interview in Tianjin, China.
“Companies like Siemens may be a rival, but I also see them as
partners for cooperation.”  Demand for panels has weakened as Chinese producers flood
the market, economies stagnate and governments curb subsidies
for renewable energy. The oversupply has dragged down prices,
contributing to losses for Trina and triggering a move into
power-plant development, a strategy implemented by competitors
including  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest U.S. solar company.  “Trina is facing widespread impact from the global
economic slowdown,” Gao said. “Current leading companies may
not remain so in the future. By 2015 or 2020, if these companies
want to continue to maintain their positions, they’ll need to
change their business models.”  Last month, Changzhou, China-based Trina said it will
develop power projects to boost revenue after posting a second-
quarter net loss of $92.1 million. The company is focusing on
moving to other parts of the supply chain, such as solar power
generation units, electricity distribution and energy storage
systems, Gao said.  Trade Disputes  That may help Trina withstand the slump in panel prices,
which has already tipped more than a dozen companies into
bankruptcy and ignited trade tensions between the U.S.,  China 
and the European Union, with each side saying their rivals are
unfairly supported.  “This industry needs a reshuffling of cards,” Gao said.
“The industry may need two to three years to complete a process
of reshuffling, restructuring and consolidation.”  Chinese solar manufacturers face an EU probe into whether
they’ve sold products in the 27-nation bloc below cost, a
practice known as dumping. The inquiry covers 21 billion euros
($27 billion) of imports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic
modules or panels, as well as cells and wafers.  “I believe the two sides can cooperate and settle the
anti-dumping case,” Gao said. “The pressure now is coming from
the uncertainty of the verdict.”  ADRs Gain  Trina’s American depositary receipts rose 2 percent to
$4.10 in  New York  yesterday, trimming their decline this year to
39 percent. One ADR is equivalent to 50 ordinary shares.  Shares in Wuxi, China-based Suntech Power Holdings Co., the
world’s biggest solar manufacturer, have tumbled 66 percent
since Jan. 1 in New York.  Trina’s sales extend from China to  Germany ,  Spain  and the
U.S. In August, the company reduced its forecast for 2012
shipments by as much as 17 percent as its inventories and short-
term debt both doubled.  The company expects to ship 1.75 gigawatts to 1.8 gigawatts
in photovoltaic panels this year, compared with a May forecast
of 2 gigawatts to 2.1 gigawatts. Second-quarter shipments were
419 megawatts, in line with its estimates.  Trina’s move toward power-plant development follows the
example of Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar, which has chosen to
sell power stations to the likes of  Warren Buffett  and  NextEra
Energy Inc. (NEE) , instead of competing with China on panel sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  