-- Road King Markets Dollar Debt as Asia Bond Risk Little Changed
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-11T04:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/road-king-markets-dollar-debt-as-asia-bond-risk-little-changed.html
Road King Infrastructure Ltd. (1098) , a
developer of property and toll roads in  China , plans to sell
dollar-denominated notes in the Asia-Pacific region’s first
high-yield offering this month. Bond risk was little changed.  Road King plans to price the securities as soon as today in
the low to mid 10 percent area, said a person familiar with the
matter, asking not to be named because the details are private.
Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. priced $238 million of notes on
Aug. 22 in the last non-investment grade dollar bond sale from
 Asia , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Road King is  rated  BB- by
 Standard & Poor’s , three levels below investment grade, and one
grade lower at B1 by Moody’s Investors Service.  “A lack of supply in the high-yield space may probably
result in a pretty decent participation from investors, despite
the tight guidance,” Agnes Wong, a Hong Kong-based credit
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said of the Road King sale.
“There are also a few property names that may potentially come
to the market.”  Dollar-denominated bonds sold by Chinese companies with a
so-called junk rating have given investors a 25 percent return
this year following a 13 percent loss in 2011, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data. China’s new lending was the
highest of any August on record as the government tries to
reverse an economic slowdown, the People’s Bank of China said on
its website today.  Use of Proceeds  Road King will use the proceeds of its bond sale to repay
existing debt and develop property projects, according to a
statement to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange today.  Non-investment grade bonds, also known as high-yield or
junk, are rated below BBB- at S&P and Fitch Ratings and below
Baa3 at Moody’s.  Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. is marketing a benchmark-
sized sale of 10-year dollar bonds at about 170 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, a person familiar with
the matter said today, also asking not to be identified. The
notes are expected to be rated A1 by Moody’s, the fifth-highest
investment grade, and A by S&P.  Perceptions of corporate and sovereign creditworthiness in
Asia were little changed today as the cost of insuring company
bonds in Australia and Japan from non-payment rose.  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  was little changed at 132.5 basis points
as of 8:34 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The gauge fell for a fifth consecutive day
yesterday, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Australian Risk  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index climbed 4 basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 152 as of 10:33 a.m. in Sydney,
according to National Australia Bank Ltd. The Markit iTraxx
Japan  index increased 2 basis points to 202.5 as of 9:16 a.m.
in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show.  The indexes are benchmarks for protecting bonds against
default and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . A
drop signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an
increase suggests the opposite. The swap contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities if a
borrower fails to meet its debt agreements.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  