-- Friedland’s Ivanplats Plans Toronto IPO for Africa Mines
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-09-12T17:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/robert-friedland-s-ivanplats-to-sell-shares-for-toronto-trading.html
Billionaire mining promoter Robert Friedland’s  Ivanplats Ltd.  plans to sell shares to the public on
the Toronto Stock Exchange to raise funds for the development of
platinum, copper and nickel projects in Africa.  Ivanplats, based in Vancouver, has mineral deposits in
 South Africa  and the Democratic Republic of Congo, according to
a regulatory filing dated Sept. 10 that was obtained by
Bloomberg News. The date of the share sale wasn’t disclosed.
Ivanplats may seek to raise about C$300 million ($308 million),
according to a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because the number hasn’t been published.  Friedland, 62, is moving to take Ivanplats public after
relinquishing control of  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. (TRQ) , the 66 percent
owner of the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine in Mongolia, to London-
based  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  in April. Friedland presided over a
bidding war between Canadian miners Inco Ltd. and Falconbridge
Ltd. for the Voisey’s Bay nickel deposit in 1996. Inco paid
C$4.3 billion for the Canadian project.  Friedland, who has a personal fortune estimated by  Canadian
Business  magazine at C$2.81 billion, has an “unparalleled,”
more than 20-year track record of finding and developing large
metal deposits, according to the filing. He will be chairman of
the company.  Congo’s Gecamines  The filing also details Ivanplats’ dealings with a company
associated with Dan Gertler, an Israeli investor active in
Congo’s mining industry. Ivanplats bought 68 percent of the
Kipushi zinc and copper mine from Gertler in November 2011, and
has paid him $45 million, with at least $100 million still
owing, the filing shows.  Ivanplats will pay Gertler as much as $105 million should
it complete a share sale raising $250 million or more by Dec.
14, it said. Should it not complete the share sale by Dec. 14
it’s due to make two repayments to Gertler totaling as much as
$105 million by March 31 next year.  Friedland had planned to sell as much as $1 billion of
Ivanplats shares, people with knowledge of the situation said in
mid-January. Since then, China’s economy has slowed and Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis remains unresolved.  Ivanplats controls the Platreef platinum and nickel
project, 280 kilometers (175 miles) northeast of Johannesburg in
South Africa’s Bushveld mining complex. Trading company  Itochu
Corp. (8001) , based in Tokyo, holds a 10 percent stake in Platreef,
according to Ivanplats’  website .  Marc Faber  Ivanplats also owns the Kamoa copper project in Congo,
which it forecasts will cost about $2 billion to develop.
Ivanplats is working toward the completion of an updated
preliminary economic assessment during the fourth quarter,
according to the filing.  The company’s board of directors includes  Cyril Ramaphosa ,
chairman of Shanduka Group Ltd., and Marc Faber. Lars-Eric Johannson will be chief executive officer, according to the
filing.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  is leading a group of underwriters
including  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , according to the document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  