-- Romney Pledges Strong U.S. Military in Pushback to Obama Attacks
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/romney-pledges-strong-u-s-military-in-pushback-against-obama.html
Mitt Romney , responding to days of
attacks by President  Barack Obama  and his campaign on national
security, told National Guard members the U.S. must maintain a
strong military as he pledged to improve benefits for veterans.  Early in his remarks yesterday, Romney said that, in
recognition of the 11th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on the
U.S., he wouldn’t focus on differences between his plans and
Obama’s on defense policy and foreign affairs.  Yet, under sustained assault from the Obama campaign for
failing to mention in his nomination acceptance speech the
protracted U.S. involvement in Afghanistan and  Iraq , the
Republican presidential candidate outlined how “American
military power is vital to the preservation of our own
security” and the “preservation of peace around the world.”  Along with citing  Afghanistan  and Iraq several times, he
also used his speech in Reno,  Nevada , to call for improved care
for veterans -- attacking the current system as “in need of
serious and urgent reform” -- and to decry the automatic cuts
to defense spending scheduled to start next year.  “Time and again, America’s military might has been the
best ally of liberty and peace: American forces rescued Europe,
twice,” Romney said at the National Guard Association of the
United States conference. “America’s military leads the fight
against terrorism around the world -- and secures the global
commons to keep them safe for the trade and commerce that are
vital to lifting people from poverty.”  Omitted Wars  The Obama team has seized on Romney’s omission of
references to the Afghanistan and Iraq wars in his Republican
National Convention address, spotlighting it since his Aug. 30
remarks that wrapped up the gathering in Tampa,  Florida .  Obama, addressing the Democratic National convention on
Sept. 6, said Romney and Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin,
the Republican vice presidential candidate, were “new to
foreign policy.” That thrust by the president is part of an
effort to turn the tables on the traditional roles of the
parties in the debate over national security.  In the 2004 campaign, then-President  George W. Bush  and his
allies depicted the Democratic challenger, Senator  John Kerry  of
 Massachusetts , as weak on defense. Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona , Obama’s Republican opponent in 2008 and a former Navy
pilot, attacked the then-Illinois senator for his opposition to
the surge of troops in Iraq and his willingness to negotiate
with countries including  Iran .  Phone Calls  Seeking to deflect the attacks on his credentials to serve
as commander in chief, Romney yesterday told his audience of
making phone calls to spouses and other relatives of National
Guard members he met during a tour of Iraq and Afghanistan in
2006 while he was governor of Massachusetts. “I made 63 calls
on Memorial Day,” when he had returned home, he said.  Romney said the world remains dangerous and he can’t
predict what new threats may emerge in the coming years.  “On Sept. 10, 2001, we had no idea that America would be
at war in Afghanistan,” Romney said. “In December of 2010, we
had no idea that a Tunisian street vendor would inspire a
revolution that would topple three dictators. We live in a time
of turbulence and disruption.”  ‘American Century’  He asserted that “this century must be an  American
century .” To ensure that, he said, “America must lead the free
world, and the free world must lead the entire world. In our
dealings with other nations, we must demonstrate confidence in
our cause, clarity in our purpose and resolve in our might.”  Romney, who typically on the stump attacks Obama for
lacking such clarity and resolve, refrained from doing so
yesterday.  He did offer his usual criticism, without mentioning the
president’s name, of the automatic cuts to federal spending
starting in January 2013 that Obama and Republican congressional
leaders agreed to last year as part of a battle over the  U.S.
debt . Those cuts include defense spending reductions of $500
billion, and have been criticized as a risk to national security
by Republicans and Democrats alike. Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  has said the cuts would be a “disaster.”  The return of troops from Iraq and Afghanistan “cannot and
must not be used as an excuse to hollow out our military through
devastating defense budget cuts,” Romney said. “We cannot
cancel program after program; we cannot jeopardize critical
missions, and we cannot cut corners in the quality of the
equipment and training we provide.”  Pentagon Scene  Recalling the Sept. 11, 2001, attack, Romney said he was in
Washington that day meeting with members of Congress about
security preparations for the 2002 Winter Olympics in  Salt Lake
City , Utah, that he was spearheading. Leaving the city by car,
Romney said, he came “within a few hundred yards of the
Pentagon, which had been hit.”  “I could smell burning fuel and concrete and metal,”
Romney said. “It was the smell of war, something I never
imagined I would smell in America.”  The remarks marked a second tribute of the day for Romney,
who was greeted at his plane in Chicago in the morning by more
than 20 firefighters and first responders lined up in front of
six fire trucks and emergency vehicles. The group observed a
moment of silence at 7:46 a.m. central standard time, the moment
the first plane hit the north tower in  New York  City.  Romney campaigns in Florida today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Reno, Nevada, at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  