-- HRT Leads Brazilian Oil Startup Losses as Output Falters
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-09-11T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/hrt-leads-brazilian-oil-startup-losses-as-output-falters.html
HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA ,
 Latin America ’s worst-performing initial public offering in two
years, is losing its appeal to potential partners for oil
exploration in Namibia after a competitor’s well in the African
nation failed to yield crude.  The value of HRT’s Namibian exploration licenses, the only
offshore areas held by the Rio de Janeiro-based oil startup, is
falling after  Chariot Oil & Gas Ltd. (CHAR)  drilled a second dry hole,
said Banco Itau BBA SA analysts Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes.
Before the Namibia disappointment, the company expected to fetch
$460 million by selling a third of its exploration licenses,
according to the Itau analysts.  Fledgling Brazilian  oil companies  are being punished by
equity investors for failing to deliver on promises.  HRT (HRTP3)  said it
would become the biggest  oil company  in Brazil after Petroleo
Brasileiro SA by 2015 by tapping light oil in Brazil’s Amazon
region. So far it has only found small quantities of less-
valuable natural gas. Billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA’s first two wells are yielding about 5,000
barrels a day, 75 percent less than it expected.  “There’s no positive way to look at the results in Namibia
for HRT,” T.J. Conway, a research and advisory manager at New
York-based Energy Intelligence Group, said in a telephone
interview from Washington D.C.  HRT, which went public in  Sao Paulo  in Oct. 2010, is the
worst-performing IPO in Latin American after losing about 84
percent of its value, according to Bloomberg data. OGX lost 72
percent and state-run  Petrobras (PETR4)  fell 12 percent in the period.
The benchmark Bovespa index dropped 16 percent.  Carcara Discovery  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3) , another startup based in Rio, has
lost 36 percent since its IPO on Feb. 8, 2011. The company
recovered some of the losses following the Aug. 13 discovery of
a large column of oil at the Carcara field, where it has a 10
percent stake.  HRT Chief Executive Officer Marcio Mello said yesterday on
a conference call that Chariot’s failure to find commercial
quantities of hydrocarbons in its Kabeljou well at the Nimrod
prospect doesn’t affect HRT’s outlook and drilling plans for
 Africa .  “The Nimrod prospect was our largest target in the south
but there are still other areas of interest,” Guernsey, Channel
Islands-based Chariot said yesterday in a statement.  HRT expected to sell a third of its  Namibia  assets for $460
million, including $100 million for past costs, according to
Itau analysts. HRT hasn’t provided an official target price for
the Namibia assets, according to a company response to questions
yesterday.  ‘Not Attractive’  “Even if it still happens, valuation will not be that
attractive, providing only small relief to the company’s cash
position,” Kovarsky and Mendes wrote in the report. “Without
the farm-out, the company’s cash runs out by the end of 2013.”  The company won’t sell a stake in Namibia if the price
isn’t right, Wagner Peres, the head of HRT’s Namibia operations,
said on the conference call yesterday. HRT has enough cash on
hand to cover operations until July, 2014, Mello said yesterday.  HRT said Aug. 10 it was slowing its exploration campaign in
the Solimoes basin in the Amazon to collect more data.
Preserving the company’s cash position is a priority, Mello
said.  Chariot’s dry well was over 100 kilometers (62 miles) away
from HRT’s closest drilling prospect and the negative results
don’t reduce the chances of success at HRT’s areas, Mello said.
HRT plans to drill its first well in early 2013, the company
said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Not Concerned’  “Most of the companies we are negotiating with are not
concerned about this result,” Mello said. “Our prospects are
far away, completely independent.”  Namibia’s geology is similar to  Brazil ’s Campos and Santos
offshore basins that hold the largest discoveries in the
Americas since  Mexico  discovered Cantarell in 1976, Mello said.
The company has collected three-dimensional images of its
prospects and has tracked natural oil seeps along the ocean
floor to identify drilling sites, he said. The company has
leased a rig from Transocean Ltd. to drill the first four wells
in Namibia, the company said in May.  Chariot’s Kabeljou well was one of HRT’s “last hopes”
this year for positive data, Emerson Leite, an analyst at Credit
Suisse said in a research report yesterday. Credit Suisse cut
HRT to the equivalent of hold from buy after Chariot announced
the dry hole.  “We would now prefer to wait for the company to prove its
geological thesis in either Solimoes and Namibia before getting
exposure to the shares,” Leite said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  