-- Rupee Volatility at One-Year Low on Optimism for Global Stimulus
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-09-11T12:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/rupee-volatility-at-one-year-low-on-optimism-for-global-stimulus.html
Implied volatility in India’s rupee
held at the lowest level in a year before the  Federal Reserve 
meets tomorrow, with investors braced for further stimulus that
may spur inflows into  emerging markets .  The Fed will keep borrowing costs near zero, according to a
Bloomberg survey, and decide whether additional bond purchases
are warranted to support the economy. Central banks in India and
 South Korea  will review  interest rates  within a week and
Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court rules tomorrow on the
country’s participation in a European bailout fund. The rupee’s
gains will be limited by concerns about the pace of inflation as
Brent crude prices rose more than 18 percent this quarter,
according to Barclays Plc.  “In India, the risk rally driven by higher commodity
prices could increase inflation expectations,” strategists at
Barclays Plc, including Singapore-based Rohit Arora, wrote in a
report today. “However, the negatives are likely to be offset
by improvement in risk appetite, benefiting the rupee.”  The rupee’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
8.90 percent, the lowest level since September 2011.  The rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 55.3450 per dollar in
Mumbai, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A government report tomorrow may show  India ’s factory
output grew 0.5 percent in July from a year earlier after a 1.8
percent contraction the previous month, according to the median
of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Inflation
accelerated to 7.05 percent in August from 6.87 percent, a
separate survey shows before figures are released on Sept. 14.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.36 per
dollar, compared with 56.47 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.25 from 56.34. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  