-- Sands Lawyers Dispute Claims Evidence Wasn’t Disclosed
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-11T21:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/sands-jacobs-lawyers-dispute-disclosure-of-macau-evidence.html
Lawyers for  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  disputed claims that they didn’t disclose
evidence sought in a lawsuit filed by  Steven Jacobs , the fired
head of the casino operator’s China operations.  Las Vegas Sands and its  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  unit face possible
court sanctions for failing to tell a judge they had shipped
computer files from Macau to Las Vegas as early as 2010, shortly
after Jacobs was fired as chief executive officer of the Macau
unit and sued the companies.  Nevada  state court Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez ordered a
three-day hearing to determine whether lawyers for Las Vegas
Sands and Sands China misled her about the presence of evidence
in the U.S., including computer files and e-mails from Jacobs,
when they said Macau law prevented them from bringing data to
the U.S.  Stephen Peek, a lawyer for  Las Vegas  Sands, testified today
that he had disclosed to Jacobs’s previous lawyers last year the
presence of data from Macau in Las Vegas. He said, under
questioning from Todd Bice, one of Jacobs’s current lawyers,
that he didn’t tell them what exactly the data was or whether it
included e-mails from Jacobs.  “I didn’t think it was my obligation to tell him what my
work product was,” Peek said.  Bice told the judge that the Sands companies were
selectively invoking the Macau Personal Data Protection Act to
prevent having to produce evidence from Macau requested by
Jacobs while they themselves had been reviewing Jacobs’s e-
mails. He also challenged the Sands’ lawyers contention that
they would have disclosed what they had if asked.  ‘Guess What’  “Well, guess what,” Bice said. “We’ve asked them
multiple times.”  Lawyers for the companies told the court last year that the
Macau privacy law required that any files from the Chinese
territory needed to be reviewed by lawyers for Sands China in
Macau and that e-mails needed be cleared with the people who
sent and received them and with the government before they could
be transferred to the U.S.  Gonzalez said today “there are certain inconsistencies in
the spin that was made to the court.”  She said her focus now was on possible misrepresentations
made to her and that Jacobs’s lawyers may separately pursue
claims that they were deceived.  Gonzalez said at a previous hearing that she wouldn’t send
anybody to jail over the disclosure issue and that she was more
likely to issue a monetary sanction than to preclude Sands from
introducing the evidence in court.  The case is Jacobs v. Las Vegas Sands, A627691-B, District
Court,  Clark County , Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 