-- SAP Plans Mobile Expansion to Capitalize on Phones, Tablets
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-09-12T08:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/sap-plans-mobile-expansion-to-capitalize-on-phones-and-tablets.html
SAP AG (SAP) , seeking to benefit as more
companies do business via phones and tablets, plans to unveil
software that lets customers tailor applications for handheld
devices, co-Chief Executive Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said.  At a customer  conference  in  Madrid  in November, the world’s
largest maker of business-management software will unveil a new
version of its Sybase Unwired Platform with tools that let more
developers create applications for sale through SAP’s online
store, Snabe said in an interview yesterday. SAP also plans to
release an online development tool, code-named Neo, that lets
companies customize the look and feel of SAP applications on
smartphones, tablets and personal computers.  “The next wave will be an expansion of mobile apps for
business,” said Snabe, who took over as co-CEO of the company
with  Bill McDermott  in 2010. “The key is to open up.”  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , makes software used to
manage manufacturing and delivery schedules, track companies’
financial performance, and decide how to hire and promote
workers. Expanding its franchise to run on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads
and other mobile devices workers use to perform daily tasks is
key as the  40-year-old company  positions itself for  growth .  Sales Forecast  The software maker’s sales may rise 13 percent this year to
16.1 billion euros ($20.7 billion), according to the average
estimate of analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Mobile-device
software revenue this year is on track to hit 220 million euros
($282.8 million), the company has  said .  Software for tablets and smartphones may account for 8
percent of SAP’s license and subscription revenue by 2015,
double its percentage this year, Adam Wood, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley, said in a Sept. 5 research note. London-based Wood has
an overweight rating on SAP shares.  SAP’s shares climbed 0.2 percent to 53.80 euros at 10:04
a.m. in Frankfurt. The stock had  gained  31 percent this year
through yesterday.  Apple’s iPad is accounting for a large portion of the
increase in PC buying among businesses, according to a Sept. 10
report from  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  Later today, Apple is
expected to release the latest version of its iPhone, sporting a
new hardware design and bigger screen. And in October, Microsoft
Corp. plans to release Windows 8, a version of its flagship
operating system that is optimized to run on tablets.  SAP’s new Sybase release will let developers design mobile
apps for “a broader audience,” Snabe said. Today about 100
software developers are participating in a pilot of SAP’s online
store, and the new tools should boost that number, he said.  Sybase Deal  Snabe, who hails from Denmark, and McDermott, an American,
bought database and mobile-software company Sybase for $5.8
billion just  three months  after taking the reins as co-CEOs.
During an address in  Palo Alto ,  California , last month,
McDermott said a phone call with Apple’s  Steve Jobs  several
months before the deal was made helped convince him of the
iPad’s business potential.  SAP has been learning from Apple’s approach to user-
interface design, Snabe said in an interview with the
“Bloomberg West” television program.  “We’re taking a lot of learning from the consumer world
where the interaction is intuitive, it’s enjoyable,” he said.
“We are asking ourselves, ’Why would that not be the benchmark
for  business software ?’ ”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  