-- U.S. Senate Advances Democrat-Backed Veterans Jobs Bill
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-09-11T19:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/senate-advances-democrat-backed-veterans-jobs-bill.html
The  U.S. Senate  voted to advance a
Democratic measure to create a job program for military
veterans.  The procedural vote was 95-1, with 60 needed, on
legislation authorizing $1 billion in mandatory spending through
2017 to help veterans find work as police officers and
firefighters, and in conservation, historic preservation and
national park projects. The vote came on the 11th anniversary of
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  “For the troops, when they come home, the fight is not
over,” bill sponsor Senator  Bill Nelson , a  Florida  Democrat,
said today. The  unemployment rate  among veterans returning from
Iraq and Afghanistan was almost 11 percent in August, he said,
adding, “There’s another fight when they get back home to
America.”  The only “no” vote was by Republican  Rand Paul  of
 Kentucky , who has said he will oppose legislation while he seeks
a vote on a measure to deny U.S. aid to Pakistan.  The legislation, S. 3457, is based on a proposal in
President  Barack Obama ’s Jan. 24  State of the Union address .
North Carolina Senator  Richard Burr , the top Republican on the
Veterans Affairs Committee, called the Democratic plan
“disingenuous” because it wouldn’t lead to long-term
employment.  Temporary Jobs  Instead of achieving Obama’s objective of creating career
paths for returning veterans, Burr said the Democratic proposal
would “create 20,000 temporary jobs.” He said he would offer
an amendment that would work within federal agencies to create
incentives for hiring veterans.  If Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
doesn’t allow amendments, “then we know this is purely
political,” Burr said.  Senate action on the legislation is timed to help Democrats
seeking re-election. Nelson touted the bill this month as an
example of his efforts for the state’s  1.7 million veterans  as
he is in a competitive race for a third term.  “These veterans are so well-trained and have specialties
and disciplines,” the Tampa Bay Business Journal quoted Nelson
as saying at a Sept. 8 campaign rally in  St. Petersburg ,
Florida.  Nelson, whose state is a presidential battleground, has led
his Republican opponent, Representative  Connie Mack , in recent
polls.  Michigan’s Stabenow  Reid has scheduled other Senate votes to aid members
seeking re-election. The chamber voted July 19 on a proposal by
Michigan Democrat  Debbie Stabenow  that would make it harder for
companies to move jobs out of the U.S. and easier to bring jobs
here. Stabenow is running for a third term.  Rhode Island Democrat  Sheldon Whitehouse , who is seeking a
second term, was the lead sponsor of a bill that had a Senate
vote on April 16. It would have put in place the so-called
“Buffett rule,” setting a minimum 30 percent federal tax rate
for the nation’s highest earners.  Neither measure advanced because of Republican opposition,
allowing Democrats to say the votes showed a contrast between
their efforts to aid the middle class and Republican policies
they say are designed to protect the wealthy.  Senate Democrats are defending 23 seats in the Nov. 6
election, compared with 10 for Republicans.  Rural Areas  The veterans’ measure includes elements supported by
Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat seeking a second term
this year, aimed at helping veterans who live in rural areas.  “Some folks in Washington still don’t understand that the
promises we make to our veterans need to be kept no matter where
a veteran lives,” Tester, who is being challenged in November’s
election by Republican Representative Dennis Rehberg, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Missouri Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill , who is in a
tight race against Republican Representative Todd Akin,
yesterday criticized him for opposing job training programs for
veterans.  “Missourians agree that we need to reduce our federal
spending, but helping our veterans transition successfully in
civilian life should always be a top priority,” McCaskill said
in a statement.  Although the race remains close, McCaskill’s bid for a
second term got a boost when Akin said in a television interview
Aug. 19 that “legitimate rape” rarely results in pregnancy, so
a rape exception to a ban on abortion is unnecessary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  