-- India’s Goa Bans Mining as Panel Pegs Loss at $6.3 Billion
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-09-11T12:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/sesa-shares-plunge-after-goa-state-bans-all-mining-mumbai-mover.html
India ’s Goa state, which exports
more than half the nation’s  iron ore , banned all mining after a
panel said the province’s government lost an estimated 349.4
billion rupees ($6.3 billion) because of illegal mining.  The ban will be effective today, R.K. Verma, principal
secretary in the Goa government, said in a statement on the
state  website , without specifying the duration. About 127
million metric tons of iron ore was mined illegally between 2006
and 2011, the government-appointed panel, headed by former Judge
M.B. Shah, said in its Sept. 7 report to lawmakers.  The Shah Commission, as the panel is called, is probing
cases of illegal mining in the mineral-rich regions of India.
The ban in Goa comes a year after a similar ruling by the
nation’s top court on iron ore mining in the southern state of
Karnataka. India is the third-largest exporter of the
steelmaking raw material.  “The rising cases of mining bans may risk the future of
 steel industry  in India,” Sajjan Jindal, chairman of  JSW Steel
Ltd. (JSTL) , said today in  New Delhi . “Instead of painting both legal
and illegal miners by the same brush, we should try to find a
balance between environment and growth.”  Billionaire Anil Agarwal-controlled  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , India’s
biggest iron-ore exporter, fell the most in more than six months.
The stock fell 6.2 percent to 159.30 rupees at the end of
trading in Mumbai.  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) , which is
set to be combined with Sesa Goa, fell 4.6 percent to 94 rupees.
Both companies are units of London-based Vedanta Resources Plc.  State Scrutiny  Trading and transportation of minerals that have already
been mined will be allowed after scrutiny, according to the Goa
government’s statement. The ban could have an impact on global
supplies and prices of iron ore should it continue for some time,
said R.K. Sharma, secretary general at the Federation of Indian
Mineral Industries.  “We’ll have to cut our forecast if the ban continues,”
Sharma said today in a phone interview. “Goa has some inventory,
so there may not be an immediate impact.”  Iron ore  with 62 percent metal content at  China ’s Tianjin
port was $95 a ton on Sept. 10, down 31 percent this year.  “The ban may not cause a knee-jerk reaction in the global
iron ore market as Chinese demand is waning and mining in Goa is
weak during the monsoon season,” said Manish Pande, regional
director at  CRU , a London-based commodity research and
consulting firm.  Sell Stock  Mining in Goa may take six months to a year to resume,
given the time taken in Karnataka, Giriraj Daga, an analyst at
Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai, said today in a note to
clients. While Sesa will be most affected by the ban, the
state’s decision to permit trading and transportation will allow
Sesa to sell about 3.8 million tons of its stock, he said.  Sesa Goa mined 12.7 million tons of iron ore from Goa in
the year ended March 31, from a total output of 13.8 million
tons, according to the company’s website.  “As per the orders, the company has suspended extraction
of iron ore from all its mines in the state from today,” Sesa
Goa spokesman R. Krishnagopal said today in a phone interview.  The Shah Commission will probe mining in seven states,
including Goa, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand,  Madhya Pradesh , Odisha
and Karnataka. Its next report will be on iron ore mining in the
eastern state of Jharkhand, Mines Secretary Vishwapati Trivedi
said today at a steel industry conference in New Delhi.  “A comprehensive audit of mining across the country is
necessary to assess the impact on environment, lives and also
the extent of illegality,” Trivedi said. “The government and
judicial interventions may look detrimental in the short-term,
but will appear to be in the industry’s interest in the longer
run.”  The Shah Commission in its report said air and water
pollution in the mining areas in Goa were not being controlled
and had exceeded tolerance limits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  