-- Indian Sewage Drives Water Plant-Builder’s Estimates
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-12T10:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/sewage-drives-water-plant-builder-s-estimates-corporate-india.html
VA Tech Wabag Ltd., (VATW)  India’s biggest
builder of water-treatment plants, expects sales to beat
forecasts by rising as much as 20 percent annually as growing
cities overwhelmed by sewage drive government contracts.  The Chennai-based company, a former unit of Siemens AG, has
surged 36 percent this year on orders to construct water-
cleaning plants for French cities, a solar polysilicon factory
in Qatar and a petrochemical plant owned by Reliance Industries
Ltd. That tops gains of 16 percent by India’s benchmark
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  and 13 percent by the 49-member  S&P Global Water
Index (SPGTAQD)  for the same period.  India is leading sector growth due to contracts from
municipalities struggling with clean water shortages and an
inundation of sewage, Managing Director Rajiv Mittal said in an
interview this week.  Domestic sales  jumped 35 percent in the 12
months through March, a trend that may extend over the next few
years, he said.  The second-most populous nation is set to embark on decades
of investment in sewage infrastructure because of an “acute
shortage of water and growing needs,” Mittal said.  India ’s
demand for clean water by 2030 may exceed supply by 50 percent
while pollution is making what’s available unfit for human
consumption, industrial or agricultural use, according to
McKinsey & Co. forecasts and a government report.  “In India, infrastructure always follows the demand,”
Mittal said by phone. Analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
forecast group revenue to rise 14 percent this financial year.
Mittal puts it at 15 to 20 percent. “We’re absolutely on target
for that kind of growth.”  VA Tech shares rose 0.5 percent to 457 rupees at the close
in Mumbai. The Sensex gained 0.8 percent.  ‘Not Drop’  India’s population of 1.2 billion is growing about  1.3
percent annually,  according to U.S. Census Bureau data. It’s set
to overtake  China  as the most populous nation by 2025, according
to United Nations  forecasts .  “The top line will always be driven by municipal demand in
India just because there’s so much need,” Mittal said.  Mumbai, the nation’s financial hub, itself will require $1
billion of investment to build eight planned sewage plants, he
said.  “In Mumbai, not a drop of sewage is getting treated,”
releasing pathogens and waste into coastal waters, he said. Most
of India outside of the biggest cities doesn’t even have a
wastewater collection system. “We have to start right from the
basics. That will take a couple decades.”  The industry may get a boost after the government issued a
draft National Water Policy in July that encourages industries
to use recycled water though stops short of requiring that,
Mittal said. In India, water is managed at the state level and
the latest draft follows efforts to devise a nationwide legal
framework for regulating the resource.  Definite ‘Risk’  VA Tech’s dependence on government contracts may pose a
pitfall with India facing a record current account deficit and a
history of state electricity utilities defaulting or delaying
payments for lack of funds. India plans to restructure about $35
billion of loans held by utilities to boost their ability to
pay.  “It is a risk definitely,” said G.V. Giri, vice president
at IIFL Capital Ltd. in Mumbai. “However, water supply is more
than just an economic input, it’s a social and physical
necessity. We haven’t seen too much of a slowdown because the
government’s priority is to keep these projects going.”  Desalination Potential  The falling cost of desalination, which makes freshwater
from the sea, is opening a market in urban areas plagued by
shortages and contamination concerns, Mittal said.  Technology improvements have cut the cost of desalination
by about 75 percent in the last 10 years to less than $1 for
1,000 liters, he said. Treated seawater now costs about 5 paise
a liter (0.09 cents) compared with 15 paise for water delivered
by private tankers, a practice common across Indian cities where
the municipal system can’t provide enough.  “You don’t know where that tanker fellow fills his
truck,” Mittal said. “You don’t know the quality and origin
while desalinated water is all piped in completely sealed
pipes.”  Global desalination equipment orders are forecast to triple
to a record $17 billion in 2016 driven by breakthroughs in
energy savings and demand by cities and industry, according to
Global Water Intelligence. Leaders in the industry include
 France ’s  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the biggest water company, IDE
Technologies Ltd. of  Israel  and  Hyflux Ltd. (HYF)  of  Singapore .  India has eight desalination plants operating, another
partly in service and two on the way, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. In 2010,  Spain ’s  Abengoa SA (ABG)  started a 100,000-
cubic-meter desalination plant in  Chennai .  Agriculture, India  While agriculture accounts for at least 85 percent of
India’s water consumption according to Mittal and the government
compared with 70 percent worldwide, industrial demand is growing
at twice the pace of municipal or farm use, McKinsey said.  VA Tech’s industrial customers include Reliance Industries,
Essar Group, Adani Group and  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , which require
clean water to run steel, power and refining plants. VA Tech has
also built about six projects for refineries and municipalities,
allowing them to sell their wastewater to  power plants  needing
water for cooling, he said.  Water shortages can cripple power generation by depriving
plants of the cooling fluids they need when burning coal and
natural gas or reducing output at hydropower utilities.  ‘Absolutely Interlinked’  “The power sector cannot work without water, they’re
absolutely interlinked,” Mittal said.  That could drive demand for more desalination plants as
utilities including  Tata Power Co. (TPWR)  and NTPC Ltd. increasingly
build coal plants on the coast for easy access to fuel imports.  “The moment you go to the coast, you have no choice but to
put up a desalination plant,” Mittal said.  VA Tech Wabag’s management and a unit of ICICI Bank Ltd.
bought out Siemen’s stake in 2005, according to the company’s
 website . Two years later, Siemens sold its Austrian water
treatment unit to VA Tech. The company has installed at least
500 plants worldwide since 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in London at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  