-- Sharp in Talks to Deepen Salary Cuts Amid Forecast for Loss
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-11T08:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/sharp-says-it-s-in-talks-with-labor-union-to-deepen-wage-cuts.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese
electronics maker renegotiating a stake sale to Foxconn
Technology Group, is in talks with its labor union to deepen
salary cuts as it projects a second straight annual loss.  Sharp is also reducing managers’ salaries by 10 percent
starting next month and cutting bonuses in half to save a total
of 14 billion yen ($179 million) in fixed costs, the Osaka-based
company said in a  statement  today. It also may revise forecasts.  Japan ’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal panels put up its
Osaka headquarters and some factories as debt collateral after
its  credit ratings  were cut to junk. Sharp has lost more than
two-thirds of its market value this year as it struggles to stop
losing money from LCDs. The decline in share value has prompted
Taipei-based Foxconn to renegotiate terms for a capital tie-up
agreed to in March.  “Business circumstances surrounding the Sharp group are
growing even harsher, and improvement of financial strengths for
recovery need to be secured,” the company said in the
statement. “Changes in the forecasts for fiscal 2012
consolidated financial results will be announced separately once
revisions are decided necessary.”  Before the announcement, Sharp rose 3 percent to 208 yen at
the close of trading in  Tokyo . The stock has plunged 69 percent
this year, making it the biggest percentage loser among more
than 1,600 companies in the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   Job Cuts  New President Takashi Okuda is eliminating 5,000 jobs by
the end of March 2013, marking Sharp’s first job cuts since the
1950s. The company wants to reduce labor costs by 40 billion yen
as part of its plans to lower fixed costs by 100 billion yen
this fiscal year, it said Aug. 2.  Today’s announcement is in addition to that plan, said
 Miyuki Nakayama , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman. Sharp plans to
deepen the 2 percent salary cut for union members started in May
to 7 percent starting next month, according to today’s
statement.  Sharp had 56,756 employees as of March 31, a 2.1 percent
increase from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company already cut managers’ salaries by 5 percent in
April and their bonuses by 30 percent in June, according to the
statement. Similar reductions will be applied to union members
after discussions are completed, Sharp said.  Last month, Sharp projected a net loss of 250 billion yen
for the year ending in March 2013, compared with 30 billion yen
estimated three months earlier.  Contingency Plan  “Sharp should first draw a ground design for a revival and
then take necessary measures to achieve it,” said Ichiro Takamatsu, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based Bayview Asset
Management Co. that oversees 150 billion yen. “Putting out
restructuring plans little by little won’t have a good effect on
employees.”  Sharp is working on a contingency plan to present to banks
as the company seeks help to refinance debt, Tetsuo Onishi,
senior executive managing officer in charge of accounting, said
last week. Sharp has hired a specialist to evaluate assets and
business plans, Onishi said.  Getting no investment from Foxconn “is a risk factor that
needs to be included” in the plan, Onishi said at the time.  Sharp may raise funds through a new syndicated loan from
financial institutions including life insurance companies, a
person with knowledge of the matter said this month.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc., Sharp’s two main banks, provided the company with a
short-term facility of 60 billion yen in July and an
approximately 150 billion-yen credit last month to help the
company refinance commercial papers, according to another person
with knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 