-- Simon Has ‘No Interest’ in Acquiring Rival General Growth
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-09-11T23:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/simon-has-no-interest-in-acquiring-rival-general-growth.html
A  Simon Property  Group Inc.
executive said that the largest U.S. mall owner isn’t trying to
acquire competitor  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , which
announced yesterday that it won’t put itself up for sale.  “We have no interest in General Growth,” Stephen Sterrett, chief financial officer of Indianapolis-based Simon,
said today at a conference hosted by Barclays Plc’s investment-
banking unit that was broadcast over the Internet.  Sterrett’s comments were the first a Simon Property
executive has made about General Growth since investor  Bill Ackman  urged the Chicago-based company on Aug. 23 to consider a
sale. Ackman, founder of  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP,
said at the time that Simon had shown interest in a plan to buy
General Growth.  Ackman, in an Aug. 27 letter to General Growth’s board,
said Pershing Square made a 37-page presentation to  David Simon ,
Simon Property’s chairman and chief executive officer, about a
proposed deal in which Simon would pay 0.1765 a share for each
General Growth share. Based on Simon’s closing price today,
General Growth would be valued at $27.84 a share.  General Growth fell 2.5 percent to $20.09 in  New York 
trading today. The shares have gained 8.5 percent since Aug. 22,
the day before Ackman first said publicly that the company
should put itself up for sale. Simon Property rose 1 percent to
$157.74 today.  ‘Serious Interest’  David Simon “expressed serious interest” in pursuing the
deal, according to Ackman’s Aug. 27 letter. General Growth
exited  bankruptcy protection  in November 2010 following a
takeover battle between Simon and an investor group that
included  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  and Pershing Square,
now General Growth’s two biggest shareholders. The mall owner
filed for bankruptcy in 2009 after weighing itself down with $27
billion of debt.  “There’s been a fair bit of speculation and inquiry lately
about General Growth and our rumored interest in that company,
and I think it’s important to respond and set the record
straight,” Sterrett said today. “We have not made an offer for
General Growth or its properties since 2010, during GGP’s
bankruptcy, nor have we subsequently agreed on any value for the
company.”  Simon said in May 2010 that it offered $20 a share for its
competitor, which was under court protection from creditors at
the time.  Ackman didn’t immediately respond today to a telephone
message left at his New York office and an e-mail.  ‘Best Value’  General Growth yesterday rejected Ackman’s call to put
itself up for sale, a move supported by Brookfield.  “The board has unanimously determined that the best value
for all shareholders will be achieved by GGP continuing to
execute on its well-conceived business plan,”  Sandeep Mathrani ,
General Growth’s chief executive officer, said in a letter to
Ackman that was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Brookfield executives “agree with the position unanimously
taken by GGP’s board,” J. Bruce Flatt, chief executive officer
of the Toronto-based real estate investor and chairman of
General Growth, said yesterday in a letter to the mall owner’s
shareholders. “GGP is currently performing extremely well and
we believe GGP is positioned for superior growth over the next
five years versus any comparable retail mall investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  