-- Singapore Rejects More Work Permits as Government Tightens Rules
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-09-11T10:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/singapore-rejects-more-work-permits-as-government-tightens-rules.html
Singapore  said it rejected more
foreigner job permit applications and renewed fewer existing
ones as the government tightened its immigration policy by
introducing stricter requirements for overseas workers.  In the first seven months of 2012, 30 percent of
applications in the categories for foreign professionals and
mid-skilled workers were rejected, an increase from 26 percent
for the whole of last year, Tan Chuan-Jin, acting minister for
manpower, said in Parliament today. Of the total rejected
applications this year, 29 percent were for renewals, compared
with 21 percent in 2011, he said.  “We need to calibrate, it’s not about turning off the
tap,” Tan said. “We all recognize that we do need access to
foreign workers in our workforce at the different levels as what
it provides is a diverse workforce, which remains important in
keeping our companies competitive. But at the same time, we need
to balance.”  Singapore has added about 1 million people since the
beginning of 2005 as the government allowed more immigration to
make up for a declining birth rate. The influx contributed to
crowded transportation and more competition for jobs, public
housing and places in schools, fueling voter anger that led to
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s ruling party smallest electoral
win last year since independence in 1965.  The government has made it more expensive for companies to
hire overseas workers by raising levies, and in the past year,
it has increased salary thresholds and required better
educational qualifications for some categories of foreigners.  Permanent Residents  From 2010, the government granted an average of 28,500
permanent resident permits annually, compared with an average
58,000 a year from 2004 to 2008, Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean said in a written  reply  to a parliamentary question
yesterday. The number of people awarded citizenship has remained
“relatively stable” at an average of 18,500 per annum in the
last five years, he said.  “We will continue to calibrate the immigration framework to
address our population challenges and constraints,” Teo wrote.
“As part of the ongoing review and public engagement on
population issues, we are reviewing the number of immigrants
Singapore takes in.”  Foreigners and permanent residents make up more than a
third of the 5.2 million population, and of the 122,600 jobs
created in Singapore last year, about 70 percent went to workers
from overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  