-- Small Business Optimism in U.S. Rises From Nine-Month Low
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-09-11T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/small-business-optimism-in-u-s-rises-from-nine-month-low.html
Confidence among small businesses
in the U.S. climbed in August for the first time in four months
as more companies anticipated a pickup in hiring and sales.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
 index  rose to 92.9 from a nine-month low of 91.2 in July. Five
of the index’s 10 components contributed to the August gain, the
Washington-based group said today.  Labor-market sentiment improved to the highest level since
2008, with a net 10 percent of employers saying they planned to
add workers. The results suggest businesses activity is holding
up even as the global economy slows and the presidential
election clouds the outlook for tax and regulatory policy in the
U.S.  “The labor market readings were very solid,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in a statement.
“Expectations for business conditions in early 2013 improved
substantially, perhaps a forecast of the election outcome and
the chance for a favorable resolution of our fiscal dilemma.”  A measure of whether business owners expect improved  sales 
increased by 5 points to a net 1 percent this month. A net minus
2 percent, up 6 points, said they expect better business
conditions in the next six months. Four percent said it was a
good time to expand, down 1 point from July.  The share of owners last month who said they would invest
in new equipment rose by 3 points to 24 percent, according to
the report. At the same time, the share reporting positive
earnings slid 1 point to a net minus 28 percent, the weakest
since November.  Jobless Rate  The percent of respondents who said it was hard to fill a
job opening climbed to 18 percent after a reading of 15 percent
in the prior month. A Labor Department report showed last week
that payrolls rose less than projected in August, and the
 unemployment rate  dropped as Americans left the  labor force .  The NFIB survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting
the percent of business owners giving a negative answer from
those providing a positive response and adjusting the results
for seasonal variations.  The NFIB report was based on a survey of 736 small-business
owners through Aug. 31. Small companies represent more than 99
percent of all U.S. employers, according to the U.S. Small
Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise with no more than 500 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  