-- SNB Predicted to Reaffirm Franc Pledge
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-12T11:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/snb-seen-reaffirming-franc-pledge-after-year-of-attack-scandal.html
Swiss central bank President Thomas Jordan will tomorrow reaffirm his commitment to defend a franc
ceiling that has survived a year of speculative attacks, scandal
and political criticism.  The  Swiss National Bank  in Zurich will keep the franc
ceiling at 1.20 versus the euro when policy makers meet for
their quarterly assessment, according to all 10 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. It will also leave the benchmark  interest
rate  at zero, a separate survey shows.  The SNB’s franc policy survived one breach of the ceiling
and the resignation of former central bank President Philipp Hildebrand as  Switzerland  found itself in the eye of the storm
of the debt crisis afflicting the currency area surrounding it.
Its success came at the cost of the bank amassing record
currency holdings, while it still didn’t prevent consumer prices
posting annual declines for almost a year.  “The SNB deserve a cautious pat on the back but not much
more,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign-exchange
strategist at Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “They are now
sitting on a mountain of euros and while  Europe  has taken a big
step forward, the problems have not evaporated. It’s like they
cornered the dynamite market -- it only needs one match.”  The franc traded at 1.2088 versus the euro at 1:23 p.m. in
Zurich, up 0.2 percent on the day. It was at 93.59 centimes
versus the dollar.  Hildebrand Resignation  The SNB will announce its decisions and publish new
economic projections at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow. The three board
members -- Jordan, Jean-Pierre Danthine and Fritz Zurbruegg --
won’t hold a press conference.  The SNB has held up its defense in the face of increasing
investor concern about a euro breakup after Spain and Cyprus
joined  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  in asking for external aid,
as well as the surprise resignation of Hildebrand in January
over currency trades by his wife. Jordan was appointed president
three months later.  The central bank introduced the ceiling on Sept. 6, 2011,
after the franc’s surge to near parity with the euro raised
deflation threats and eroded export competitiveness. Protecting
it has boosted the SNB’s currency reserves to 418 billion francs
($443 billion), about 73 percent of Swiss  gross domestic
product . Euros accounted for 60 percent of holdings at the end
of the second quarter, up from 51 percent three months earlier.  “There’s no doubt that it’s been a tough year for the SNB,
especially during the past four to five months,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro Group Ltd. in  London . The
ceiling “may have held fast, but it’s not been without cost.”  Currency Bets  The franc weakened 0.8 percent last week, touching an
almost eight-month low of 1.2155 per euro, as the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan boosted the single currency. The
euro has appreciated about 5 percent against the dollar since
Aug. 2, when ECB President  Mario Draghi  first said the central
bank may intervene in bond markets to contain the debt turmoil.  With investors regaining some confidence in the euro area,
traders are cutting bets that the franc cap will fail, so-called
risk reversals show. Three-month options contracts granting the
right to buy the franc narrowed to a 0.32 percentage-point
premium over contracts allowing for sales on Sept. 10, the
lowest since April 5, the day the cap was breached for the only
time. That compares with as much as 4.53 percentage points on
May 24.  Ceiling Breach  Morgan Stanley (MS)  last month revised its year-end forecast for
the currency to 1.20 per euro from 1.10, leaving  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , Maybank and Hamilton Court FX LLP as the only banks
predicting a breach of the cap in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
told Bloomberg Television on Sept. 6 the SNB may have won some
leeway to raise its ceiling following the ECB announcement.  That would be “a way of adding a new sense of belief about
it,” O’Neill said. “Otherwise, they’ll have to continue to
accumulate a lot of reserves.”  With the SNB amassing unprecedented euro holdings,
 Christoph Blocher , vice president of the  Swiss People’s Party ,
said in June that policy makers should keep in mind that the
ceiling won’t be enforceable in the long run.  Oswald Gruebel ,
former chief executive officer of  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , has also signaled doubt, saying that it’s only a matter of
time until the SNB will be forced to give it up.  ‘Free Lunch’  For his part, Jordan has signaled the ceiling is here to
stay, saying on Sept. 3 that while there’s “never a free
lunch,” the measure is the “best policy” for now. Economy
Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said in a  Bloomberg News 
interview the same day that the measure remains of “decisive
importance.”  Lobby groups and economists agree. The Economiesuisse
business group said on Sept. 6 that while the franc remains
“clearly overvalued,” the ceiling came at the right time. The
KOF Swiss Economic Institute last week called the measure “an
important step” in stabilizing the economy.  Still, the SNB may be forced to lower its 2012 growth
forecast from about 1.5 percent after the economy shrank 0.1
percent in the second quarter. The government, which will
publish new projections on Sept. 18, may also cut its 1.4
percent estimate for 2012, said Bruno Parnisari, an economist at
the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs.  At the same time, the ceiling hasn’t prevented negative
inflation rates. Consumer prices dropped an annual 0.5 percent
in August, an 11th straight decline. The SNB in June forecast
that prices will fall 0.5 percent this year before increasing
0.3 percent in 2014.  Alessandro Bee, an economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich,
said the second half will remain “difficult” for the Swiss
economy, with further decreases in consumer prices.  “That’s why we expect the SNB to keep the ceiling on hold
into 2013,” he said. “There’s a bit of a temporary respite for
the SNB following the ECB’s announcement but I could well
imagine pressure on the franc increasing again over the coming
months. Jordan’s job won’t become any easier.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  