-- Soccer Club Association Says Eight of 40 Teams Fail Fiscal Test
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-11T14:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/soccer-club-association-says-eight-of-40-teams-fail-fiscal-test.html
Eight of 40 teams that submitted
financial results to European soccer’s governing body would’ve
failed to meet fiscal control targets being established,
according to the head of a group of the continent’s top clubs.  Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, chairman of the European Club
Association, said the eight teams either had deficits of more
than 15 million euros ($19.3 million) in a single season or 45
million euros over three seasons, the maximum permitted under
UEFA’s so-called financial fair play regulations. The teams were
participating in a test phase before official measures to combat
overspending lead to sanctions from the 2014-15 season.  “These are well-known clubs so it’s no surprise,”
Rummenigge, who’s also chief executive officer of  Germany ’s
Bayern Munich, said in an interview in Geneva following a
meeting of the 207-member organization.  Rummenigge’s remarks come less than a month after the close
of the European transfer window during which clubs backed by
wealthy owners, including Chelsea,  Manchester City , Paris St.
Germain and Zenit  St. Petersburg , continued to spend heavily on
new talent.  “I am still worried about the current situation,” Jean- Luc Dehaene, chief investigator of UEFA’s financial control
body, said in a statement after delivering a warning to ECA
members. “The financial fair play regulations are known for
more than two years, but I have the impression that some clubs
still need to do their homework.”  The new control measures are being brought in as a response
to record levels of losses in European club soccer even as the
sport generates record income. In the 2010 fiscal year, losses
by top-level European clubs widened by 36 percent to 1.6 billion
euros,  UEFA  said. Sales rose 6.6 percent to 12.8 billion euros
during the same period and costs rose by 1 billion euros to 14.4
billion euros.  UEFA and the teams agreed on the regulations in 2010. Clubs
that fail to meet the targets face sanctions from registering
new players up to the ultimate penalty of a ban from European
club competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Geneva at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  