-- Somali Lawmakers Elect Academic, Activist Mohamoud as Leader
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 2012-09-11T11:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/somali-lawmakers-elect-academic-activist-mohamoud-as-leader-1-.html
Somali lawmakers elected Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud as the country’s next president, marking an end
to a transitional administration that improved security in the
capital, Mogadishu, even as it failed to end more than two
decades of conflict.  Mohamoud, who is 56 and has a master’s degree in education
from Bhopal University in  India , obtained 190 votes and the
incumbent, Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, received 79, Speaker
Mohamed Sheikh Osman Jawari said at a ceremony yesterday in
Mogadishu. The result was greeted with celebratory gunfire in
districts across the city.  “I know him personally and he can change the country into
a peaceful” nation, Mahad Salad, a lawmaker, said in an
interview. “We are exhausted with warlords and corrupt
governments. We need change.”  Fifteen transitional governments in Somalia have failed to
stem clan-based fighting and an al-Qaeda-linked insurgency that
began when dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted in 1991. The
absence of an effective central administration, police and
courts has allowed piracy off the country’s  Indian Ocean  coast,
kidnappings, and corruption to thrive, and stunted economic
development.  “This is a significant moment for Somalia, and an
important step towards a renewed political process,” British
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in a statement in  London .
“Somalia’s leaders must now work together to build a more
representative and transparent system, tackle corruption and
strengthen security and stability.”  Islamist Militants  The new government will take power with the benefit of
recent security gains by  African Union , Somali and Ethiopian
soldiers who have seized pockets of territory in a campaign that
has weakened al-Shabaab militants. The troops forced insurgents
out of Mogadishu a year ago and are closing in on Kismayo, a
port city that generates a large portion of al-Shabaab’s income,
mostly from contraband, sugar and charcoal trading.  Mohamoud previously worked as an education officer for the
United Nations International Children’s Fund from 1993 to 1995,
and in 1999 was the co-founder of the Somali Institute of
Management and Administration, where he was the dean until 2010,
according to his resume. He also worked with groups including
the Center for Research and Dialogue, a civil society group, and
the  International Peace Building Alliance , a Geneva-based
organization.  The president, like his predecessor, is a member of the
Hawiye clan, one of Somalia’s four main lineages that are bound
by the constitution to share top political positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 