-- Soros Sees Threat of Bubble in Berlin’s Housing Market
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-09-11T15:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/soros-says-berlin-housing-market-in-danger-of-becoming-a-bubble.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said Berlin homes are at risk of becoming overvalued because
demand is being fueled by buyers seeking a safe place to put
their money amid the European sovereign-debt crisis.  “You have a serious danger of a housing bubble developing
in Berlin,” he said at a panel discussion yesterday in the
German capital. “It has a lot to do with the flight of capital
and negative real  interest rates .”  Private-equity firms, affluent individuals and insurance
companies are buying Berlin apartments, attracted by lower
prices than other European cities, a stable economy and a dearth
of alternatives as central banks keep interest rates at record
lows. Apartment prices in Berlin jumped about 17 percent in the
past 12 months, compared with a 7 percent increase nationwide,
according to data compiled by ImmobilienScout 24.  The gains aren’t justified, said Steffen Sebastian, head of
the Real Estate Institute at Regensburg University.  “International investors come here because they expect the
capital premium, but Berlin is not like other European
capitals,” he said. Prices in Berlin won’t reach Paris or
 London  levels because Berlin doesn’t have a concentration of
banks or other major industries, Sebastian said.  Investors are on pace to buy about 7.5 billion euros of
Berlin homes this year, compared with 5.5 billion euros in 2011,
according to data compiled by broker CBRE Group Inc.  Homes in Berlin still cost about a third of those in Paris
and a quarter of the price in London, according to data compiled
by Chicago-based  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   ‘Overheated’ Prices  The Cologne Institute for Economic Research said in August
Berlin is the only German city where supply has climbed faster
than demand. This could indicate that apartment prices in the
German capital “are a bit overheated,” the Institute’s head
 Michael Huether  said at a press conference.  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) , a Berlin-based owner of 53,000
apartments, has gained 34 percent in Frankfurt trading this year
as investors tried to profit from rising residential-property
values.  Soros, 82, said German-led austerity demands worsen the
debt crisis and risk pushing Germany into a depression that’s
already taking hold of the euro area’s rim. The founder of Soros
Fund Management LLC has a net worth of $21.9 billion and is the
world’s 24th-wealthiest person, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 