-- South African Current Account Deficit Unexpectedly Widens
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-09-11T09:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/south-african-current-account-deficit-unexpectedly-widens.html
South Africa ’s  current-account 
deficit unexpectedly widened to 6.4 percent of gross domestic
product in the second quarter, the biggest gap in almost four
years, as exports declined on a slump in global demand.  The gap on the current account, the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, grew from 4.9 percent of GDP, to
the widest since the third quarter of 2008, the  Reserve Bank 
said in its Quarterly Bulletin released in  Pretoria  today. The
median  estimate  of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
shortfall of 4.8 percent.  “Export volumes declined notably, influenced by the
general moderation in global demand,” the central bank said.
“Import volumes held up fairly well in the second quarter of
2012, supported by the rising level of domestic expenditure.”  A debt crisis in  Europe  has damped demand for exports from
a region that buys about a third of shipments from  Africa ’s
biggest economy, curbing economic growth. Manufacturing
production declined 1 percent in the second quarter, according
to Statistics South Africa, and the government and central bank
forecast economic  expansion  will slow to 2.7 percent this year
from 3.1 percent in 2011.  “Exports are under huge pressure across the board,”  Kevin
Lings , a Johannesburg-based economist at Stanlib Asset
Management, said in a phone interview. “You would have to blame
the European situation. The slowdown in emerging  Asia  is also
hurting us. South Africa has once again become much more import
intensive. The rand is going to remain under some pressure.”  Rand Weakens  The rand fell the most since Aug. 30 against the dollar
after the release of the current-account data. The currency
retreated as much as 0.5 percent to 8.2343 a dollar and traded
at 8.2236 at 11:30 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the nation’s
6.75 percent bonds due March 2021 fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.578 percent.  The trade deficit increased to 75.7 billion rand ($9.2
billion) in the second quarter from 42 billion rand as export
volumes fell 2.7 percent, the central bank said. Imports rose 1
percent as an acceleration in investment by government and
utilities supported spending in the economy, it said.  Household expenditure growth slowed to an annualized 2.9
percent from 3.1 percent, while the expansion for  government
spending  accelerated to 4.1 percent, the central bank said.  Capital Inflows  The Reserve Bank cut its  benchmark rate  to 5 percent on
July 19, the lowest level in more than 30 years, to help boost
economic growth.  Consumer spending  has been the driver for a
recovery from recession in 2009.  The shortfall on the current account widened to 200 billion
rand as dividend payments also jumped, it said. Capital inflows
helped South Africa finance the deficit, with the financial
account recording a surplus of 48 billion rand.  “The shortfall on the current account was broadly matched
by the surplus on the financial account of the balance of
payments, with inward portfolio investment in the form of  bonds 
making the largest contribution to the inflow,” the central
bank said.  Foreign direct investment dropped to 5.7 billion rand in
the three months through June from 7.7 billion rand in the
previous quarter, the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  