-- South Africa Manufacturing, Current Account Show Weakness
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-09-11T13:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/south-africa-manufacturing-current-account-show-weakness.html
South African  manufacturing  grew at
a slower pace than economists forecast in July, while the
current-account gap widened in the second quarter as exports
slumped, undermining growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  Factory production rose 5.8 percent from a year earlier,
less than the 6.2 percent  median estimate  of 11 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey. Output declined 1.1 percent in the month. The
current-account deficit widened to 6.4 percent of gross domestic
product, the highest gap in almost four years, the central bank
said in a report released in Pretoria today.  “This data shows the second half is set to be much weaker
and that the central bank was justified in taking an insurance
rate cut,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed response to
questions today.  The  Reserve Bank , led by Governor  Gill Marcus , lowered its
benchmark  lending rate  for the first time in 20 months in July,
reducing it by half a percentage point to 5 percent to bolster
the economy as Europe’s debt crisis curbs export demand. Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Aug. 16 he will probably lower
his economic growth forecasts in coming months. In February, he
predicted expansion of 2.7 percent.  Manufacturing growth accelerated in July after a 6.1
percent slump in output because of a strike in the same month
last year fell out of the calculation, according to the
statistics office.  Exports Decline  “Exports are under huge pressure across the board,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg,
said in a phone interview. “You would have to blame the
European situation. The slowdown in emerging  Asia  is also
hurting us.  South Africa  has once again become much more import
intensive. The rand is going to remain under some pressure.”  The trade deficit increased to 75.7 billion rand ($9.2
billion) in the second quarter from 42 billion rand in the
previous three months as export volumes fell 2.7 percent, the
central bank said today. Imports rose 1 percent as an
acceleration in investment by government and utilities supported
spending in the economy, it said.  “We expect the MPC to adopt a wait-and-see approach, ready
to act if global conditions worsen dramatically but otherwise
content to keep rates unchanged for an extended period if global
and local conditions stabilize,” Busisiwe Radebe, an economist
at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said in a note to
clients.  Consumer spending  has come under pressure, easing to an
annualized 2.9 percent in the second quarter from 3.1 percent in
the previous three months, the central bank said.  The rand gained less than 0.1 percent today to trade at
8.1889 against the dollar as of 3 p.m. in Johannesburg. The
yield on the government bond due 2021 rose 1 basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 6.585 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  