-- Spain Opens World Cup Defense With Win in Georgia; England Ties
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-11T23:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/spain-opens-world-cup-defense-with-win-in-georgia-england-ties.html
Defending champion Spain needed a
late goal to beat Georgia 1-0 in its opening game in European
qualifying for the 2014 soccer  World Cup , while  England  rallied
to tie Ukraine 1-1.  Germany , the  Netherlands  and France were among nine teams
winning their second straight games last night. The top teams
from each of the nine European groups qualify for the World Cup
in  Brazil , with the best eight runners-up going into a playoff
for the remaining four slots.  World champion Spain dominated possession in its Group I
game in Tbilisi without scoring until  Roberto Soldado  turned in
Cesc Fabregas’s cross after a short corner in the 86th minute.  “It was a win that we really worked hard for and against a
team who allowed us to have the ball in order to concentrate on
defending their own area,” Soldado said in comments on  UEFA ’s
website. “We had very few chances to score, but the important
thing is that we did so in the end.”  Spain extended its unbeaten run to 14 matches, which
includes winning its second straight European Championship in
July. France tops Group I with six points after a 3-1 win over
Belarus in Paris on goals from Etienne Capoue, Christophe Jallet
and Franck Ribery.  Frank Lampard  scored with a 87th-minute penalty kick to
give 10-man England the home draw at London’s Wembley Stadium.  “At the start of the game you obviously want to win it but
when you consider the circumstances -- we had a goal disallowed
and we hit the post -- so in the end we showed great character
to get a point,” Lampard told ITV.  Disallowed Goal  Jermain Defoe’s goal was disallowed in the 10th minute when
referee Cuneyt Cakir ruled the Tottenham striker fouled Andriy
Yarmolenko before shooting. Tom Cleverley then missed from close
range in the 35th minute.  Ukraine took the lead four minutes later as Yevhan
Konopolyanka fired a 25-yard (22-meter) shot into the top right
corner. Cleverley had two more chances before halftime, firing
one shot wide and hitting the outside of the post with another.  Glen Johnson  forced a diving save from Andriy Pyatov in the
second half and  Danny Welbeck , who came on for Manchester United
teammate Cleverley, hit the outside of the post.  Lampard then scored from the spot after Yevhen Khacheridi
handled the ball in the area. England captain  Steven Gerrard  was
sent off a minute later after receiving his second yellow card
for a lunging challenge on Denys Garmash.  The draw leaves England tied with Montenegro and Poland in
Group H with four points. Montenegro rolled to a 6-0 win at San
Marino, while Poland beat Moldova 2-0.  “I’m happy we came out with something because had we lost
the game it would have been very harsh on us,” England manager
 Roy Hodgson  told ITV.  Germany Wins  Germany won 2-1 in Austria to take the lead in Group C,
while  Sweden  beat Kazakhstan 2-0 for its first win. The
Netherlands beat Hungary 4-1 and Romania defeated Andorra 4-0
for their second straight wins in Group D, and Turkey defeated
Estonia 3-0.  Italy rebounded from an opening draw for a 2-0 win over
Malta and is tied atop Group B with Bulgaria, which beat Armenia
1-0. Switzerland has the maximum six points in Group E after
beating Albania 2-0, while Cyprus defeated Iceland 1-0 and
Norway topped Slovenia 2-1.  Russia and Portugal are atop Group F after easy wins.
Russia won 4-0 in Israel and Portugal was a 3-0 home winner over
Azerbaijan, while Northern Ireland and Luxembourg tied 1-1.  Bosnia-Herzegovina beat Latvia 4-1 and Greece topped
Lithuania 2-0 to leave both with six points in Group G. Slovakia
defeated Liechtenstein 2-0.  In Group A, Serbia routed Wales 6-1 and is tied with
Belgium and Croatia, who played out a 1-1 draw, on four points.
Scotland and Macedonia also tied 1-1.  The third round of European qualifying games will be played
Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  