-- Sprint Seen Better Positioned to Buy MetroPCS Than T-Mobile
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-11T20:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/sprint-buying-metropcs-easier-than-t-mobile-deal-goldman-says.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , poised to
potentially acquire the smaller competitors in the U.S. wireless
industry, may have success going after a prepaid carrier like
 MetroPCS (PCS)  Communications Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  That kind of deal would be easier to complete than trying
to buy T-Mobile USA Inc., a larger carrier that AT&T Inc. failed
to acquire last year,  Jason Armstrong , a Goldman Sachs analyst
in New York, said yesterday in a report. Sprint’s soaring stock
price, which has more than doubled this year, is stoking
speculation that some kind of deal will happen, he said.  Sprint’s balance sheet, particularly its $21 billion in
gross debt, would make an acquisition of  T-Mobile USA 
impractical, Armstrong said. Either MetroPCS or  Leap Wireless
International Inc. (LEAP) , another pay-as-you-go carrier, are the more
probable takeover candidates, he said. Sprint and T-Mobile USA
also could form a network-sharing agreement, letting them
compete more effectively with Verizon Wireless and AT&T.  A Sprint takeover of T-Mobile is “aspirational,” rather
than likely, said Armstrong, who has a neutral rating on the
shares. “A smaller prepaid-centric deal may be the more logical
route for now if Sprint determines to pursue M&A.”  Sprint and T-Mobile rank a distant third and fourth in the
U.S. wireless industry, with a combined 27 percent of the
revenue generated by national carriers, according to Goldman
Sachs. Verizon ranks first, with 37 percent, and AT&T is second,
accounting for 35 percent.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment.  Sprint shares fell 2.9 percent to $5 at the close in New
York, breaking a four-day streak of gains. The stock has climbed
114 percent in 2012. MetroPCS, up 16 percent this year, rose 3
percent to $10.06 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  