-- Sushinomics Show New York Rolls Past L.A. in Living Costs
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/sushinomics-show-new-york-outpacing-l-a-in-living-costs.html
New Yorkers  have something else to
be crabby about.  In addition to soaring rents and taxi fares, sushi prices
in the Big Apple gained an average of 10 percent in the past
year to overtake Los Angeles as the most expensive city for raw
fish and rice, according to the Sushinomics Cost-of-Living
Index, compiled by Bloomberg. The measure is based on a survey
of prices for spicy tuna and  California  rolls at restaurants in
25 major U.S. cities.  Takashi Sando, the owner of Marumi restaurant in  New York ’s
Greenwich Village said the city’s high sushi prices are a good
indicator of its cost of living.  “It’s not only for sushi restaurants, because the rent is
more expensive than any other area for that space, so they have
to cover the expenses,” he said by telephone from New York.
“Also, the people that live here have to pay more money to the
chef, otherwise they cannot live in  New York City .”  San Francisco  maintained its rank as the third most
expensive sushi city, while Dallas and Sacramento, California,
jumped into the top five from 12th and 10th places,
respectively. Prices in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , climbed 12
percent, the biggest percentage increase.  The least expensive city for sushi was  New Orleans , with
Columbus,  Ohio ;  Portland ,  Oregon ; San Jose, California, and
 Chicago  rounding out the bottom five. Only  Orlando ,  Florida , and
Minneapolis/St. Paul had sushi prices decline.  The index shows the cost of living in the cities increased
5.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with an average gain
of 1.9 percent for the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer
Price Index. About 40 percent of the restaurants that also were
surveyed last year raised their prices by an average $0.22 for a
California roll and $0.27 for a spicy tuna roll.  Bloomberg used the survey to find the average price for all
25 cities and then compared each locale to that figure. New York
scored 133, meaning sushi prices there were 33 percent above the
average.  Los Angeles  scored 127.7 and New Orleans, with the
cheapest rolls, had a rating of 80.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  