-- Swiss Stocks Slip for Second Day; Swatch, Richemont Fall
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-09-11T15:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/swiss-stocks-slip-for-second-day-swatch-richemont-fall.html
Swiss stocks  slipped for a second
day as investors awaited confirmation that Germany will ratify
the euro area’s permanent bailout fund and a policy announcement
from the U.S. Federal Reserve.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA slid more
than 2 percent as British luxury-goods maker  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) 
said profit will be at the lower end of analysts’ estimates.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  dropped 0.1 percent to 6,503.3 at
the close in Zurich. The gauge advanced on Sept. 7 to its
highest close since May 31, 2011 as the  European Central Bank 
set up a bond-purchase program to lower borrowing costs in the
euro area and investors speculated that the U.S. Federal Open
Market Committee will opt to stimulate growth. The broader Swiss
Performance Index retreated less than 0.1 percent today.  “People are waiting on the decisions,” said Markus Neuburger, head of sales at Donner & Reuschel AG in Munich.
“There is a high expectation on the FOMC meeting and on the
German court ruling. But I don’t think there is much upside in
those decisions.”  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court will rule tomorrow
whether the country may ratify the European Stability Mechanism,
the currency area’s permanent rescue facility.  The FOMC starts a two-day meeting tomorrow. The  Dollar
Index  slid to a four-month low today amid speculation the Fed
will buy bonds in a third round of quantitative easing.  Spain’s Rajoy  Mariano Rajoy , Spain’s prime minister, said late yesterday
that he won’t allow the European Union or the ECB to stipulate
how the Spanish government narrows its  budget deficit . The
central bank said on Sept. 6 that countries must abide by strict
conditions if they want the ECB to buy their bonds.  Swatch, the biggest maker of Swiss watches, declined 2.2
percent to 405 Swiss francs. Richemont, the maker of Cartier
watches, plunged 5.1 percent to 60.85 francs, its largest drop
since June 1.  Burberry, the  U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker , said full-
year profit will disappoint after sales growth slowed in the 10
weeks ended Sept. 8. “The external environment is becoming more
challenging,” Burberry’s Chief Executive Officer, Angela Ahrendts, said in a statement.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  rose 0.7 percent to 47.07 francs after the
maker of the Tracleer blood-pressure drug said it will cut costs
by removing 135 jobs globally. The company reiterated its
forecast for a mid-single-digit percentage increase in earnings
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  