-- Swisscom Intends to Buy 75% Stake in Telecom Liechtenstein
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-09-11T08:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/swisscom-intends-to-buy-75-stake-in-telecom-liechtenstein-1-.html
Swisscom AG (SCMN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
phone company, agreed to buy a controlling stake in Telecom
 Liechtenstein  AG and take over the carrier’s telecommunications
and infrastructure management.  Swisscom and the Principality of Liechtenstein signed a
declaration of intent for the company to buy a 75 percent stake
in Telecom Liechtenstein, Bern-based Swisscom said today in a
statement.  Swisscom said it’s committing itself to invest in one of
the world’s smallest countries, where the Liechtenstein
government says it’s difficult to make the business profitable
given the number of clients and level of investments needed. The
landlocked principality had a population of about 36,000 in
2010, according to a government  website .  “There will be only a small chance of growth, but also not
a lot of danger,” said Michael Inauen, an analyst at Zuercher
Kantonalbank. “Swisscom is already doing business in
Liechtenstein and the country is very small. It is a rather
neutral step.”  Swisscom shares were unchanged at 381.70 francs as of 9:37
a.m. in Zurich trading. The company has a market value of 19.8
billion francs ($21 billion).  2011 Loss  Liechtenstein Telecom had a loss of 1.8 million francs and
sales of 54.1 million francs in 2011. The company has about
18,600 customers.  The price will probably be in the “low double-digit
million Swiss francs range,” Carsten Roetz, a spokesman for
Swisscom, said by phone. “The deal won’t have any impact on
Swisscom’s results in 2012.”  Liechtenstein’s Parliament will make legal arrangements for
the purchase “towards the end of the year,” Swisscom said.  Swisscom, which holds a license for mobile services in
Liechtenstein, said it’s planning to take over the
telecommunications business and infrastructure that belongs to
Liechtenstein’s power company.  Telecom Liechtenstein’s cable business and Swiss unit Deep
AG won’t be included in the purchase.  Swisscom said it had offered fixed-network phone service in
Liechtenstein and sold that business to the country in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  