-- Syrians Resort to Heavy Weapons in Sign of Assad’s Weakness
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-09-12T14:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/syrian-resort-to-heavy-weapons-a-sign-of-strain-as-troops-defect.html
The use by Bashar al-Assad’s armed
forces of ever-deadlier weapons to crush the 18-month Syrian
uprising at the expense of greater civilian casualties is a sign
of the regime’s weakness, military and Middle East analysts say.  Syria ’s government has become more reliant on heavy
weaponry including attack aircraft, helicopter gunships,
artillery and tanks even as lightly armed rebels win and hold
ground in the biggest cities -- Aleppo, the business center, and
suburbs of the capital, Damascus.  Assad’s forces have been employing heavier weapons because
“they don’t have enough combat maneuver units to deal with the
rebellion,” according to  Jeffrey White , a fellow at the
 Washington Institute for Near East Policy  and a 34-year veteran
of the U.S.  Defense Intelligence Agency . That shortage of troops
indicates a loss of army personnel from defections and
desertions, White said in a phone interview.  The Syrian army’s full-time notional strength is about
220,000 personnel, plus allied Shabiha militiamen, according to
the London-based  International Institute of Strategic Studies’ 
Military Balance 2012. Yet the fighting has reduced its
effectiveness as a military force and its manpower may now be
only about 100,000 troops, White estimates, while the remaining
units “aren’t necessarily fighting very well.”  If the Syrian military is unable to break the deadlock even
with air power, it may resort to still-tougher tactics.  ‘Entire Suburbs’  “There is another level beyond that when they actually
start systematically destroying entire suburbs of major towns,”
said Crispin Hawes, head of the Middle East program at Eurasia
Group, a New York-based political risk research company.  In Aleppo, government forces shelled neighborhoods and
battled overnight with rebels near the international airport,
the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said on its Facebook
page today. More than 140 people, including 95 unarmed civilians
and 26 personnel from the Syrian army, died yesterday in the
clashes, the U.K.-based group said.  A car bomb and rebel assault at military position killed at
least 18 soldiers today in Idlib province, the Observatory said,
after rebels attacked as many as 100 troops manning a
checkpoint.  Military Inventory  Syrian forces routinely storm small towns and city
districts seeking rebels and their supporters. In August,
loyalists entered Dariya, a town outside Damascus, leaving
bodies piled on the streets and in a mosque, according to
opposition groups. A video posted on YouTube showed the corpses
of men covered in blankets on the floor of the Abu Sulaiman
Darani mosque in Dariya. The authenticity of the video couldn’t
be verified.  Syria’s armed forces possess a large inventory of military
hardware. Mainly Russian-supplied, this includes 4,950 main
battle tanks and 3,440 artillery pieces, while the  air force  has
365 combat-capable aircraft including 240 MiG-21s,  MiG-23 s,
Su-22s and Su-24s assigned to ground attack, according to the
IISS. In addition, it has 33 Mi-25 attack helicopters.  “Statistically the regime has considerable power, but the
part that can be used is very small,” said  Mustafa Alani , an
analyst at the Geneva-based Gulf Research Center, in an
interview. “We are witnessing a shift in the balance of power
on the battlefield inside Syria.” That’s why the government is
using its weaponry “to regain the balance that was lost.”  Alani says the best-equipped unit, the 4th Armored Division
led by Assad’s brother Maher, is being held back in the capital
for “the last stand of the regime.”  Weakening Economy  Syria’s economy is showing signs of weakening under
sanctions. In June, consumer prices rose 36 percent from a year
earlier and climbed by 2.9 percent from May, according to the
 Central Bureau of Statistics  in Damascus. Crude output has
fallen by almost 50 percent during the uprising, Oil Minister
Said Hunaidi said last month.  Even so, Assad’s downfall is not assured, Hawes says.
“Syria potentially looks like an open-ended conflict,” he
says. Unlike the removal of governments in Tunisia,  Egypt  and
 Libya , “Assad is going to be a lot harder to tip over.”  Both sides have switched tactics as the conflict has
evolved since the start of the uprising in March 2011.  “For most of last year, the military response was
reasonably measured in that they were attempting to minimize
civilian casualties, with the eye on re-establishing order and
being able to run the country in the way that they ran it
before,” said Hawes. “That goal is no longer perceived to be
realistic. They are happy to use helicopter gunships and air
support to attack suburbs, losing a huge number of civilian
casualties.”  ‘Taxed’ Military  Pressure from more than a year of combat operations has
“taxed” the Syrian military, causing problems with resupply,
maintenance and morale, U.S. Army General Martin Dempsey,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said last month.  That’s why  Iran  has started to train a new militia force,
called “ the Army of the People,” drawn from the minority
Shiite and Alawite communities “to take some of the pressure
off of the Syrian military,” he said.  The Syrian military is also being resupplied by Iran, says
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Institute for Near
East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai. While Iran has
supported Assad’s government in public statements, it hasn’t
officially acknowledged any military role in Syria.  Opportunity ‘Seized’  The rebels too have altered their approach, entering and
holding areas of the biggest cities. Even so, the Free Syrian
Army lacks a “grand strategy,” White says.  The partial seizure of Aleppo, “didn’t reflect any
profound strategic thinking,” he said. “They saw an
opportunity, saw that regime forces were weak and not fighting
very well, and they seized on the opportunity.”  He says the Syrian military response has failed to dislodge
them and that the rebels are fighting a long war.  “The FSA doesn’t have a field force, they can’t come out
of the towns and villages meet the Syrian army in some kind of
open battle,” he said. “They can weaken the army over time,
and I think that is what they are doing. They are going to break
the army piece by piece.”  Rebels have turned their attacks against airbases as they
try to degrade the government’s air power. Battles have been
fought around the Abu Zhuhoor military base, the Kwers military
airport in Aleppo and in the city of Bukmal in Deir Ezzour
province near the border with  Iraq .  Headquarters Bombing  Heavy fighting erupted in areas of Damascus and Aleppo in
July as rebels confronted the government in its biggest urban
power bases.  The same month, a bomb was smuggled into one of the
government’s most sensitive institutions, the national security
headquarters in Damascus, killing key members of Assad’s
military establishment, including his brother-in-law, Major
General Assef Shawkat, and Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah. In
August, Prime Minister Riad Hijab defected to  Jordan  and
denounced Assad’s regime as “the enemy of God.”  The Syrian Observatory estimates that more than 26,000
people have died to date, an average of about 50 a day.
Throughout most of August and September, opposition groups have
reported death tolls of more than 100 daily, with the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria identifying Aug. 25 as the
bloodiest, with 440 people said to have lost their lives.  The problem for Syria’s rebels, according to White, is that
they lack the firepower to bring the battle to Assad’s forces,
while loyalist units lack the stomach for close-quarters combat.
“When regime ground units attack, they don’t attack very
hard,” he said.  With the conflict dragging on, “there will be no winners
in this rolling slaughter,” said  Paul Sullivan , an economics
professor specializing in Middle East security at  Georgetown
University  in  Washington . “Syria is likely finished as a
country that functions for some time to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  