-- U.K.’s Clegg Tries to Retract E-mail Calling Opponents ‘Bigots’
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-09-11T17:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-k-s-clegg-tries-to-retract-e-mail-calling-opponents-bigots-.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ’s office tried to retract an e-mail sent to journalists
that described opponents of gay marriage as “bigots,” asking
them to quote from a toned-down version instead.  Clegg will today host a reception for celebrity campaigners
in favor of the government’s plans to introduce same-sex
marriages. Opponents include Church of England and Roman
Catholic leaders, as well as some Conservative Party lawmakers,
who govern in coalition with Clegg’s Liberal Democrats.  “Continued trouble in the economy gives the bigots a stick
to beat us with, as they demand we ‘postpone’ the equalities
agenda in order to deal with ‘the things people really care
about,’” Clegg was originally planning to say, according to an
e-mail his office sent at 3 p.m.  An hour and a half later, Clegg’s office sent an e-mail to
“recall” the first one, and a substitute was sent out
replacing the word “bigots” with “some people.” The rest of
the text, in which Clegg tells his audience they will “hear it
straight from me,” was unchanged.  Bigot is a word that got former Labour Prime Minister
 Gordon Brown  into trouble during the campaign for the 2010
general election. Brown was forced to apologize, calling himself
a “penitent sinner,” after being caught on microphone calling
a widow and self-described Labour supporter in northwest England
“bigoted” following a disagreement over immigration.  The U.K. currently allows civil partnerships for gay
couples, which offer most of the legal benefits of marriage. The
government is asking for the views of the public on allowing
them to be married in civil ceremonies, though not in church.  In April, Prime Minister  David Cameron  tried to heal
divisions between the government and religious leaders over the
gay marriage issue, telling them he welcomed a “Christian
fightback” and that “the values of the Bible, the values of
Christianity are the values that we need.”  The Archbishop of York, John Sentamu,  told BBC television
in March  that the proposals represented an “unjustified
change” to the law and required the consent of the Church of
 England . Sentamu is a leading candidate to become the next
Archbishop of Canterbury, the head of the Anglican church.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  