-- U.K. Trade Gap Narrows as Exports of Oil, Chemicals Soar
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-11T08:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-k-july-trade-gap-narrows-as-exports-of-oil-chemicals-rise.html
Britain’s  trade deficit  narrowed
more than economists forecast in July as exports soared the most
in more than nine years.  The goods-trade gap fell to 7.2 billion pounds ($11.5
billion pounds) from 10.1 billion pounds in June, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . The median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists was 9 billion pounds.
Exports rose 9.3 percent, the biggest increase since January
2003, while imports fell 2.1 percent.  Britain is struggling to emerge from a double-dip recession
as the debt crisis continues in the euro area, its biggest
trading partner. The Bank of England held its target for bond
purchases at 375 billion pounds last week as policy makers
assessed the impact of their Funding for Lending program to
boost the flow of credit in the economy.  “Hopes that net trade could boost overall economic
activity proved to be sadly misplaced in the first half of
2012,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
London, said in a research note. “Prospects for exports still
look troublesome given the ongoing serious problems in the  euro
zone  and softer economic activity elsewhere.”  On a cash basis, exports rose 2.2 billion pounds in July
from June, the most since records began in 1998, the statistics
office said.  Diamonds  The increase in exports was led by oil, chemicals and
consumer goods. Within imports, the biggest declines were
recorded by oil, semi-manufactured goods and precious stones
including diamonds. The ONS said trade figures have been “very
volatile” in the past few months.  The pound remained higher against the dollar after the data
were published and traded at $1.6023 as of 9:33 a.m. in London.  The  Bank of England  said last month that if the pound
continues to strengthen, that “could make it harder for British
producers to compete in world markets.” The pound has risen
about 3.6 percent this year on a  trade-weighted basis . It’s
still down about 20 percent since the start of 2007. Against the
euro, sterling has appreciated about 4.1 percent in 2012.  The goods deficit with the European Union, which buys about
49 percent of British exports, narrowed to 4.27 billion pounds
in July from 4.99 billion pounds. The gap with non-EU nations
fell to 2.88 billion pounds from 5.08 billion pounds, as exports
to those countries rose to a record.  Birmingham-based  IMI Plc (IMI) , a maker of fluid controls and
retail displays, said Aug. 23 growth in the second half may
decline, though it won’t be a “significant slowdown.”  There was a 5.63 billion-pound surplus on services in July,
which left the total  trade gap  at 1.52 billion pounds, today’s
report showed.  In the three months through July, goods exports increased
0.3 percent from the previous three months, while imports fell
2.1 percent. The deficit in the three months was 25.2 billion
pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  