-- U.K.’s Average Rents Reach Record High as Banks Restrict Lending
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-09-11T15:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-k-s-average-rents-reach-record-high-as-banks-restrict-lending.html
The average rental cost of a U.K.
home surpassed 800 pounds ($1,280) a month for the first time as
restricted mortgage lending increased the number of people
seeking to lease property, according to HomeLet.  The average rental amount rose 2.1 percent in August from a
month earlier to 806 pounds, the Lincoln, England-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today.  London  rents reached a
record of 1,272 pounds a month after rising 2.3 percent,
according to an index compiled by  HomeLet , which checks
references and other information for clients.  “Despite mortgage payments being at a 15-year low,
securing a mortgage still remains difficult, and a higher amount
of people are turning to the private rented sector when moving
to a new home,” said Ian Fraser, managing director of HomeLet.
“This has caused an increase in demand, shortage in housing
supply and increasing, and now record, rents.”  U.K. mortgage approvals rose in July from an 18-month low
the previous month, when an extra public holiday slowed
activity. Lenders granted 47,312 home loans, compared with
44,124 in June, the  Bank of England  said Aug. 30. The average
for the previous six months was 50,729, less than half the
monthly average in the decade to 2007, before the financial
crisis.  The government is trying to make it cheaper and easier for
households to borrow by guaranteeing part of a loan to some
buyers of new properties.  HomeLet, an affiliate of Barbon Insurance Group Ltd., also
provides specialized insurance for agents, landlords and
tenants, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 