-- U.S. Missile-Defense System Needs Upgrade, Council Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-09-11T15:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-s-missile-defense-system-needs-upgrade-council-says.html
A $34 billion system of ground-
based interceptors in  Alaska  and  California  to defend the U.S.
against a potential missile attack by  North Korea  or Iran needs
to be upgraded, the National Research Council said.  In a report requested by Congress, the research
organization called today for adding faster, smaller weapons and
building a third site in a northeastern state, an expansion that
has been sought by Republican lawmakers.  Boeing Co. (BA)  manages the system of 26  Orbital Science Corp. (ORB) 
interceptors at Fort Greely, Alaska, and four at Vandenberg Air
Force Base in California armed with  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  hit-to-kill
warheads. The system hasn’t had a successful test intercept
since December 2008.  Improvements in the costly system “‘will take time, money
and careful testing, but unless this is done,’’ it ‘‘will not be
able to work against any but the most primitive attacks,’’
according to the Washington-based council, part of the National
Academies. The system ‘‘can, if it works as designed, deal
successfully with the initial threats from North Korea,’’
according to the report, which examined many phases of missile
defense. These included now-defunct Pentagon programs to hit a
missile shortly after launch, in its so-called boost phase.  The council also examined the Obama administration’s
‘‘European Phased Adaptive Approach’’ that revised a Bush
administration plan to place missile interceptors in  Poland  and
radar in the Czech Republic as a hedge against Iranian
intercontinental ballistic missiles.  ‘Right Track’  The group praised the Pentagon’s  Missile Defense Agency , as
well as the Army and Navy, for appearing to be ‘‘on the right
track’’ developing mobile ground and sea-based programs such as
the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Raytheon Aegis, Thaad and advanced
Patriot systems to protect deployed U.S. troops and allies
overseas or in combat zones.  Developed and deployed with limited objectives such as
‘‘dealing with an early generation North Korean threat of very
limited numbers and capability,’’ the U.S.-based system has
shortcomings that limit its effectiveness against ‘‘even
modestly improved’’ North Korean missiles and potential Iranian
weapons, the council said.  The U.S.-based system could be modified at an ‘‘affordable
cost’’ and in time to blunt potential North Korean and Iranian
missile improvements, the report found, citing the Missile
Defense Agency’s prior development programs as laying the
groundwork.  ‘More Capable’  The council recommended replacing the current Raytheon
warheads with a ‘‘heavier, more capable’’ version that has
improved on-board sensors. The most advanced Raytheon warheads
cost about $39 million apiece, according to the report.  Richard Lehner , spokesman for the Missile Defense Agency,
said in an e-mailed statement that the deployed system
‘‘provides an effective defense of the homeland against the type
of limited long-range threat we could face from North Korea and
Iran.’’ The agency hasn’t been directed by the Pentagon to
replace the existing interceptor, he said.  An additional missile defense site equipped with new
interceptors would improve the U.S.’s capability to protect the
continent, including  Canada , ‘‘against the sort of threat that
can prudently be expected to emerge from North Korea or Iran
over the coming decade or so,” the council said.  The report boosts efforts by House and Senate Republicans
to establish a northeastern U.S. interceptor site. The House-
passed defense authorization bill includes the provision; the
version awaiting a Senate floor vote doesn’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  