-- U.S. July Job Openings and Labor Turnover Report (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-09-11T14:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-s-july-job-openings-and-labor-turnover-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the July
job openings and labor turnover rates.  There were 3.7 million job openings on the last business
day of July, little changed from June, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics  reported today. The hires rate (3.2 percent) and
separations rate (3.0 percent) were also little changed in July.
This release includes estimates of the number and rate of job
openings, hires, and separations for the nonfarm sector by
industry and by geographic region.  Job Openings  The number of job openings in July was 3.7 million, little
changed from June. The number of openings was little changed in
all industries except health care and social assistance, where
the number decreased. The number of openings was also little
changed in all four regions in July. The level of total nonfarm
job openings in July was up from 2.4 million at the end of the
recession in June 2009. (Recession dates are determined by the
National Bureau of  Economic Research .)  The number of job openings in July (not seasonally
adjusted) increased over the year for total nonfarm, total
private, and government. Job openings increased over the year
for several industries but fell in mining and logging and arts,
entertainment, and recreation. Three of the four regions -
Midwest, Northeast, and South - experienced a rise in job
openings over the year.  Hires  In July, the hires rate was unchanged at 3.2 percent. The
hires rate was little changed in all industries and regions. The
number of hires in July was 4.2 million, up from 3.7 million at
the end of the recession in June 2009.  Over the 12 months ending in July, the hires rate (not
seasonally adjusted) was unchanged for total nonfarm and total
private but increased for government. The hires rate was little
changed in all industries over the year but increased in state
and local government. The rate was little changed in all four
regions over the year.  Separations  The total separations figure includes quits, layoffs and
discharges, and other separations. Total separations is also
referred to as turnover. Quits are generally voluntary
separations initiated by the employee. Therefore, the quits rate
can serve as a measure of workers’ willingness or ability to
leave jobs. Layoffs and discharges are involuntary separations
initiated by the employer. Other separations include separations
due to retirement, death, and disability, as well as transfers
to other locations of the same firm.  The total separations rate was essentially unchanged for
total nonfarm and total private, and unchanged for government in
July. Over the year, the total separations rate (not seasonally
adjusted) was unchanged for total nonfarm, total private, and
government.  In July, the quits rate was unchanged for total nonfarm,
total private, and government. The number of quits was 2.2
million in July, up from 1.8 million at the end of the recession
in June 2009.  The number of quits (not seasonally adjusted) in July rose
over the year for total nonfarm and total private but was little
changed for government. Quits also increased over the year in
several industries and in the South; quits declined in finance
and insurance.  The layoffs and discharges rate was little changed in July
for total nonfarm and total private and unchanged for
government. The layoffs and discharges rate was essentially
unchanged in all four regions in July. The number of layoffs and
discharges for total nonfarm was 1.6 million in July, down from
2.1 million at the end of the recession in June 2009.  The layoffs and discharges level (not seasonally adjusted)
was little changed for total nonfarm and total private but
decreased for government over the 12 months ending in July 2012.
The number of layoffs and discharges was essentially unchanged
over the year in all four regions.  In July, there were 344,000 other separations for total
nonfarm, little changed from the previous month. The number of
other separations (not seasonally adjusted) was also little
changed over the 12 months ending in July.  Net Change in Employment  Large numbers of hires and separations occur every month
throughout the business cycle. Net employment change results
from the relationship between hires and separations. When the
number of hires exceeds the number of separations, employment
rises, even if the hires level is steady or declining.
Conversely, when the number of hires is less than the number of
separations, employment declines, even if the hires level is
steady or rising. Over the 12 months ending in July 2012, hires
totaled 51.4 million and separations totaled 49.6 million,
yielding a net employment gain of 1.8 million. These figures
include workers who may have been hired and separated more than
once during the year.  The Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey results for August
2012 are scheduled to be released on Wednesday, October 10, 2012
at 10:00 a.m. (EDT).  Technical Note  The data for the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey
(JOLTS) are collected and compiled monthly from a sample of
business establishments by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).  Collection  In a monthly survey of business establishments, data are
collected for total employment, job openings, hires, quits,
layoffs and discharges, and other separations.  Data collection
methods include computer-assisted telephone interviewing,
touchtone data entry, web, fax, e-mail, and mail.  Coverage  The JOLTS program covers all private nonfarm establishments
such as factories, offices, and stores, as well as federal,
state, and local government entities in the 50 states and the
 District of Columbia .  Concepts
Industry classification  The industry classifications in this release are in
accordance with the 2012 version of the North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS).  In order to ensure the highest
possible quality of data, State Workforce Agencies verify with
employers and update, if necessary, the industry code, location,
and ownership classification of all establishments on a 3-year
cycle.  Changes in establishment characteristics resulting from
the verification process are always introduced into the JOLTS
sampling frame with the data reported for the first month of the
year.  Employment  Employment includes persons on the payroll who worked or
received pay for the pay period that includes the 12th day of
the reference month.  Full-time, part-time, permanent, short-
term, seasonal, salaried, and hourly employees are included, as
are employees on paid vacations or other paid leave.
Proprietors or partners of unincorporated businesses, unpaid
family workers, or persons on leave without pay or on strike for
the entire pay period, are not counted as employed.  Employees
of temporary help agencies, employee leasing companies, outside
contractors, and consultants are counted by their employer of
record, not by the establishment where they are working.  Job openings  Establishments submit job openings information for the last
business day of the reference month.  A job opening requires
that: 1) a specific position exists and there is work available
for that position, 2) work could start within 30 days regardless
of whether a suitable candidate is found, and 3) the employer is
actively recruiting from outside the establishment to fill the
position.  Included are full-time, part-time, permanent, short-
term, and seasonal openings.  Active recruiting means that the
establishment is taking steps to fill a position by advertising
in newspapers or on the Internet, posting help-wanted signs,
accepting applications, or using other similar methods.  Jobs to be filled only by internal transfers, promotions,
demotions, or recall from layoffs are excluded.  Also excluded
are jobs with start dates more than 30 days in the future, jobs
for which employees have been hired but have not yet reported
for work, and jobs to be filled by employees of temporary help
agencies, employee leasing companies, outside contractors, or
consultants. The job openings rate is computed by dividing the
number of job openings by the sum of employment and job openings
and multiplying that quotient by 100.  Hires  Hires are the total number of additions to the payroll
occurring at any time during the reference month, including both
new and rehired employees, full-time and part-time, permanent,
short-term and seasonal employees, employees recalled to the
location after a layoff lasting more than 7 days, on-call or
intermittent employees who returned to work after having been
formally separated, and transfers from other locations.  The
hires count does not include transfers or promotions within the
reporting site, employees returning from strike, employees of
temporary help agencies or employee leasing companies, outside
contractors, or consultants.  The hires rate is computed by
dividing the number of hires by employment and multiplying that
quotient by 100.  Separations  Separations are the total number of terminations of
employment occurring at any time during the reference month, and
are reported by type of separation--quits, layoffs and
discharges, and other separations.  Quits are voluntary
separations by employees (except for retirements, which are
reported as other separations).  Layoffs and discharges are
involuntary separations initiated by the employer and include
layoffs with no intent to rehire; formal layoffs lasting or
expected to last more than 7 days; discharges resulting from
mergers, downsizing, or closings; firings or other discharges
for cause; terminations of permanent or short-term employees;
and terminations of seasonal employees. Other separations
include retirements, transfers to other locations, deaths, and
separations due to disability.  Separations do not include
transfers within the same location or employees on strike.  The separations rate is computed by dividing the number of
separations by employment and multiplying that quotient by 100.
The quits, layoffs and discharges, and other separations rates
are computed similarly, dividing the number by employment and
multiplying by 100.  Annual estimates  Annual estimates of rates and levels of hires, quits,
layoffs and discharges, other separations, and total separations
are released with the January news release each year.  The JOLTS annual level estimates for hires, quits, layoffs
and discharges, other separations, and total separations are the
sum of the 12 published monthly levels.  The annual rate
estimates are computed by dividing the annual level by the
Current Employment Statistics (CES) annual average employment
level, and multiplying that quotient by 100.  This figure will
be approximately equal to the sum of the 12 monthly rates.  Note
that both the JOLTS and CES annual levels are rounded to the
nearest thousand before the annual estimates are calculated.
Consistent with BLS practices, annual estimates are published
only for not seasonally adjusted data.  Annual estimates are not calculated for job openings
because job openings are a stock, or point-in-time, measurement
for the last business day of each month.  Only jobs still open
on the last day of the month are counted.  For the same reason
job openings cannot be cumulated throughout each month, annual
figures for job openings cannot be created by summing the
monthly estimates.  Hires and separations are flow measures and
are cumulated over the month with a total reported for the
month.  Therefore, the annual figures can be created by summing
the monthly estimates.  Special collection procedures  An implied measure of employment change can be derived from
the JOLTS data by subtracting separations from hires for a given
month.  Aggregating these monthly changes historically produced
employment levels that overstated employment change as measured
by CES at the total nonfarm level.  Research into this problem
showed that a significant amount of the divergence between the
CES employment levels and the derived JOLTS employment levels
was traceable to the Employment Services industry and to the
State Government Education industry.  In the former industry,
businesses have a difficult time reporting hires and separations
of temporary help workers.  In the latter industry, employers
have difficulty reporting hires and separations of student
workers.  BLS now devotes additional resources to the
collection, editing, and review of data for these industries.
BLS analysts more closely examine reported data that do not
provide a consistent picture over time, and re-contact the
respondents as necessary.  Analysts work with the respondents to
adjust their reporting practices as possible. Units that cannot
be reconciled but are clearly incorrect on a consistent basis
are not used, they are replaced by imputed values using standard
techniques.  Sample and estimation methodology  The JOLTS survey design is a stratified random sample of
16,400 nonfarm business establishments, including factories,
offices, and stores, as well as federal, state, and local
governments in the 50 states and the District of Columbia.  The
establishments are drawn from a universe of over 9.1 million
establishments compiled as part of the operations of the
Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages (QCEW) program.  This
program includes all employers subject to state Unemployment
Insurance (UI) laws and federal agencies subject to Unemployment
Compensation for Federal Employees (UCFE).  The sampling frame is stratified by ownership, region,
industry sector, and establishment size class. The JOLTS sample
is constructed from individual panels of sample units drawn on
an annual basis. The full annual sample consists of one
certainty panel composed of only large units selected with
virtual certainty based on their size and 24 non-certainty
panels.  Each month a new non-certainty panel is rolled into
collection, and the oldest non-certainty panel is rolled out.
This means that at any given time the JOLTS sample is
constructed from panels from three different annual sampling
frames.  The entire sample of old plus new panels is post-
stratified and re-weighted annually to represent the most recent
sampling frame.  Additionally, the out-of-business
establishments are removed from the old panels.  The annual
sample is supplemented with a quarterly sample of birth
establishments (i.e., new establishments) to better reflect the
impact of younger establishments in the JOLTS sample.  JOLTS total employment estimates are benchmarked or ratio
adjusted monthly to the strike-adjusted employment estimates of
the Current Employment Statistics (CES) survey.  A ratio of CES
to JOLTS employment is used to adjust the levels for all other
JOLTS data elements.  JOLTS business birth/death model  As with any sample survey, the JOLTS sample can only be as
current as its sampling frame.  The time lag from the birth of
an establishment until its appearance on the sampling frame is
approximately one year.  In addition, many of these new units
may fail within the first year.  Since these universe units
cannot be reflected on the sampling frame immediately, the JOLTS
sample cannot capture job openings, hires, and separations from
these units during their early existence.  BLS has developed a
model to estimate birth/death activity for current months by
examining the birth/death activity from previous years on the
QCEW and projecting forward using the ratio of over-the-year CES
employment change. The birth/death model also uses historical
JOLTS data to estimate the amount of “churn” (hires and
separations) that exists in establishments of various sizes.
The model then combines the estimated churn with the projected
employment change to estimate the number of hires and
separations taking place in these units that cannot be measured
through sampling.  The model-based estimate of total separations is
distributed to the three components--quits; layoffs and
discharges; and other separations--in proportion to their
contribution to the sample-based estimate of total separations.
Additionally, job openings for the modeled units are estimated
by computing the ratio of openings to hires in the collected
data and applying that ratio to the modeled hires.  The
estimates of job openings, hires, and separations produced by
the birth/death model are then added to the sample-based
estimates produced from the survey to arrive at the estimates
for openings, hires, and separations.  Seasonal adjustment  BLS seasonally adjusts several JOLTS series using the X-12
ARIMA seasonal adjustment program.  Seasonal adjustment is the
process of estimating and removing periodic fluctuations caused
by events such as weather, holidays, and the beginning and
ending of the school year.  Seasonal adjustment makes it easier
to observe fundamental changes in the level of the series,
particularly those associated with general economic expansions
and contractions.  A concurrent seasonal adjustment methodology
is used in which new seasonal adjustment factors are calculated
each month, using all relevant data, up to and including the
data for the current month.  JOLTS uses moving averages as seasonal filters in seasonal
adjustment.  JOLTS seasonal adjustment includes both additive
and multiplicative seasonal adjustment models and REGARIMA
(regression with autocorrelated errors) modeling to improve the
seasonal adjustment factors at the beginning and end of the
series and to detect and adjust for outliers in the series.  Alignment procedure  JOLTS hires minus separations should be comparable to the
CES net employment change.  However, definitional differences as
well as sampling and non-sampling errors between the two surveys
historically caused JOLTS to diverge from CES over time. To
limit the divergence, and improve the quality of the JOLTS hires
and separations series, BLS implemented the Monthly Alignment
Method. The Monthly Alignment Method applies the CES employment
trends to the seasonally adjusted JOLTS implied employment trend
(hires minus separations) forcing them to be approximately the
same, while preserving the seasonality of the JOLTS data.
First, the two series are seasonally adjusted and the difference
between the JOLTS implied employment trend and the CES net
employment change is calculated. Next, the JOLTS implied
employment trend is adjusted to equal the CES net employment
change through a proportional adjustment. This proportional
adjustment procedure adjusts the two components (hires,
separations) proportionally to their contribution to the total
churn (hires plus separations).  For example, if hires are 40
percent of the churn for a given month, they will receive 40
percent of the needed adjustment and separations will receive 60
percent of the needed adjustment. The adjusted hires and
separations are converted back to not seasonally adjusted data
by reversing the application of the original seasonal factors.
After the Monthly Alignment Method has been used to adjust the
level estimates, rate estimates are computed from the adjusted
levels.  The monthly alignment procedure assures a close match
of the JOLTS implied employment trend with the CES trend. The
CES series is considered a highly accurate measure of net
employment change owing to its very large sample size and annual
benchmarking to universe counts of employment from the QCEW
program.  Historical changes in JOLTS data  The JOLTS data series on job openings, hires, and
separations are relatively new.  The full sample is divided into
panels, with one panel enrolled each month.  A full complement
of panels for the original data series based on the 1987
Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system was not
completely enrolled in the survey until January 2002.  The
supplemental panels of establishments needed to create NAICS
estimates were not completely enrolled until May 2003.  The data
collected up until those points are from less than a full
sample.  Therefore, estimates from earlier months should be used
with caution, as fewer sampled units were reporting data at that
time.  In March 2002, BLS procedures for collecting hires and
separations data were revised to address possible
underreporting. As a result, JOLTS hires and separations
estimates for months prior to March 2002 may not be comparable
to estimates for March 2002 and later.  The federal government reorganization that involved
transferring approximately 180,000 employees to the new
Department of  Homeland Security  is not reflected in the JOLTS
hires and separations estimates for the federal government.  The
 Office of Personnel Management ’s record shows these transfers
were completed in March 2003.  The inclusion of transfers in the
JOLTS definitions of hires and separations is intended to cover
ongoing movements of workers between establishments.  The
Department of Homeland Security reorganization was a massive
one-time event, and the inclusion of these intergovernmental
transfers would distort the federal government time series.  Reliability of the estimates  JOLTS estimates are subject to both sampling and
nonsampling error.  When a sample rather than the entire
population is surveyed, there is a chance that the sample
estimates may differ from the “true” population values they
represent.  The exact difference, or sampling error, varies
depending on the particular sample selected, and this
variability is measured by the standard error of the estimate.
BLS analysis is generally conducted at the 90-percent level of
confidence.  That means that there is a 90-percent chance, or
level of confidence, that an estimate based on a sample will
differ by no more than 1.6 standard errors from the “true”
population value because of sampling error.  Estimates of
sampling errors are available upon request.  The JOLTS estimates also are affected by nonsampling error.
Nonsampling error can occur for many reasons, including the
failure to include a segment of the population, the inability to
obtain data from all units in the sample, the inability or
unwillingness of respondents to provide data on a timely basis,
mistakes made by respondents, errors made in the collection or
processing of the data, and errors from the employment benchmark
data used in estimation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  