-- U.S. Said Set to Target First Non-Bank Firms for Scrutiny
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-09-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-s-said-set-to-target-first-non-bank-firms-for-scrutiny.html
U.S. regulators are set to choose
the first non-bank companies likely to be branded potential
risks to the financial system, according to two people with
knowledge of the plans.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council intends to
request confidential data from as many as five U.S. firms at a
meeting this month, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the plans aren’t public. The request is a
step toward deciding whether the companies should be subject to
 Federal Reserve  supervision, including stress tests, higher
capital levels and tougher liquidity requirements.  Regulators want to ensure that no firm posing a potential
risk to the financial system escapes scrutiny, while non-bank
financial firms argue that designation would burden them with
unnecessary costs and economic stability wouldn’t be threatened
if they failed. Bailed-out insurer  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  has said it meets thresholds the council set to decide
which firms require further evaluation.  GE Capital , a unit of
 General Electric Co. (GE) , has said it expects to be named
systemically important.  If the council “identifies companies this month, it means
that the first FSOC train is leaving the station and final
designations could be made by the end of the year,” said Thomas Vartanian, a partner at law firm Dechert LLP in Washington whose
clients may be affected by FSOC. “This new systemic oversight
could have a significant impact on them if they cannot rebut
designation.”  Financial Relationships  The council is tentatively scheduled to meet Sept. 28, the
people said. The companies would then have 30 days to submit the
data, which could include non-public information such as details
on a firm’s financial relationships, or interconnectedness, with
other companies.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is chairman of the
council, which includes Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the
heads of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  AIG, recipient of a bailout that reached $182.3 billion,
was a catalyst for the FSOC’s creation under the Dodd-Frank
financial-overhaul law. AIG’s trades of over-the-counter
derivatives leading up to the financial crisis were largely
unregulated, and lawmakers wanted a panel of regulators to share
information and meet regularly to help avoid a repeat.  ‘Very Carefully’  Geithner told the House Financial Services Committee in
July that the council was “looking very, very carefully” at
New York-based AIG and other companies he didn’t name. Geithner
has said the council will make the first designations this year.  The U.S. cut its stake in AIG to about 16 percent from 53
percent in a share sale this week. AIG said in a filing dated
Sept. 9 that it will be regulated by the Federal Reserve after
the U.S. stake falls below 50 percent. A designation as
systemically important “could further limit our ability to pay
dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock,” AIG said
in the filing.  Treasury spokesman  Anthony Coley  and Jim Ankner, an AIG
spokesman, both declined to comment.  The council considers companies with more than $50 billion
in assets as systemically important if they also meet one of the
following thresholds: a 15-to-1  leverage ratio ; $3.5 billion in
derivatives liabilities; $20 billion of outstanding loans
borrowed and bonds issued; $30 billion in gross notional credit-
default swaps outstanding; or a 10 percent ratio of short-term
debt to assets.  ‘Hardening Cement’  Each step the council takes, such as seeking non-public
information about firms under consideration, “is like hardening
cement” making it more difficult for them to “convince FSOC
not to designate,” said Satish Kini, co-chairman of law firm
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP’s banking group in  Washington .
“Companies would like to get out of consideration sooner rather
than later.”  A company under consideration as a systemically important
financial institution, or SIFI, can challenge the notice within
30 days. The council then has 30 days to schedule a non-public
hearing and 60 days after the hearing to make a final ruling.
Two-thirds of the council’s voting members, including the
Treasury secretary, must approve any designation.  “This is an opportunity for a company to supply
information to enter into a dialogue with FSOC and its staff,”
Kini said. If the process works as FSOC designed, companies will
get a chance to make the case that they shouldn’t be designated,
he said.  $50 Billion  Bank-holding companies with more than $50 billion in assets
-- including  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Wells Fargo & Co. and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  -- are automatically subject to heightened Fed
supervision under Dodd-Frank. Non-banks designated systemically
important would get Fed oversight similar to that of the large
banks.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-largest U.S. life
insurer, has said it meets the council’s thresholds for further
evaluation. Spokesman  Bob DeFillippo  said Prudential has been
working with regulators and wants to make sure “they understand
that we shouldn’t be pounded into a bank mold, that they look at
us for the company that we are.”  GE Capital “has a strong capital position, solid earnings
and a diversified funding base,” Spokesman Russell Wilkerson
said. “We are prepared for whatever outcome the regulators may
reach.”  Designation Likely  Mike Neal, GE Capital’s chief executive officer, said at an
investor conference in May that the firm is likely to be
designated.  “We have not been designated a SIFI as yet, but it’s
likely,” he said.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, has been
regulated by the Fed because it owns a bank. The firm is seeking
to exit banking to limit oversight, which has prevented New
York-based MetLife from boosting its dividend or repurchasing
shares.  “We do not believe regulated insurance activities pose
systemic risk to the U.S. financial system,” MetLife CEO Steven Kandarian said on an Aug. 2 conference call with analysts. “In
the event that certain insurance companies are named SIFIs, the
impact is a matter of public debate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  