-- U.S. Company Default Swaps Fall Amid European Bailout Optimism
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-09-11T21:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-s-company-default-swaps-fall-amid-european-bailout-optimism.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
decreased for the sixth time in seven trading sessions as
 Germany ’s highest court said it will proceed with a ruling on
the country’s role in the euro-area bailout fund.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on company debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of
93.6 basis points at 5:08 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps index fell after Germany’s Federal Constitutional
Court said it will issue a ruling tomorrow on whether to allow
the country to ratify the 500 billion-euro ($640 billion)
European Stability Mechanism. The court rejected an argument
that it delay the decision after the  European Central Bank 
pledged unlimited funds last week to buy  government bonds . The
swaps index didn’t react to Moody’s Investors Service’s report
that it may downgrade the U.S.’s credit rating unless Congress
next year reduces the percentage of  debt -to-gross-domestic
product during budget negotiations.  “It’s just too far out and the market right now is focused
on what’s going to happen in the next week or two in Europe,”
 David Brown , a portfolio manager who helps oversee $89 billion
of fixed-income assets at  Neuberger Berman  in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s some legitimacy to that. There
are a lot of other hurdles before we get to a Moody’s downgrade
for the U.S.”  ‘Fiscal Cliff’  The  U.S. economy  will probably tip into recession next year
if lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  can’t break an impasse
over the federal  budget  and if George W. Bush-era tax cuts
expire in what’s become known as the “fiscal cliff,” according
to a report by the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office 
published on Aug. 22. The rating would likely be cut to Aa1 from
Aaa if an agreement on the debt ratio isn’t reached, Moody’s
said in a statement today.  Moody’s put the rating under review with a negative outlook
in August 2011, when the U.S. pushed back a decision on spending
and raised its so-called debt ceiling after months of political
wrangling.  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined
from a two-week high of 102.9 basis points on Aug. 30. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, was little changed at 14.75 basis
points, the least since Nov. 4, 2010. The measure, which falls
when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and rises
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities , is
down from 54.7 in November, the highest since May 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  