-- U.S. State Pension Funding Ratios Declined in 2011, Loop Says
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-09-11T20:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-s-state-pension-funding-ratios-declined-in-2011-loop-says.html
Public pension funds in 16 states
and the  District of Columbia  last year had assets of 80 percent
or more of what is need to pay promised benefits to retirees,
down from 18 in 2010, Loop  Capital Markets  said.  The median ratio of assets to liabilities for 149 state-
level pensions dropped to 73 percent in 2011 from 76 percent the
year before as a slowing global economy and the European debt
crisis damped investment returns and more states failed to meet
annual contribution requirements, Loop said today in a report.  Eighty percent is a common threshold of sustainability for
 retirement plans , according to Loop. Illinois was the lowest-
funded state, at 44 percent.  “State and local government pension plans’ fiscal health
continued to deteriorate slightly over the last year, although
the falloff is not significant for the vast majority of plans,”
Loop said in the report.  Political pressure to rein in public employee pensions has
increased over the last five years as state and local
governments, battered by the longest recession since the Great
Depression, have had to put more money into the funds at the
expense of services.  Estimates of public-pension funding deficits vary from $1
trillion to $4 trillion, depending on assumptions regarding the
appropriate rate for discounting liabilities and other
demographic data, “an enormous disparity,” Chicago-based Loop
said.  To help close the gap, 29 states made changes to their
pensions in 2011, such as increasing employee contributions,
raising the  retirement age  and revising automatic cost-of-living
adjustments, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  