-- U.S. Stocks Advance Amid Speculation Over Fed Decision
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-11T20:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/u-s-stock-futures-rise-green-mountain-coffee-gains.html
U.S.  stocks  rose, after yesterday’s
drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will act to stimulate the economy.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  climbed at least 1.7
percent, pacing gains among the biggest companies. Eight out of
 10 groups  in the S&P 500 rose.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  jumped 3.9 percent
after saying it will purchase the rest of its brokerage joint
venture from  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  led declines
among luxury goods companies as Burberry Group Plc said profit
will be at the lower end of estimates  The S&P 500 added 0.3 percent to 1,433.56 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 69.07 points, or
0.5 percent, to 13,323.36 today. Volume for exchange-listed
stocks in the U.S. was 5.9 billion shares, or almost in line
with the three-month average.  “The market is anticipating that there will be some
stimulus move on the part of the Fed,”  John Praveen , chief
investment strategist at Prudential International Investments
Advisers, a unit of Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential
Financial Inc., which manages about $960 billion, said by
telephone. “The market is grinding higher on liquidity because
of what central banks have done and on hopes of further stimulus
from the Fed and positive moves from European policy makers.”  The S&P 500 is less than 10 percent from its  record closing 
high after rising 14 percent this year. The equities index is 20
percent above its level on Sept. 15, 2008, the first trading day
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the world’s biggest
bankruptcy and prompted a 46 percent drop through March 9, 2009.
The benchmark gauge fell 0.6 percent yesterday as concern
Greece’s debt crisis will worsen overshadowed speculation that
central banks will take steps to support the global economy.  Fed Meeting  Equities advanced today ahead of a two-day meeting starting
tomorrow in which the Federal Open Market Committee will discuss
additional measures to stimulate the U.S. economy. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 he wouldn’t rule out steps to
lower an unemployment rate he described as a “grave concern.”  A report from the Commerce Department showed that the
country’s  trade deficit  widened in July for the first time in
four months as the global economic slowdown reduced demand for
American-made goods. The National Federation of Independent
Business’s optimism index rose last month to 92.9 from a nine-
month low of 91.2 in July, indicating confidence among small
businesses in the U.S. climbed in August as more companies
anticipated a pickup in hiring and sales.  U.S. equities also rose as Germany’s Federal Constitutional
Court said it will issue a ruling tomorrow on whether to allow
the country to ratify the 500 billion-euro ($640 billion)
European Stability Mechanism. The court rejected an argument by
lawmaker Peter Gauweiler that it delay the decision after the
European Central Bank pledged unlimited funds last week to buy
government bonds.  Since 2008  The S&P 500 climbed to its highest level since 2008 on
Sept. 6 as the ECB approved the bond-buying program to lower
borrowing costs for the most-indebted euro-area states.  “Everybody is waiting to see what the Fed and German court
will do,”  Greg Peterson , director of investment research at
Ballentine Partners LLC in Waltham, Massachusetts, which has
about $4 billion in assets, said by telephone. “Europe keeps on
walking up to the cliff and stepping back just enough not to
fall off. Ultimately, through small steps, they’ll come to a
solution to this crisis that they’re having.”  Alcoa, Caterpillar  Alcoa, the largest U.S. producer of aluminum, jumped 3.1
percent to $9.33, its  highest level  since May. Caterpillar, the
world’s biggest maker of construction and mining equipment,
rallied 1.7 percent to $88.60.  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF) ,
the largest iron-ore producer in the U.S., added 6.4 percent to
$41.68.  Energy companies jumped the most in the S&P 500’s 10
groups, rising 0.9 percent, followed by financial and industrial
stocks. The  Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index (CYC)  rallied 1 percent as
investors bought shares of companies most tied to economic
growth. The gauge is up 14 percent from its low this year in
June.  Morgan Stanley will purchase 14 percent of its brokerage
joint venture from Citigroup at a price that values the total
unit at $13.5 billion -- or about 40 percent less than
Citigroup’s earlier estimate. Citigroup expects the sale to
result in a $2.9 billion charge in the third quarter.  Morgan Stanley climbed 3.9 percent to $17.25, while
Citigroup advanced 2.6 percent to $32.66. Diversified financial
companies posted the biggest gain out of 24 groups in the S&P
500, rising 1.7 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  jumped 5.2
percent to $9.03, the highest since April.  Green Mountain  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  jumped 5.9 percent to
$32.16. Luigi Lavazza SpA said in a filing after the market
closed yesterday that it increased its stake to 6.8 percent.
Lavazza owned 5 percent of the maker of Keurig brewers and
single-serve pods as of Feb. 24, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the money manager reeling from 19 straight
quarters of client redemptions, jumped 5.4 percent to $26.85.
The Baltimore-based company said today in a statement that Mark R. Fetting will step down as chairman and chief executive
officer on Oct. 1, two months before a standstill agreement with
activist investor  Nelson Peltz  expires.  Ralph Lauren  lost 2.6 percent to $156.22, while  Tiffany &
Co. (TIF)  erased 1.2 percent to $62.26. London-based Burberry said
full-year profit will be at the lower end of analyst estimates
after sales growth slowed.  Coach Inc. (COH)  fell 1.8 percent to $61.48
after Brean Murray Carret & Co. lowered its rating on the
largest U.S. luxury handbag maker to hold from buy.  Airlines Slip  Airline stocks fell, sending the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines
Index 1.4 percent lower. Dahlman Rose & Co.’s  Helane Becker  cut
her estimates for third-quarter sales to reflect higher jet-fuel
costs and “cautious” expectations for traffic this month. U.S.
Airways Group Inc. lost 3.2 percent to $11.62, while  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  slid 2.2 percent to $8.95.  Moody’s Investors Service, which placed a negative outlook
on the U.S.’s Aaa grade in August, said in a statement today
that the nation’s rating would likely be cut to Aa1 if
negotiations between lawmakers fail to produce policies that
reduce the percentage of debt to gross domestic product.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  David Kostin  said yesterday a
deal to head off automatic tax increases and spending cuts at
the start of next year may be “messy” and could hurt stocks.
The so-called fiscal cliff “is unlikely to be resolved in a
smooth fashion, and probably will be resolved in a messy way,”
Kostin, the New York-based firm’s chief equity strategist, said
yesterday at a conference in San Diego sponsored by the Insured
Retirement Institute.  The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities slumped within 1
percent of a bear market from April through October last year as
S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  