-- Huawei Said to Plan U.K. Investment of 1.2 Billion Pounds
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-09-11T15:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/huawei-said-to-plan-u-k-investment-of-1-2-billion-pounds.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of telephone equipment, plans to invest $2 billion
in the U.K. within five years, as it almost doubles its
workforce in the country.  The announcement follows British politicians’ efforts to
woo business from China and other countries while London hosted
the  Olympic Games . Huawei will increase its headcount in the
U.K. to more than 1,500 by 2017, from more than 800 now, the
Shenzhen, southern China-based company said in a statement
today. It will spend $1 billion in direct investment plus $1
billion through procurement.  The company said in March that it would expand and add jobs
in Europe. Huawei, which provides cloud- and business-computing
services in addition to selling smartphones and tablets, last
year won its first major wireless network order in the U.K. from
Everything Everywhere, a venture between  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and
 France Telecom SA. (FTE)   “The U.K. is an open market, which welcomes overseas
investment,” Huawei Chief Executive Officer Ren Zhengfei said
in today’s statement.  Huawei is facing obstacles to expansion in countries
including the U.S. and  Australia  where government officials have
raised concerns about potential cyber security threats from the
Chinese company.  Security Probe  In the U.S., the House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence in November began a probe of whether Huawei’s
expansion in the U.S. poses a security threat, and a hearing
will be held on the matter on Sept. 13. In March, the Australian
government announced Huawei was banned from bidding on a
national broadband network, due to “national interests.”  Ren founded Huawei in 1987 after retiring from the Chinese
military in 1983 and built it into the world’s largest maker of
equipment for phone networks after Ericsson AB.  Ren’s military record and his selection to the 12th
National Congress of the  Communist Party of China  in 1982 have
been cited by U.S. lawmakers as reasons Huawei may pose a
security threat. Ren hasn’t maintained any ties with the
military since his retirement and the government and military
hold no stake in Huawei, according to the company.  Huawei, which employed 5,000 people in Europe as of March,
has research and development facilities in the U.K.,  France ,
Italy, Sweden and Germany. In both the U.K. and France, the
company has established local boards of directors for business
development. Huawei said last year that it planned to double the
U.K. workforce to 1,000 people over three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  