-- UBS Credit-Swaps Trade System Shows Clients Like Live Prices
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-09-11T21:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/ubs-credit-swaps-trading-platform-shows-clients-like-live-prices.html
Credit-default swaps traders are
executing more of the derivatives on an electronic  UBS AG (UBSN)  system
than at any time since it was started six months ago, according
to the bank.  Monthly volumes of index trading on the firm’s Price
Improvement Network rose to an average $11 billion in July and
August, compared with an average $7.5 billion in the four months
ended June, according to the Zurich-based lender. More than $50
billion of the swaps, tied to credit benchmarks including the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index and the Markit
iTraxx Europe Index, traded through the end of August, UBS said.  Switzerland ’s biggest bank is pushing a greater share of
transactions onto the automated platform even as the industry’s
two-biggest lobbying groups resist regulators seeking to mandate
exchange-like systems. UBS’s platform lets customers directly
post prices with a so-called order-book model where bids and
offers are shown before the trade.  “What UBS did is nothing short of revolutionary,” said
Sunil Hirani, who co-founded Creditex Inc., a credit-swaps
brokerage he sold to Intercontinental Exchange Inc. in 2008 for
$513 million. “The buy side, they’ve got a taste of it now, and
you can’t go backwards.”  ‘Safe Sandbox’  The Dodd-Frank Act that became law in 2010 requires most
swaps to be processed by clearinghouses and traded on exchanges
or similar electronic systems after the contracts complicated
efforts to resolve the financial crisis four years ago. As
regulators continue to write the details of the rules in Dodd-
Frank, platforms are springing up to serve the evolving market.  “We’ve taken a view of what regulation’s likely to lead
to,” Paul Hamill, a managing director in global credit trading
for UBS in  New York , said in an interview at the bank. PIN is a
“platform that’s a safe sandbox for ourselves and our clients
for how the market might look and feel,” he said.  The automated trading is a shift in a market where
transactions historically have been negotiated over the phone
after dealers, acting as a go-between for clients, send out
indicative prices by e-mail. The dealers offer to buy a swap
from a client at one price and sell the same contract to another
for a higher amount, profiting from the gap known as the bid-
offer spread.  In another process that banks and industry groups have more
readily embraced, dealers can show negotiable prices on a
request-for-quote, or RFQ, system.  MarketAxess, Tradeweb  Javelin Capital Markets LLC has both a central-limit order
book and RFQ platform swaps on indexes and individual companies,
according to its  website .  Tradeweb Markets LLC, part-owned by broker-dealers,
supports RFQ and “click-to-trade” methods for swaps indexes on
its institutional platform, and  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) , the
owner of an all-electronic bond and derivatives trading system,
offers RFQ for index and single-name contracts and “executable
dealer markets” for indexes. Bloomberg LP’s FIT platform use
the RFQ model. Bloomberg LP is the parent of  Bloomberg News .  TrueEX, co-founded by Hirani, applied this year to be a
designated contract market, an exchange overseen by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association , the
industry group that sets standards in the swaps market, and
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  urged
regulators last year not to mandate order books.  Swaps market incumbents opposed changes that would crimp
profit margins made by keeping prices private, according to Will Rhode, director of fixed-income in New York at Tabb Group, a
financial-markets research and advisory firm.  ‘Indefensible Corner’  “The whole RFQ debate was originally used as an excuse to
argue for why nothing should change,” he said in a telephone
interview. “But prolonged regulatory uncertainty has been
unexpectedly expensive. These days there is the sense that
incumbents would rather just have the rules out so they can
adapt their business models rather than keep fighting an
indefensible corner.”  Trading on UBS’s PIN system compares with an average $64.2
billion that was traded daily on the four most-active credit
swaps indexes in the three months ended June 19, according to
the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central
registry for $25 trillion in outstanding contracts.  The bank seeks to maintain a rate of at least 85 percent of
credit-swap bids and offers that clients can execute on PIN
without further negotiation, Hamill said. It’s often closer to
100 percent live, he said.  UBS clients offered contracts tied to about $100 billion of
index and $40 billion of single-name contracts through the end
of June, all immediately executable, according to the bank.  Dealer Pullback  In August, typically a slow month in the U.S. and  Europe 
because of vacations, 55 percent of trades for single-name
credit swap contracts were done between customers, up from 20
percent in June, UBS data show.  “August most closely replicated an environment where
dealers are pulling back in liquidity” and clients are
“looking for any avenue they can,” Hamill said. “When
liquidity was harder to find, clients will work a little harder
to find it, and we are a venue where they can.”  UBS doesn’t have immediate plans to register PIN as a so-
called swap execution facility, or SEF, under Dodd-Frank, and
plans to collect customer orders to send to a regulated SEF also
offering live prices, Hamill said. PIN’s future may be an
“integrated partnership” with a SEF or designated contract
market, he said.  “Some of these other business have been reluctant to
cannibalize their business, so they’re waiting till it’s more to
the time when SEFs are launching,” Peter Tchir, founder of New
York-based macro strategy firm TF Market Advisors, said in a
telephone interview. Because it isn’t already a major player in
swaps and doesn’t have as much market share, “UBS has had less
to cannibalize,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  