-- Murray Ends Britain’s 76-Year Wait for Tennis Title With Grimace
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-11T04:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/murray-beats-djokovic-at-u-s-open-for-first-grand-slam-title.html
After ending a 76-year British
men’s tennis drought with a victory that took almost five hours,
 Andy Murray  struggled to turn a grimace into a smile as he
accepted the U.S. Open winner’s trophy.  Murray, who ended his personal streak of futility as well,
beat defending champion Novak Djokovic 7-6 (12-10), 7-5, 2-6, 3-
6, 6-2 in a four-hour, 54-minute match that tied the record for
the longest final at the National Tennis Center in New York.  It was the first win for a British man at a major tennis
tournament since  Fred Perry  won the U.S. National Championship -
- the predecessor to the U.S. Open -- in 1936 for the last of
his 10 major titles.  “When I was serving for the match, there’s a sense of how
big a moment that is in British tennis history,” Murray told
reporters. “I hope it inspires some kids to play tennis and
also takes away the notion that British tennis players choke.”  Murray’s breakthrough in his 28th Grand Slam event came
after four runner-up finishes. He lost the final of the 2011
Australian Open to Djokovic and was beaten by  Roger Federer  of
 Switzerland  in three others: at the 2008 U.S. Open, in  Australia 
in 2010 and this year at Wimbledon.  Since professionals began playing majors in 1968, the only
other man who lost his first four Grand Slam finals is  Ivan Lendl , who is now Murray’s coach. Lendl went on to win eight.  Murray, 25, the No. 3 seed, was watched from the stands by
fellow Scots -- including actor Sean Connery and  Manchester
United (MANU)  soccer manager  Alex Ferguson  -- and his victory was
lauded by the London-based Press Association as among “Great
British Sporting Moments.”  Murray’s Paycheck  Murray earned $1.9 million for the win in Arthur Ashe
Stadium, bringing his career prize money to more than $23
million. Djokovic earned $950,000 and a $500,000 bonus for
having won the  U.S. Open  Series of tournaments leading up to the
Grand Slam event.  Djokovic, 25, was the 2-5 favorite at the Las Vegas Hotel’s
Super Book, translating to a 71 percent probability of a sixth
major title for the Serbian. A successful $100 bet on underdog
Murray yielded a $210 profit.  The match was delayed a day because of rain, making it the
fifth straight U.S. Open men’s final pushed to a Monday by bad
weather after 21 years of on-time finishes. Though it was dry
last night, a swirling wind bothered both players.  “It was incredibly tricky conditions and, after the third
and fourth sets, it was mentally tough for me,” Murray said
while accepting the winner’s trophy. “I don’t know how I
managed to come through in the end.”  Final Point  After a Djokovic forehand sailed just long to give Murray
the title, the Scot slowly lifted his hands to his face and then
squatted on the court. Exhausted and exhilarated, he fought back
grimaces while accepting the champion’s trophy.  Murray, who said he cried on the court after the win, was
asked during a post-match news conference why he still wasn’t
smiling.  “I don’t know if it’s disbelief or whatever,” he said.
“I’m very, very happy on the inside. I’m sorry if I’m not
showing it as you would like.”  The only other U.S. Open final to last as long was in 1988,
when  Mats Wilander  of Sweden defeated Lendl, also in four hours
and 54 minutes.  Five-Set Win  If the second-seeded Djokovic had won the fifth set, he
would have become the first person to come back from a two-set
deficit to capture the U.S. Open title in 63 years. Pancho
Gonzales defeated Ted Schroeder 16-18, 2-6, 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 in an
all-American final in 1949.  “It wasn’t to be,” Djokovic said during the trophy
presentation. “I gave it all, and it was another tremendous
match to be a part of. Up until the last moment, it was
definitely enjoyable.”  The win broke a stranglehold on major titles by Roger Federer,  Rafael Nadal  and Djokovic, who combined to win 29 of
the previous 30. Juan Martin Del Potro’s 2009 U.S. Open victory
was the lone exception.  It also made 2012 the first year since 2003 in which all
four men’s Grand Slam titles have been won by different players
-- Djokovic won the Australian Open in January, Nadal took the
French Open title in June and Federer captured the Wimbledon
crown in July.  Swirling Wind  There were four service breaks in the first eight games of
the opening set as the players tried to adjust to the swirling
16 mile-per-hour (26 kilometer-per-hour) wind. Playing
tentatively instead of going for winners, the two men exchanged
54 strokes on one point in the sixth game of the 87-minute set.
The tiebreaker lasted 24 minutes.  After Murray won the first-set tiebreaker on his sixth set
point, he took a 4-0 lead in the second set by breaking
Djokovic’s serve twice. Djokovic stormed back to win five of the
next six games, only to have Murray break his serve again in the
12th game to win the set.  Djokovic won the third and fourth sets. Murray then opened
the fifth set with a service break and led the rest of the way.  With the win, Murray, who took the gold medal at the London
Games in August, became the first man to win both a gold medal
and the U.S. Open title since tennis returned to the Olympics in
1988.  “He deserved to win this Grand Slam more than anybody,”
Djokovic told reporters. “He has proven today that he’s a champ
and he deserves to be where he is, no question about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  New York  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  