-- Murray’s Long-Awaited Win May Yield ‘Untold Riches’ as Endorser
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-11T04:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/murray-s-long-awaited-win-may-yield-untold-riches-as-endorser.html
Andy Murray overcame the wind, the
 U.S. Open  defending champion and the weight of three-quarters of
a century of tennis history to capture his first Grand Slam
title and a golden opportunity as an endorser.  Murray, 25, knocked off Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  in five
sets last night at the rain-delayed U.S. Open in New York to
become the first male British Grand Slam champion since  Fred Perry  in 1936. Murray’s 7-6 (12-10), 7-5, 2-6, 3-6, 6-2 victory
tied for the longest U.S. Open final at 4 hours, 54 minutes.  Murray’s victory ended a lock on major titles by  Roger Federer ,  Rafael Nadal  and Djokovic, who combined to win 29 of
the previous 30. The result is an opportunity to earn millions
as one of the sporting world’s most recognizable stars, sports
marketers said.  “A win at the U.S. Open, coupled with his Olympic victory,
will bring him untold riches,” Alan Seymour, a professor of
sports marketing at the U.K.’s University of Northampton, said
in an interview shortly before the final, estimating that
Murray’s earnings might increase “five- to 10-fold.”  Murray’s off-court earnings were estimated at close to 7
million pounds ($11 million) by Nigel Currie, director of
London-based sports marketing agency  brandRapport . His income
could “more than double” because of the unique nature of how
long Britain waited for a major champion, Currie said.  “There are only a few truly global sports stars,” Currie
said in an interview before the match, suggesting companies that
typically sponsor big events such as the Olympics or the soccer
 World Cup  would be keen to sign Murray. “To reach every part of
the globe is very hard, but top players in golf and tennis can
do it.”  No. 8 Earner  Murray’s on- and off-court annual earnings are estimated at
$12 million, according to Forbes magazine, which last month
listed him as No. 8 among the best-paid tennis players. He
collected $1.9 million for winning the Open. Federer of
 Switzerland , the winner of 17 major singles titles, is the
sport’s top earner with $54.3 million. He’s followed by Nadal of
 Spain , the French Open winner who was absent from the U.S. Open
with a knee injury, at $32.4 million.  Murray has sponsorship deals with sporting goods company
 Adidas AG (ADS) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Rado Watch Co . and
Head NV tennis equipment.  Battling swirling winds when the final began at 4 p.m. New
York time in Arthur Ashe Stadium, Djokovic and Murray played a
defensive 87-minute first set that included several long rallies,
including one that lasted 54 shots.  Tiebreaker  The tiebreaker itself went 24 minutes, with two rallies of
more than 30 shots. It ended after 22 points when Djokovic’s
return sailed long on Murray’s sixth set point.  Djokovic dropped the first four games of the second set and
then began to show signs of the form that helped him win five
Grand Slams, breaking Murray’s serve twice before dropping the
set on his own serve.  Djokovic won the next two sets more easily, holding all of
his serves while breaking Murray’s twice in each frame.  In the fifth set, he broke Djokovic’s serve three times
before gaining the title as the Serbian’s forehand landed beyond
the baseline. Murray didn’t fall to the ground as many champions
do. Instead, he took several steps without even raising his arms,
as if in disbelief that he had finally overcome his biggest
career obstacle.  “When you’re on the court, you don’t necessarily feel
it,” Murray said at a news conference, sitting beside the
championship trophy. “But I know when I was serving for the
match, there’s a sense of how big a moment that is in British
tennis history.”  Retirement Income  The victory will pay dividends in endorsement deals and
sponsorships long after he retires, said Scott Becher, managing
director of Z Sports & Entertainment, a division of  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida , based Zimmerman Advertising.  “By winning the U.S Open,  Andy Murray  cemented his
legacy,” Becher said in a telephone interview. “Playing well
helps your career while you’re active, but winning Grand Slams
defines your legacy after you retire.”  Murray’s limited awareness among American consumers could
hinder his endorsement potential, said Henry Schafer, executive
vice president of Manhasset, New York-based  Q Scores , which
measures consumer appeal in brands and personalities. The
company’s most recent study, released this month, showed Murray,
a Scot, was recognized by 15 percent of the  U.S. population ,
compared with 40 percent for Federer.  Public Appearances  “One of the things that Murray needs is to get more
exposure outside of the sport if he’s going to look for growth
in marketability,” Schafer said in a telephone interview.
“That means getting on talk shows or making public appearances,
just to expand the demographic of people who know him and the
perspective on his personality.”  During the final, which ended after 2 a.m. in Britain,
Murray got plenty of worldwide television time, playing a men’s
final that tied Mats Wilander’s win over  Ivan Lendl  -- who is
now Murray’s coach -- for the longest in U.S. Open history.  Murray, who at times been regarded by some people in
Britain as “a bit dour” according to Seymour, gained
supporters after sobbing following his Wimbledon final loss to
Federer.  “That was the moment when some brands probably realized
that there could be a different side to Andy Murray,” Seymour
said.  Last night Murray shed tears of joy, having fulfilled his
own dreams and those of his nation’s tennis fans. He also showed
his lighter side, drawing laughter from media members when
discussing the weight of British expectations placed on his
tennis career.  “I’m proud that I managed to achieve it,” he said. “And
I don’t have to get asked that stupid question again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  