-- Murray’s Major Breakthrough Is Lauded From London to Sydney
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-09-11T11:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/murray-s-grand-slam-breakthrough-is-lauded-from-london-to-sydney.html
Andy Murray ’s breakthrough Grand
Slam title was lauded from  London  to Sydney after the Scot
became the first British man to win a major tennis tournament in
76 years by beating Novak Djokovic at the  U.S. Open .  The 25-year-old defeated defending champion Djokovic of
Serbia 7-6 (12-10), 7-5, 2-6, 3-6, 6-2 yesterday in  New York  to
win his first major final after four previous losses.  The Sun, the U.K.’s top-selling tabloid newspaper, saluted
Murray’s victory with the headline: “Yankee Doodle Andy!” on
its website, the match having finished at 2:04 a.m. U.K. time.
The Guardian described his win as a “Fairytale of New York” in
a headline on its  home page , while the  Daily Telegraph  simply
said: “Andy Murray makes history.” Before yesterday,  Fred Perry  had been the last British man to win a major singles
title, at the 1936 U.S. National Championships.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  wrote on Twitter:
“Delighted Andy Murray is continuing a golden summer of sport
by winning the U.S. Open. A truly great victory.”  Murray’s win caps one of the most successful summers in
British sports, which started with Bradley Wiggins becoming the
first Briton to win the Tour de France cycling race in July. The
British Olympic and Paralympic teams won a record haul of medals
at the London Games, both finishing third in the overall medals
table. Murray won the gold medal in men’s tennis and the silver
in mixed doubles, held at Wimbledon.  First Success  Murray’s match against Djokovic finished in the early hours
in Britain, and a lot of people were waking up to the news.  “I went to bed at about 1 a.m., and listened to the match
on the radio,” said Elizabeth Plover, a 37-year-old mother-of-
two from west London. “I turned it off as they were at two sets
all, because I couldn’t cope with it any longer. I was actually
quite surprised he’s won, he’s not made it so many times.”  It was Murray’s fifth Grand Slam final. His win came two
months after world No. 1  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  reduced
Murray to tears by beating him in the Wimbledon final.  “We are all delighted for Andy,” Phil Brook, chairman of
the All England Club, said on the Wimbledon website. “Winning
your first Grand Slam has to be a very special moment in a
player’s career and it was a fantastic performance in an epic
final to cap a truly memorable summer of tennis for him
personally and for British tennis.”  ‘Golden Summer’  Roger Draper, chief executive of Britain’s Lawn Tennis
Association (LTA) called Murray’s win “an extraordinary
achievement for Andy, a magical moment for British tennis and a
fitting finale to a golden summer for our sport.”  The LTA, which has at times come under scrutiny in the U.K.
media for not producing enough British tennis champions despite
its funding, will try to “ make the most of this wonderful
opportunity to grow our sport,” Draper said.  The victory turned out to be costly for U.K. bookmakers,
which lost one million pounds ($1.6 million), according to an e-
mailed statement by British online sports betting website Coral.  “Although bookmakers have been hit with a 1 million pound
hammering, having avoided it for 76 years, we’ll happily pay out
with a smile,” Coral spokesman  David Stevens  said.  Missing Nadal  Eleven-time major champion  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain 
congratulated Murray on Twitter and added “It was a spectacular
final, both of you deserve to win!!”  The Spaniard has beaten Murray in 13 of 18 matches,
including three Wimbledon semifinals, one French Open semifinal
and last year’s U.S. Open semifinal. Nadal was knocked out of
the second round at Wimbledon this year, and missed the Olympics
and the U.S. Open because of a knee injury.  The Daily Record,  Scotland ’s best-selling newspaper, posted
a photograph slide-show from Murray’s win on the front page of
its website, adding in a headline that he’d cemented his “place
in sporting history.” The British Broadcasting Corp. had a
picture of Murray kissing the trophy on its lead story.  “It was absolutely fantastic,” Mark Meiklejohn, a 27-
year-old lawyer who stayed up until 2 a.m. to watch the entire
match, said in an interview in the center of Edinburgh. “He
thoroughly deserved it.”  Tennis players and coaches also took to the social
networking site to toast Murray’s victory, which broke a
stranglehold on major titles by Federer, Nadal and Djokovic 
since Juan Martin Del Potro won the 2009 U.S. Open.  ‘War of a Match’  “Congratulations Andy Murray a great effort and a war of a
match -- enjoy the win,” wrote Paul Annacone, the coach of 
Federer, who lost in the quarterfinals in New York.  The only other U.S. Open final to last as long was in 1988,
when  Mats Wilander  of Sweden defeated  Ivan Lendl , also in four
hours and 54 minutes. Lendl, who is now Murray’s coach, is the
only other man who lost his first four Grand Slam finals.  Top-ranked golfer Rory McIlroy, who won the  PGA
Championship  last month for his second major title and added
back-to-back titles in the U.S. PGA Tour’s playoffs on Sept. 3
and 9, wrote Murray’s win was “The first of many and well worth
the wait.”  Murray’s breakthrough in his 28th major came after he lost
the 2011 Australian Open final to Djokovic and was beaten by
Federer in three others: at the 2008 U.S. Open, in Australia in
2010 and this year at Wimbledon.  At the British Consulate-General in downtown Sydney, staff
tracked the score on the Internet before gathering around a
television as the match, which finished at 11:04 a.m on
 Australia ’s east coast, neared its conclusion.  While there were some Djokovic fans among them, Murray’s
win was met by cheers, said Deputy Consul-General Scott Strain.  “It’s terrific to have a British player win one of the
Grand Slam tournaments,” Strain, a Scot, said in an interview
from his office overlooking Sydney Harbor. “It’s been a while
and Andy’s had some frustrating times recently when he’s almost
got there. Hopefully this is something that’ll lead on to even
bigger and better things for him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  