-- Visa, MasterCard Swipe Deal Faces Retail Group Opposition
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-09-11T23:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/visa-mastercard-swipe-deal-faces-retail-group-opposition.html
The  National Retail Federation  said
it will try to block a settlement of as much as $7.25 billion
with  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  over the fees they charge
stores when customers pay with credit cards.  The Washington-based group, which represents more than
9,000 retailers, said the proposed settlement of merchants’
price-fixing claims does nothing to prevent Visa and MasterCard
from raising the so-called swipe fees in the future.  Proponents of the deal will be able to file papers formally
seeking a judge’s approval ahead of an Oct. 19 deadline, lawyers
for the plaintiffs said today in federal court in  Brooklyn ,  New
York .  “We will try to find the most forceful way we can to let
the court know that this deal is so unfair that it needs to be
rejected at the outset,”  Mallory Duncan , the group’s general
counsel, said today in a phone interview.  The settlement, which must be approved by a federal judge,
would put to rest about seven years of litigation over
allegations that San Francisco-based Visa and Purchase, New
York-based MasterCard conspired to fix the fees.  At today’s hearing on the status of the settlement, U.S.
Magistrate Judge James Orenstein rejected a request for
information made by a lawyer, Jeffrey Shinder, who is
representing some of the objecting groups, including the
National Cooperative Grocers Association and the National
Association of Convenience Stores.  ‘Premature’ Request  Orenstein said Shinder’s request seeking full access to the
court record in the case was “premature.”.  K. Craig Wildfang, a lawyer for the plaintiffs who is
advocating for the settlement, said after the hearing that he is
“absolutely” confident the deal will move forward.  “This is not really the way class actions get resolved,”
he said about NRF’s opposition. “We don’t really take a vote.”  Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments
Coalition, which favors the settlement, said that the NRF and
other groups have “political ulterior motives” for opposing
the deal.  U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin ’s office has told retailers
that they may lose out on legislative opportunities to rein in
credit-card fees if they support the settlement. Durbin, a
Democrat from  Illinois , secured the inclusion of limits on swipe
fees for debit cards in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, trimming
revenue for the largest U.S. banks by about $8 billion.  Possible Competition  Opposition may also be related to recently announced
efforts to establish payment networks that may compete with Visa
and MasterCard, she said.  In a conference call on July 25, Visa Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders told investors that he
expected a federal judge to grant preliminary approval to the
settlement this year.  Visa executives “remain confident” that the settlement
will be approved, Chief Financial Officer Byron Pollitt said
today at an investor conference in  Las Vegas .  “We’re getting a lot of noise, and I think we will
continue to have a lot of noise with regards to the merchants’
side not being happy with the suit or the settlement,” Pollitt
said.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  