-- Vodafone Investors Said to Face Verizon Dividend Wait
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-09-12T07:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/vodafone-investors-said-to-face-verizon-dividend-wait.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  investors
waiting for  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to approve a dividend
from their U.S. mobile-phone venture will have to hold out
longer, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Verizon Wireless’s board doesn’t plan to discuss a
potential dividend at a Sept. 19 meeting, said the people,
asking not to be identified because the agenda is confidential.
A decision could still be made at a December gathering or at an
unscheduled board meeting anytime, one of the people said.  It has been more than a year since Verizon Wireless
announced a $10 billion dividend in July 2011, the first payout
since 2005. The need for Vodafone, which owns 45 percent of
 Verizon Wireless , to negotiate a payment each year from the
largest U.S. mobile operator is an uncertainty for  investors  at
a time when the Newbury, England-based company faces declining
spending in  Europe  and slowing growth in  India .  “Vodafone investors want clarity as soon as possible and
really need a quick decision on the Verizon Wireless dividend,”
said Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $55 billion at
Zurich-based Swisscanto Asset Management, including Vodafone
shares. “The dividend is an important aspect when it comes to
telecom investments and the current uncertainty is a concern.”  Comcast Deal  Vodafone fell 0.2 percent to 176.25 pence as of 8:31 a.m.
in London trading. Verizon Communications added 0.4 percent to
$44.24 in  New York  trading yesterday.  Brenda Raney , a Verizon Wireless spokeswoman based in
 Basking Ridge ,  New Jersey , declined to comment, as did a
representative for Vodafone.  Nomura Holdings Inc.’s head of telecommunications research,
James Britton, cut the bank’s rating on Vodafone shares to
“neutral” from “buy” today. In a report titled “Dividend
Under Pressure,” Britton said that Vodafone’s current
commitment to paying 100 percent of its  cash flow  is
“unsustainable unless funded directly” from Verizon Wireless’s
cash flow.  When Vodafone received the $4.5 billion dividend from the
venture last year, it paid 2 billion pounds ($3.2 billion) of it
as a special dividend to shareholders. Previously, Verizon had
withheld the dividend from the partnership to focus on paying
down debt.  Vodafone in May announced a final dividend of 6.47 pence a
share, leading to a full-year dividend of 13.52 pence a share,
including the Verizon contribution.  ‘Regular Basis’  “The cycle of spectrum investment is more congested than
in the past, particularly for Vodafone across its portfolio of
30 markets,” Britton wrote. “Investors should treat spectrum
as recurring spend to be factored into underlying cash
generation.”  Vodafone Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said in May
that a dividend should come in “hopefully on a reasonably
regular basis.”  Verizon won approval from the Federal Communications
Commission on Aug. 23 to purchase airwaves from cable companies
led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  for $3.6 billion.  Will Draper, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank,
had anticipated a Verizon Wireless dividend decision shortly
after the ruling. He wrote in a note last month that he
anticipated Verizon Communications to increase the dividend from
the venture this year by at least 5 percent.  Last week, Verizon Communications itself raised its
quarterly dividend by 3 percent, the sixth consecutive year of
increases.  U.S. Reliance  Vodafone repeatedly opted to keep its stake in the venture.
Verizon, based in New York, said in May 2010 it would be
interested in purchasing Vodafone’s holding and the partners
held talks in March 2010, discussing options, including a
merger, buyout or a dividend payout, two people familiar with
the deliberations said at the time.  Vodafone, which trails  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  in annual sales,
is increasingly relying on its U.S. wireless venture to make up
for shrinking sales in crisis-stricken European economies. On
July 20, Vodafone reported first-quarter service revenue that
missed analysts’ estimates.  “Any delay in the dividend decision would be a short-term
negative for Vodafone investors,” said  Todd Lowenstein , a Los
Angeles-based fund manager at Highmark Capital Management Inc.,
which oversees about $17 billion, including Vodafone shares.
“The story really hinges on returning excess capital back to
shareholders in the wake of anemic growth prospects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  