-- Piech Says VW Sales in China Will Grow at Least 9% in 2013
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-11T09:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/volkswagen-china-sales-to-grow-at-least-9-in-2013-piech-says.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chairman  Ferdinand Piech  said the company’s sales in  China  will grow at least 9
percent in 2013 after expanding 10 percent or more this year,
driven by consumers buying their first cars.  “The growth is tremendous,” Piech said in an interview
today in Tianjin, China, where he’s attending the  World Economic
Forum . “You have so many people without cars and we expect a
few buyers for our products.”  The maker of the Golf hatchback and the Beetle, which
counts China as its biggest market, is planning to invest 14
billion euros ($18 billion) until 2016 to increase production in
the country. Still, Volkswagen is facing slowing demand in the
country as growth in the world’s second-largest economy
decelerates.  “China is VW’s most important market,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus Metzler. “The
strong position there is their advantage because the growth
outlook for China is good even if the market cools down a bit.”  Shares of Europe’s largest carmaker dropped as much as 1.30
euros, or 0.9 percent, to 140.70 euros and were down 0.1 percent
as of 11:36 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 23
percent this year, valuing the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
automaker at 62.2 billion euros.  ‘Plus or Minus’  Volkswagen, banking on the world’s largest pool of first-
time buyers to counter slowing markets in Europe and  Japan ,
generated 1.78 billion euros in operating profit from its
Chinese ventures during the first half, up 53 percent from a
year ago. Group deliveries during the first seven months
advanced 17 percent to 1.51 million vehicles, accounting for 29
percent of the German automaker’s global sales.  “We are happy also with 9 percent in china,” Piech said.
“Double digit is risky, because if there are little things
happening in the world, it’s dangerous for us. As long as it’s
around 10 percent, plus or minus one percent, it’s fine.”  Volkswagen’s 2.26 million deliveries last year trailed
those of  General Motors Co. (GM) , whose sales in China -- including
Wuling minivans -- rose 8.3 percent to 2.55 million.  Within Volkswagen’s stable of brands, Sales of Audi luxury
vehicles rose 15 percent globally in August, led by a 24 percent
gain in China, according to the company. Volkswagen-brand
deliveries increased 20 percent last month, helped by the China
region, the company said today.  Meeting Heizmann  As part of a management shakeup, Volkswagen appointed
Jochem Heizmann from the company’s board to oversee Chinese
operations starting this month. Piech said he had a meeting with
Heizmann last weekend, though he didn’t elaborate on their
discussions.  Heizmann is taking charge of the China operations as a glut
of unsold cars plagues dealers nationwide. China’s overall
passenger-vehicle deliveries trailed analysts’ estimates for a
second month in August as consumers held off purchases in
anticipation of more discounts.  In  Europe , Volkswagen isn’t suffering, though pricing
pressure in the region will continue, Piech said. Some carmakers
need to “disappear” for the industry to return to health,
Piech said.  “There are too many manufacturers,” Piech said. “We are
healthy. The others suffer.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  