-- Why Is the U.S. Backward, and Other Climate Questions
-- B y   A m a n   S i n g h
-- 2012-09-11T23:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/why-is-the-u-s-backward-and-other-climate-questions.html
If the proliferation of  corporate sustainability reports  is any indication,
companies are starting to wake up to the realities of a resource-constrained
world. That should be great news for groups like the Carbon Disclosure Project
( CDP ), which are focused on corporate transparency and accountability. Yet, there seems to be a sense of loss of trust among the group's strongest
proponents. I reached out to some sustainability experts and colleagues at
CSRwire for thoughts, in advance of the CDP  Global Climate Change Forum , which
will be  live-streamed on Bloomberg.com  Sept. 12 at 9 am Eastern time. A sampling of what I heard: ARE INVESTORS LISTENING?: A central question of sustainability remains
unsolved for many people: What is the connection between performance on
environmental, social and governance (ESG) metrics and a company's shareholder
value? "Since the CDP is an investor-driven initiative," says Jeffrey Hogue,
senior director of Sustainability with McDonald's Corp., "do companies, which
have strong financial fundamentals and are leaders in [Carbon Disclosure
Leadership Index] or the [Carbon Performance Leadership Index], find increased
investment by the 655 institutional investors that endorse the project?" IMMATERIAL MATERIAL:  Carol Sanford , management advisor and author of  The
Responsible Business , suggests a potential disconnect between
sustainability metrics and actionable investor information: "Do the measures we
use actually tell us anything that matters? How do we know? Or do we just
measure what we can and not what really tells us if we are making a
difference?" U.S. BACKWARDNESS:  Raj Thamotheram , author of  Investing as if the Long
Term Matters , said the progress of the Carbon Disclosure Project has been
somewhat paradoxical with regard to climate change politics. "I was an early
backer of CDP so it’s wonderful to see what an amazing initiative it’s turned
out to be," he wrote in an email. "But as it went from strength to strength,
climate change has gone off the political agenda. Nowhere is this retrogressive
trend more obvious than in America. Do we really live in parallel universes?
Actually, the explanation is obvious. Corporations with vested interests or
deeply ideological leaders (the two are often linked) have captured the
political debate. They’ve  funded the dumbing down of the debate .'" CARBON WINDOW DRESSING: News Corp.'s headquarters went “carbon neutral”
resulting in an AAA rating of the company by MSCI's sustainability rating
service. Yet,  Rupert Murdoch  is ranked No. 1 on  Rolling Stone 
magazine's list of “Politicians and Execs Blocking Progress on Global Warming."
Low-carbon buildings show some commitment, but they are less compelling when
 the Wall Street Journal  editorial pages continue to  provide cover  to
peddlers of climate confusion, Thamotheram says. Are sustainability reporting and rating agencies, such as the  Global
Reporting Initiative ,  ISO 26000  and the  International Integrated Reporting
Council , giving this link the attention it deserves? No, Thamotheram says. How
do you measure the corrosive influence of the  Journal 's science-by-
editorial on the U.S. political conversation? Making connections between corporate ratings and material-but-unquantifiable
behavior is not easily defensible or politically convenient. It will require
strategic vision, strong leadership, and good governance to manage the
inevitable political fallout of calling foul on unsustainable behavior that
can't be quantified. CDP was never intended to be a commercial business; it
should accept this challenge. "None of the commercial players in this space will
dare to do what CDP shies away from," he said. CHOIR PREACHING: The Carbon Disclosure Project, and many other reporting
agencies and groups, is trying to convert the converted, according to  Michael
Hopkins , author of  The Planetary Bargain: Corporate Social Responsibility
Matters . "It seems our governments only act when faced with catastrophe,"
he said. "Unfortunately, reasoned arguments from CDP only convince us who don't
need to be convinced... The U.K. Stern report did have an impact but is already
just about forgotten." What's that now? You don't remember the  Stern report ? Hopkins's question for the forum: "How [can we] get the Republican-dominated
Congress to work hard on climate change?" While the question is important, in
the current political environment you might be forgiven for thinking it's the
set-up to a one-liner overheard at a sustainability conference. "I give! What
CAN you do to get..." CAP-AND-FRAUD?:  Francesca Rheannon , senior editor for CSRwire, points out
that CDP's hallmark survey is a strong benchmarking tool in the market that
provides the material on which the carbon-credits and carbon-offset market is
based -- a market that is vulnerable to fraud and manipulation. "How can the CDP
and reporting standards organizations," she wrote in an email, "work together to
make fraud in carbon credits less likely or possible? And what support do they
need from governments and business to do so?" QUESTIONS, QUESTIONS, QUESTIONS: A veteran sustainability executive at a
consumer products company asked me, is the effort companies expend filling out
detailed and often repetitive questions of the CDP worth it? And how do you
know? Companies know that resource constraints are driving change, but wouldn't
a shorter, 10-question assessment focused on risk management, strategy,
innovation and results lead to wider disclosure? DISCLOSURE FATIGUE: Hogue, of McDonald's, also wanted to know whether an
"increase in investor recommended disclosure," was compelling the CDP to work on
"standardizing and streamlining the process for companies that are inundated
with many requests and must prioritize embedding sustainability practices to
drive organizational performance." RISKY BUSINESS:  Joe Sibilia , CEO of CSRwire, returns to the simple desire by
investors to understand business risks. "Climate change affects the ability of
all stakeholders to manage risk.  Voluntary disclosure of climate impact  by an
enterprise provides risk assessment to the financial community. When the
financial community is aware of a risk potential, they can 'price' the risk.
When they are unaware of a risk potential, they price the risk higher. "Therefore, the traditional science of  risk   management   and   recent   research 
combine to encourage and reward  voluntary disclosure of climate change impact  by
an enterprise. Voluntary disclosure enterprises are rewarded with greater
financial value. Given these facts, why would an enterprise choose to avoid
disclosing carbon impact? How much do we disclose and what are the key
disclosure considerations?" Singh is the editorial director of  CSRwire .  