-- Wife of Jailed American in Cuba Begs Castro to Free Husband
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-11T19:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/wife-of-jailed-american-in-cuba-begs-castro-to-free-husband-1-.html
The wife of a U.S. contractor
imprisoned in Cuba said her husband’s health is failing after he
lost 105 pounds (48 kilograms) and pleaded with Cuban President
 Raul Castro  for his release.  Alan Gross’s health continues to deteriorate, his wife Judy
said in an e-mailed statement today, and she fears he may die in
the Havana military hospital where he is being held. Gross, 63,
was working as a subcontractor for the U.S. Agency for
International Development in Cuba when he was arrested Dec. 3,
2009 and charged with “actions against the independence or the
territorial integrity of the state.” He has maintained his
innocence while serving a 15-year sentence.  “I am devastated by his appearance,” Judy Gross said in a
statement. “He has lost 105 pounds and developed degenerative
arthritis and a mass behind his right shoulder blade.”  Gross’s detention has heightened tensions between Cuba and
U.S., which has called for his immediate release and rejected
charges that he was a spy for carrying telecommunications
equipment to the island. Bill Richardson, a former U.S.
Ambassador to the  United Nations , failed to win Gross’s release
in a visit to Cuba last year.  Calls to the Cuban Interests Section in  Washington  weren’t
answered.  ‘Subversive Project’  Gross’s legal team filed a petition to the UN on Aug. 7
requesting that he be released due to health concerns and to
visit his dying mother in the U.S. Gross’s lawyer, Peter J.
Kahn, also petitioned Castro in March to release his client for
two weeks to visit his mother, saying that Gross would return to
Cuba after spending what could be his mother’s last birthday.
The request was denied.  According to Gross, he was contracted by Development
Alternatives, Inc., as part of a contract with USAID, to
establish wireless networks and Internet connections for non-
dissident Cuban Jewish communities. Cuba state prosecutors
accused him of performing a “subversive project aiming at
bringing down the revolution” by disseminating distorted
information about the government.  In March, a Miami judge allowed paroled Cuban spy Rene
Gonzalez to return home from the U.S. to see his ailing brother
for two weeks. Despite hopes that the decision would soften
Cuba’s stance on Gross and allow him to return home, the
communist government rejected those requests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  