-- Twitter Told to Produce Protestor’s Posts or Face Fine
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-11T15:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/twitter-told-to-produce-protestor-s-posts-or-face-fine.html
Twitter Inc. has to turn over
information about an  Occupy Wall Street  protester’s posts or
face a fine, a judge ruled, giving the company three days to
show it isn’t in contempt of court.  New York State Supreme Court Judge Matthew A. Sciarrino Jr.
in  Manhattan  today said Twitter must produce the information by
Sept. 14 or provide its earnings statements from the last two
quarters so he can decide on a fine. The judge had asked Twitter
to show why it wasn’t in contempt of court after refusing to
produce information about Twitter posts by protester Malcolm
Harris in response to a subpoena from Manhattan  District
Attorney  Cyrus Vance Jr.  “I can’t put Twitter or the little blue bird in jail, so
the only way to punish is monetarily,” Sciarrino said.  Sciarrino ruled June 30 that Twitter must turn over
Twitter’s posts from Sept. 15 to Dec. 30 and user information
linked to the “@destructuremal” account of Harris, who was
arrested on Oct. 1 with about 700 protesters on the Brooklyn
Bridge, denying the company’s request to quash the subpoena.
Twitter then asked for a stay that would block enforcement of
the order while it appealed Sciarrino’s decision. That request
was denied Sept. 7, according to court records.  Novel Issue  Twitter “is interested in having a fair hearing on this
issue, it’s a novel issue,” the company’s lawyer Terryl L.
Brown told Sciarrino, saying it wanted more time to appeal his
June 30 ruling. Sciarrino said his hearing was a fair one, and
the company has already had 73 days to comply with his order.  Twitter’s case will determine whether it faces the burden
of responding to subpoenas for its users, the San Francisco-
based company has said. The outcome is significant throughout
the U.S. as  law enforcement  becomes more aggressive in seeking
information about what people do and say on the Internet, the
 American Civil Liberties Union  said in a May 31 court filing.  The company has been in “non-compliance” with the court’s
order already and it and Harris’ “two-front attack” on the
judge’s orders risk delaying the trial in Harris’ case,
currently scheduled for Dec. 12, lawyers for Vance said in court
papers.  Twitter said in its appeal that Sciarrino’s decision was
wrong in finding that Harris himself couldn’t quash the motion
and that the order for his tweets complied with state and
federal law.  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Vance, declined to comment.  Real-Time Messaging  Twitter provides real-time messaging and allows users to
make posts that are broadcast to people who sign up to follow
them. The company contends that users, not the company, have the
right to fight requests for their personal information.  “It’s pretty outrageous that the D.A.’s office wants to
prohibit Twitter from exercising its right to appeal,” said
Martin Stolar, a lawyer with the National Lawyers Guild who
represents Harris, after the hearing. Harris was denied his own
motion to quash Vance’s subpoena in April. Twitter had
intervened, asking Sciarrino to reverse that ruling, which had
also found that Twitter, not Harris, was responsible for
producing the tweets.  The information sought covers about 3 1/2 months, including
Harris’s arrest date. Vance’s office said it only seeks
subscriber information linking Harris to the account at issue,
and tweets that were already publicly disseminated. Twitter has
said that if the information was public, Vance’s office wouldn’t
have to subpoena it.  Police Misconduct  Harris said in court papers that the police engaged in
misconduct at the time of the arrests by escorting them onto the
bridge and misleading them to believe that crossing the bridge
was authorized.  “The tweets are thought to contain admissions that
Harris’s violation of  New York  Law was intentional and/or would
undermine” his potential trial defense, lawyers for Vance wrote
in court papers.  The ACLU had said Harris should be able to argue against
the subpoena because his First Amendment right to free speech
and his Fourth Amendment right to privacy are implicated.  Twitter said that if the district attorney can subpoena it
for user information, the company would be “put in the
untenable position of either providing user communications and
account information in response to all subpoenas or attempting
to vindicate its users’ rights by moving to quash these
subpoenas itself.”  The case is People of the State of New York v. Harris, 11-
80152,  Supreme Court  of the State of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  