-- Two CVS Stores Barred From Selling Controlled Substances
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-11T23:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/two-cvs-stores-barred-from-selling-controlled-substances.html
CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) ’s licenses to
sell controlled substances at two pharmacies in Sanford,
Florida, were revoked after a U.S. investigation into sales of
the painkiller oxycodone.  The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, in a filing in
federal appeals court in  Washington , said it notified CVS in a
letter today that the agency’s administrator, Michele Leonhart,
decided to strip the certificates of registration for the two
pharmacies.  Leonhart’s reasoning was filed under seal with the court at
the request of CVS lawyers, according to the filing, which said
she adopted the recommendations of the administrative law judge
who considered the DEA’s case in April. The decision will be
made public after CVS recommends to the agency what company
information should remain confidential, according to the filing.  The two Florida stores have been blocked from selling
controlled drugs since March after a federal judge in Washington
said the DEA produced enough information to show that
pharmacists at the stores filled prescriptions for oxycodone
that they knew, or should have known, would lead to the drug
being diverted for illegal uses.  Those temporary suspensions will be made permanent with
today’s ruling and take effect 30 days after being made public
in the Federal Register.  ‘Implementing Enhancements’  “We are reviewing the decision, evaluating our options and
determining the best way to continue to serve our customers,”
 Carolyn Castel , a spokeswoman for Woonsocket, Rhode-Island-based
CVS, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We have responded to the DEA’s concerns, including
implementing enhancements to our policies and procedures for
filling controlled substance prescriptions.”  Barbara Carreno, a DEA spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the filing.  CVS, which filed a lawsuit challenging the temporary
suspension, argued in court filings that it stopped filling
prescriptions written by 22 doctors responsible for the highest
volume of oxycodone dispensed by the stores.  Leonhart’s ruling was issued one day before the U.S.
appeals court in Washington is scheduled to hear arguments over
CVS’s suit.  In May,  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , the second-largest U.S. drug
distributor by revenue, agreed to suspend shipments of
controlled drugs from a  Florida  facility for two years in a
settlement with the DEA.  Federal officials contended that the Lakeland, Florida,
distribution center posed a public safety threat by shipping
large quantities of oxycodone to pharmacies, including CVS.  Eight Times  Cardinal, based in Dublin,  Ohio , last year shipped enough
oxycodone to the two CVS pharmacies in Sanford to supply a
population eight times the city’s size, according to the U.S.
The DEA alleged in court filings that Cardinal didn’t question
the orders or heed warnings to conduct on-site audits.  About 5 million Americans use painkillers such as
oxycodone, hydrocodone and oxymorphone for non-medical purposes,
according to the government’s 2010 National Survey on Drug Use
and Health.  A baby is born every hour in the U.S. addicted to
prescription painkillers, according to a study published April
30 in the Journal of the  American Medical Association .  The case Holiday CVS LLC v. Holder, 12-05072,  U.S. Court of
Appeals , District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  