-- Two Harbors Seeks IPO for Single-Family Rental REIT
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-09-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/two-harbors-seeks-ipo-for-single-family-rental-reit.html
Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , a
real estate investment trust that focuses on mortgage-backed
securities, plans to form a new entity that would be a publicly
traded REIT for single-family rental homes.  Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp., the new company, is seeking
to raise as much as $287.5 million in a U.S. initial public
offering, the company said yesterday in a regulatory  filing . It
didn’t disclose how many shares it will sell or at what price.
The amount is a placeholder number used to calculate
registration fees and may change.  “We believe Two Harbors shareholders would benefit from
the creation of a stand-alone, pure-play, single-family
residential property REIT,” Thomas Siering, the chief executive
officer of Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Two Harbors, said in a
statement. “The current investment opportunity for single-
family rental properties remains attractive and the proposed
transaction would add additional scale and diversification to
our existing portfolio.”  Investors are pouring money into single-family homes,
seeking to take advantage of rising demand for rentals and real
estate  prices  that have fallen more than 30 percent from their
July 2006 peak. Firms including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Colony
Capital LLC and  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  plan to spend about $8
billion buying foreclosed properties to rent, according to
company statements and interviews.  Silver Bay plans to use proceeds from the IPO to buy and
renovate single-family units and collect rental income or
capitalize on long-term appreciation, according to the filing.  Investor Opportunities  Opportunities for investors in the single-family rental
market may not last long enough to sustain a REIT, according to
Tom Shapiro, chairman of GTIS Partners, a New York-based
investment fund that plans to spend $1 billion on single-family
homes over the next five years.  “I am not convinced that single-family residential will
become a new real estate asset class,” Shapiro said in an e-
mail. “I believe when credit and jobs come back that Americans
will go back to buying houses and the opportunity for investors
to own and rent single-family homes will vanish.”  Two Harbors plans to contribute assets to Silver Bay in
exchange for common shares in the REIT, according to the filing.
The initial portfolio that Silver Bay will acquire from Two
Harbors consisted of 2,250 single-family homes in  Arizona ,
 California ,  Florida ,  Georgia  and Nevada as of Aug. 31, the
filing shows.  Credit Suisse Group AG is managing the offering.  Silver Bay’s CEO will be  David Miller , a managing director
at Pine River Capital Management LP and Two Harbors since 2011,
according to the filing. Miller is a former U.S. Treasury
official who served as chief investment officer of the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, the federal bailout program created in the
aftermath of the September 2008 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
bankruptcy.  Two Harbors is externally managed by Pine River.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  