-- Yemeni Defense Minister Survives Car Bomb Blast in Sana’a
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-09-11T21:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/yemeni-defense-minister-survives-car-bomb-blast-in-sana-a.html
Yemeni Defense Minister Mohammed
Naser Ahmed survived a car-bomb attack on his convoy near the
Cabinet building in the capital Sana’a, a day after the deputy
leader of al-Qaeda in Yemen was killed in a raid.  The blast yesterday killed 12 people, including seven of
the minister’s bodyguards, Interior Minister Brigadier General
Abdulqader Qahtan said, according to the state-run Saba news
agency.  Yemen’s U.S.-backed fight against al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula has failed to halt multiple-casualty attacks against
the security forces. In May, a suicide blast at a Sana’a parade
rehearsal killed more than 90 policemen as the defense minister
and Chief of Staff Ahmed al-Ashwal watched. Both were uninjured.  “It’s very likely this is a retaliatory strike because
U.S. and Yemeni forces are going after al-Qaeda,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Institute for Near East and
Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai, said by telephone yesterday.
“This is part of the tit-for-tat between the Yemeni authority
and al-Qaeda.”  Saeed al-Shehri, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula’s
second-in-command and a former Guantanamo Bay prisoner, was
killed in a “special military raid” by Yemeni forces in
Hadramut province, the Defense Ministry said Sept. 10. Six of
the Saudi national’s bodyguards also died, the ministry said in
a statement.  Militants Killed  Yemeni security forces under the country’s new president,
Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi, have been battling Islamic fighters in
the south of the country with U.S. assistance. Eight suspected
al-Qaeda militants were killed on Aug. 31 in an airstrike in the
same region in the southeast.  Hadi dismissed a number of officials yesterday, including
the chief of national security, the chief of military
intelligence, the secretary general of the presidential office,
the chief of the military intelligence unit at the  defense
ministry , and the chief of the office of the supreme commander
of the armed forces, who is also the half-brother of the ousted
president Ali Abdullah Saleh, state television reported. The
fired officials are close allies of the former president.  Hadi moved the oil and minerals minister Hisham Sharaf to
the ministry of higher education and appointed the former vice
minister of oil and minerals to replace Sharaf. He also
appointed a new chief for Safer Safer Exploration & Production
Operations Co. He also named five new governors.  The Obama administration has aided Yemen’s fight against
al-Qaeda, while  Saudi Arabia  and international donors last week
pledged as much as $6.4 billion to help the country rebuild.
Protests last year weakened the central government’s authority
and forced Ali Abdullah Saleh, who ruled for more than three
decades, to cede power.  Thousands of people denounced terrorism and called for the
prosecution of Saleh and his supporters in a demonstration in
Sana’a yesterday. The protesters condemned attacks on the oil
and gas pipelines and electricity and chanted “No to
terrorism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  