-- Zinc Glut Diminishing as China Cuts Most Since ’04: Commodities
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-09-12T16:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-11/zinc-glut-diminishing-as-china-cuts-most-since-04-commodities.html
Chinese zinc smelters, the world’s
biggest suppliers, are cutting the most production in at least
nine years after prices tumbled into a  bear market , diminishing
a glut that began in 2007.  Output of the metal used to rust-proof steel fell 6.8
percent in  China  in the first seven months, according to Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co., which has researched metals
for two decades. The nation accounts for 40 percent of global
 supply , the Lisbon-based International Lead & Zinc Study Group
estimates. Prices will average $2,045 a metric ton in the fourth
quarter, 10 percent more than the average since July 1, based
on the median of 12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The metal traded below the $2,526 a ton that Antaike
estimates 79 percent of Chinese smelting output needs to break
even since August 2011. Output has exceeded demand since 2007
after record prices in 2006 spurred more supply, driving  London 
Metal Exchange-monitored stockpiles above 1 million tons for the
first time ever in July. The glut is now diminishing at a time
when steelmakers, the biggest consumers, are projected to expand
production to an all-time high this year and next.  “Zinc smelters in China have been suffering a lot for
quite a long time,” said  Gayle Berry , the analyst at Barclays
Plc in London, who correctly predicted in February that supplies
would tighten and prices rebound later in the year. “The
Chinese market has addressed the surplus and the supply cuts
have helped to provide a floor to prices.”  Bear Market  The metal fell 20 percent in five months to June 27, the
common definition of a bear market. Zinc rallied 15 percent to
$2,033 since then, leaving it 9.2 percent higher this year
and the best-performing industrial metal. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 5.7 percent and the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities advanced 11 percent. Treasuries
returned 2 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The supply surplus will contract 26 percent to 230,000 tons
next year, the lowest since 2008, Morgan Stanley estimates.
Barclays is predicting a 13 percent decline to 231,000 tons and
Bank of America sees a shortfall of 141,000 tons. Standard Bank
Plc reduced its projection for this year’s glut to 249,000 tons
from 539,000 tons estimated in February.  Inventories tracked by the LME retreated 4.9 percent in
August, the first monthly decline since November, and  orders  to
withdraw metal from warehouses almost tripled since June 27,
bourse data show. Stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange fell 23 percent since mid-March.  Galvanized Steel  About 50 percent of zinc is bought to galvanize steel, used
in everything from buildings to roads to cars. Global crude-
steel output rose 0.8 percent to 895.4 million tons in the first
seven months from a year earlier, the Brussels-based World Steel
Association estimates. Production will reach an all-time high of
1.56 billion tons in 2012 and 1.62 billion in 2013, according to
MEPS (International) Ltd., a Sheffield, England-based industry
consultant founded three decades ago.  Expanding steel output may be curtailed after China, which
accounts for about 47 percent of global supply, slowed for six
consecutive quarters. Its steelmakers cut production to a six-
month low in August, the National Bureau of Statistics reported
yesterday. New property construction declined 6.8 percent to
1.23 billion square meters (13.2 billion square feet) in the
first eight months of the year, the bureau said Aug. 9.  Central Bank  While declining Chinese supply rather than expanding demand
is driving prices higher now, consumption may also accelerate as
policy makers bolster growth. The  European Central Bank  and
 Federal Reserve  are holding  interest rates  at record lows and
both have said they are prepared to do more to stimulate
economies. China approved plans last week to build about 1,250
miles of roads, 25 new subway and inter-city rail projects as
well as sewage-treatment, port and warehouse developments.  The 17-nation euro area’s economy contracted in the second
quarter and won’t grow again for another year, according to the
median of as many as 22 economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Euro-area construction output fell for a third month
in June, the European Union’s statistics office reported Aug.
20. The 27-nation EU, mired in a debt crisis, consumes about 11
percent of the world’s steel.  Chinese zinc smelters may start idled capacity should
prices keep rising. Global  output  jumped almost 14 percent in
2010, the most since at least 1961, after LME-traded futures
more than doubled the previous year, according to the Lead &
Zinc Study Group. Morgan Stanley expects mine production to
expand in all but one of the next five years.  Warehousing Costs  That may be less important than in previous years because
prices are rising now in part because of a shortage of metal for
immediate delivery. As much as 600,000 tons may be locked away
in financial contracts, according to Citigroup Inc.  The transactions typically involve a simultaneous purchase
for nearby delivery and a forward sale for a later date. LME
futures are in contango out to 2015, with prices rising
throughout the period.  Buyers in  Singapore  are paying the biggest premium in at
least a decade on top of the LME price to get zinc, according to
Metal Bulletin Plc. The fee rose to $105 a ton on Sept. 7, 31
percent more than at the end of 2011. Consumers are also
struggling to access metal because stockpiles are held in a few
locations, slowing down deliveries. Almost 71 percent of LME
inventories are held in  New Orleans , bourse data show.  Delaying Projects  Commodity producers are delaying spending on concern that
global growth will keep slowing. BHP Billiton Ltd., the largest
mining company, has put approvals on hold for projects estimated
by Deutsche Bank AG to be valued at about $68 billion. Rio Tinto
Group, the third-biggest, said last month it may spend less on
expansions next year.  Mining costs are rising because of higher charges for
energy and labor and declining metal content in ores. One ton of
ore contains about 5.5 percent of zinc, compared with almost 7
percent in 2000, Macquarie Group Ltd. data show.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  will report profit of $3.66 billion this year,
from $5.71 billion in 2011, according to the mean of eight
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the Zug,
Switzerland-based miner rose 3.7 percent this year after it got
a $35 billion takeover offer from Glencore International Plc.  Zinc and lead accounted for 11 percent of Xstrata’s revenue
last year, down from almost 17 in 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. A combined Xstrata and Glencore would create the
world’s biggest zinc miner.  “It’s a more balanced market next year,” said  Michael Widmer , the head of metal markets research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in London. “The view in the market is that over
the next few years it will get tighter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  