-- 
`Dozen' States Don't Back Foreclosure Proposal, Virginia's Cuccinelli Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-03-12T05:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/-dozen-states-don-t-back-foreclosure-proposal-virginia-s-cuccinelli-says.html
Virginia’s attorney general said
his state is among “at least a dozen” that don’t back a
proposal to resolve a nationwide probe of foreclosure and
mortgage-servicing practices.  There isn’t consensus among all 50 state  attorneys general 
about the terms of the settlement proposed to U.S. banks,
Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli, a Republican, said
yesterday in a phone interview. He declined to name which
states, aside from his own, oppose parts of the plan.  “When some attorneys general found out what was being
agreed to, they had a great degree of unease over it,”
Cuccinelli said.  Oklahoma also opposes the proposed federal-state settlement
in its current form, Attorney General Scott Pruitt, a
Republican, said in a phone interview. Like Cuccinelli, Pruitt
said he opposes requiring loan principal reductions, a move he
said would force servicers to violate their contractual
obligations to mortgage investors.  “I’m concerned that what started out as an effort to
correct specific practices harmful to consumers has morphed into
an attempt to fundamentally restructure the mortgage loan
industry in the  United States ,” he said.  Settlement Proposal  Federal agencies and state attorneys general on March 3
delivered a 27-page settlement proposal to the country’s top
mortgage-servicing companies that would set standards for how
they conduct foreclosures and service loans. Those banks include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)   The terms would force procedural changes on the servicers,
including banning companies from initiating foreclosure
proceedings while a loan modification is pending, providing
borrowers with a single point of contact, and informing
borrowers of denied modifications in writing.  Borrowers who are enrolled in a trial loan modification
under a federal program and make three loan payments on time
would get a permanent loan modification under the proposal. The
document would give attorneys general and the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau responsibility to police servicers’ compliance
with any settlement.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, declined to comment about the criticism from Virginia
and Oklahoma. Miller, a Democrat, has taken a lead role in the
investigation and settlement proposal, which will be used in
further negotiations with the banks.  ‘Major Problem’  The terms would impose documentation requirements on banks
that go beyond Virginia law, Cuccinelli said. A “major
problem” is that government-owned mortgage companies  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  aren’t involved in the negotiations, he said.  “They’re going to be a factor here, and to not include
them is just not acceptable to me,” he said.  U.S.  House Republicans  also criticized the proposal.  The settlement term sheet says “a substantial portion of
monetary relief” from the banks will go toward loan
modifications, including principal reductions. It says the
subject is “reserved for further discussion” and doesn’t
specify a dollar amount.  Miller in a March 7 press conference pointed to principal
reductions agreed to by mortgage investors during the 1980s farm
crisis.  ‘The Right Situation’  “The compromise to modify loans in the right situation is
economically very much in the interests of investors and
owners,” he said.  Pruitt, the  Oklahoma  attorney general, said there are
practices by mortgage servicers that need to be fixed such as
taking steps to foreclose on a home while talking to the
borrower about a loan modification, which is known as a “dual
track.” The current proposal goes too far, he said.  Cuccinelli said principal reductions “sounds like a
welfare discussion, not a regulatory discussion. That’s not the
appropriate role for attorneys general.”  He said some states could propose an alternative plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 