-- 
Aflac's Amos Says Japan Earthquake Will Disrupt Sales by `Small Degree'

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-03-11T19:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/aflac-says-japan-earthquake-will-disrupt-insurance-sales-by-small-degree-.html
  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , which gets most of its
revenue from providing health insurance in Japan, said sales
will be disrupted to a “small degree” after the strongest
earthquake in at least a century struck the country.  “I still expect us to achieve our objectives,” Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Amos, 59, said today in a telephone
interview. “I don’t see this any different from the Kobe
earthquake in terms of how it will impact us.”  The magnitude 8.9 earthquake struck off the coast of
Sendai, a city of 1 million in the northeast, unleashing a
tsunami that engulfed coastal towns. The Tohoku region, which
includes Sendai, accounts for about 8 percent of the country’s
gross domestic product, according to Macquarie Securities Ltd.  Aflac has accounted for all of its employees, Amos said in
a separate interview on Bloomberg Television. The earthquake
affected six of its offices, and the Columbus, Georgia-based
company found no “major damage” to them, he said.  Aflac slipped 37 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $55.33 at 1:38
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Prior to
today’s earthquake, the most destructive temblor to hit Japan
struck Kobe, Osaka and Kyoto in 1995, costing insurers about $3
billion, not taking inflation into account.  Aflac gets 75 percent of its revenue from policies
supplementing work and government health insurance in Japan,
Amos said. On Feb. 1, Aflac had said it expects sales in Japan
“to be in the range of down 2 percent to up 3 percent.”  While Aflac’s sales may be crimped in the first quarter,
companies that focus more on property and casualty insurance
will bear brunt of claims tied to the quake, said  Randy Binner ,
an analyst with FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia.  “I can’t rule out a claim or two for Aflac,” he said in
an interview. “But their business quite simply isn’t exposed to
this type of event.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  