-- 
Africa Gets $35 Billion in Railways to Meet China Demand: Freight Markets

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-11T10:55:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/africa-gets-35-billion-in-railways-to-meet-china-demand-freight-markets.html
Record commodity prices are driving
Africa’s biggest railway boom since the 19th century as the
world’s largest untapped mineral reserves prompt miners from  Brazil  to  China  to ignore a history of war and economic chaos.  China Railway Construction Corp.,  Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s
second-largest miner, and other companies are pumping at least
$35 billion into rail projects over the next five years to
transport copper and coal out of Africa and into the power
plants of China and India.  While the new railway networks will increase the supply of
African commodities into the world market and help temper the
surge in prices, the turmoil sweeping North Africa and the Ivory
Coast is a reminder of the investment risks in the world’s
poorest continent. Shares in China Railway Construction plunged
8 percent on March 2 when it halted work on projects in  Libya .  “Africa could be a materials powerhouse”, said  Daniel Brebner , head of commodities research at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “The risk is still that the financial payback may not
be sufficient for companies to want to invest, even if the
prices are this high. Are they convinced that they will still
own their investments in 10 years time?”  OAO Russian Railways on Feb. 23 evacuated staff from Libya,
where it is building a rail link worth 2.2 billion euros ($3
billion).  Cluff Gold Plc (CLF) , a U.K. developer of gold mines, has
tumbled 18 percent since March 3 after violence in Ivory Coast
forced it to close its mine.  Copper Belt  The copper belt running through  Zambia  and the  Democratic
Republic of Congo  holds 10 percent of world copper reserves,
while Congo alone has two-thirds of cobalt deposits. Botswana
estimates it has 200 billion metric tons of coal reserves,
enough to supply  India ’s current import needs for 2,000 years.  African investments have historically proved vulnerable to
political risk. In  Zimbabwe , home to the world’s second-largest
platinum reserves, President Robert Mugabe is demanding foreign
companies hand over majority stakes in local operations to black
investors. In 2008, Rio Tinto Plc, the third-biggest mining
company, was ordered by  Guinea ’s former dictator, Lansana Conte,
to hand over part of its Simandou 2.3 billion-ton iron project.  China and India’s appetite for raw materials is now
prompting investors to reassess the risk balance.  Africa is “a tricky environment to work in, and if it
works you get great margins,” said Paul Theron, managing
director of Johannesburg-based Vestact Pty Ltd., which manages
more than 1 billion rand ($145 million) of assets for private
clients. “It’s whether people have the guts to just do it.”  Coal Terminal  Vestact is “heavily invested” in Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd., whose Zimplats Holdings Ltd. unit plans to invest $500
million in expanding a platinum mine in Zimbabwe, he said.
Vestact also owns shares in  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , BHP Billiton Plc
along with Impala, which are “undervalued.”  The critical question is how quickly the projects will
happen, with financiers often underestimating the challenges,
says George Cheveley, who helps manage about $7 billion in
commodities at Investec Asset Management Ltd. in London.  With  oil prices  unlikely to drop far, there is an incentive
to move freight onto railways from roads, which currently carry
90 percent of all cargo, said Peter Copley, a transport
specialist at the  Development Bank of Southern Africa , which is
helping to finance rail projects in Zimbabwe and  South Africa .  Investors are focusing on the potential rewards. Copper has
risen by more than a third in the past year, aluminum is up 17
percent and coal shipped through South Africa’s Richards Bay
Coal Terminal has jumped 44 percent. Political stability may
also be improving, with Liberia and  Sierra Leone  recently ending
years of bloodshed, showing that elections such as those in
Kenya and  Ivory Coast  don’t have to end in violence.  ‘Huge Source of Supply’  “You’re looking at the potential introduction of a huge
source of supply and this could certainly moderate commodity
price increases,” said Brebner at Deutsche Bank, adding it was
impossible to precisely predict the impact. “If there’s peace
and stability, there’s no question it could happen.”  The exploitation of Africa’s mineral wealth depends on
railways through such inhospitable areas as the Congolese jungle
and the Namibian deserts.  The Trans-Kalahari Rail Line, linking coal deposits in
landlocked Botswana to Namibia’s Walvis Bay, may cost $9
billion, the Transport Ministry said on Feb. 22.  Bidders  Fifteen groups have shown interest in bidding for the
contract, including Anglo American,  Canada ’s CIC Energy Corp.
and South  Africa ’s Exxaro Resources Ltd. South Africa’s state-
owned rail operator Transnet Ltd. has allocated 55 billion rand
($8 billion) on developing rail lines over the next five years.
Across the continent, Vale wants to spend $1 billion on building
a railroad to ferry its  iron ore  in Guinea to the Atlantic
Ocean.  Many of the tracks under renovation date from the 19th
century, when Britain and  France  built lines into the continent
as they sought to exploit its mineral wealth and establish their
control following the so-called scramble for Africa.  The British imperialist Cecil Rhodes, who also founded the
De Beers diamond company, envisaged a line from the Cape to
Cairo to connect British colonies. The French looked into a
project linking east and west Africa. Those plans remained on
the drawing board.  History Repeated  History may be repeating itself. While the  African Union , a
group of 53 states, is championing projects that will link up
countries and boost trade, mining companies are keeping a
narrower focus. They are building tracks only to major ports
with the aim of getting commodities out rather than boosting
internal trade or helping local industry.  “China needs to get the commodities to the sea as quickly
as possible and that means rail,” said Copley.  China’s state-owned Sinohydro Corp. is restoring the 1,344-
kilometer Benguela railway linking the cobalt reserves in the
southern Democratic Republic of Congo and copper mines in Zambia
to Angola’s Lobito port, 243 miles south of Luanda, the capital.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. may build rail lines to
transport ore from its $2 billion Tenke project in Congo,
possibly connecting with the Benguela line.  The success of such projects in some of the world’s most
unstable countries may eventually feed through to the global
economy.  “The future ability to tap the resource riches of the
continent could hold the key to greater global stability,
helping to avoid volatility and inflation,” Brebner said.
“Where are the bulk of the world’s untapped resources? In
Africa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ,  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 