-- 
Mahamadou Issoufou Unites Opposition in Niger’s Presidential Runnoff Vote

-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-03-11T10:41:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/mahamadou-issoufou-unites-opposition-in-niger-s-presidential-runnoff-vote.html
Mahamadou Issoufou, a mining
engineer and former prime minister of  Niger , may win a
presidential runoff tomorrow that will return the world’s sixth-
biggest uranium producer to civilian rule after he earned the
support of four other parties.  Issoufou, 58, won 36.1 percent in the Jan. 31 first round.
He will contest against Seini Oumarou, the 60-year-old candidate
from ex-President Mamadou Tandja’s party, who obtained 23.2
percent. Four opposition candidates, who won a total of 28
percent, have vowed to support Issoufou.  The election follows a military coup that ousted Tandja in
February 2010 after he tried to change the constitution and
abolish  term limits  to extend his 11-year rule. It was the third
army-led takeover in the country since 1996. Polls open at 8
a.m. and provisional results are expected by March 14, said
Abdoulaye Mamoudou, a spokesman for the country’s electoral
commission. The new president will be inaugurated April 6.  The winner may face pressure “to tighten the mining
regulations and get better terms from future mining
concessions,” said Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, a political-risk
analyst with New York-based DaMina Advisors, by phone yesterday.  Issoufou, who was technical director at  Areva SA (CEI) ’s unit
Societe des Mines de l’Air, vowed “continuity” in the
industry. He was prime minister from 1993 to 1994.  Publish Revenue  “He is one of the few politicians to not be involved in
cases related to mismanagement, corruption or misappropriation
of public funds,” said Soumaila Tanko, an analyst with the
Niamey-based Bureau d’Analyses Strategiques et Politiques du
Niger, in a March 10 interview.  A constitutional referendum approved by voters in October
restored term limits and will force the government to publish
figures for oil and mining revenue.  France ’s Areva, the world’s
largest supplier of nuclear equipment and services, mined 2,296
metric tons of uranium from Niger in 2009.  The winner may also face increased attacks by al-Qaeda in
the Islamic Maghreb, which kidnapped seven people, including
five French nationals Sept. 16.  Three of the hostages have since been released. The group
was also responsible for kidnapping two French nationals from a
restaurant in the capital, Niamey, on Jan. 7, according to the
French defense ministry. The two were killed in a rescue
attempt.  Agriculture, Drought  Both Issoufou and Oumarou say they will improve education
and bolster agriculture in a country where just 15 percent of
women are literate and 82 percent of the population relies on
farming and animal herding, according to data from the  World
Food Programme  and the CIA’s World Fact Book.  Niger is also recovering from a drought in 2009-10 that put
about 7 million at risk of starvation, the WFP said in May.
Growth may  reach  5.1 percent in 2011 from 3.2 percent last year,
if the country has a better harvest and aid donors return with
political stability, according to the  African Development Bank .  Both candidates have been jailed in recent years. Oumarou,
who was prime minister under Tandja from 2007 to 2009, was
detained briefly by the military junta in July over allegations
of embezzlement. Issoufou was jailed under Tandja in 2009 after
he and other opposition leaders called for a general strike to
protest Tandja’s efforts to change the constitution to seek a
third term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net  