-- 
Thai Agency Proposes Premier Abhisit Call Election in May

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-03-11T07:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/thai-agency-proposes-premier-abhisit-call-election-in-may-1-.html
  Thailand ’s Election Commission
proposed that Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  wait until May to
dissolve the  House of Representatives  to make sure relevant laws
are passed, chairman Apichart Sukhagganond said.  Dissolving the house in May would mean the election would
be held in June or July, Apichart told reporters in Bangkok
after meeting with Abhisit, adding that Abhisit would have the
final say on timing. Commissioners will propose amendments to
laws regarding the Election Commission and political parties by
the end of next week, he said.  “It’s up to the prime minister to decide,” Apichart said.
Abhisit will hold a press briefing at 4:30 p.m. today, he told
reporters in Bangkok.  Abhisit has said he’ll hold an election by June as he aims
to lead his Democrat party to its first election win since 1992,
a result that would counter critics aligned with former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra  who say he lacks a popular mandate. The prime
minister, whose term expires in December, took power in a 2008
parliamentary vote after a court disbanded the pro-Thaksin
ruling party for election fraud.  The two election laws need to be amended to comply with the
constitution after lawmakers voted on Feb. 11 to switch from
multimember to single-member constituencies. They also increased
the number of party-list seats to 125 from 100, and boosted the
total number of lawmakers to 500 from 480.  In the 2007 election, the Democrat party finished with 68
fewer total seats than the pro-Thaksin party after winning the
most party-list votes. Parties aligned with Thaksin have won the
past four national elections.  The benchmark SET Index fell 0.5 percent to 1,014.6 as of
the mid-day break. The gauge has fallen 1.8 percent this year,
compared with a 2.8 percent decline in the MSCI Asia Pacific
index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  