-- 
AIG, XL Group Credit-Default Swaps Jump on Japan’s Earthquake

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-11T22:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/aig-ace-insurance-company-credit-default-swaps-jump-on-japan-earthquake.html
The cost to protect insurance
companies from American International Group Inc. to Ace Ltd.
jumped after an 8.9 magnitude earthquake struck the coast of
Japan, unleashing a tsunami that engulfed towns north of Tokyo.  The quake, the world’s strongest in more than six years,
struck offshore 373 kilometers northeast of Tokyo, causing a 10
meter-high tsunami to sweep across buildings and farmland as far
as 1.5 kilometers inland. At least 26 people were killed and
many more are missing, state broadcaster NHK Television
reported.  Credit-default swaps on AIG rose by the most since
November, adding 7.5 basis points to 184.6 basis points, and
contracts on Ace increased 6.5 basis points to 98.4, according
to data provider CMA. Contracts on XL Capital Ltd., the insurer
and reinsurer now known as XL Group Plc, climbed 11.1 basis
points to 136, the data show.  The  insurance industry  may have to pay out about $10
billion in claims, according to James Shuck, a London-based
insurance analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. That would
make the disaster the second-most costly temblor on record,
after the $15.3 billion quake that struck Northridge in the U.S.
in 1994, according to data compiled by Swiss Reinsurance Co.  Resilient  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of default swaps tied to the
nation’s government and corporate bonds rose 4.7 basis points to
102.6, the biggest jump in the series, according to Markit Group
Ltd.  An index gauging the cost to protect U.S. corporate bonds
from default is poised for its third consecutive weekly gain.
The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.1 basis points to a
mid-price of 86.2 basis points as of 4:28 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has climbed
from 79.2 basis points on Feb. 8, and from 83.6 on March 4.  “Credit’s been pretty resilient,” said Michael Reiner, a
New York-based credit strategist with Societe Generale SA.
  China  slowdown, the Middle East, weaker jobs and now this, and
we’re only a couple basis points wider than we were so the
market is telling you investors are still comfortable with
credit.”  Unrest in  Egypt ,  Libya  and  Saudi Arabia  has roiled markets
as the price of oil surged. Reports yesterday showed China’s
year-to-year export growth in February was the least since 2009,
and first-time U.S. jobless claims rose last week from an almost
three-year low.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  