-- 
Taiwan Bonds Have Weekly Gain on Recovery Concern; Currency Fall

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-03-11T08:46:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/taiwan-bonds-poised-for-weekly-gain-on-global-recovery-concern.html
  Taiwan ’s bonds had their biggest
weekly advance since January as investors sought the safety of
government debt on concern the global economic recovery is
losing traction.  Taiwan’s dollar slid to a one-week low on speculation  China ,
the island’s biggest export market, will slow yuan appreciation
after unexpectedly reporting a trade deficit for February
yesterday. The currency weakened after U.S. Labor Department
data showed applications for first-time  unemployment benefits 
exceeded economists’ estimates last week. It extended losses
after an 8.9-magnitude earthquake, the world’s strongest in more
than six years, struck Japan.  “Investors sold Taiwan and other Asian assets as economic
data from the U.S. sapped sentiment,” said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-
based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial
Bank. “China’s trade deficit might lead to slower appreciation
of the yuan, and it could affect regional currencies like the  Taiwan dollar .”  The yield on Taiwan’s 1.375 percent bond due March 2021
fell three basis points this week, the most since the five-day
period ended Jan. 28, to 1.40 percent as of its 1:30 p.m. close,
according to Gretai Securities Market. The rate dropped one
basis point today.  Taiwan’s dollar depreciated 0.5 percent this week and 0.3
percent today to NT$29.60 against its U.S. counterpart,
according to Taipei Forex Inc. It touched NT$29.64 earlier, the
weakest level since March 3.  China had a trade deficit of $7.3 billion compared with the
median forecast for a surplus of $4.9 billion in a Bloomberg
News survey. The yuan has strengthened 3.9 percent since a peg
to the dollar was relaxed in June.  Taiwan’s Central Weather Bureau issued a tsunami warning
and said the waves may reach the eastern coast of Hualien and
Taitung later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 