-- 
Malaysia Buys Time With Reserve Ratio Increase; Holds Key Rate

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-03-11T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/malaysia-buys-time-with-reserve-ratio-increase-holds-key-rate.html
  Malaysia ’s central bank ordered
lenders to set aside more cash as reserves and signaled it may
review the monetary policy stance, citing inflation risks even
as it kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged.    Bank Negara Malaysia  raised the statutory reserve
requirement ratio to 2 percent from 1 percent effective April 1,
it said in a statement in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. The overnight
policy rate was held at 2.75 percent, a decision predicted by 16
of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “While the stance of monetary policy is expected to remain
supportive of growth, the degree of monetary accommodation may
be reviewed given the sustained growth in the economy and risks
to inflation,” the central bank said. “This is to ensure the
sustainability of the growth prospects of the Malaysian
economy.”  Asian central banks from  Thailand  to  South Korea  and  Vietnam  tightened monetary policy this week as a jump in crude  oil prices  escalates the danger of inflation in a region that’s
led the global economic rebound. Still, by keeping its benchmark
rate unchanged, Malaysia is providing support to an economy that
the government forecasts will expand at a slower pace this year.  “They’re buying time by raising the reserve requirement,”
Calbert Loh, head of treasury at Bangkok Bank Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur, said after the decision. “Probably in the second half
of the year we may see a rate hike. Oil prices will continue to
become a threat to inflation, and there will be strong  consumer
spending  in Malaysia. It will be a multi-front fight against
inflation.”  Inflation Accelerates  The ringgit fell 0.4 percent to 3.046 a dollar yesterday.
The benchmark  stock index  slid 1.4 percent. The rate decision
was released after the stock market closed.  While Malaysia’s inflation reached a 20-month high of 2.4
percent in January, the rate is the lowest in  Asia  after Japan
and  Taiwan , according to Bloomberg data on 17 regional economies.
The government forecasts the economy will grow as much as 6
percent this year after an expansion of 7.2 percent in 2010 as
exports of products such as IOI Corp.’s palm oil and  Intel
Corp .’s computer chips ease after rebounding last year.  Policy makers need to juggle between containing inflation
and protecting growth as higher energy prices reduce consumers’
purchasing power and increase the costs of doing business. Crude
oil futures in  New York  rose to $105.44 a barrel on March 7, the
highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008, as violence in  Libya 
renewed concern Middle East supply disruptions will worsen.  Energy Prices  “Driven primarily by the significant increases in global
commodity and energy prices, domestic prices are expected to
continue to rise,” the central bank said. There are “incipient
signs that domestic demand factors could result in possible
upward pressure on prices in the latter part of the year in line
with the sustained expansion in economic activity.”  The Bank of  Korea  boosted the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate this week for the second time this year to 3
percent from 2.75 percent after inflation exceeded its target
ceiling. Thailand’s central bank increased the one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.5
percent on March 9, a day after Vietnam lifted borrowing costs.  Bank Negara started raising rates last year before any
other central bank in Asia, a move that has helped contain price
pressures even as the economy grew at the fastest pace since
2000. The delay in adding to three rate increases in 2010 avoids
widening a gap with borrowing costs in advanced economies that’s
contributed to the ringgit’s 9 percent gain against the dollar
in the past year.  Capital Flows  “Large shifts in global liquidity have resulted in
significant capital flows into emerging economies, and in
particular, into the Asian region,” the central bank said.
“The increase in liquidity in the domestic financial system has
thus far been well intermediated. The decision to raise the SRR
is now undertaken as a pre-emptive measure to manage the risk of
this build-up of liquidity.”  The central bank lowered the reserve requirement level to 1
percent in March 2009 from 4 percent in November 2008 to free up
funds for lending during the global financial crisis.  AmResearch Sdn., based in  Kuala Lumpur , estimates there is
about 250 billion ringgit ($82 billion) of excess liquidity in
Malaysia’s financial system and a 1 percent increase in the
reserve requirement rate will absorb as much as 7 billion
ringgit.  ‘Hawkish Signal’  “The SRR increase reflects the hawkish signal Bank Negara
is sending out, and is a prelude to further rate hikes this
year,” said Ray Choy, head of debt market research in Kuala
Lumpur at RHB Research Institute. “The fundamental impact is,
however, benign, given that the SRR hike would constrain less
than 3 percent of excess system liquidity.”  Policy makers are monitoring the impact of higher commodity
prices on inflation and economic growth,  Bank Negara  Governor
Zeti Akhtar Aziz said last week.  The increase in the reserve requirement is “an instrument
to manage liquidity and not a signal on the stance of monetary
policy,” the central bank said yesterday. “The overnight
policy rate is the sole indicator used to signal the stance of
monetary policy.”  Malaysia pays suppliers to keep many  consumer goods  below
their true market values and the government has gradually
reduced subsidies for fuel and some food items to trim its  budget deficit . The last round of subsidy cuts was in December,
when it raised fuel and sugar prices.  The state subsidies bill could jump by 4 billion ringgit
this year if fuel prices aren’t raised to reflect a surge in
global oil costs, Prime Minister Najib Razak said March 9. This
would increase the government’s fuel subsidy bill to 14 billion
ringgit this year, he said, without indicating whether pump
prices would go up.  “Global inflation is increasing primarily due to the
rising energy and commodity prices,” the central bank said.
“Economic growth is expected to be moderate in the earlier part
of the year and to improve during the course of the year, driven
by strong expansion in domestic demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  