-- 
Allaster’s $75 Million Sponsorship Bet Changes Business of Women’s Tennis

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-11T09:44:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/allaster-s-75-million-sponsorship-bet-changes-business-of-women-s-tennis.html
  Stacey Allaster  faced a three-
headed financial monster in 2009 when she became chief executive
officer of the  WTA , the women’s pro tennis tour.  The recession had squeezed sports that depend heavily on
corporate sponsors. The tennis circuit, then called the Sony
Ericsson WTA Tour, hadn’t signed a new sponsor in four years.
And its contract with its main backer, Sony Ericsson Mobile
Communications AB, was about to expire.  “When I first started, a lot of people were saying ‘Do you
know what you are getting yourself into?’” Allaster said in a
telephone interview from the WTA’s offices in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida .  Less than two years later, Allaster, 47, has rebranded the
tour, retained its biggest corporate supporter, and closed on a
record $75 million in sponsorship deals,  Bloomberg Businessweek 
reports in its March 14 issue. Allaster, once a junior tennis
player in  Canada , has signed three new sponsors in the past
year. The WTA said it’s close to signing two more for its
season-ending championships, to be held in Istanbul for the next
three years.  “It wasn’t always that easy, but she’s done well in using
the best things that the tour has to offer,” said four-time
Grand Slam champion  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium .  The WTA was founded by 63 women, including Billie  Jean King 
of the U.S., in a London hotel in 1973. Today it hosts 52 events
in 33 countries and features stars like  Serena Williams  of the
U.S. and Maria Sharapova of  Russia . Each of the 10 top female
tennis players now hails from a different nation.  Tennis is one of the fastest-growing sports in  China , where
the women’s tour opened an office in 2008 and now holds two
tournaments annually. Clijsters, now ranked No. 2 in the world,
won the Australian Open in January by beating  Li Na , the first
player from China in a major final.  Record Audience  The championship was viewed by 60 million Chinese viewers,
the biggest tennis audience in the nation’s history, according
to Beijing-based CSM Media Research. It will likely be that
nation’s most-watched sports event of any kind this year, CSM
predicted. The WTA has a four-year deal with state-owned
broadcaster  China Central Television  to show women’s tennis in
335 million households.  Allaster also has tried to make matches more fan-friendly.
She introduced on-court coaching -- allowing spectators to hear
conversations between players and their microphone-equipped
advisers -- and video replays to confirm line calls at all tour
matches. She has increased the tour’s presence on social
networking websites such as Facebook and Twitter. The women’s
tour has more than twice as many Facebook fans as the men’s  ATP
World Tour . The WTA and its players combined now have more than
11.4 million fans across Facebook and Chinese social media.  Name Drop  As part of its current two-year deal with Lund, Sweden-
based Sony Ericsson, reached in March 2010, the tour dropped the
mobile-phone maker’s name and now calls itself the WTA. Sony
Ericsson remains the lead global sponsor, retaining prime sign
space at all tour matches.  The name change was crucial in attracting new sponsors,
Allaster said.  “We’ve got that brand back,” she said. “It created
ownership and clarity.”  Nigel Currie, director of the London-based sports marketing
agency  brandRapport , said women’s tennis “has become so big and
so global that the wider branding opportunities probably
outweigh the safer option of just going with the one sponsor and
restricting yourself accordingly.”  Sony Ericsson said the tour’s geographic spread and social
networking presence were reasons the company decided to remain a
WTA sponsor. The company’s six-year relationship with the tour
has given it “a very recognizable brand name across the
world,” said Stephan Croix, Sony Ericsson’s head of global
marketing partnerships.  Deal Signer  The WTA has since signed new agreements with Swedish
cosmetics maker  Oriflame Cosmetics SA (ORI) , Chinese sports apparel
maker  Peak , and Jetstar, the budget unit of  Australia ’s Qantas
Airways. The tour also renewed deals with London-based  Travelex 
and Salt Lake City-based vitamin and health supplement maker  Usana Health Sciences Inc. (USNA)   “It’s now the WTA, rather than the Sony Ericsson WTA Tour,
which makes it marketable for us,” Michael Cervell, senior
vice-president for global direct sales at Oriflame, said by
telephone from his Stockholm office. “It’s something positive
for the other sponsors who want to join the tour.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
3628 or  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  