-- 
American Eagle Ripe for Buyout Shopper with Cash Flow Discount: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-03-11T21:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/american-eagle-ripe-for-buyout-shopper-with-cash-flow-discount-real-m-a.html
For the discriminating private-
equity shopper, there may be no better bargain in retail than  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)   American Eagle, known for jeans and preppy shirts, trades
at 10.2 times free cash flow, the cheapest among U.S. retailers
that sell clothes to teenagers, and holds the most cash relative
to its market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
While the Pittsburgh-based company has been reducing its
inventory, the company still took longer to sell its merchandise
last year than any period since 1995, the data show.  With no debt and Chief Executive Officer  Jim O’Donnell 
departing, the teen retailer is ripe for a leveraged buyout
because new owners could avoid fashion missteps and boost sales
with international expansion and newer brands, according to
Morningstar Inc. After losing ground to  Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. (ANF) ’s price cuts and discounted clothing at  Hennes & Mauritz
AB (HMB) ’s H&M brand and Forever 21 Inc., American Eagle has outgained
specialty retailers this year as takeover speculation increased.  “Now would be the time to strike on this,” said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst with Wall Street Strategies Inc. in  New York 
who recommends buying the shares. American Eagle trades at “a
nice discount to other teen apparel retailers for this type of
brand that generates this type of cash. With some fresh eyes in
there, I think it would make sense,” he said.  Jani Strand, a spokeswoman for American Eagle, declined to
comment.  Cheapest Teen Retailer  American Eagle closed yesterday at 10.2 times its free cash
flow, or cash from operations after capital expenses, which is
cheaper than all U.S. retailers targeting teens, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. New York-based  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  was
valued at 14.7 times,  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  in Philadelphia at
23.6 times and New Albany, Ohio-based Abercrombie at 29.5 times.  American Eagle was also lower than the median of 14.8 times
for U.S. apparel retailers with a market value greater than $1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The shares gained 32 cents, or 2 percent, to $15.99 on the
New York Stock Exchange today.  The company, which has no debt, ended the fourth quarter
with $734.7 million in cash and short-term investments after
generating $381.2 million from operations last year. American
Eagle’s net cash is equal to 24 percent of its $3.1 billion
market value, the highest among U.S. retailers, as it spent less
on real estate and renovations, said Linda Tsai, a Stamford,
Connecticut-based analyst at MKM Partners.  Balance Sheet Fortress  “It’s natural for a company that generates so much  cash
flow  to have speculation around it,” said Ashley Abney, an
 analyst  for Louisville, Kentucky-based River Road Asset
Management LLC, which owned about 930,000 shares as of Dec. 31.
“Their balance sheet is a fortress.”  American Eagle surged 9.1 percent on Feb. 10 for the
largest gain in almost two years on speculation it may be
acquired. Citigroup Inc. in New York placed both teen retailers
American Eagle and Aeropostale on a list of potential leveraged
buyouts two days earlier.  The company had risen 9.3 percent this year through
yesterday compared with a 1.9 percent gain for the 66-member
Standard and Poor’s Supercomposite Specialty Retail Index.  This week, American Eagle CEO O’Donnell, 70, announced he’s
retiring more than eight years after taking the job. Chairman
Jay Schottenstein is leading the search, and a date hasn’t been
set to hire a replacement.  Private-Equity Leadership  “Without a firm direction from the upper management, it
could be a prime candidate for leadership under private
equity,” said R.J. Hottovy, director of consumer research at
Chicago-based Morningstar.  Any buyer would have to turn around a company that reported
an 11 percent drop in same-store sales in December, even as
holiday shopping in the U.S. rose the most in six years. Same-
store sales surged 15 percent at Abercrombie as it used
markdowns to win back shoppers who had shifted to buying cheaper
wares at American Eagle and other chains during and after the
recession. Increased competition coupled with fashion misses in
women’s tops led to a 4.2 percent decline in American Eagle’s
sales to $916.1 million in the three months ended Jan. 29.  “They continue to be viewed as the laggard in the
industry,” said Wall Street Strategies’ Sozzi. “You can’t
drive consistent sales and earnings by just selling pairs of
denim.”  Net income has declined for three straight years to $140.7
million in fiscal 2011, about a third of its profit in 2008.  Inventory Turnover  Inventory shrank 7.7 percent last year, the first drop in
seven years, as management tried to control merchandise stock to
cope with the fickle teen retail market. Still, it took an
average of more than 63 days to turn over its inventory last
year, the most since it took about 75 days in the year ended
January 1995, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To spur growth, American Eagle is expanding aerie, a
women’s lingerie line started in 2006, and 77kids, a children’s
store begun in 2008, while reducing its namesake brand
locations.  American Eagle may be an attractive takeover target because
the shares don’t account for future sales growth from aerie and
77kids, said Jay Kaplan, a New York-based money manager for
Royce & Associates LLC, American Eagle’s largest investor with
9.96 million shares, or 5.1 percent of the stock outstanding, at
the end of December.  “The market is paying them for the current state of the
business and the rest is kind of a free option,” Kaplan said.  Stock Decline  After declining 14 percent in the past year through
yesterday, American Eagle was valued at about 5 times last
year’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, which
includes net debt. The stock drop compared with a 15 percent
gain for the S&P Specialty Retail Index.  “If a private-equity firm is going to come in and lever up
the firm, you want one that generates a lot of cash to pay down
that debt,” Morningstar’s Hottovy said. “At the same time,
American Eagle looks fairly cheap on a fundamental basis. So
that might attract financial buyers as well.”  Options traders are boosting bullish bets to the highest in
almost seven years. The ratio of outstanding calls to buy the
stock versus puts to sell has more than tripled since early
January to 2.83 on March 8, the highest since April 2004.  American Eagle’s skew, a measure of prices for puts versus
calls, tumbled to the lowest level in almost four years last
month. Three-month puts 10 percent below the stock price traded
0.5 percent higher than the equivalent calls on Feb. 15, down
from a 19 percent premium a year ago, the data show. The premium
was 6 percent as of yesterday.  J. Crew Takeover  Interest in specialty retailers has gained steam since J.
Crew Group Inc. announced in November that TPG Capital in  Fort
Worth ,  Texas , and Los Angeles-based Leonard Green & Partners LP
would buy the New York-based chain for $3 billion.  American Eagle may fetch $20 to $24 a share, according to
Morningstar’s Hottovy and MKM’s Tsai. That’s as much as 53
percent higher than yesterday’s price of $15.67.  A price tag in that range would be the equivalent of an
Ebitda multiple between 6.9 and 8.6 times. Retail deals greater
than $1 billion announced in the last 12 months were struck at a
median 8.6 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  An American Eagle buyout may be similar to Boston-based
Bain Capital LLC’s takeover of Gymboree Corp. last year at 7.7
times Ebitda, including net debt, or J. Crew’s sale at 8.4 times
Ebitda, Tsai said.  American Eagle is becoming more attractive after
forecasting sales gains and cutting costs. Selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue dropped 2.6
percentage points last quarter. The chain also said same-store
sales will grow by a low single-digits percentage this year.  ‘Pretty Cheap’  “It’s pretty cheap if you think about where some of these
companies have been taken out,” River Road’s Abney said.  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions, Atlanta-based
Cumulus Media Inc., a U.S. radio-station owner, offered to buy
larger rival Citadel Broadcasting Corp. for $2.4 billion,
excluding net debt, to expand its coverage and cut costs.    London ’s Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining
company, raised its bid for Sydney-based  Riversdale Mining Ltd. (RIV) 
by 3 percent to A$3.9 billion ($3.9 billion) as share purchases
by steelmakers threaten to scuttle the deal.  There have been 4,437 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $430.8 billion, a 12 percent increase from the $386.2
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 