-- 
Football Costs Los Angeles `Not a Nickel' in Anschutz Plan, Beutner Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/anschutz-football-plan-for-nfl-costs-la-not-a-nickel-city-official-says.html
Billionaire Philip Anschutz’s
backing of Los Angeles-issued bonds means public funds won’t be
at risk in a $1.35 billion plan to lure professional football
with a new stadium, said First Deputy Mayor Austin Beutner.  Anschutz Entertainment Group, a Los Angeles-based owner of
sports teams, stadiums and concert venues worldwide, proposed a
72,000-capacity stadium in  downtown Los Angeles  in December to
bring the  National Football League  back to the second-most
populous U.S. city. Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  named Beutner,
50, in  February  to serve as co-chairman of a commission studying
the proposal.  “There’s no public money for stadiums,” Beutner said in
an interview this week in Bloomberg’s Los Angeles office.
“We’re the only city that can privately finance a stadium.”  Anschutz’s closely held company would privately finance the
$1 billion cost of the new stadium, according to a copy of the
proposal. The plan includes tearing down a wing of the  Los
Angeles Convention Center  to make room for the arena and
building an extension and parking facilities adjacent to the
main convention center. Those improvements would be financed
with as much as $350 million in municipal bonds.  The estimated $25 million in annual debt service on those
bonds would be paid from sources tied to the stadium, such as
ticket fees, with Anschutz agreeing to make payments if revenue
falls short, Beutner said. The two sides are negotiating other
funding sources for the bonds, he said.  “The bottom line is they’ve guaranteed the payment of
principal and interest on the bonds, not a nickel from the
city,” Beutner said. “If the city were coming up with $350
million, it’s a very different proposition. I wouldn’t be for
it.”  34th Richest American  The panel weighing the proposal held four public hearings
in the past week and  met  privately March 9 with Anschutz to
discuss details. The mayor put Beutner, the retired co-founder
of New York-based investment bank Evercore Partners, in charge
of  Los Angeles ’s economic development efforts last year.  Anschutz, 71, is ranked 34th in the  Forbes Magazine  list of
richest Americans, with a net worth estimated at $7 billion.  The new wing will be contiguous to the main convention
center, making the facility more attractive for conventions,
Beutner said.  A professional football stadium would create thousands of
jobs, spur hotel construction and generate new  tax revenue  from
events such as the national college basketball championship
finals and the NFL’s Super Bowl, he said. Los Angeles faces a
budget deficit of $350 million in the coming fiscal year.  “Where other communities have gotten off track is when
they say, ‘We’ll dig into our public coffers, and somehow there
will be a payback,’” Beutner said. “We don’t have the money,
even if we thought it was a good idea. We’re broke.”  ‘Negligible’ Effect  There is little evidence that stadiums generate revenue for
cities, said  Brad Humphreys , an economics professor at the
University of Alberta in  Edmonton ,  Canada , who has studied
sports facilities.  “The economic impact is negligible,” Humphreys said in a
telephone interview. “There might be a few people coming from
out of town, most of the people would be in Los Angeles
anyway.”  Anschutz controls the Staples Center arena in Los Angeles
for professional hockey and basketball, adjacent to the site
proposed for the football stadium. A deal to move one of the
NFL’s 32 football teams to Los Angeles hasn’t been reached. The
city hasn’t had a team since the Raiders departed for Oakland,  California , in 1995.  Stadium Name, No Team  Farmers Insurance Group signed a 30-year accord to name the
stadium  Farmers Field . While financial terms weren’t disclosed
in a Feb. 1 press conference, the Los Angeles Times reported
that the deal may be worth $700 million, citing unidentified
people familiar with the negotiations.  Bill Rosendahl, a member of the Los Angeles City Council,
wrote city officials this month asking what would happen to the
city’s existing $445 million in convention-center bonds. In the
interview, Beutner said revenue to fund the $48 million in
annual payments on that debt would increase because of upgrades
to the convention center.  Anschutz’s backing would help sell the $350 million in new
convention-center securities, Beutner said.  “Bank of America or Goldman Sachs will call up the bond
buyers and say, ‘Here’s an interesting one for you,’” Beutner
said. “‘Tax-exempt rate, Phil Anschutz guarantee.’ They’re not
going to talk about how many hot dogs are sold or what the sales
taxes are.”  Anschutz Commitment  It isn’t unusual for private investors to commit to making
payments on facilities such as hotels and stadiums built with
municipal bonds, said  Douglas Charchenko , head of fixed income
at the investment bank Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles. The
convention center’s debt would require financial disclosure from
Anschutz, he said.  “We have said from the beginning that this will be at
absolutely no cost to the taxpayers,” Anschutz spokesman
Michael Roth said in an e-mail. “It is and has always been our
intention to enter into an agreement with the city where we, as
developers, would agree to pay the city for any debt-service
shortfalls on the bonds.”  Such a commitment “could be an enhancement” to the
convention-center borrowing, said Jim Russell, partner in the
Collingwood Group, a Washington-based firm that advises
municipal governments.  Rosendahl, the councilman, said that while he was happy to
hear Beutner’s promise that the city wouldn’t have to pay for
stadium construction or convention center improvements, he
wanted to see a commitment on paper.  “I think that’s all great, but I want it in writing,”
Rosendahl said in a telephone interview. “I have to have
something to take a deep breath and take a look at.”  The downtown stadium proposal has competition from Majestic
Realty Co. Chairman Ed Roski Jr., who proposed building a
stadium in the City of Industry, 18 miles (30 kilometers) east
of Los Angeles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ; 
Anthony Palazzo at  
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  