-- 
Apple Poised to Sell 600,000 IPad 2s in Its Debut, Outpacing First Model

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-03-12T01:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/apple-poised-to-sell-600-000-ipad-2s-in-its-debut-outpacing-first-model.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may sell 600,000 of the
second version of the iPad in its debut this weekend, extending
the device’s lead in a crowding market.  The iPad 2 went on sale on Apple’s website at 4 a.m. New
York time, before appearing in U.S. stores at 5 p.m.  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. who predicted more than a
half-million in unit sales, is one of several who expect the
iPad 2 to outpace its predecessor. Apple sold 300,000 of that
version in 24 hours.  The iPad line is the fastest-selling technology product in
history, measured by revenue, said  Tim Bajarin , an analyst at
Creative Strategies Inc. In less than three months, it topped $2
billion -- a milestone the iPhone took more than six quarters to
reach. The second version has a head start on rivals, which are
only now releasing their first models. It’s also benefiting from
distribution through additional retail outlets.  “Apple has such a huge lead,” said Bajarin, who has
covered the industry for more than 20 years and works as a
technology consultant. He projects 500,000 units in two days.
“Competitors are going to be chasing Apple for many years.”  White Version  Bajarin -- along with analysts from Rodman & Renshaw LLC
and Piper Jaffray & Co. -- also predicts the device will outsell
the first iPad, which came out in April and sold more than a
million units in 28 days. Apple will get a boost from offering a
white model for the first time, he said.  Apple gained $5.32 to $351.99 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have risen 9.1 percent
this year.  The iPad 2 is available at 236  Apple stores . It’s also
being sold at more than 10,000 outlets of AT&T Inc.,  Verizon
Wireless , Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Best Buy Co. and Target Corp.,
according to Piper Jaffray’s  Gene Munster . It goes on sale in 26
other markets on March 25.  Last year, Apple had 221 stores and it sold the iPad
through about 1,100 other outlets, according to Munster. Through
December, it sold a total of 14.8 million iPads, generating $9.6
billion in sales.  Customers began lining up at Apple stores hours early.  “I sold my old iPad and some other stuff, other gadgets,
to pay for the new one,” said You-You Xue, 13, who had waited
overnight to be first in line at the store in Burlingame,  California , about 16 miles south of San Francisco. His father
checked in on him throughout the night -- calling his mobile
phone and driving by the store, Xue said. “The tax will have to
be paid for by my dad.”  Faster Growth  According to the  Consumer Electronics Association , tablets
make up the fastest-growing consumer-electronics segment. In
2010, with the iPad’s introduction, total tablet sales surged to
more than 10.3 million units, from 90,000 in 2009. That rate of
adoption tops those of game consoles and smartphones, according
to the Arlington, Virginia-based trade organization.  Apple also has a price advantage over its competitors, said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst for Rodman & Renshaw in  San Francisco .
The cost is the same as the original version, starting at $499
for a base model with 16 gigabytes of memory. Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.’s Xoom tablet costs $799 for 32 gigabytes -- $70
more than a comparable  iPad .  “The iPad 2 is essentially the tablet market,” Kumar
said, predicting the company will sell 35 million units this
year. “That very well could be conservative.”  VCRs, DVDs, Cameras  The device’s faster processor speeds up performance and
improves graphics quality, and front and rear cameras allow for
videoconferencing. It’s also 15 percent lighter and 33 percent
thinner than the previous model. Customers have access to more
than 350,000 applications in Apple’s App Store, including more
than 65,000 tailored for the iPad.  Since Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  unveiled the iPad
last year, it’s become one of Apple’s top products. The tablet
generated more revenue last quarter than the iPod, the best-
selling media player.  The iPad built a following faster than the original video-
cassette recorder, DVD player, game console or digital camera,
said  Colin McGranahan , a retail analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in New York.  In addition to appealing to consumers, the iPad has been
popular with businesses, including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells
Fargo & Co. and Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.  This fiscal year, the iPad may bring in revenue of $16.3
billion for Apple, according to  Toni Sacconaghi , another analyst
at Bernstein. The iPhone didn’t reach that level until more than
three years after its release.  Competing devices from Motorola and Samsung Electronics Co.
are struggling to match Apple’s success and price. As new
tablets come to the market this year, there could be a
“bubble” of rival devices, Mark Moskowitz, an analyst at
JPMorgan, said in a research note. That would create more supply
than demand.  “The technical and form factor improvements of the iPad 2
stand to make it tougher for the first generation of competitive
offerings to play catch-up,” Moskowitz said in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 