-- 
Apple IPad 2 Lines Led by Gray Marketers Eager to Resell Devices Abroad

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   M a r c   P e r r i e r
-- 
2011-03-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/apple-ipad-2-gray-marketers-first-in-lines-eager-to-resell-tablets-abroad.html
When  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  releases a product,
the store lines are typically led by fanboys clamoring to be
first with the latest gadget. At the downtown San Francisco
store for the iPad 2 debut, the gray market got there first.  Dennis Ng, 20, said he was being paid $10 an hour to arrive
before 5 a.m. on the day Apple began selling the device at its
 stores . He said he was in a group of about 35 mostly Chinese
immigrants at the front of the line, waiting to buy the iPad for
somebody else. Resales of new electronics in countries where
they’re not yet available feed the so-called gray market.  “I’m here waiting in line because I want to make some
money,” said Ng, who lives in  San Francisco  and works at a
clothing store. He wouldn’t identify who hired him. “Many of the
Chinese immigrants you see here need work and money so they go
through this associate group for side jobs and this is one we
found.”  The iPad 2 debuted yesterday in the U.S. and it will be
released in 26 other countries on March 25. Nations like  China 
and  Russia  have to wait even longer, creating a market for
people to import the device and resell it. According to a July
estimate by Flora Wu, a handset analyst at BDA China Ltd., gray-
market purchases accounted for almost half the iPhones sold in
China. BDA came up with the estimate prior to the release of the
iPhone 4 and the iPad in China.  The demand is changing the vibe at the front of the line.
At the iPhone debut in 2007, those in line watched   Star Wars ,”
smoked cigars and got a surprise visit from Apple co-founder
Steve Wozniak, said Kurt Collins, a self-described technology
enthusiast. He said the people in line created a “community.”  Sense of Community  “This one is very much not that kind of community feeling,”
said Collins, who was in line behind Ng’s group. “Normally you
see a lot of tech enthusiasts and first adopters.”  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  has taken steps to
rein in the gray market, including limits on purchases to two
iPads per person. During the debut of the original iPad, Apple
only accepted credit cards or  debit cards  to pay for new
gadgets. It later stopped that policy to accept cash.  Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  The iPad 2 has a faster processor that speeds up
performance and improves graphics quality, and front and rear
cameras that allow for videoconferencing. It’s also 15 percent
lighter and 33 percent thinner than the previous model.  Prices are the same as for the original, starting at  $499
for a base model  with 16 gigabytes of memory.  ‘Gazillionaire’ Buyer  Analysts at Gleacher & Co., Piper Jaffray & Co. and Rodman
& Renshaw LLC are among those predicting the iPad 2 will outsell
the original.  Brian Marshall , a San Francisco-based analyst for
Gleacher, estimated sales of 600,000 tablets this weekend alone.
The first iPad, which came out last April, generated $9.6
billion in sales of 14.8 million units through December.  At some stores, people have taken steps to work within the
purchase rules. Esteban Kelly, a 19-year-old student at the
College of  San Mateo , and seven of his friends, were being paid
$100 each to buy 16 iPads at the Burlingame, California, store.
The buyer: someone Kelly described as a “gazillionaire.”  “My income’s tight right now,” Kelly said, when asked why
he was willing to wait 20 hours in line at a pay rate of about
$5 an hour.  Brian Williams, a high school teacher in San Lorenzo,  California , said it’s a simple matter of supply and demand.  “I’m an economics teacher,” said Williams, who lined up at
the downtown San Francisco store. “If there are people who don’t
want to stand in line, and they are happy to pay for that
service, then there are people who are going to do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Perrier in San Francisco at 
 mperrier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 