-- 
March Madness Heroics Help Former NCAA Stars Get Business After Basketball

-- B y   E r i c   S p i t z n a g e l
-- 
2011-03-11T05:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/march-madness-heroics-help-former-ncaa-stars-get-business-after-basketball.html
When Ed O’Bannon meets with
customers at the Findlay Toyota dealership in Henderson,  Nevada ,
he doesn’t flaunt his former basketball career.  “If they recognize me, that’s cool, but I don’t go out of
my way to tell people who I am,” said O’Bannon, 38.  Even so, when potential buyers do join the 6-foot-8 sales
representative in his office, there’s no escaping the hoops
memorabilia, including O’Bannon’s UCLA jersey, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its March 14 issue.  He won’t reveal whether his basketball celebrity has ever
translated into a sale. O’Bannon also acknowledges some
customers want to talk more about his glory days than cars. And
his co-workers aren’t shy about saying to shoppers, “Do you
like basketball? You should meet Ed.”  O’Bannon won the John R. Wooden Award as national college
player of the year in 1994-95, leading the UCLA Bruins to 32
victories in 33 games during the regular season.  He then helped the team win the 1995 National Collegiate
Athletic Association tournament title, its first in 20 years. In
the championship game against the  University of Arkansas ,
O’Bannon’s last game for UCLA, he scored 30 points and grabbed
17 rebounds.  O’Bannon went on to a less than spectacular National
Basketball Association career with the  New Jersey Nets , followed
by years playing in  Italy ,  Spain ,  Greece  and  Poland . He retired
in 2002.  “I’m just a guy who used to play basketball,” he says,
“and wants to help people buy cars.”  NBA Ambitions  There are 336 Division I basketball schools, with an
average of 15 players per team, and only 30 NBA teams waiting on
the other side.  This means collegiate players have less than a 1 percent
chance of becoming one of the 60 athletes picked up by the NBA
each year. So when professional hoop dreams evaporate, former
big shots such as O’Bannon face the question of whether to use
their fleeting NCAA fame to their business advantage -- and how
to actually turn that one great March Madness bracket-busting
shot into a steady paycheck.  For the entrepreneurial minded, using basketball stardom as
a selling tool can be an effective business strategy.  “Fans are loyal to teams, and true zealots have long
memories,” says Alan Jay Zaremba, the author of “Madness of
March: Bonding and Betting with the Boys in  Las Vegas .” He
knows many NCAA enthusiasts who can still rattle off the
statistics of their favorite players, even those never drafted
into the NBA.  ‘Using Their Fame’  “It doesn’t surprise me that athletes are successful using
their fame,” he says, “however short-lived the fame might have
been.”  There can also be a psychological reason for not wanting to
go lights out. “Fan enthusiasm and support can be
intoxicating,” said Zaremba. “Athletes successful in that
absolutely crazy period in March can get filled up with that
recognition. The recognition is gone, you can get hungry for
it.”  Jeff Sheppard helped the  University of Kentucky  win two
national championships, in 1996 and 1998. His efforts earned him
the Associated Press NCAA Tournament Most Outstanding Player
accolade in 1998.  Sheppard played one NBA season, with the  Atlanta Hawks ,
averaging 2.2 points and 1.2 rebounds in 18 games. He’s had
better luck with his sports apparel company, 15inc -- named
after his Wildcats jersey number -- that he started in 2007.  Annual Revenue Up  15inc is growing steadily: Annual revenue in 2007 was just
more than $1 million, and Sheppard predicts the business is on
track to hit $1.4 million in 2011. He is the first to concede
the company’s success has been boosted by his basketball career.  “Everybody in Kentucky remembers and appreciates the ‘96
and ‘98 championships,” Sheppard says. “They remember where
they were when it happened, and a lot of them were at the
games.”  15inc is based in  London ,  Kentucky , an hour south of the
university in Lexington, and the vast majority of its business
comes from schools and other organizations across the state,
including the  University of Kentucky , coal mines and the U.S.
Marine Corps. His chances of sealing a sale improve
exponentially, Sheppard says, if he gets to make his pitch to
the customer in person.  ‘Make the Connection’  “They definitely make the connection to the 15inc name if
they meet me,” he says. Being a local hero is good for
business, and he suspects he’ll continue to sign autographs,
sometimes on his own merchandise, for the foreseeable future.
Or, he says, “until the Wildcats win another championship.”  Greg Koubek found success without giving up ballhandling
entirely. Although his college career was fairly low profile,
Koubek played for  Duke University  when the Blue Devils won an
NCAA championship in 1991 and became the first to play in four
NCAA Final Fours. While toiling on the international circuit in  South Africa ,  Turkey ,  Hungary  and Japan, he opened a basketball
summer camp with his brother, Tim, in their hometown of Clifton
Park,  New York .  Summer Camp  They named it the Greg Koubek Basketball Camps, but Koubek
insists he used his name only to get a toehold in the business.
“In the beginning, it certainly helped,” he says, describing
how the camp has grown from 60 kids in its first year more than
two decades ago to an average of 700 over the last six summers.
“Now, people come to the camp because it’s a good camp, a
quality camp. They don’t come because of the name.”  Koubek is aware, though, that a healthy percentage of his
paying customers are parents who came of age during his NCAA
heyday. He’s signed countless autographs for them --and many
want to talk about his (and their) March Madness memories.  “They’ll tell me about how I beat the spread in their
office pool,” says Koubek, who lives in  Los Angeles  but hasn’t
missed an orientation day at his camp since its founding. “Or
sometimes it’s the exact opposite. They’ll tell me how much
money they lost because of me or Duke. You get both sides of
it.”  Last Year’s Hero  With every March comes a crop of NCAA stars-to-be who will
eventually learn the reality their predecessors now know. Ali
Farokhmanesh, last year’s senior guard for the University of
Northern Iowa and a Sports Illustrated cover boy, is just
starting to realize how far March Madness fame reaches. After
his 3-point shot last year that defeated the top-seeded  Kansas 
Jayhawks, he was passed over by the NBA, eventually playing for
Team Massagano in  Switzerland .  “All of my Swiss teammates,” he says, “they’ll come up
to me and say, ‘What were you thinking, shooting that shot
against Kansas? You ruined my bracket!’ They want me to make
their March Madness picks this year.” He can’t predict how long
he’ll last in professional basketball, but he knows his NCAA
fame will probably be his calling card, whatever his profession.  It’s a bittersweet reality for somebody like O’Bannon. “I
have people telling me all the time that I should use my fame to
make money,” he says. But he’s not sure that he wants to. “I
have no problem when people do it,” he says. “I guess
subconsciously, I wish I could do it, too. But I’m learning how
to be happy with who I am now.”  Conversation Pieces  Which is why he insists the mementos hanging in his Toyota
dealership office are just conversation pieces that say, “This
is where I’m coming from. This is what I’ve done.” Try as he
might, though, he finds it hard not to smile whenever a customer
looks up at his keepsakes and asks, “Have you ever played
basketball?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Spitznagel at  espitznagel@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Flint at   jflint2@bloomberg.net  