-- 
Harvard Basketball Gathers Assists From Knight Capital to Tudor

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-03-11T05:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/harvard-basketball-gets-assists-from-knight-capital-to-tudor.html
  Harvard University , one
victory from reaching the men’s national college tournament
for the first time since 1946, can credit basketball-loving
alumni with helping to turn around its program.  Harvard will play  Princeton University  tomorrow for
the Ivy League’s automatic berth in the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association ’s basketball tournament. Harvard tied
Princeton this season for a share of its first conference
title.  “It’s a ‘pinch me’ moment,” said Thomas Mannix, co-
captain of the 1980-81 Crimson team and a managing director
at Jersey City, New Jersey-based  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ,
the largest trader of U.S. shares by volume. “I’m
ecstatic.”  The moment is especially gratifying for Mannix, one of
a group of former Harvard players and boosters who took a
role in elevating basketball from what he called a
“second-class citizen” on the Cambridge, Massachusetts,
campus.  Mannix, 52, was among those who helped woo former
University of Michigan coach Tommy Amaker, 45, to Harvard.
He and others, including  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  founder Thomas Stemberg, then led a fund-raising effort to supplement
Amaker’s budget for facilities, equipment and recruiting.  A key donor, according to Mannix, was the 1976-77
scorekeeper:  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer .  The project has paid off like a good investment,
according to Carmen Scarpa, a partner at Boston-based
private equity firm Tudor Ventures Group LLC and a reserve
point guard from the class of 1986.  “We put some money behind a good management team and
now we’re seeing the fruits of that,” said Scarpa, 46, who
was on the committee that recruited Amaker.  Harvard Nobel Winners  Harvard, whose faculty has won 34 Nobel prizes, has
produced more U.S. presidents (eight) than NBA players
(four), according to the school. Over the 80 years
preceding Amaker’s hiring, the team had 21 winning seasons.  The Crimson’s basketball legacy is primarily in the
women’s game, with 11  Ivy League  championships. Princeton’s
men’s program, meanwhile, has won or shared 26 league
titles and reached the national semifinals in 1965.  The Tigers also have produced two members of the
Basketball Hall of Fame -- Bill Bradley, who won All-
American honors three times before a championship career
with the  New York Knicks  and then three terms in the  U.S.
Senate , and Pete Carril, a coach who built winning teams
with a deliberate offense that used repeated passes to
eventually find a player free under the basket.  Princeton Alumni  Princeton’s alumni include  Paul Volcker , former
chairman of the  Federal Reserve ; John Bogle, founder of
Vanguard Group Inc., and Jeffrey Bezos, founder of
Amazon.com Inc. Princeton has had 12 Nobel prize winners on
its faculty. Two U.S. presidents were Princeton graduates,
and  John F. Kennedy  went there before transferring to
Harvard. Princeton most recently was in the NCAA tournament
in 2004.  Mannix said basketball at Harvard lacked the
facilities, equipment and prestige among students and
administration that other sports enjoyed.  “Football and hockey are rich in tradition at
Harvard, and wealthy alumni support things like crew and
squash,” Mannix said. “Basketball players always felt a
bit like outsiders.”  That lack of support has changed under Athletic
Director Robert Scalise, Mannix said. It began in 2007,
during a meeting of the committee responsible for finding a
new coach, when Scalise proposed pursuing Amaker, who had
just been fired as coach at the  University of Michigan 
after going 109-83 over six seasons.  “We knew at that point Scalise wasn’t going to take a
second-rate person,” Mannix said. “He wanted to make this
a signature hire.”  Asking Alumni  When the move succeeded, Scalise then turned to the
alumni on the committee, challenging them to raise extra
money for the program from other former players and
supporters. Stemberg, a 1971 graduate and long-time
basketball booster, did the most fund-raising work, Mannix
said. Stemberg talked Ballmer into making a “big”
donation, Mannix said. He wouldn’t disclose the amount.  Ballmer didn’t respond to a request for comment
through Microsoft spokeswoman Jackie Lawrence. Harvard
spokesman Tim Williamson said the university doesn’t
release information about donors. Stemberg, 62, declined to
comment about donors.  “I certainly felt the alumni rally behind me,”
Amaker said in an interview. “So, we identified some
upgrades that could help or were necessary.”  Office Renovations  The fund-raising efforts so far have helped renovate
player locker rooms and coaching offices, buy new video
equipment and pay for additional recruiting trips. All of
that, Scarpa said, has helped attract talented players.  Amaker posted one losing season and a .500 season in
his first two years. The last two seasons, his squads have
gone 44-13.  Tim Hill, a former point guard from the class of 1999
and now head of short-term interest rate trading at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said Amaker has not only brought a
winning attitude to the court, he also has raised Harvard’s
sights when recruiting high school players.  “Harvard had underestimated how many kids out there
put a value on balancing basketball with academics,” said
Hill, 34. “Amaker is going after good basketball players
who happen to be smart, rather than smart guys who happen
to play basketball.”  Now the Crimson are one win from college basketball’s
so-called March Madness, a 68-team tournament that  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  and  Time-Warner Inc. (TWX)  agreed last year to pay $11
billion over 14 years to broadcast. Play begins March 15.  Game at Yale  Harvard’s showdown with Princeton will tip off at 4
p.m. tomorrow on the neutral court of  Yale University ’s Lee
Amphitheater in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , and will be shown
live on ESPN3.com. The teams split their two meetings this
year, with the home side taking each decision.  “What we’ve accomplished already has made a
tremendous difference in connecting basketball to so many
people at Harvard,” Amaker said. “Making the NCAA
tournament would be another attention grabber.”  To Mannix, the best part of this year’s success is the
likelihood that more will follow. There are no seniors and
just three juniors on the 14-man roster.  “This is all happening probably a year earlier than
most of us thought it would,” he said. “Tommy Amaker
doesn’t have to win the Ivy League every year, but if we’re
always good, he’s going to have a group of happy people
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  