-- 
Ashley Young Holds Out for Manchester Utd. Move, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-11T05:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/ashley-young-holds-out-for-manchester-utd-move-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Young Wants United  Aston Villa’s  Ashley Young  will resist talks over a new
contract to try and force a move to Premier League rival
Manchester United in the offseason, the  Daily Mail   reported .  The England forward is a long-term target for United
manager  Alex Ferguson , who views him as a successor to Ryan Giggs, the Mail added. Young, 25, has already told several Villa
teammates that he wants to move to United, the paper said.  Keep off the Grass  Manchester City’s  Mario Balotelli  suffered an allergic
reaction to the pitch grass in his team’s 2-0 Europa League loss
to Dynamo Kiev in  Ukraine  last night, the Sun  reported .  The Italian striker had to be persuaded to take the field
for the second half after his face had swollen up, the newspaper
said. Balotelli was given antihistamine injections to try to
solve the problem before being substituted after 57 minutes, the
Sun added.  Wenger Wants Apology  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  called on UEFA to show “a
bit more humility” and apologize for Robin van Persie’s sending
off by referee Massimo Busacca in this week’s Champions League
match in Barcelona, the  Daily Telegraph   reported .  Wenger also branded European soccer’s governing body a
“dictatorship” after it charged him with improper conduct over
comments made to Swiss referee Busacca after his team lost 3-1
at the Camp Nou to exit the competition, the newspaper said.  Goalkeeping Crisis  Wenger will seek permission from the Premier League to sign
a goalkeeper on an emergency loan after Wojciech Szczesny joined
Lukasz Fabianski on Arsenal’s injury list, the Mail  reported .  Szczesny needs to see a specialist after dislocating a
finger in the loss to Barcelona, an injury that leaves  Manuel Almunia  as the only senior goalkeeper available to Wenger, the
Mail added.  Drogba Backs Toure  Didier Drogba defended Ivory Coast teammate Kolo Toure over
his failed drugs test, saying the result was “a stupid
mistake” instead of deliberate cheating, the Guardian reported.    Manchester City  suspended Toure March 3 after he tested
positive for “a specified substance.” Drogba follows Toure’s
brother, Yaya, and Wenger, his former manager at Arsenal, in
supporting the 29-year-old, the newspaper added.  Adriano Heads Home  Brazil striker Adriano, who was linked with a move to
Tottenham and Newcastle after Roma terminated his contract, will
return to his homeland, the Daily Mirror  reported .  The former Inter Milan forward made just five appearances
for Roma this season after joining the Italian club in the
offseason, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  