-- 
Matrix Urges U.K. to Give Equal Weight to Power Demand, Supply

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-11T13:38:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/matrix-urges-u-k-to-give-equal-weight-to-power-demand-supply.html
Matrix Group Ltd.,  a London-based
investment bank, said projects to reduce demand for electricity
should be considered equally important as building new supply as
the U.K. revamps its energy market this year.  The U.K., in a plan to ensure adequate electricity
supplies, proposed last year creating a market where factories,
shops, offices and other energy users compete for payments when
they cut power use. The measure to pay for “negawatts” was
part of a broader plan to set  new rules  for the U.K. market.  “Negawatts need to be put on the same footing as
megawatts,” Steve Fawkes, a partner for energy and clean
technology at Matrix, said in an interview. “Reducing
electricity use can bring as much, if not more, value into the
system as generating it.” Demand-cutting projects are less
costly and more reliable than building power stations, he said.  The government, looking to replace about a third of
Britain’s aging power stations over the next decade with cleaner
alternatives, received more than 200 responses as of yesterday
on its plans for changing the  electricity market , according to
a spokesman from the U.K. government.  The U.K. is considering a minimum levy for emitting carbon-
dioxide, pollution limits on new power stations, compensation to
reduce electricity demand, and fixed payments for nuclear and
wind generation.  Companies that upgrade a fleet of streetlamps in Britain
with more efficient light emitting diodes could be awarded a
long-term contracts, Fawkes said as an example. Such projects
reduce fuel use and deter the need for new power stations, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  