-- 
Australia Invests in Tobacco Firms to Pay Lawmakers Pensions

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   R o b   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-03-11T06:08:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/australia-invests-in-shares-of-tobacco-firms-to-pay-lawmakers-retirement.html
Australia, which is introducing
some of the toughest anti-smoking laws in the world, invested
A$147.7 million ($148.2 million) in shares of  tobacco companies 
including  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  to pay for politicians’
retirement.  The government’s Future Fund -- established in 2006 to
cover pension costs of retiring lawmakers, judges and public
servants -- held stakes in 14 tobacco companies as of Dec. 31,
2010. The portfolio holdings in manufacturers of tobacco and
cigarette producers were obtained by Bloomberg News through an
Australian Freedom of Information Act request.  Australia raised tobacco taxes by 25 percent last year and
says it will become the first nation to ban brand names on
cigarette packaging to deter smokers. Former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  last April pledged the government would spend A$85
million on an anti-smoking advertising campaign as he said
“cigarettes are not cool.”  “It seems incongruous that the government is investing in
companies that will not prosper, and this should be stopped,”
Steve Hambleton, vice president of the Australian Medical
 Association  said in a telephone interview. “It doesn’t make
sense when the government has launched the strongest anti-
smoking measures in the world.”  Financial Objective  The  Future Fund ’s holdings as of Dec. 31 include A$46.4
million in London-based British American Tobacco, A$36.5 million
in New York-based  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  and A$26.1
million in  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  The details were contained in a
document received from the Future Fund on March 10 after a
freedom of information request by Bloomberg News. Its investment
in tobacco companies represents 0.5 percent of its holdings in
equities.  “The Future Fund board’s mandate doesn’t direct it in
relation to investing in particular industries or activities,
but does set a clear financial return objective,” the
Melbourne-based fund said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg
today. “The board has long made clear that it expected to
consider investment in a large number of entities across a wide
variety of activities, provided those activities are legal in  Australia .”  The fund was established as a statutory authority under the
Future Fund Act of 2006 by the previous administration of Prime
Minister  John Howard . It has its own board, while oversight is
provided by the Treasurer and Minister for Finance and
Deregulation, according to its website.  ‘Smoking Kills’  “Consistent with the governance arrangements put in place
by the former government, the Future Fund takes its investment
decisions at arms length of the government,” the office of
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed statement today.  A spokeswoman for British American, Louise Warburton, said
the company would not make any comment.  About 15,000 people die each year from tobacco-related
diseases in Australia, where sales of tobacco products totaled
A$10.9 billion in 2009, according to government statistics.
Smoking is the largest single preventable cause of death, the
Medical Association says. Health Minister Nicola Roxon says
smoking cost the A$1.3 trillion economy A$31.5 billion each year.  “Smoking kills. It’s as simple as that,” Roxon said in a
statement last month.  Legislation mandating plain packaging, which would prevent
the use of company logos, brand imagery or promotional text,
will be introduced this year. Already, Australia bans the open
display of cigarettes in shops and cigarette packs carry graphic
images of diseases blamed on smoking.  ‘Bad Thing’  The government’s 25 percent increase in tobacco excise last
year raised the cost of a packet of 30 cigarettes by about
A$2.20 to about A$17.70. Single cigarette packet prices are now
as high as A$20 depending on where they are bought. Small stores
and service stations are more expensive, according to figures
from the National Retail Association.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told commercial television in
April last year when the government announced the new
restrictions that “it’s a bad thing to smoke.”  The Future Fund also invests in  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) ,
of Bristol, U.K., which last year said it may take legal action
against the government proposals. Plain packaging “affects the
value of our business” and “takes away the ability of a
consumer to identify our brand,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement. British American and  Philip Morris  also
opposed the move. Imperial did not reply to a phone message left
to it today by Bloomberg News.  Pension Liabilities  British American had 46 percent of the Australian retail
market for cigarettes in 2006, according to a 2008 report by
Cancer Council Victoria. Philip Morris had a 34 percent share
and Imperial had 18 percent.  The Future Fund states its purpose as “accumulating
financial assets sufficient to offset the Commonwealth’s
unfunded  superannuation (pension) liabilities by 2020,”
according to a statement of investment policies on its  website .  Run by former  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  Chief
Executive Officer David Murray, the fund targets an average
return of at least the rate of  consumer price index  plus between
4.5 percent to 5.5 percent per annum as its long-term benchmark
with an “acceptable, but not excessive, level of risk.”  The Future Fund had A$71.8 billion in assets at Dec. 31,
2010, according to a portfolio update published on its  website 
on Jan. 28 this year. It had A$2.6 billion invested in
Australia’s largest telephone company Telstra Corp., part of the
seeded capital provided by the government when the then state-
owned Telstra was sold to the public. It has a further A$8
billion invested in Australian equities.  Investment Portfolio  It held A$15.6 billion of equities in developed markets and
A$2.3 billion in developing markets, according to a portfolio
update posted on its website Jan. 28. The balance of its
holdings are in private equity, property, infrastructure, debt
and cash.  The tobacco investments as of Dec. 31 were held across 14
companies in nine countries, including  South Korea ’s KT&G Corp.,
Japan Tobacco Inc., Gudang Garam TBK PT of  Indonesia  and Swedish
Match AB, according to the Future Fund document provided to
Bloomberg.  The Future Fund may have reduced or increased its holdings
since and the documents didn’t specify how long the tobacco
investments had been held.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 