-- 
Tsunami Waves Hit Hawaii Islands After Devastating Japan Coast

-- B y   A l l i s o n   S c h a e f e r s
-- 
2011-03-11T16:03:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/hawaii-hit-by-1-meter-tsunami-spurring-coastal-evacuations-closing-ports.html
The tsunami that slammed Japan hit  Hawaii  early today, and waves were spreading as people along the
island chain’s coast evacuated and warnings were issued for U.S.
West Coast states.  Hawaii was hit by a 1-meter (39-inch) wave, according to
scientists at the  Pacific Tsunami Warning Center , which wasn’t
anticipating major damage.  The Coast Guard in Hawaii has received no emergency calls,
according to Kurt Fredrickson, chief petty officer for the 14th
district, based in Honolulu. Ports in Honolulu and  Guam  remain
closed until any damage can be assessed, he said.  The tsunami swept through Hawaii about seven hours after
Japan was struck by its strongest earthquake on record. The 8.9-
magnitude temblor shook buildings across Tokyo and unleashed a
seven-meter-high tsunami that killed hundreds as it engulfed
towns on the northern coast. Within hours of reaching Hawaii, 
waves were hitting the coast of  Oregon , the  Associated Press  
reported.  The  Philippines ,  Indonesia  and  Chile  were among more than
20 countries told to brace for a possible tsunami, after the
Pacific Tsunami Warning Center raised an alert. The U.S. issued
tsunami warnings and watches in Hawaii,  Alaska , California,
Oregon and Washington state, as well as Guam and the Northern
Marianas Islands, Federal Emergency Management Agency
administrator  Craig Fugate  said in a statement.  “We remind everyone who lives in the region to monitor
their local news for instructions from their state and  local
officials, and if told to evacuate, evacuate,” Fugate said.  San Francisco  President  Barack Obama  said that he has instructed FEMA to
be ready to assist Hawaii and other U.S. states and territories
that may be affected by a tsunami.  “We are asking all our citizens in the affected region to
listen to their state and local officials,” Obama said in a
written statement released by the White House today.  The first tsunami waves are expected to hit  San Francisco ’s
Golden Gate Bridge at about 11:08 a.m. New York time and Santa
Barbara at 11:17 a.m., according to the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration .  Golden Gate service disruptions aren’t expected, Marie
Curie, spokeswoman for the Golden Gate Bridge District that
operates the bridge, ferries and a bus service, said in an
interview on KGO-TV in San Francisco.  “Ferry service is planning regular service,” Curie said.
“We are cautioning people to be careful with their coffees.”  Making Preparations  Lieutenant Commander Rick Foster of the Coast Guard in San
Francisco said the guard is taking steps to keep its equipment
safe in the event it is needed. They are putting additional
mooring lines on cutters and taking smaller boats out of the
water. Although all ports in  California  remain open, the guard
is urging "mariners to not get on the water,’’ he said.  The San Francisco Police Department is asking people not to
go to area beaches, Lieutenant Troy Dangerfield, a spokesman for
the department, said in a telephone interview.  “We have closed the beach area in San Francisco from Los
Lobos and 48th Avenue all the way south to Lake Merced, which is
most of the Pacific Beach area,”  Dangerfield said. “We’re
advising people not to hang out at the beaches and stay on
higher grounds.”  Santa Cruz notified 6,600 residents who live near the coast
to evacuate their homes, said Enrique Sahagun, public
information officer of  Santa Cruz  County, which he estimated has
250,000 residents.  Waikiki Hit  In Waikiki, a tourist area of Honolulu, guests at the
Outrigger Waikiki Beach and Outrigger Reef hotels were moved
above the fourth floor well before the tsunami’s arrival. Hotel
managers and employees gathered in an 11th-floor suite to watch
the tsunami from 100 feet above.  Bonnie Lopez and her daughter Pasha, who live on the second
floor of a two-story walk up on nearby Lewers Street, sought
shelter at the Outrigger.  “It was scary when the police and fire department came
through our neighborhood,” Lopez said. “Last year’s tsunami
wasn’t like this one.”  The waves hit about 20 minutes later than predicted. When
the water began to retreat off Waikiki Beach, Lopez said that
she’d never seen anything like it.  “It was like someone had taken the thing out of the bath
tub and let all the water run out,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Schaefers through the New York newsroom 
at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  