-- 
Bachelors Limit Yuan Gains More Than China, Columbia's Wei Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-11T02:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/bachelors-limit-yuan-gains-more-than-china-columbia-s-wei-says.html
An increasing number of bachelors
in  China  limits appreciation of the yuan more than the actions
of government officials overseeing the world’s second largest
economy, according to a Columbia University economist.  About 12 million aspiring grooms are saving more to help
them compete in a “marriage market” with relatively fewer
women, leading to less demand for domestic goods and services
and limiting the rise of consumer prices, according to Shang-Jin Wei, director of the Columbia’s Jerome A. Chazen Institute of
International Business. China outstrips all countries with its
sex ratio imbalance, according to  research  published in 2009 by
the British Medical Journal, which estimated males under age 20
exceeded females by more than 32 million in 2005.  Structural factors such as the sex ratio account for about
90 percent of the divergence between the yuan’s value and
Chinese purchasing power, which more than tripled during the
past decade while only a small portion is due to government
intervention, said Wei, a New York-based professor.  “The biological desire not to fail in the dating or
marriage market is so strong, the men do this very
aggressively,” Wei said in a phone interview. “If China
chooses to fully liberalize its exchange rate, the actual extent
of appreciation will be smaller than what many in China are
afraid of, and smaller than what many in the U.S. are hoping to
get.”  Inflation Factor  Inflation, which was 4.9 percent in February, could be as
high as 40 percent without factors such as the male competition
to save more money, which lowers demand for services that aren’t
priced through international trade, such as haircuts, he said.  The yuan traded at 6.5729 per dollar in  Shanghai  today,
close to a 17-year high, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  Fighting inflation is China’s top economic priority this
year as the government aims to limit the risk of social unrest,
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in his state-of-the-nation speech March
5. Wen, 68, told the annual meeting of the National People’s
Congress that China will cap inflation at 4 percent this year
and boost household incomes. Rising rents and food costs are
eroding living standards of the poor in a nation where 150
million people live on less than $1 a day.  The country instituted a one-child policy in 1979 to limit  population growth , and the spread of ultrasound technology has
allowed Chinese parents to selectively abort girls, the British
Medical Journal research said. There are 117 males per 100
females under age 15 in China, according to the CIA’s World
Factbook. The global average is 107 males per female.  Household Savings  Chinese deposits by household savings increased 21 percent
during the past year, to 32 trillion yuan ($4.9 trillion), as
the currency gained 3.9 percent against the greenback. Chinese
policy makers said in June that they would allow greater
fluctuation in their currency, which U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called “substantially undervalued” in a
report to Congress last month.  While household savings in 2010 represented 11 percent of
the country’s non-inflation-adjusted gross domestic product,  Nicholas Lardy , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics, said a surge in foreign reserve
holdings by the Chinese government trumps the effect of any
reduced demand by men saving to seek wives.  Government Intervention  “Is this undervalued exchange rate caused by the number of
male versus female children, or is it caused by the fact that
the government has intervened to the tune of almost $3 trillion
in the foreign exchange market?” Lardy, author of “China’s
Unfinished Economic Revolution,” said in a phone interview from  Washington . “No country has ever, ever, intervened on a scale
like this. It’s unprecedented in global history.”  Chinese foreign-exchange reserves have surged nearly 30
percent since 2005, reaching $2.8 trillion last year. China, the
number one foreign holder of  U.S. debt , owned $1.2 trillion of
Treasuries in December, up 4 percent from June, according to
Treasury data released last month.  A working paper on sex ratios and exchange rates written by
Wei was  published  last month on the  National Bureau of Economic
Research ’s website.  “The notion that the currency manipulation drives
everything is taught so often that people think it’s self-
evident,” Wei said. “You can get this phenomenon without
having currency manipulation whatsoever.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  