-- 
Bahrain Warns Against Rally, Says It May Spark Sectarian Rift

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-11T13:51:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/bahrain-warns-against-rally-says-it-may-spark-sectarian-rift.html
Bahrain’s Ministry of Interior told
citizens not to take part in a march toward the king’s palace in
Riffa, saying unrest might inflame sectarian tensions.  “The internal situation is already tense” and “such
actions may instigate a rift among citizens,” the ministry said
in an e-mailed statement today. “The ministry further warns
against anyone undertaking irresponsible or provocative actions
at this sensitive time.”  A group of seven Shiite Muslim-led political opposition
groups also described the rally called for today as provocative,
Bahrain’s Gulf Daily News  said  on its website. The march is
being planned by a radical opposition faction headed by Hassan
Mushaima, according to the report.  Security forces will be present in Riffa, one of Bahrain’s
largest cities, to prevent violence and maintain the peace, the
ministry said. At least seven people have been killed in clashes
with security forces since demonstrations began on Feb. 14.  The protests in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, marked the spread of the unrest to the  Persian Gulf ,
where most Middle Eastern oil is produced.  Shiites, who comprise as much as 70 percent of Bahrain’s
population, say they face discrimination over jobs and housing
from the ruling Al Khalifa family, who are Sunnis, and their
supporters. The calls for free elections, more housing and jobs,
echo movements that have swept the region in the past two months
and unseated longtime rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Gulf states yesterday said they plan to provide Bahrain
with $10 billion over a decade. The aid will be aimed at
developing infrastructure and housing, Bahraini Foreign Minister
Sheikh Khalid bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa said on his Twitter account.
Oman, which has also seen demonstrations in recent weeks, will
also receive $10 billion.  Pearl Roundabout  The Bahraini opposition alliance said it would boycott the
rally and will hold its own march today from Seef to the Pearl
Roundabout at 3 p.m., according to the Gulf Daily News.  “The seven political societies have made our stance clear
not to participate in this protest,” the report quoted
Abdulnabi Salman, deputy secretary-general of the Democratic
Progressive Tribune, which is part of the alliance, as saying at
a news conference. “It could lead to clashes among citizens.”  Bahrain this week announced plans to spend $6.6 billion on
new homes to allay a shortage, and Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad
Al Khalifa has invited opposition groups to a “national
dialogue.” The largest group, al-Wefaq, said it wants
“significant steps” from the government before agreeing.  “The Ministry also maintains the right to freedom of
expression, but affirms that national duty requires mutual
respect between citizens to preserve national unity, in addition
to achieving social safety,” according to the statement.  -- with assistance from Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait , Editors: Leon Mangasarian, Karl Maier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 