-- 
Baht Posts Second Weekly Gain on Prospect of More Rate Rises

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-11T08:39:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/baht-posts-second-weekly-gain-on-prospect-of-more-rate-rises.html
  Thailand ’s baht completed a second
weekly advance after the central bank raised borrowing costs and
signaled further increases to tame inflation.  The Bank of Thailand needs to keep lifting rates, Assistant
Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said March 9 after the bank
lifted its benchmark interest rate for the fifth time since June.
The rate of 2.5 percent compares with a maximum 0.25 percent in
the U.S. and Japan, helping attract funds from the world’s
largest industrialized economies. The baht retreated today,
after reaching a two-month high yesterday, on concern the
central bank will buy dollars to curb appreciation that may hurt
exports and after an 8.9-magnitude earthquake hit the coast of
Japan.  “Thailand’s consecutive rate hikes and prospects of more
hikes have been supporting the baht,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a
foreign-exchange trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in
Bangkok. “However, the baht has kept gaining recently and that
raised concern the central bank will intervene, weighing on the
baht in the short term. The earthquake in Japan put a little bit
of negative sentiment on the baht, but not much.”  The baht advanced 0.2 percent this week to 30.42 per dollar
as of 3:36 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency slid 0.2 percent today after touching
30.25 yesterday, the strongest level since Jan. 7. It may
fluctuate between 30.20 and 30.50 next week, Hasegawa said.  Japan Earthquake  The core consumer price index, which excludes fresh food
and fuel, rose 1.45 percent from a year earlier in February, the
biggest gain since March 2009. The central bank uses  core
inflation  to guide policy and aims to keep the rate below 3
percent. It is possible the gauge will accelerate beyond the
central bank’s target, Paiboon said March 9.  The earthquake, which caused a tsunami of about 10 meters,
led to the shutdown of Tokyo’s Narita airport,  Kyodo News 
reported. The airport in Sendai, a city of 1 million people 310
kilometers north of Tokyo, was flooded by the tsunami, according
to national broadcaster NHK Television footage. Haneda, the
capita’s other main airport, also closed, NHK said.    Government bonds  had a fourth weekly gain. The yield on the
3.125 percent debt due December 2015 dropped seven basis points
to 3.35 percent. It was little changed from yesterday. The
onshore one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive a floating payment, fell 8.5 basis points from a week
ago and slid eight basis points from yesterday to 2.64 percent.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  