-- 
Bangladesh Defeats England at Cricket World Cup; West Indies Beats Ireland

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-03-11T17:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/bangladesh-defeats-england-at-cricket-world-cup-west-indies-beats-ireland.html
Mahmudullah and Shafiul Islam
combined for 58 runs to rescue  Bangladesh  and defeat  England  by
two wickets in a Group B match at the Cricket World Cup.  The victory at Chowdhury Stadium in Chittagong, Bangladesh,
prevented England from qualifying for the quarterfinals and
leaves the hosts able to make the last eight.  England didn’t help itself, as the bowlers had 23 wides
among 33 extras. Bangladesh, which needed to win to keep hope of
reaching the quarterfinals, was cruising when Imrul Kayes was
run out to leave the hosts on 155-4. They quickly collapsed to
169-8 when Abdur Razzak was caught off Graeme Swann.  The crowd started to leave with Bangladesh needing 57 runs
to win. Mahmudullah and Shafiul Islam settled the side, and
Mahumudullah won the match with a four.  “At one stage, I thought we lost the game, but they showed
their character and worked hard,” Bangladesh captain Skahib Al
Hasan said at the post-game ceremony. “When they hit the last
ball, I began to believe. Before that, I wasn’t sure.”  England would have moved to the quarterfinals with a win
after the West Indies defeated Ireland by 44 runs earlier today.    India , which also would have qualified, leads the group
with seven points after four matches, with the West Indies in
second with six points after four games. England has five points
after five games, and  South Africa  has four points from three
games. Bangladesh has four points from four games. The top four
teams of each of the two seven-team groups move to the
quarterfinals. The tournament ends April 2.  Bangladesh must still play the Netherlands and South Africa.  Struggling England    Jonathan Trott , England’s top scorer with 67 runs, and Eoin Morgan, who was caught on 63, combined for 109 runs. No other
English batsman had more than 20 runs.  “We struggled with the bat,” England captain  Andrew Strauss  said. “We got ourselves in a great position to win at
the end, but couldn’t take those two wickets.”  England must defeat the West Indies in its last game,
Strauss said.  In the earlier match, Devon Smith’s century helped the West
Indies defeat Ireland.  Smith was out for 107 runs, and Kieron Pollard reached 94
as the West Indies got 275 runs in its 50 overs at the Punjab
Stadium in Chandigarh, India. Kevin O’Brien took four wickets
for Ireland, which was all out for 231. Ed Joyce was bowled on
84 and Gary Wilson was out leg-before-wicket for 61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 