-- 
Basketball Women Beating Men Hones Connecticut's Edge for NCAA Tournament

-- B y   I r a   B o u d w a y
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/basketball-women-beating-men-hones-connecticut-s-edge-for-ncaa-tournament.html
It’s into the third hour of a  University of Connecticut  women’s basketball practice and coach
Geno Auriemma isn’t happy. A practice-squad player, an
unheralded sophomore, keeps hitting jump shots over Maya Moore,
the Huskies’ three-time All-American senior.  “Show us exactly what happened,” Auriemma demands. “How
did he get a jumper?”  That’s right, he. The top-ranked team from Storrs,  Connecticut , which had its record winning streak snapped at 90
games this season, is among two-thirds of Division I women’s
basketball programs that practice against male players,
according to a 2007 National Collegiate Athletic Association
survey.  Pat Summitt, the winningest coach in college basketball
history, has had her University of  Tennessee  women’s teams
practice against men since she was hired in 1974. Duke, Michigan
and UCLA also go against male lineups, as do about half of
Women’s National Basketball Association squads, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its March 14 issue.  The idea spread to UConn before Auriemma’s first national
championship in 1995, when Greg Yeomans, who later walked onto
the men’s team, and some friends came to a practice. Auriemma
said that since then, men have become “one of the most
important aspects of our program.”  Men with competitive basketball backgrounds are generally
bigger, stronger and faster than women. Practicing against them
is like wearing ankle weights when running.  “As far as the speed and the strength, you’re not going to
find teams better,” Moore says. “We have to have something
extra to keep up with them.”  Expendable Labor  The men also are the managerial dream of expendable labor
for about 15 hours each week.  “We don’t have to be worried about whether they are going
to be ready to play,” says Auriemma. “We just do whatever we
want with them, and they love it. You tell them to play defense
for an hour, they play.”  NCAA rules prohibit the men from receiving financial
assistance for participating, so the most they are allowed to
get is practice apparel. At UConn, where  Nike Inc. (NKE)  is spending
$46 million over 10 years to outfit teams, the 15 members get
shoes, Dri-FIT undershirts, socks, shorts, jerseys and the
occasional sweatsuit and jacket.  They also get their basketball fix, which otherwise might
have gone unmet once they got to college and weren’t good enough
for the men’s team.  ‘Go Through Withdrawal’  “Playing basketball your whole life and then coming to a
Division I school where you’re not a Division I basketball
player, you sort of go through withdrawal,” says senior Stephen
Mahier. “You can play pickup all you want, but being part of a
team is something that I really miss.”  UConn wants its practice squad to feel like a team. Matt
Gade, a 24-year-old graduate student and former practice player,
took over the squad in 2009.  “When I started it was kind of a word-of-mouth thing,” he
says. “It was pretty much a bunch of bums.”  The players wore their own gear and showed up sporadically.
Gade and women’s assistant coach Shea Ralph now scout intramural
games and bring in prospects for preseason workouts.  Auriemma has final oversight and says he looks for “guys
that don’t have an ego -- guys who don’t come out here and then
go home and say, ‘Hey, I blocked Maya Moore’s shot five
times.’”  Physical Limits  Also out of the question is some of the physical play
associated with the men’s game. Shot blocking, for instance, is
limited since few of UConn’s opponents feature defenders who do
it often. For the most part, the men compete with the women on
level terms.  “If one of them hits me in the mouth or something, it’s
on,” Moore says.  Equality goes right down to the exchange of congratulatory
pats on the butt after good plays.  The men and women hang out around campus. None of the men
would acknowledge any romances.  “Probably a lot of guys on the practice team wish,” says
Mahier.  The men do get a chance to bask in reflected glory of a
program that has won seven national titles. Last April, during
the women’s Final Four in  San Antonio , 10 members of the
practice squad flew out to watch the Huskies play.  Mahier said his friends poke fun at him regularly for
playing against women.  “Everybody thinks, guys vs. girls, we’re automatically
going to win, which is completely not the case,” he says.  Role Reversal  It’s a stark role reversal for a group of guys who were
often at the top of the social hierarchy in high school.  “The coolest part is the humility, because I know in our
society, if a girl beats you … ,” Moore says, not having to
complete the sentence to get the stigma across.  Auriemma says the men “help spread the gospel to all the
guys out there” and know that they are helping make the women’s
team better.  And the sneakers aren’t bad.  “All my friends are flabbergasted as I come in with new
shoes,” says Mahier. “They’re like, ‘Dude!’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ira Boudway at   iboudway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Flint at   jflint2@bloomberg.net  