-- 
Benin President Boni Yayi Seeks New Term Amid Fraud Scandal, Vote Delays

-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e   a n d   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e
-- 
2011-03-11T16:22:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/benin-president-boni-yayi-seeks-new-term-amid-fraud-scandal-vote-delays.html
Benin  President Thomas Boni Yayi’s
bid for a second term in office has been marred by the collapse
of a 156 billion CFA franc ($327 million) Ponzi scheme and
opposition threats to boycott the twice-delayed election on
March 13.  Vote preparations have been undermined by concern that as
many as 300,000 people have been unable to register. Boni Yayi
faces 12 rivals in the election, which will go to a second round
on March 20 if no candidate wins more than 50 percent. Nine
opposition candidates yesterday called for another postponement.  Benin has failed to register tens of thousands of would-be
voters and problems with an effort to computerize voter rolls,
said Jennifer Seely, who researches Benin politics at Richmond,
Indiana-based  Earlham College .  “The two issues are making people unhappy and make them
feel like there is something wrong with this election,” Seely
said today in a phone interview. “It’s up to the government to
collect these electoral lists fairly. If it doesn’t appear to be
a fair system, the opposition would think they’ll be at a
disadvantage.”  Boni Yayi, 58, was tarnished by the June collapse of ICC
Services. ICC was the largest of a group of microcredit lenders
that defrauded 150,000 depositors of the equivalent of 5 percent
of the West African nation’s gross domestic product, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  Ponzi Scheme  “That Ponzi scheme has been devastating to him and to his
popularity,” Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, a political analyst with
New York-based  DaMina Advisors , said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Boni Yayi has lost his pristine political image.”  Boni Yayi appeared in photographs with officials from ICC
Services before it collapsed. A letter signed by 50 of the
country’s 83 members of parliament in August called for him to
“submit himself to the courts,” according to IHS Global
Insight.  “If I received the officials of the ICC Service company,
it was just because they told me they were planning to invest in
the country’s economy through many development projects, and
they needed government support to achieve them,” Boni Yayi said
in a Jan. 29 speech in Cotonou, the commercial capital.  Jail Time  Three officials from ICC Services have been jailed and
Interior Minister Armand Zinzindohoue was fired over the issue.
Some investors have been repaid, said Mathias Hounkpe, a
political scientist who works for  Benin ’s Parliament.  Boni Yayi has vowed to repay others if re-elected.  “I really doubt that promise,” said Anatole Gbedan, a
primary school teacher who lost money in the scheme, in a March
2 interview in Cotonou. “He knows that victims are still
blaming him for the Ponzi scheme.”  Nine candidates, including Adrien Houngbedji, who lost to
Boni Yayi in a runoff in 2006, yesterday called for another
week’s postponement so more people could register to vote. About
3.5 million people have registered for far.  Whoever wins will need to help the country recover from the
worst flooding in 50 years, which killed at least 46 people and
left 150,000 homeless.  Flood Damage  The country, which borders  Nigeria , Niger, Togo and  Burkina
Faso , was inundated by heavy rains in September and October. The
floods cut the outlook for growth this year to 3.4 percent from
4.4 percent, Finance Minister Idriss Daouda told the Washington-
based IMF in a letter published on the lender’s website Feb. 25.  Growth in 2010 was 2.5 percent, hindered by a slow recovery
from the global economic crisis, the fund said. Inflation was
“subdued” at an average 2.1 percent last year, it said.  Boni Yayi, a former head of the West  African Development
Bank  and deputy director of the Dakar, Senegal-based  Central
Bank of West African States , has sought to emphasize his
government’s efforts to build roads and mechanize agriculture in
a country where GDP per capita of $745 exceeds the sub-Saharan
African average of $624, according to the  World Bank .  The president is also opposed by Abdoulaye Bio Tchane, who
replaced Boni Yayi as president of the West African  Development
Bank  and stepped down from that position in January after
announcing his presidential bid. He has promised to increase
economic growth to 8 percent annually.  The government declared a national holiday today to help
sign up more voters and said registration centers will be open
tomorrow. That will give the opposition parties little time to
decide whether to tell their supporters to boycott the vote,
said Seely.  “If they’re still registering people on Saturday, they
have to decide whether or not that went well and if they’re
going to trust the process,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason McLure in Accra and Serge-David Zoueme in Porto Novo at
   jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 