-- 
Bernanke Recovery Flawed as Companies Get Credit Denied to U.S. Consumers

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-03-11T05:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/bernanke-recovery-flawed-as-companies-get-credit-denied-to-u-s-consumers.html
Thirteen hundred miles from  Wall
Street , Alex Fairchild is still waiting for a little of the U.S.
government’s multitrillion-dollar bailouts and Federal Reserve
largesse to trickle his way.  His above-average credit score and $20,000 down payment for
a $195,000 condo overlooking Miami’s Biscayne Bay didn’t spare
the software engineer from a mortgage application process that
took so long a government tax credit he was counting on expired.
After seven months under contract and appraisals from three
underwriters, his developer went bankrupt and New York-based
Vanguard Funding declined to provide a loan.  “The banks are just extra jittery,” said Fairchild, 40,
who has been renting the unit and is starting the process anew.
Lenders have gone from “too lax” before the credit crisis to
“entirely too strict,” he said. “There are people like me
that could be helping to get this inventory moved.”  The consumer loan market, particularly housing, remains a
challenge for borrowers. Total U.S. consumer credit outstanding
was $2.4 trillion in January, or 6.6 percent below its July 2008
level, the Fed said in a March 7 report. Total housing debt has
declined by $536 billion since 2008 to $10.1 trillion, Fed data
show. The median price of an existing U.S. home has dropped 13
percent since June to $158,800, bringing its decline since July
2006 to 31 percent, according to the Chicago-based National
Association of Realtors. About 10.8 million homes were worth
less than the debt owed on them in the third quarter, research
firm CoreLogic Inc. said in a Dec. 13 report.  Junk Market Rally  By contrast, the least creditworthy corporations have been
able to borrow record amounts at the cheapest rates ever. Junk-
rated companies sold an unprecedented $287.6 billion in bonds in
2010 and are setting an even faster pace of issuance this year.
Claire’s Stores Inc., the costume jewelry retailer that had debt
that was almost 10 times its earnings last year, sold $450
million of bonds last month that Moody’s Investors Service gave
its third-lowest rating.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, slower than previously calculated, and is
forecast to expand 3.2 percent this year, according to the
median estimate of 66 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Household purchases account for about 70 percent of the
U.S. economy, making the consumer the single biggest driver of
any economic recovery. Those consumers “stumbled at bit” at
the start of this year,  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in a February note.  While the economy expanded and companies are beginning to
spend more, the improvements haven’t driven the nation’s
unemployment rate below 8.9 percent for almost two years and the
Conference Board’s gauge of  consumer confidence  is still 37
percent below the level reached in July 2007.  This Time’s Different  “The 2007-2009 recession period looks different from
previous economic cycles,” John McElravey, a bond analyst at
Wells Fargo Securities LLC in  Charlotte , North Carolina, said in
a March 8 report. “Consumer credit outstanding contracted much
more sharply than in other periods, and the return to positive
growth rates has been relatively slow.”  The biggest strain is still being felt by Americans looking
to purchase homes. The market where banks once pooled non-
government-backed  mortgage loans  into bonds and sold them to
investors is virtually shuttered, with only two such deals in
the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks, faced with demands to repurchase faulty loans that
JPMorgan analysts estimate may cost lenders as much as $90
billion, have raised lending standards to avoid repeating
mistakes made during the housing bubble that popped in 2006.  ‘No Latitude’  Mortgage underwriters “have no latitude for common
sense,” said Angelo Cusinato, president of Resource Plus
Mortgage Corp., a home-loan broker in Inverness,  Illinois .
“They are underwriting as if their concern isn’t as much for
the risk that the loan will go bad as the risk that they will
have to buy back the loan because of some technicality in the
paperwork. It continues to be very difficult, even for the
homeowner that is absolutely solid gold.”  That’s not to say consumer access to credit hasn’t
improved. It now costs Americans with the best credit scores
0.59 percentage point more to buy a home with a so-called jumbo
mortgage than the rate they would pay for a smaller loan the
government would guarantee. That spread was 1.84 percentage
points in January 2009, according to Bankrate.com data,
indicating lenders are becoming more comfortable with making
mortgages and holding them on their books.  During the seven years before the credit crisis, jumbo
loans were made for an average of 0.27 percentage point more
than the rate available for conventional mortgages.  Auto, Card Lending  The average rate on a five-year auto loan, which soared in
2009 to 4.9 percentage points above what banks paid on
certificates of deposit, has shrunk to 2.95 percentage points,
though it’s still 0.7 percentage point more than the average
from August 2000 through the start of the credit crisis seven
years later.    Credit-card  rates jumped in 2009 before the implementation
of federal laws limiting rate increases and banning practices
such as “universal default,” or raising rates based on a
missed payment with another lender. The average variable-rate
credit card has jumped to 13.7 percent from as low as 10.7
percent in March 2009, Bankrate.com data show.  The amount of revolving debt outstanding, which includes
credit cards, fell to $795.5 billion in January from $973.6
billion in August 2008. That’s the lowest since 2004, Fed data
show.  While lending standards have been easing, Fed data show
banks have been more reluctant to loosen requirements for
consumers and small businesses that don’t have access to bond
markets and often pledge real estate as collateral for loans.  Bernanke: It’s Tight  “Currently the terms are pretty tight,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs on March 1. “That is a problem for the housing
market,” he said, responding to a question from Senator Kay Hagan, a  North Carolina  Democrat who said she was concerned that
qualified mortgage borrowers are being denied an opportunity to
take advantage of low rates.  “I expect some modest improvement, but probably not
anything dramatic in the near term,” Bernanke said.  Banks relaxing loan criteria to large corporations
outnumbered those tightening by 10.5 percentage points in the
Fed’s two most recent quarterly surveys of senior loan officers.
That’s the highest rate since 2006.  Corporate Credit Spigot  For prime residential mortgages, a net 1.9 percent were
still tightening. For consumer loans other than credit cards,
the measure was 3.7 percentage points in the most recent survey
and 5.5 in the previous one.  For small businesses, loan officers easing outnumbered
those tightening by 1.9 percentage points after 7.1 points in
the previous period. The banks were still toughening their
criteria for small businesses and consumers through the first
quarter of 2010, while they had already started loosening for
corporations, the Fed survey data show.  The opening of the credit spigot to large companies has
been most evident in the bond markets. The Fed’s near-zero
interest rates and its $2 trillion of bond purchases since
January 2009 prompted investors last year to pump a record
$372.5 billion of cash into funds that buy debt, according to
fund-flow tracker EPFR Global.  Yields on speculative-grade debt, rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , declined to as
low as 7.29 percent in February, the lowest since at least 1996,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Master II Index. The average, which has since risen to 7.4
percent and is 4.85 percentage points above Treasuries, is below
the average of 5.5 percentage points in the seven years before
credit markets seized up in 2007.  Refinancing Debt  Claire’s Stores, the Pembroke Pines, Florida-based retailer
of costume jewelry for teens that last year had debt 9.6 times
its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization costs, refinanced some of the debt by selling $450
million of senior secured bonds that pay a yield of 8.875
percent.  Moody’s, which rated the bonds Caa3, said that unless the
company’s earnings “significantly improve,” it may have
difficulty refinancing the remaining $1.2 billion of a  term loan 
that matures in May 2014.  Investors have been drawn to corporate debt because, unlike
consumers, company Treasurers have been sitting on record
amounts of cash and earnings are growing, helping defaults to
plunge from the highs reached during the recession.  Default Rate Falls  The default rate among U.S. speculative-grade companies has
dropped to 2.8 percent through February from 12.8 percent a year
earlier, according to Moody’s. The ratings firm is projecting
the rate will continue dropping through the next year, to 1.7
percent in February 2012.  “Corporate America has been stockpiling a lot of cash,”
said Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst at  North Palm
Beach , Florida-based Bankrate.com. “From the standpoint of
access to credit markets, they look like a pretty good risk.”  At the same time, a greater proportion of homeowners are
falling behind on their monthly payments than had been seen in
three decades of record keeping by the Washington-based Mortgage
Bankers’ Association before the recession.  “A major stumbling block for restoring credit to small
businesses and consumers is lingering problems with residential
real estate,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s
Capital Markets Group in  New York . “Though we see some signs of
stabilization in housing, many are concerned that there could be
another 5 percent to 10 percent drop in  home prices , which would
add to the number of home mortgages underwater.”  Home Loan Rejected  In Miami, where Fairchild wants to buy, home prices have
plunged 49 percent since the peak of the housing bubble in 2006,
according to S&P/Case-Shiller index data.  Fairchild failed to get a loan from Bank of America Corp.
for the condo he wanted to buy after the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank’s appraiser said the apartment was worth
$130,000, 33 percent less than the agreed upon price. When
Vanguard’s appraisal came in at about $180,000, Fairchild said,
he offered to pay a so-called buyers premium of $20,000,
partially offset by a tax credit for first-time home buyers that
expired last year.  Vanguard rejected the loan, he said, even after he offered
to increase the down payment. Telephone calls to Vanguard
offices in Garden City, New York, weren’t returned.  Lingering Claims  Mortgage brokers say the depressed housing market is
struggling on concerns by banks that they would be stuck buying
back loans that investors say were misrepresented to them. Bond
insurers alone have brought at least a dozen claims against
banks including Bank of America and Credit Suisse AG seeking to
compel them to repurchases loans they said they were
fraudulently induced to guarantee.  “They just want blood,” said Grant Stern, owner of
Morningside Mortgage Corp. in Bay Harbor Islands,  Florida , who
worked on trying to get Fairchild the loan he sought in Miami.
“They’re so afraid of a repurchase that they’re papering the
files with everything they can get.”    Jeffrey Mezger , chief executive officer of homebuilder  KB
Home (KBH) , recalls a buyer in southern  California  in November whose
mortgage was held up by a lender because he couldn’t produce the
sixth page of a bank statement that was left intentionally
blank.  “They said, ‘Well, if you can’t give me page six, I can’t
approve your loan,” Mezger recalled during a Feb. 16 interview
at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “That’s the kind of
stuff that was going on. You’re beating up a guy putting 30
percent down because you don’t have the page left intentionally
blank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  