-- 
Bill Clinton Says U.S. Should Support a No-Fly Zone to Help Libyan Rebels

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-11T03:43:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/bill-clinton-says-u-s-should-support-a-no-fly-zone-to-help-libyan-rebels.html
The U.S. should support a no-fly
zone over Libya to help underequipped insurgents fighting to
topple well-armed and well-paid troops loyal to dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , former U.S. president  Bill Clinton  said.  “They are not asking for ground troops, they don’t want us
to get in the fight,” Clinton said of the insurgents at a
conference in New York yesterday on the status of women.
“Nobody wants to see an arms race in Libya, but it’s not a fair
fight.”  Clinton said he was “sympathetic” to the Obama
administration’s desire not to enforce a no-fly zone alone.
Clinton noted that similar efforts had worked in the past, both
in Bosnia and Iraq during his own presidency.  U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton cautioned
earlier yesterday against rushing to adopt a no-fly zone over
Libya to protect anti-Qaddafi rebels and said that the U.S. must
work with the international community.  “Absent international authorization, the  United States 
acting alone would be stepping into a situation the consequences
of which would be unforeseeable,”  Hillary Clinton  said.  The U.S. is spending $110 billion a year to fight wars in  Afghanistan  and Iraq, the former President said, and should be
able to contribute to enforcing an air blockade over Libya.  “If the leaders are on television pleading for it, I think
that we should do it,” Bill Clinton said of the Libyan
insurgents. He said the U.S. should say to the Libyan people,
“If you want any assistance we will give it to you, and if you
want us to stay home we will.”  No-Fly Zones  The no-fly zone over  Iraq  “did not prevent  Saddam Hussein 
from slaughtering people on the ground and it did not get him
out of office,” Hillary Clinton said before a House
Appropriations subcommittee.  Iraqi Kurds were kept safe from Saddam’s air force by the
air blockade, which helped them develop a viable and democratic
enclave there, Bill Clinton said.  The former president also said one reason the U.S. should
remain engaged in Afghanistan is to keep women from suffering
under a potential return to the oppressive rule of the Taliban.  Bill Clinton spoke in an interview with Newsweek editor-in-
chief Tina Brown at the Women in the World conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  