-- 
Blackstone Said to Earn $260 Million on Ashford’s Hotel Deal

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-03-11T21:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/blackstone-said-to-make-260-million-profit-on-debt-in-ashford-takeover.html
  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  earned about
$260 million on distressed junior loans in  Ashford Hospitality
Trust Inc. (AHT) ’s takeover of the 28-hotel Highland Hospitality
portfolio, said a person familiar with the transaction.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, paid
about $60 million for $320 million of Highland mezzanine debt
last year, according to the person, who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly about the deal, and asked not to be named. The
debt is now worth about its face value, the person said.  Ashford, based in  Dallas , yesterday announced a $1.28
billion consensual foreclosure of the hotels, which include the
Ritz-Carlton Atlanta and the Churchill and Melrose hotels in  Washington . The portfolio, with 8,084 hotel rooms, is Ashford’s
first acquisition since 2007, Chief Executive Officer Monty Bennett said today on a conference call with analysts.  “We have stayed away from highly marketed bidding wars for
hotel assets, and have preferred a more disciplined approach,”
he said. “The very attractive attributes of this joint venture
and restructure of debt will be difficult for any competitor to
replicate.”  Ashford and its joint-venture partner, a unit of  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU) , converted to equity their debt on the portfolio,
which had been junior to Blackstone’s, and made payments to
other loan holders, making the Blackstone debt less risky,
according to the person familiar with the deal’s terms. The New
York-based private-equity company also is getting a higher
interest rate, the person said.    Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman, and John
Chartier, a spokesman for  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential,
both declined to comment. Tripp Sullivan, an Ashford spokesman,
didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  Past Portfolio Investments  The real estate investment trust is investing $150 million
cash and assuming $786 million of debt in the hotels, according
to its statement yesterday. Ashford’s 71.7 percent stake in the
venture reflects in part its past investments in the portfolio,
the company said.  Senior lenders are providing $530 million of three-year
financing with two one-year extensions on 25 of the hotels,
Ashford said. The venture assumed first mortgages of $146
million on three hotels. Those loans mature in about two years.  Lenders that Ashford didn’t name are providing $419 million
of high-interest mezzanine financing for all 28 hotels, the
company said.  Negotiations With Creditors  Highland, based in McLean,  Virginia , defaulted on $868
million of junior debt in August, the Wall Street Journal
reported Jan. 21. Highland owner JER Partners, the investment
firm controlled by investor Joseph E. Robert Jr., had been
negotiating with creditors including Ashford and Prudential, the
newspaper said.  Ashford and Prudential formed a joint venture in 2008 to
purchase or originate mezzanine loans on hotels, and one of
their first investments was spending $70 million for debt on the
Highland portfolio, Bennett said on today’s call.  At the time there was $1.5 billion of debt senior to them
on the properties, he said. As market conditions deteriorated
because of the credit crisis, Ashford and Prudential bought some
of the debt senior to them, Bennett said.  “This strategy enabled us to better protect our investment
and open up the possibility of gaining control of the entire
portfolio,” he said.  Recovery in Lodging  High-end hotels, such as the Hyatt and Ritz-Carlton
properties in the Highland portfolio, have shown the biggest
increases during the recovery of the last year. Occupancy at
luxury hotels in the U.S. climbed to 66 percent in 2010 from 61
percent in 2009, according to Smith Travel Research Inc., based
in Hendersonville,  Tennessee . The upswing is boosting hotel
sales, which are expected to jump as much as 25 percent in the
Americas this year, Chicago-based  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) ’s
hotel investment-services unit said on Jan. 4.  The purchase price for the Highland portfolio comes to
$158,000 per room, according to Ashford. The hotels, located in
13 states and the  District of Columbia , include the Hilton
Boston Back Bay, the Hyatt Regency Savannah in  Georgia , the
Nashville Renaissance in Tennessee and the Renaissance Palm
Springs in  California .  Ashford shares rose 26 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $10.22 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock is up 76 percent over the past 12 months, compared with a
28 percent rise in the 14-member Bloomberg REIT Hotels Index.
Ashford had the biggest one-year return in the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  