-- 
Bond Market Anticipates Greece Defaulting as EU Leaders Meet: Euro Credit

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T11:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/bond-market-anticipates-greece-defaulting-as-eu-leaders-meet-euro-credit.html
As European Union leaders haggle
over their second plan to stem the financial crisis, traders are
betting  Greece  won’t be able to pay its debts.  Greek 10-year bond yields rose to a record this week and it
costs more than ever to insure against a default, even though
the nation received a 110 billion-euro ($153 billion) bailout
from the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  last year. Two-
year yields exceed 10-year levels, suggesting a restructuring
may come before the three-year aid program expires.  “The onus is on EU officials to dissuade the market from
the notion that a debt restructuring is inevitable,” said Robin Marshall, director of fixed-income at London-based Smith &
Williamson Investment Management, which oversees $20 billion.
“They’ve lost investor confidence in any resolution that
doesn’t involve some form of restructuring.”  EU leaders gather today in Brussels, aiming to agree to a
blueprint to improve competitiveness, a plan  Germany  demanded as
a condition for expanding the bailout effort. Investors will
also be looking for signs that differences over how to solve the
debt crisis are narrowing ahead of a second meeting on March 24-
25 that German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has said will produce a
comprehensive package of measures.  Greek securities plunged this week after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the nation’s rating, already at junk, by an
additional three levels, saying the probability of default had
increased due to “implementation risks” in the budget cuts it
is making as a condition of receiving aid.  Default Swaps  A restructuring of Greek debt is “a possibility” and
investors may recover between 30 percent and 50 percent of the
total value if that happens, said  Moritz Kraemer , managing
director of European sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , on
March 8. Credit-default swaps imply a 58 percent probability the
nation will default within five years, according to CMA.  Yields on the bonds of the euro region’s most indebted
nations have jumped in the last two months as Germany,  Finland 
and  Austria  rebuffed calls from Greece and Ireland to lower the
interest rates on rescue loans. Disagreements also persist over
the remit of the 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability
Facility, which provided loans to Ireland, including whether it
should be allowed to buy euro-region government bonds.  Leaders will today debate a proposed pact that Merkel and
her French counterpart  Nicolas Sarkozy  want as part of any
reinforced plan to support cash-strapped nations. The bloc’s
economically weaker countries have criticized the plan as an
attack on their sovereignty.  ‘More Flexibility’  Enda Kenny, Ireland’s new prime minister, asked
conservative officials from the EU on March 4 that the cost of
the nation’s bailout be cut.  Spain ’s Finance Minister Elena Salgado said on March 3 she backs “more flexibility” on
Greece’s loans. Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said five
days later that he’s “against changing the existing
agreements.”  Merkel told German lawmakers in a closed-door briefing
yesterday she would back lower  interest rates  for emergency
loans if Greece agrees to sell state assets and Ireland backs a
common corporate tax base in the euro region, said four
legislators who attended the session of the European Affairs
Committee in Berlin.  Portuguese 10-year bond yields reached 7.70 percent on March
9, the highest since at least 1997, when Bloomberg began
collecting the data. On the same day, equivalent-maturity
Italian yields climbed above 5 percent for the first time since
November 2008, while Irish 10-year yields touched the most since
February 1993.  Spending Cuts  “It doesn’t seem like a solution or compromise is around
the corner,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital
markets strategy at Credit Agricole SA in London. “We could see
more spread widening if they are slow in coming up with a plan.
It’s not all priced in yet.”  Swaps insuring Greek  government bonds  rose five basis
points to an all-time high of 1,037 basis points yesterday,
meaning that it costs $1.04 million annually to insure $10
million of debt for five years. The spread between Greek two-and
10-year securities was at 427 basis points today, the most since
May, when the creation of the EFSF convinced markets that EU
government wouldn’t let the euro fail.  Greece cut spending and raised taxes last year to bring
down the  budget deficit  to 9.4 percent of gross domestic product
from 15.4 percent in 2009. The government is due to announce
steps for 2012 to 2014 this month as it seeks to bring the
shortfall below the EU’s 3 percent limit. Its ability to boost
revenue is constrained by an economy entering a third year of
recession. GDP may shrink 3 percent this year, according to the
EU and the IMF, after falling 4.5 percent in 2010.  ‘Incomprehensible’  Such measures may not be enough to keep Greece solvent,
according to  Ben May , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , who estimates that the economy will contract by 4.5
percent this year, and 2 percent next year, causing public debt
to spiral to 170 percent of GDP and making debt restructuring is
“virtually inevitable.”  Downgrading Greek debt weeks before the EU decides on new
measures for tackling the crisis was “incomprehensible” and
“completely unjustifiable,” the nation’s finance ministry said
on March 7. “It wouldn’t just be a problem for Greece, but for
the whole  euro zone ,” if the bailout terms are not softened,
Prime Minister George Papandreou said, according to an interview
published in Le Monde newspaper yesterday.  About 20 percent of B1-rated sovereigns, non-financial
companies and financial institutions default within a five-year
period, Moody’s said on March 7.  “Markets are becoming more fearful of a Greek government
default and are now expecting it to happen more quickly than a
few months ago,” May said. “Greece is as far away as ever from
convincing investors that it can get its public finances on a
stable footing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  