-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Advances as Rate Optimism Blunts Global Growth Concern

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-03-11T21:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/bovespa-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-as-rate-optimism-offsets-japan-quake.html
  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index rose,
paring this week’s drop, on speculation the central bank will
raise  interest rates  less than previously expected, boosting the
outlook for companies that benefit from consumer demand.    Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  led homebuilder gains, while retailer
Lojas Renner SA surged the most in three weeks.  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , Brazil’s second-biggest
steelmaker, rallied on speculation global steel production will
slow after an 8.9-magnitude earthquake hit Japan. The index’s
advance was limited as exchange operator  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  slumped
after a government official said Brazil is studying new measures
to stem currency gains.  “I believe this inflation worry will end,” said  Young Kim ,
who oversees $1.1 billion as chief investment officer at Mirae
Asset Global Investments Brasil in Sao Paulo. “Long term, I
have a very positive view.”  The Bovespa advanced 1 percent to 66,684.60 at 1:53 p.m.  New York  time, paring an earlier gain of as much as 1.5 percent
after the government official’s interview on potential currency
measures. The news pushed the real down 0.2 percent, erasing an
earlier rise. The Bovespa fell 2 percent for the week. Fifty-
seven stocks increased on the index while 10 dropped.  The first preview of the March IGP-M inflation report from
the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation rose 0.48
percent, compared with the median estimate of 0.63 percent among
nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Sao Paulo’s FIPE weekly
consumer prices report increased 0.44 percent, while 12 analysts
polled by Bloomberg had forecast a median 0.53 percent climb.  Crude in New York fell, capping the first weekly drop in a
month, after  Japan ’s strongest earthquake on record shut
refineries.  Commodity Prices  Lower commodity prices, together with the inflation
reports, in turn spurred traders to push down yields on most
interest-rate futures contracts.  Rossi advanced 3 percent to 13.60 reais while Renner gained
2.1 percent to 52.22 reais.  Usiminas jumped 4.7 percent to 21.08 reais on speculation
the steelmaker may benefit from a drop in production in Japan.  “This could lead to a dearth of steel in Japan,” said
Leonardo Alves, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Link
Investimentos. “In that case, Usiminas would be well positioned
to fulfill that demand because of its relationship with Nippon
Steel. Beyond that, a drop in Japanese steel production could
spur an increase in prices around the world.”  Nippon Steel Corp., based in  Tokyo , controls Usiminas
together with Votorantim Participacoes SA and Camargo Correa SA.  The Bovespa pared its earlier gain after a government
official said in an interview that Brazil is considering new
measures to stem gains in the currency, including a requirement
that foreign investment in equity markets stay in the country
for a certain period of time. BM&FBovespa fell as much as 3.9
percent after the interview, before paring its decline to close
down 1.6 percent at 11.10 reais.  The government is assessing the impact of  oil prices  on
economic growth before making a decision on the currency
measures, said the official, who was briefed on the plans and
asked to remain anonymous because the discussions aren’t public.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge tumbled the most in a month
yesterday as banks sank on concern policy makers will move
further to limit lending, while falling commodity prices drove
down producers.  The Bovespa is down 3.8 percent this year after
homebuilders and banks retreated on concern rising inflation
will spur additional measures to restrict credit growth,
outweighing gains in oil and raw-material producers.  The index trades for 10.7 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares to a ratio of 14.1 for the Shanghai Composite Index,
7.4 for Russia’s Micex, and 17.4 for  India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  