-- 
BP Buys Control of CNAA Ethanol Producer to Expand in Brazil

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-03-11T10:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/bp-buys-control-of-cnaa-ethanol-producer-to-expand-in-brazil.html
  BP Plc (BP/)  agreed to buy a majority
stake in a Brazilian ethanol and sugar producer to expand its
operations in emerging markets.  BP will pay about $680 million for 83 percent of  Cia.
Nacional de Acucar & Alcool  and will refinance all of CNAA’s
existing long-term debt, the  London-based company  said in a
statement today. When the assets are fully developed, the deal
will increase BP’s Brazilian production to 1.4 billion liters of
ethanol equivalent a year, or 9 million barrels.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Dudley is moving BP’s
operations closer to faster-growing emerging-market countries
such as Brazil, Russia, India and  China . The expansion of BP’s
ethanol business follows rival  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which
agreed to merge assets with Cosan SA Industria & Comercio to
form the world’s largest sugar-cane producer.  “This strategic acquisition underlines BP’s commitment to
building material businesses in growing economies and continued
expansion in  Brazil  through exploration and production, as well
as biofuels investments,” Dudley said in a statement. “This is
the biggest acquisition to date for BP Alternative Energy as we
continue to build a leading low carbon fuels business.”  Shell’s sugar and ethanol-producing venture in Brazil, to
be named Raizen, will produce 5 billion liters of ethanol within
five years, according to CEO Vasco Dias.  BP is still awaiting government approval of its purchase of
offshore exploration licenses in Brazil last year from Devon
Energy Corp. In the CNAA deal, BP will become the operator of
two producing ethanol mills in the Brazilian states of Goias and
Minas Gerais. Another CNAA mill is under construction in  Minas
Gerais , the company said.  Since the start of the year, BP has entered joint ventures
in Russia and India for offshore oil and gas exploration. BP
sealed a partnership with Cnooc Ltd. last year to explore the  South China Sea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  