-- 
Brazil Said to Consider Stock Investment Measures to Stem Currency Gains

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-03-11T20:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/brazil-said-to-consider-stock-investment-measures-to-stem-currency-gains.html
  Brazil  is considering new measures
to stem gains in its currency, including setting time
requirements for foreigners’ stock investments to stay in the
country, said a government official briefed on the plans. The
real fell and stocks pared gains.  The government is assessing the impact of  oil prices  on
economic growth before making a decision on the currency
measures, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions aren’t public.  Countries from Brazil to  South Korea  have taken steps such
as raising taxes on foreign purchases of bonds to stem currency
gains that hurt export growth. Further restrictions on capital
inflows are unlikely to have a lasting effect in Brazil, where
higher interest rates continue to attract funds, said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  “We still have good fundamentals, we still have a
substantial interest rate differential,” Santos said, speaking
by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “We’re still going to see
investment coming to Brazil. It’s not going to help.”  The real erased earlier gains and fell 0.1 percent to
1.6641 per U.S. dollar at 3:31 p.m. New York time. Brazil’s
Bovespa benchmark stock index pared gains after the report on
new measures and was up 1.1 percent to 66,773.09.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has no plans to announce any
measures today, according to his press office in Brasilia.
Mantega pledged in September to win a “currency war” as
countries adopt policies to weaken their foreign exchange rates.  Currency’s Gains  Brazil’s real has gained 39 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since the end of 2008, the most among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The real is down 0.2 percent
this year after touching 1.6424 per dollar on March 4, the
strongest level since August 2008.  The government tripled a tax on foreign investors’ fixed-
income purchases to 6 percent in October as part of the effort
to stem gains in the real. The central bank has bought $18.8
billion dollars in the  spot market , or 45 percent of the record
amount it purchased last year. It also set  reserve requirements 
on short dollar positions held by local banks in January and
bought dollars in the futures market for the first time in 21
months.  The efforts were dwarfed by increasing foreign investment
as the largest Latin American country builds roads and airports
to host the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Olympics. Net foreign-
currency inflows to Brazil from trade and financial transactions
amounted to $24.4 billion this year, exceeding the total amount
in all of 2010, according to the central bank.  ‘Strong Flows’  “If they try to stabilize the currency at a specific level
they won’t succeed,” said Maristella Ansanelli, chief economist
at Sao Paulo-based Banco Fibra SA. “The real is strengthening
for a lot of reasons, such as strong flows of foreign direct
investment, which Brazil needs.”  Foreign investment in Brazilian stocks and fixed-income
assets fell 91.4 percent to $206 million in January from $2.39
billion in January 2010, according to the central bank. Foreign
direct investment more than quadrupled over the same period, to
$2.96 billion, from $600 million.  “We remain very skeptical that any new measures will have
a substantial impact on the level of the Brazilian real,”  Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities in  New
York , wrote in a note. “The major types of inflows seen in the
market are investment-driven. This is the ‘good’ type of inflows
that Brazil needs to grow, and we doubt very much that the
government will do anything to curtail them.”  Current Account  Brazil relies on foreign investment to finance its current
account deficit, which widened to a record $50 billion in the
year through November. Brazil’s shortfall in the current
account, the broadest measure of trade and services, will
further widen to $65.5 billion this year and to $74.4 billion in
2012, according to a March 4 central bank survey of about 100
economists released this week.  Emerging markets are diverging in their policies to deal
with currency strength and faster inflation.  Colombia ’s central
bank said Feb. 25 it will extend daily dollar purchases in the
local market for at least three more months. Bank of Thailand
Deputy Governor Atchana Waiquamdee said in January that the
central bank will consider imposing  capital controls .    Indonesia ’s central bank will allow the rupiah to
appreciate to help manage imported inflation, central bank
Governor Darmin Nasution said at the conference today.  South
Africa ’s Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said Feb. 23 that a
“rapid” weakening of the rand may fuel inflation.  Brazilian Inflation  Brazil’s inflation quickened to 6 percent last month, the
highest level since November 2008. The central bank has raised
borrowing costs five times since last April, pushing the
benchmark interest rates to 11.75 percent, from 8.75 percent a
year earlier. The benchmark interest rates in the U.S., Japan
and  Europe  are no more than 1 percent.  The new measures won’t work to weaken the real until Brazil
creates conditions to allow interest rates to fall to discourage
investors seeking high yields, according to Pablo Cisilino, who
helps manage $20 billion in emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor
Investment in New York. At 5.7 percent, Brazil’s inflation-
adjusted interest rate is the highest in the Group of 20
nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s silly,” Cisilino said. “It will weaken for five
days and then rally again. They are not addressing the issue.
The issue is real interest rates in Brazil are too high.”  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 held at 12.35 percent today, a level that suggests
investors bet policy makers will boost the benchmark rate to
12.75 percent by year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  