-- 
Brazil Soccer Clubs Increase Broadcast Revenue With Contract With Rede TV!

-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-03-11T18:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/brazil-soccer-clubs-increase-broadcast-revenue-with-contract-with-rede-tv-.html
Brazil’s  top-division soccer clubs 
increased their revenue from television after Rede TV!, the only
bidder in an auction for broadcast rights, agreed to pay 1.55
billion reais ($932.9 million) over the next three seasons.  The amount equals 516.7 million reais for each season,
starting in 2012, up from the 460 million reais paid by the
Globo channel for the current season. Fabio Koff, president of
 Clube dos 13 , which represents the nation’s biggest teams,
released the result in Sao Paulo today. The deal has to be
accepted by the 20 teams in the top league.  Brazil’s antitrust agency, known as Cade, ended an
exclusive agreement between the teams and TV Globo, country’s
No. 1 broadcaster.  Rede TV! ’s bid was below the 1.3 billion
reais a season that Ataide Gil Guerreiro, an executive director
at Clube dos 13, predicted in an interview earlier this month.  “Brazilian soccer still can get more value,” Guerreiro
said in the pre-auction interview. “We will improve our
calendar, to sell more out of  Brazil  and then surpass the amount
raised by some of the world’s major leagues.”  The clubs are still planning to auction Internet, mobile
telephone, and pay-television rights to their matches as they
seek to boost revenue and reduce debt. The clubs must also
retain talent, such as Santos’s 19-year-old winger, Neymar, and
midfielder Ganso, 21, to interest fans, player agent Wagner Ribeiro said in telephone interview on March 10 from Barcelona.  The country’s 26 major teams had combined debt of 3.1
billion reais at the end of 2009, 11 percent more than the
previous year, while revenue grew 10.5 percent to 1.9 billion
reais, according to accountants at Crowe Horwath RCS.  European Leagues  Rede TV! aims to boost its total revenue by 50 percent next
year through its soccer rights, Joao Roberto Ramboli told
reporters today in Sao Paulo. The network also plans to bid for
the remaining rights, he said.    England ’s Premier League got 1.179 million euros ($1.63
billion) a year for broadcast rights for this season and the
next one, while Italy’s top division received 911 million euros
($1.3 billion). Brazil’s bid comes below those for  France , which
brought in 668 million euros and  Spain , which gets 500 million
euros, according to data compiled by  Futebol Finance , a website
specializing in soccer business.  Real  Madrid  and FC Barcelona, the top clubs in Spain, were
the world’s richest teams by sales in the 12 months ended June
2010, according to accountant Deloitte LLP.  Atletico Madrid  was
the 17th richest team in the period.  Corinthians  Corinthians, Brazil’s second-most popular team according to
Ibope, Brazil’s biggest poll company, left Clube dos 13 on Feb.
22 because of disagreements about how broadcast rights will be
shared by the teams, said Luis Paulo Rosenberg, marketing vice
president for  SC Corinthians , in a March 3 interview from  Sao
Paulo . Corinthians is holding separate talks with broadcasters.  “We can double our broadcast revenue,” Rosenberg said.
“Our benchmark is Barcelona, not Atletico Madrid.”  Radio & Televisao Record SA, Brazil’s second-biggest
broadcaster, decided not to bid for television rights because
some clubs will negotiate separately.  Corinthians, where career  World Cup  record goal scorer
Ronaldo ended his career last month, plans to double its
television revenue this year from 54 million reais in 2010, he
said. Its total revenue was 216 million reais last year.  Amir Somoggi, a consultant for Crowe Horwath RCS, said
Brazilian clubs will benefit as pay-per-view gains a bigger
share of its market, sports marketing expands along with the
country’s gross domestic product and Internet and mobile
telephone providers seek more context to attract users.  Pay-TV  The number of pay-TV subscribers in Brazil climbed 31
percent to 9.8 million in 2010 from 7.5 million last year,
according to  data  compiled by the nation’s telecommunication
agency, known as Anatel. Brazil has more than 200 million mobile
lines, according to Anatel.  “The question is whether the clubs will boost revenue to
pay debt and to invest in infrastructure such as stadiums and
training facilities to generate more revenue, or they will burn
out money on players of one season,” Somoggi said in a
telephone interview on March 4.  “If Brazilian teams weren’t making more money, not only
with TV rights but with sponsorship contracts, we would never
seen Neymar or Ganso still playing in Brazil,” said player
agent Ribeiro. “They are successful young players who have
concrete offers from European teams.”  Real Madrid had revenue of 438.6 million euros in the 2009-
2010 season, according to Deloitte. Corinthians´s 216 million
reais revenue would rank 30th, after  Italy ’s SS Napoli and ahead
of England’s Fulham FC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Oliveira in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  