-- 
Brazilian Interest-Rate Futures Fall as Earthquake Spurs Growth Concern

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-03-11T16:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/brazilian-interest-rate-futures-fall-as-earthquake-spurs-growth-concern.html
The yield on Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts fell as commodities declined after the
strongest earthquake in Japan in at least a century sparked
concern global growth may falter.  The yield on the contract due in January 2012 fell 3 basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.32 percent at 10:49 a.m.
New York time. The yield has declined 25 basis points this week,
the most since the period ended Aug. 20.  Commodities declined after an 8.9-magnitude earthquake
caused a tsunami that forced refiners in Japan to shut
processing plants. Yields on futures contracts also fell as
traders pared bets on how much policy makers will raise  interest
rates  to tame inflation in  South America ’s biggest economy.
Crude oil fell below $100 a barrel for the first time in more
than a week.  “Commodities are falling sharply and there’s concern about
the sustainability of the global recovery,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda.  The yields on the interest-rate futures contracts also
declined after data released today showed that prices were
rising by less than expected, Rostagno said by phone from Sao
Paulo.  Consumer, construction and wholesale prices rose 0.48
percent during the first 10 days of March, compared with a 0.63
percent median projection of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, according to the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas
Foundation’s IGP-M report released today.  The real was little changed at 1.6615 per dollar from
1.6622 yesterday. The currency has dropped 0.4 percent this
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  