-- 
Brazilian Soccer Clubs May Double Broadcast Revenue With New TV Contract

-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-03-11T11:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/brazilian-soccer-clubs-may-double-broadcast-revenue-with-new-tv-contract.html
Brazil’s  top-division soccer clubs 
may more than double revenue from television in their first
rights auction, surpassing  Spain ,  Germany , Holland and  Turkey  to
become the sport’s fourth-richest league.  An antitrust agency ended an exclusive agreement between
the teams and TV Globo, country’s No. 1 broadcaster. Bidding
starts today and offers of more than 1.3 billion reais ($790
million) are expected for annual rights to Brazil Premier League
matches, said Ataide Gil Guerreiro, an executive director of
Clube dos 13, which represents the nation’s biggest teams. That
compares to 460 million reais the clubs were paid by Globo in
the 2011 season, he said.  “Brazilian soccer still can get more value,” Guerreiro
said earlier this month in an interview. “We will improve our
calendar, to sell more out of  Brazil  and then surpass the amount
raised by some of the world’s major leagues.”  Brazil’s clubs are seeking to boost rights revenue to
reduce debt and player agent Wagner Ribeiro said they must
retain talent, such as Santos’s 19-year-old winger, Neymar, and
midfielder Ganso, 21, to interest fans. The country’s 26 major
teams had a combined debt of 3.1 billion reais at the end of
2009, 11 percent more than the previous year, while revenue grew
10.5 percent to 1.9 billion reais, according to accountants at
Crowe Horwath RCS.  The auction includes bids for network and cable TV, pay-
per-view, Internet and mobile services. Clube dos 13 is starting
today in  Sao Paulo , accepting bids for network TV, after
Brazil’s antitrust authority, known as Cade, in 2010  ended  a
three-year agreement that allowed TV Globo to make the final bid
10 percent below the other offers.  A TV Globo spokeswoman, who can’t be identified because of
internal policy, declined to comment as negotiations are still
going on.    England ’s Premier League got 1.179 million euros ($1.63
billion) a year for broadcast rights for this season and the
next one, while Italy’s top division received 911 million euros
($1.3 billion). Brazil’s bids could land between  France , which
brought in 668 million euros and Spain, which gets 500 million
euros, according to data compiled by  Futebol Finance , a website
specializing in soccer business.  ‘Benchmark Barcelona’  “We can double our broadcast revenue,” said Luis Paulo Rosenberg, marketing vice president for  SC Corinthians , in a
March 3 interview from Sao Paulo. “Our benchmark is Barcelona,
not  Atletico Madrid .”  Real  Madrid  and FC Barcelona, the top clubs in Spain, were
the world’s richest teams by sales in the 12 months ended June
2010, according to accountant Deloitte LLP. Atletico Madrid was
the 17th richest team in the period.  Corinthians, Brazil’s second-most popular team according to
Ibope, Brazil’s biggest poll company, left Clube dos 13 on Feb.
22 because of disagreements about how broadcast rights will be
shared by the teams, Rosenberg said. Corinthians is holding
separate talks with broadcasters.  The team, where career  World Cup  record goal scorer Ronaldo
ended his career last month, plans to double its television
revenue this year from 54 million reais in 2010, he said. Its
total revenue was 216 million reais last year.  Growing Market  Amir Somoggi, a consultant for Crowe Horwath RCS, said
Brazilian clubs will benefit as pay-per-view gains a bigger
share of its market, sports marketing expands along with the
country’s gross domestic product and Internet and mobile
telephone providers seek more context to attract users.  The number of pay-TV subscribers in Brazil climbed 31
percent to 9.8 million in 2010 from 7.5 million last year,
according to  data  compiled by the nation’s telecommunication
agency, known as Anatel. Brazil has more than 200 million mobile
lines, according to Anatel.  “The question is whether the clubs will boost revenue to
pay debt and to invest in infrastructure such as stadiums and
training facilities to generate more revenue, or they will burn
out money on players of one season,” Somoggi said in a
telephone interview on March 4.  New Talents  “If Brazilian teams weren’t making more money, not only
with TV rights but with sponsorship contracts, we would never
seen Neymar or Ganso still playing in Brazil,” said Ribeiro, a
player agent, said in telephone interview on March 10 from
Barcelona. “They are successful young players who have concrete
offers from European teams.”  Real Madrid had revenue of 438.6 million euros in the 2009-
2010 season, according to Deloitte. Corinthians´s 216 million
reais revenue would rank 30th, after  Italy ’s SS Napoli and ahead
of England’s Fulham FC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Oliveira in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  