-- 
British Airways Hopeful on Two-Year Cabin Crew Dispute as Pilots Back Deal

-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-11T11:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/british-airways-pilots-approve-pay-deal-ceo-meets-cabin-crew-union-chief.html
British Airways Chief Executive
Officer Keith Williams said he’s hopeful about settling a two-
year dispute with cabin crew after the carrier’s pilots approved
a labor agreement that includes a pay raise.  The two-year pilot accord won support from 95 percent of
those voting, according to  Richard Goodfellow , a spokesman for
London-based British Airways. After a 4 percent pay award in the
first year, compensation in the second year will be determined
by productivity, he said late yesterday in an interview.  The deal is a boost for Williams, CEO since January, as he
tries to resolve a standoff with cabin staff who staged 22 days
of strikes last year, grounding flights. Williams said he met
yesterday with Len McCluskey, general secretary of the Unite
union, which is polling members about renewing their walkout.  “I’ve met with plenty of cabin crew already and the
majority of them want to see this dispute over,” Williams said
in an interview after BA’s annual press reception in  London . The
“positive” meeting with McCluskey was aimed at finding a way
to return to talks in the two-year disagreement over pay,
working practices and the treatment of strikers, he said.  British Airways,  Europe ’s third-biggest carrier after Air
France-KLM Group and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , is a unit of
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, formed by the U.K.
company’s merger with  Spain ’s Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA.  Strategic Challenge  Williams, who succeeded  Willie Walsh , now CEO of the parent
company, told journalists that his main task is to seize on new
opportunities arising after British Airways spent the past 10
years resolving “legacy issues.”  Breakthroughs included boosting productivity by 40 percent
and almost halving the workforce to 36,000, as well as sealing
the Iberia deal and an alliance with America Airlines, he said.  British Airways will invest 5.5 billion pounds ($8.8
billion) over the next five years, Williams said, taking
delivery of Boeing Co.  787 Dreamliner  and  Airbus SAS A380 
superjumbo aircraft and completing the installation of new
interiors in its first class and world traveler-plus cabins.  The productivity gains are also making viable hitherto
unprofitable routes, such as Tokyo Haneda,  San Diego  and  Buenos
Aires , all to be added in the first half, the CEO said.  British Airways will retain its identity following the
merger with Iberia, including the union-flag inspired design on
the tailfins of its planes, Williams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  