-- 
Brown's California Budget Reduction Won't Stop 31% Spending Growth by 2015

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/brown-s-california-budget-cuts-won-t-stop-31-spending-growth.html
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposed
$12.5 billion in budget cuts won’t prevent California’s spending
from increasing 31 percent during the next five years, according
to figures from his budget office.  Expenditures would rise to  $111 billion by 2015  from $84.6
billion in the fiscal year that begins July 1, under Brown’s
plan. A third of the increase is required by the constitution to
bolster education. Much of the rest is for projected growth in
health care and welfare, and to make up for lost stimulus funds,
Brown’s office said.  Republican opposition threatens to derail Brown’s plan to
repair the financial strains that have left California with the
biggest deficit among the U.S. states and the lowest  credit
rating . He wants to offset even deeper cuts to schools and the
poor by retaining $9.3 billion a year in higher taxes and fees
that are otherwise due to expire.  “While we must bridge this year’s budget gap, we must also
rein-in future spending to fix the state’s chronic budget
crisis," said Senate Republican Leader Bob Dutton.  Some in the Republican minority are seeking a ‘‘hard cap,”
or ceiling, on spending as part of the price for the votes Brown
needs to push the plan through the Legislature.  The state’s  Legislative Analyst Office  says Brown’s budget
erases a looming $25.4 billion deficit and eliminates expected
shortfalls for at least three more years.  ‘Long-Term Fix’  “There are ongoing reductions and long-term solutions that
not only close the budget gap in the coming year, but projected
gaps in the years to come,” said H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for
the Finance Department, in a telephone interview. “This budget
is a long-term fix.”  Even with an austerity budget that Brown called
“painful,” spending will increase $26 billion by 2015,
according to state projections. At the same time, he’s asking
voters to pay more than $46 billion of higher taxes and fees.  Brown’s office says most of the higher spending during the
next five years is due to rising welfare rolls, costs mandated
under the new federal health-care law, constitutionally required
spending on schools and the loss of federal stimulus funds.  Almost $10 billion more is earmarked for schools over the
five years, according to figures from Brown’s Finance
Department. Under a  constitutional amendment  approved by voters
in 1988,  California  must provide guaranteed funding that grows
each year with the economy and the number of students. While
lawmakers can suspend that requirement, as they did in the
current fiscal year, they must make up the difference later.  Debt Service  Principal and interest payments on state-issued municipal
bonds are expected to rise 40 percent to a record $8 billion in
2015, from $5.7 billion in the coming fiscal year. Brown and
state Treasurer Bill Lockyer imposed a moratorium on new bonds
in the first half of this calendar year to cut debt costs.  California also must pay an additional $2.4 billion during
the next five years to implement President  Barack Obama ’s
federal health-care overhaul to expand coverage to people
previously not insured. At the same time, the state will stop
receiving $6 billion of federal health and human services
subsidies that were part of the economic stimulus.  State payments to its two biggest public-employee pension
funds are projected to rise by $944 million in the same period
to a combined $4.25 billion.  Brown wants voters to retain a 0.25 percentage-point
increase in personal income-tax rates; a 1 percentage-point
boost in the retail-sales tax rate, to 8.25 percent; an increase
in the rate for auto-registration fees of 0.5 percentage point,
to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value; and a reduction of the
state’s child tax credit to $99 from $309.  Schwarzenegger Taxes  The taxes and fees were raised in 2009 when Republican
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers confronted a $42
billion deficit, and are to expire this year.  If the increases aren’t extended, Brown has vowed to cut
even more to  close  a deficit that’s equal to 20 percent of
discretionary spending. Further reductions would have to come
from schools and police protection, he has said.  Senate and Assembly leaders agreed to postpone planned
votes on his budget package yesterday to allow closed-door talks
with lawmakers to continue toward a possible compromise.  In addition to the spending cap, Republicans are pressing
to reduce benefits for government workers, citing the growing
cost of pensions, and are insisting on easing environmental
regulations they say are unfriendly to business.  Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento , warned Republicans not to overreach in their
negotiations with the governor.  “You have to step back,” he said in an interview
yesterday. “The minority party here is relevant. They’re
elected officials and they have an important contribution to
make. But don’t overplay it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  