-- 
Bulgarian GDP Growth Revised Higher on Industry, Exports

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-03-11T11:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/bulgarian-gdp-growth-revised-higher-on-industry-exports-1-.html
  Bulgaria ’s economy grew more than
previously estimated in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
extending an expansion that started in the previous three-month
period, driven by industrial production and exports.  Gross domestic product rose 2.8 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a preliminary estimate of 2.1 percent
published on Feb. 15, the Sofia-based statistics institute said
today on its website. The economy grew 2.1 percent from the
previous three months.  Bulgaria is recovering from its first recession in more
than a decade after a three-year lending boom stalled and
foreign investment dried up during the global credit crisis. The
 European Union’s  poorest country in terms of per-capita GDP is
counting on  government spending  and demand abroad for its
metals, machinery, textiles and furniture to help offset weak
consumption at home.  “We see exports, industry and public consumption as the
main engines of economic growth,” said Georgi Ganev, program
director at the Centre for Liberal Strategies in Sofia. “The
deterioration of individual consumption is concerning and may
hinder growth this year.”  Export Growth  Exports, which account for 57.8 percent of GDP, rose 16
percent from a year ago after a preliminary estimate of a 10.7
percent gain in the fourth quarter and an 18.5 percent increase
in the previous three months. Individual consumption, which
accounts for 69.1 percent of GDP, fell an annual 2.9 percent in
the fourth quarter and a 5.9 percent drop in the third quarter.  The government may miss its growth target of 3.6 percent
this year as rising unemployment will further erode household
demand and hinder growth,  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  said in a
report yesterday.  Greece ’s second biggest bank, which runs a
unit in Bulgaria, forecast a 2.5 percent economic expansion.  Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov ’s government didn’t borrow
from abroad during the global credit crunch and refrained from
raising the EU’s lowest corporate and personal income taxes from
10 percent even as the economy contracted for six consecutive
quarters on an annual basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  