-- 
Canada Natural Gas Rises as Producers Struggle to Boost Output

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-03-11T22:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/canadian-natural-gas-rises-as-producers-struggle-to-boost-output.html
Canadian natural gas rose as lower
volume on the nation’s biggest pipeline network signaled
producers were struggling to maintain output following weeks of
colder-than-normal weather.  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s   Alberta  system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.8
billion cubic feet, about 505 million below its target, as of 4
p.m. in New York. Producers have tried to maintain output after
a two-week cold spell gripped western  Canada , freezing wells and
making equipment operate less efficiently.  Volume in the system, called linepack, was 3.1 percent
below normal after demand for deliveries exceeded additions.
Producers are allowed to put 4 percent more or less gas on the
system. On March 8 TransCanada warned producers it would enforce
contracted volumes if the linepack imbalance isn’t corrected.  Alberta gas for April rose 7.25 cents, or 2.3 percent, to
C$3.26 per gigajoule ($3.18 per million Btu) as of 4:15 p.m.  New
York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet market. Gas
traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada and the
U.S. Northeast, Midwest and West Coast and is priced on
TransCanada’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 5.9 cents to $3.889 per million Btu.  Gas for next-day delivery was down at U.S. points where
much of Canada’s fuel is traded as mild weather cut furnace use.
Demand for heat across the U.S. will average 23 percent below
normal for the next week, according to Belton, Missouri-based
forecaster Weather Derivatives.  Alliance Pipeline  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near  Chicago 
fell 4.54 cents to $3.9285 per million British thermal units on
the  Intercontinental Exchange . Alliance is an express line that
can carry about 1.5 billion cubic feet a day to the Midwest from
western Canada.  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, prices declined 9.2 cents to $3.5923 per million Btu,
according to ICE. At Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded
for California markets, gas was down 11.63 cents to $3.6741.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 3.42 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.56 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.29 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.61 billion cubic feet today, about 56
percent of capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.94
billion cubic feet at 3:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 