-- 
Canada Fourth Quarter International Investment Position (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-03-11T13:39:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/canada-fourth-quarter-international-investment-position-text-.html
The following is the text of  Canada ’s international investment position report for the
fourth quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Canada’s net international indebtedness increased by $35.4
billion to $254.3 billion by the end of the fourth quarter.
Canada’s international liabilities advanced by $29.7 billion,
led by continued strong foreign investment in Canadian
securities.  Net foreign debt was also affected by a decline in the Canadian
dollar value of Canada’s international assets, despite increased
investment activity abroad in the fourth quarter. The
appreciation of the Canadian dollar accounted for a $37.0
billion downward revaluation in international assets. Over the
quarter, the Canadian dollar gained 3.5% against the US dollar,
5.3% against the Euro, 4.2% against the British pound, and 0.6%
against the Japanese Yen.  For 2010 as a whole, net foreign debt increased by $101.0
billion. This reflected continued strong foreign investment
flows into Canada, in line with the ongoing current account
deficit, as well as the affect of a stronger Canadian dollar on
foreign currency denominated international assets.  Note to readers
The international investment position presents the value and
composition of Canada’s assets and liabilities to the rest of
the world. Canada’s net international investment position is the
difference between these foreign assets and liabilities. The
excess of international liabilities over assets can be referred
to as Canada’s net foreign debt; the excess of international
assets over liabilities can be referred to as Canada’s net
foreign assets. The valuation of the assets and liabilities in
the international investment position are measured at book
value, unless otherwise stated. Book value represents the value
of assets and liabilities recorded in the books of the
enterprise in which the investment is made.  Currency valuation  The value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currency are converted to Canadian dollars at the end of each
period for which a balance sheet is calculated. Most of Canada’s
foreign assets are denominated in foreign currencies while less
than half of Canada’s international liabilities are in foreign
currencies. When the Canadian dollar is appreciating in value,
the restatement of the value of these assets and liabilities in
Canadian dollars lowers the recorded value. The opposite is true
when the Canadian dollar is depreciating.  Net direct investment asset position declines further
The appreciation of the Canadian dollar lowered the value of
Canadian direct investment abroad, leading to a further $5.4
billion decrease in the net direct investment asset position in
the fourth quarter. This occurred even though Canadian direct
investment abroad recorded strong outflows as a result of merger
and acquisition activity in the quarter. The value of foreign
direct investment in Canada was up $9.8 billion in the quarter
on stronger investment inflows.  Canadian bonds held by non-residents continue to rise
Non-residents further increased their holdings of Canadian
securities in the fourth quarter by $27.3 billion; investment
activity was led again by bonds, but with an increased focus on
corporate debt. However, the revaluation effect of a rising
Canadian dollar on outstanding foreign currency denominated
Canadian portfolio debt liabilities moderated the increase in
the quarter.  The value of Canadian holdings of foreign securities fell by
$7.0 billion in the fourth quarter, reflecting weak investment
as well as a downward revaluation of $8.6 billion due to
exchange rate fluctuations. This led to a further decline in the
overall portfolio balance in the quarter, to reach a net debt
position of $350.6 billion.  The change in the net portfolio position has accounted for a
large part of the increase in Canada’s overall net international
indebtedness over the past several quarters, in part a
reflection of the global financial crisis and its aftermath.
Since the fourth quarter of 2008, non-residents have invested
heavily in Canadian securities, especially debt instruments. On
the other hand, since the third quarter of 2007, Canadian
investors have largely curtailed acquisitions of foreign
securities. For 2010, Canadian bonds held by non-residents
increased by 15.7% while foreign bonds held by Canadians
declined by 3.8%. This was a continuation of the pattern in
2009.  Capital gains on foreign equities held by Canadians partially
offset by a stronger Canadian dollar
Canada’s net international investment position can also be
calculated with tradable securities valued at market prices. By
this measure, Canada’s net foreign debt increased $35.3 billion
to $254.4 billion at the end of the fourth quarter. Gains on
foreign and Canadian stock markets were similar during the
quarter, but increases for Canadian equity assets abroad were
constrained by a $15.1 billion downward exchange rate
revaluation. The value of Canadian institutional investors’
foreign equities rose by $23.4 billion, compared with an
increase of $36.7 billion in non-resident investor holdings of
Canadian equity assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  