-- 
Chilean Peso Little Changed as U.S. Oil Price Falls Through $100

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-03-11T15:48:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/chilean-peso-little-changed-as-u-s-oil-price-falls-through-100.html
The Chilean peso was little changed
today after oil fell and traders took advantage of the cheapest
peso since January to unwind positions in the U.S. dollar.  The peso advanced 0.1 percent to 481.33 pesos per U.S.
dollar from 481.75 yesterday. The Chilean currency has declined
1.5 percent this week, the worst performance since the five days
ended Jan. 7.  The peso has weakened more than any other major currency in
the region this week as copper fell 7.8 percent on declining
sales to  China , the biggest customer for  Chile ’s copper. As the
peso sank this week, local intermediaries had accumulated long
positions in U.S. dollars, which they are reducing today,
according to Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile Inversiones
in Santiago  “We’re all very long,” Donoso said. “All the banks and
brokers had a lot of dollars and no one wants to buy any more.
Today the peso was at 485, which was a gift, so everyone has
been reducing positions. Copper has recovered some of its loss
and oil is falling, which helps.”  The peso’s biggest weekly loss this year came in the first
days of January, when the central bank announced plans to buy
$12 billion of U.S. currency, building reserves and weakening
the peso.  The peso is more exposed than any other regional currency
to changes in  oil prices , economists at Nomura International Plc
wrote today in a note to clients. Chile relies on imports for
more than 99 percent of its oil needs. Petroleum products made
up 8.3 percent of Chile’s imports last month, according to
central bank data.  The price of a barrel of West Texas crude for April
delivery fell as low as $99.01 today, the first time since March
2 it dropped through $100.  Foreign investors increased their net bets against the
Chilean peso in the forwards market to $2.3 billion on March 9,
the biggest position against the peso since August of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  