-- 
China Airlines May Seek Strategic Investors as It Expands on Taiwan Travel

-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 
2011-03-11T07:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/china-airlines-may-seek-strategic-investors-as-it-expands-on-taiwan-travel.html
  China Airlines Ltd. (2610) , Taiwan’s
largest carrier, may seek strategic investors to help finance a
planned 25 percent fleet expansion as economic growth and
improved relations with  China  spur  travel demand .  The airline will look for partners to help improve
operations and management, Chairman Chang Chia-juch, 60, said
yesterday in an interview at the airline’s headquarters in
Taoyuan, northern Taiwan. He declined to say which companies it
would seek tie-ups with or how big a stake it may sell.  The government-backed carrier, whose plan to sell a stake
to Singapore Airlines Ltd. 11 years ago collapsed amid investor
opposition, also may offer more shares on the stock market as it
increases its group fleet to 100 aircraft from 80, Chang said.
The airline is expanding as improved relations spur trips across
the  Taiwan  Strait and as eased visa rules enable more Taiwanese
to travel in  Asia  and to  Europe .  “They should be looking at Asia carriers, as growth in
passenger and cargo markets in this region is relatively fast,”
said Peter Tzeng, a Taipei-based analyst at Polaris Securities
Co., who has an “overweight” rating on the stock. “They can
cut costs by jointly planning flights.”  Cross-Strait Services  China Airlines, the largest operator of cross-strait
flights, may boost its presence on the mainland by cooperating
with railways and other companies, Chang said. The carrier and
unit Mandarin Airlines had 29 percent of the cross-strait market
last year, the Fair Trade Commission in Taipei said March 10.  EVA Airways Corp., the island’s second-biggest carrier, had
21 percent.  There is demand for more direct cross-strait flights, which
are limited by government accords, as 46 percent of travelers
between Taiwan and the mainland transit through  Hong Kong , Chang
said. Chinese tourist visits to Taiwan more than doubled last
year to 1.23 million, according to the island’s  Tourism Bureau .  Taiwan is also planning to let Chinese tourists visit
individually rather than only allowing travel on group visas.  “There’ll be new demand, new opportunities and new
clients,” Chang said. “We’re optimistic about growth and
expansion of the market.”  The carrier, which is 50 percent owned by Taiwan
government-controlled entities, was unchanged at NT$18.55 as of
the 1:30 p.m. close of trading in Taipei. The stock has fallen
28 percent this year, compared with a 4.5 percent decline for
the benchmark Taiex index. The Bloomberg Asia-Pacific Airlines
Index has dropped 12 percent as rising oil prices push up fuel
costs.  China Airlines trades at 7.3 times estimated 2011 earnings,
compared with 5.7 for EVA Air and about 12 for Singapore
Airlines, according to Bloomberg data.  SkyTeam  China Airlines will this year expand its global reach by
joining the SkyTeam alliance, probably in August or September,
Chang said. The grouping, which includes  Air France-KLM  and
Delta Air Lines Inc., helps members through joint marketing and
sales activities.  The carrier, which earned a record quarterly profit in the
three months ending Sept. 30, is considering adding investors
that can bring “strategic value,” Chang said. In 1999, the
company neared an agreement to sell as much as 25 percent to
Singapore Airlines. The deal collapsed amid opposition from  China Development Bank , a China Airlines shareholder with ties
to Taiwan’s then-ruling Nationalist Party.  Singapore Airlines isn’t currently considering a tie-up,
said  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman.  Fleet Plans  China Airlines will introduce four leased Airbus SAS A330s
by early next year, and it may add other “readily available”
planes, Chang said. It is also due to receive 14 on-order A350-
900s between 2015 and 2018, he said. The airline has options to
buy six more.  Taiwan residents are making more long-haul overseas trips
after European Union nations and other countries started
offering visa-free entry, Chang said. Including EU members, 97
countries and regions allow Taiwanese to enter without a visa or
with a visa on arrival, according to the  Ministry of Foreign
Affairs  in Taipei.  Cross-strait ties have eased since President Ma Ying-jeou
took office on the island in May 2008, dropping his
predecessor’s pro-independence stance and prioritizing economic
ties with the mainland. The two sides split in 1949 after a
civil war.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Yu-huay Sun in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  