-- 
China’s Consumer Prices Rise 4.9%, Exceeding Forecasts and Official Target

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-11T08:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/china-s-february-consumer-prices-rise-4-9-exceeding-government-s-target.html
  China ’s inflation and industrial
production exceeded forecasts in February, underscoring the
challenge for Premier Wen Jiabao as he seeks to prevent price
increases from stirring social unrest.  Consumer prices rose at an annual 4.9 percent pace in
February and output increased 14 percent in the first two months
of 2011, the statistics bureau said in Beijing. Producer prices
jumped 7.2 percent last month, the most since September 2008.  Today’s reports signaled the central bank’s monetary
tightening has been insufficient so far to contain prices, in an
echo of pressures across  Asia  that spurred South Korea,  Thailand 
and  Vietnam  to raise interest rates this week. People’s Bank of
China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said today interest rates will be
used to curb inflation, and played down the role of currency
gains, which U.S. officials have encouraged China to use.  “Inflation risk is very high as  oil prices  and food costs
are rising, and wages have increased substantially,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. A PBOC rate increase as early as this month can’t be ruled
out, said Shen, who formerly worked at the  International
Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank .  Stocks Slide  The  Shanghai  Composite Index closed 0.8 percent lower
because of the inflation numbers and an earthquake that rocked
northern Japan.  Today’s economic data contrast with diminishing inflation
pressures indicated yesterday in China’s monthly trade report,
which showed an unexpected deficit of $7.3 billion in February.
The excess of imports over exports helped channel money out of
an economy awash with cash after a record 17.5 trillion yuan
($2.7 trillion) of lending over 2009 and 2010.  The pace of China’s inflation was unchanged from January
and compared with the 4.8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 22 economists. The government aims to limit full-
year consumer-price gains to about 4 percent.  Fixed-asset investment grew 25 percent in the first two
months of 2011 from a year earlier, the data showed. Retail
sales rose a less-than-forecast 16 percent in January and
February combined. Industrial output rose 15 percent last month
from a year earlier.  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch forecasts March inflation of
5.5 percent. In February, food costs rose 11 percent from a year
earlier. Non-food prices rose 2.3 percent.  New Year Effect  China’s economic figures are distorted in the first two
months of each year by a weeklong holiday to celebrate the Lunar
New Year, the dates of which shift. The customs bureau yesterday
cited the event as a factor in the February trade deficit, which
was the widest in seven years.  The climb in crude oil costs past $100 a barrel threatens
to further cloud the economic outlook, along with  Europe ’s
sovereign crisis and doubts about the strength of the U.S.
recovery. Stocks tumbled around the world yesterday after China
reported weaker exports, U.S. jobless claims rose and Moody’s
Investors Service cut  Spain ’s debt rating.  The People’s Bank of China raised  interest rates  last month
for the third time since mid-October, pushing the one-year
lending rate to 6.06 percent. The government has also ratcheted
up banks’ reserve requirements and sold bills to soak up cash.  Zhou said today in an annual news conference in Beijing
that liquidity will be tighter this year than last year, when
banks extended 7.95 trillion yuan of loans. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s largest lender by
market value, closed 2.2 percent lower in  Hong Kong  trading.  Congress Meeting  Wen, who will close the annual meeting of the National
People’s Congress with a press conference on March 14, has set
reining in inflation as the nation’s top economic priority this
year. On March 5, he told the lawmakers that price gains,
including “exorbitant” increases in house costs in some cities,
have the potential to undermine social stability.  The government has deployed hundreds of police in Beijing
and Shanghai in the past three weeks after Internet calls for
protests, inspired by revolts in the Middle East and North  Africa .  “The cost of living has really shot up, everything is
more expensive now, from the food we eat and the clothing we
wear to where we live,” Liu Meiying, 47, a taxi driver who
earns as much as 4,000 yuan a month, said in Beijing this week.
“I hope the government will offer more subsidies to low-income
families to offset the rising living costs.”    McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant company,
may again raise prices at its China outlets, in the second half
of this year, Tim Fenton, president for Asia, the Middle East
and Africa, said last month.  --Sophie Leung, Zhang Dingmin,  Zheng Lifei. With assistance
from  Jay Wang ,  Judy Chen , Baizhen Chua and Nerys Avery. Editors:
Paul Panckhurst, Chris Anstey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  