-- 
China Congress Pushes Gas, Renewable Energy Plans: Chart of Day

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-03-11T05:48:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/china-congress-pushes-gas-nuclear-over-coal-in-energy-plan-chart-of-day.html
  China , the world’s biggest polluter,
said it would accelerate its use of renewable energy and
cleaner-burning fuels including natural gas over the next five
years to cut pollution and reduce reliance on coal, which
generates about 80 percent of the nation’s electricity.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows China aims to double gas’s share
of energy consumption to 8 percent by 2015 while boosting the
combined proportion of wind, solar, hydro and nuclear to 11
percent from 8 percent, according to National Energy
Administration data. China plans to start building 40 gigawatts
of atomic reactors by 2015, more than three times of last year’s
 capacity , documents released at the National People’s Congress
this week show. The country will also begin construction of 120
gigawatts of hydropower by then.  “Hydro, wind, nuclear and gas will continue to grow at
double-digit rates relative to fossil fuels, which will decline
as a percentage of the energy mix,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a note.  China won’t “blindly” pursue economic growth that’s
unsustainable, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month, noting that
the world’s largest coal user would slash carbon-dioxide
emissions by as much as 17 percent per unit of gross domestic
product from 2011 to 2015. according to Xinhua News Agency.  Russia , Turkmenistan and  Australia  are offering to supply more gas.  Turkmenistan plans to boost pipeline shipments to China by
50 percent, even as a supply deal with Russia is delayed over
pricing issues, according to OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest
gas producer. Australia was China’s biggest source of liquefied
natural gas last year, with Chinese importers paying an average
$191 a metric ton for Australian term-contracts compared with an
average $323 for all imports, customs data show.  The share of oil in China’s energy mix may remain at 2010
levels as the country depends less on fossil fuels while getting
increased crude supplies from overseas fields that state-
controlled companies including PetroChina Co. and China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. have stakes in. Last year, Chinese
companies bid for a record $39.6 billion of energy assets abroad
to enlarge reserves, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net . 