-- 
Citi Sees Surge in Chinese Dollar Bond Sales as Rates Rise

-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-11T02:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/citigroup-sees-surge-in-chinese-dollar-bond-sales-as-rates-rise.html
Chinese companies will sell more
bonds denominated in dollars this year as the People’s Bank of  China  raises  interest rates  to combat inflation, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “I’d expect Chinese corporates to come out in a big way,”
Amit Sheopuri, Citigroup’s co-head of Asia debt origination,
said in an interview in  Hong Kong . “Look where rates are going;
what central banks are doing. They’ve all got inflation fears.”  China raised interest rates three times since mid-October
to combat inflation that reached an annual 4.9 percent last
month, more than the 4.8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 22 economists. Yuan-denominated company bonds
yield an average 5.02 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s China Corporate Index. Investment-grade Asian
companies pay an average 4.72 percent to sell dollar debt,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Asia Credit Index shows.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  told the annual meeting of the
National People’s Congress on March 5 that fighting inflation
will be China’s top priority this year. In the U.S. the  Federal
Reserve  has kept rates close to zero since December 2008 to aid
the economic recovery.  China tackled the 2008 financial crisis by unveiling a 4
trillion yuan ($608 billion) two-year spending plan and pressing
state-owned banks to lend more. A record expansion in credit
followed, adding to inflation risks and triggering a clampdown
on lending.  Lending Curbs  “Funding is cheaper in dollar markets and that’s one of
the components driving issuance,” Sheopuri said. “Restrictions
on local lending clearly play a part.”  Asian sales of bonds in dollars, euros and yen outside
Japan rose to a record $75 billion last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore
energy producer, leads issuance this year after it raised $2
billion in a two-part January offering, the data show.  Cnooc’s $1.5 billion of bonds due January 2021 fell 1.3
cents to 97.3 cents on the dollar this year to yield 4.59
percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shelley Smith in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  