-- 
Copper Rebounds From Three-Month Low in New York as U.S. Equities Rally

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-03-11T19:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/copper-rebounds-from-three-month-low-in-new-york-as-u-s-equities-rally.html
Copper rebounded from the lowest
price in almost three months as U.S. equities rallied amid
optimism that growth will continue.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed as much as 0.6
percent as gains in fuel, metal and industrial companies helped
the market overcome a global slump following Japan’s worst
earthquake on record. Retail sales in the U.S., the world’s
largest copper consumer after  China , increased in February by
the most in four months. The metal, used in homes, cars and
appliances, often moves in tandem with the economic outlook.  “Copper got a lift from outside markets,” said Rich
Ilczyszyn, a senior strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in  Chicago . The metal “is definitely a follower today.”  Copper futures for May delivery added 1 cent, or 0.2
percent, to close at $4.2075 a pound at 1:20 p.m. on the Comex
in  New York . The metal still dropped 6.2 percent this week, the
most since early July.  Earlier, the price touched $4.086, the lowest since Dec.
16, as carmakers including Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor
Co. shut plants after the temblor in Japan.  “There will likely be a short-term reduction in
consumption while power is rationed and the damage is
assessed,” Alex Heath, the head of industrial-metals trading at
Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in  London  said in a report.
Over the longer term, “we may actually see a modest increase in
consumption in Japan due to the reconstruction that will have to
take place.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for three-month
delivery slid $1 to $9,190 a metric ton ($4.17 a pound).  Aluminum, lead, nickel and zinc also fell in London. Tin
rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  