-- 
Corn, Soybean Premiums Fall as Japanese Earthquake Slows Demand

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T22:11:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/corn-soybean-premiums-fall-as-japanese-earthquake-slows-demand.html
Cash premiums for corn and soybeans
shipped this month to terminals near  New Orleans  declined
relative to Chicago futures after Japan, a major importer of
U.S. crops, was struck by its largest earthquake on record.  The spot-basis bid, or premium, for corn delivered in March
at  Gulf of Mexico  ports was 52 cents to 53 cents a bushel above
May futures, compared with 52 cents to 57 cents yesterday, U.S.
Department of Agriculture  data  show. The soybean basis was 66
cents to 85 cents a bushel above May futures, compared with 66
cents to 86 cents. The average spot-corn cash bid fell 7.9
percent this week and soybean cash prices dropped 4.7 percent.  “Worries about how much damage occurred to Japan’s port
facilities reduced cash bidding,” said  Roy Huckabay , an
executive vice president for the Linn Group in Chicago. “Nobody
knows the extent of the damage or how long it will take to
rebuild the shipping infrastructure.”  Corn futures for May delivery fell 18.5 cents, or 2.7
percent, to $6.6425 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
biggest decline since Feb. 22, when the most-active contract
reached a 31-month high of $7.4425.  Soybean futures for May delivery dropped 21 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $13.345 a bushel on the CBOT. Most-active futures
touched a 30-month high of $14.5575 on Feb. 9.  Japan is the largest buyer of U.S. corn and the third-
largest importer of U.S. soybeans, after  China  and  Mexico . The
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said it is
checking ports and grain depots for damage after an 8.9-
magnitude earthquake and a tsunami that engulfed towns on the
northern coast. Farmland was flooded as the tidal surge swept
inland, images from state broadcaster NHK showed.  Ports in Kushiro, Hachinohe, Ishinomaki and Kashima were
hit by the tsunami that followed the temblor, Tommy Hamamoto, a
director for the U.S. Grains Council in Japan, said today in a
statement. Some feed mills and livestock operations were
damaged, Hamamoto wrote.  “It is too early to tell what effect this will have on
Japan’s agricultural sector, but it could be of significance,”
Hamamoto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in  Chicago  at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  