-- 
Japanese Quake Forces Evacuation Near Nuclear Reactor; Oil Refinery Burns

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-03-11T17:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/cosmo-oil-refinery-set-on-fire-nuclear-power-reactors-shut-by-earthquake.html
Residents near a Tokyo Electric
Power Co. nuclear reactor were ordered to evacuate because of a
possible radiation leak as Japan’s strongest earthquake in a
century shut power plants and oil refineries.  About 5,800 residents living within 3 kilometers (2 miles)
of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 1 reactor were ordered to leave
their homes, said Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano. Residents
within 10 kilometers were told to stay indoors.  Firefighters continued to battle a blaze at Cosmo Oil Co.’s
refinery, 40 kilometers east of Tokyo, said Seiichi Aso, a
spokesman at the local fire department. The blaze started at the
220,000 barrel-a-day plant’s storage tanks, Cosmo Oil spokesman
Yusuke Kaneda said. JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. said it shut
its refineries in Sendai, Kashima, and Negishi.  Millions of homes were without electricity as utilities
shut 11 nuclear reactors and 21 thermal units. The closures
amount to more than 9 percent of Japan’s installed capacity,
according to Bloomberg calculations. The refinery shutdowns
account for about 20 percent of Japan’s 4.6 million barrels a
day refining capacity, Sanford C. Bernstein analysts including  Neil Beveridge  said in a note today.  Reactors operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co.,  Asia ’s
biggest utility, Tohoku Electric Power Co. and Japan Atomic
Power Co. were shut, the trade ministry said in an e-mailed
statement. A fire was put out at a turbine building at Tohoku
Electric’s Onagawa plant, and there was no radiation leak, said
Satoshi Arakawa, a spokesman. Three reactors were shut.  Hundreds Killed  The 8.9-magnitude quake struck at 2:46 p.m. local time and
unleashed a seven-meter-high tsunami, engulfing towns along the
northern coast and killing as many as 300 people. The temblor
hit 130 kilometers off the coast of Sendai, north of Tokyo, at a
depth of 24 kilometers, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said. A 7.1-
magnitude aftershock followed at 4:25 p.m., it said.  The  Philippines ,  Indonesia  and  Papua New Guinea  were among
more than 20 countries bracing for a possible tsunami, the
Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said.  Tokyo Electric shut seven reactors at its Fukushima Daiichi
and Daini atomic plants, the trade ministry’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency said in the e-mailed statement. Japan
Atomic Power shut the No. 2 reactor at its Tokai plant, the
agency said.  Tokyo Electric  About 3 million Tokyo Electric customers were without power
as of 11 p.m. local time and about 4.4 million homes served by
Tohoku Electric, which supplies northern Japan, had no power at
9 p.m., according to the trade ministry.  Tokyo Electric shut 11 thermal plants with about 7,365
megawatts of capacity, and Tohoku Electric shut nine stations
with 4,846 megawatts. Electric Power Development Co. shut its
600-megawatt No. 2 unit of the Isogo coal-fired plant in
Yokohama, spokesman Hiroshi Nakatani said by telephone.  Tokyo Electric’s Kashiwazaki Kariwa, Chubu Electric Power
Co.’s Hamaoka and Hokkaido Electric Power Co.’s Tomari nuclear
plants are operating, the agency said.  Showa Shell Sekiyu KK halted shipments at refineries in
Keihin and Yokkaichi. Liquefied natural gas import facilities at
Sodegaura, Ohgishima and Negishi weren’t affected by the
earthquake, said Atsuhiko Ashikawa, a Tokyo Gas Co. spokesman.  Emergency Stockpiles  The  International Energy Agency  doesn’t expect Japan to use
its emergency crude and oil-product stockpiles, Aad van Bohemen,
head of emergency policy at the Paris-based organization, said
by phone. Many of the refineries that were shut as a precaution
“can come back online,” he said. “So far as we can see the
impact on the oil sector is limited.”  Officials at ports and energy companies in China,  Taiwan ,  South Korea  and Russia said the quake and tsunami aren’t
expected to affect operations.  The tsunami due to reach China’s southern Guangdong and
Fujian provinces today isn’t expected to have a significant
impact, the official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing the
National Marine Environmental Forecasting Center. There’s no
need to shut the country’s ports, Chen Jianmin, director of the  China  Earthquake Administration, said in Beijing.  Gao Ting, a media official at China National Offshore Oil
Corp.’s LNG terminal in Fujian, said she isn’t aware of any
emergency measures being drawn up. Spokesmen at PetroChina Co.
and China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. said they haven’t had
reports that offshore operations have been affected.  Sakhalin Island  Taiwan shut schools and business in its eastern and
northeastern counties after the Central Weather Bureau issued a
tsunami alert. Taiwan Power Co., the island’s biggest
electricity producer, expects its two operating nuclear plants
on the northern coast to remain safe. They were designed to
withstand waves as high as 12 meters (39 feet), said Huang Huei-
yu, a company public relations officer.  Operations at the Exxon Mobil-led Sakhalin-1 oil production
project on the island off the Pacific coast of  Russia  are
unaffected, Olga Shishkina, a spokeswoman for Exxon said today.
She declined to comment on whether the events caused any tanker
cargoes to be diverted to different destinations.  Russia’s Sakhalin-2 venture, which includes an LNG plant
with an annual capacity of 9.6 million tons, hasn’t been
affected because the tsunami warning hasn’t been issued for
Sakhalin Island, a spokesman said.  Russia has issued a tsunami warning for the Kuril Islands,
also known as the Northern Territories in Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  