-- 
Czech Rates to Rise in June, Outrun ECB in 2012, JP Morgan Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-03-11T14:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/czech-rates-to-rise-in-june-outrun-ecb-in-2012-jp-morgan-says.html
The Czech central bank will
probably start increasing interest rates in June and will lift
borrowing costs more than the  European Central Bank  by the end
of 2012, JP Morgan forecast.  The Ceska Narodni Banka, or CNB, has left the benchmark
two-week repo rate at record-low 0.75 percent since May, a
quarter-point below the main ECB rate. The Czech central bank
signaled in its latest forecast that rates may increase around
the end of this year, while the ECB said it may raise borrowing
costs as early as in April.  “The beginning of a Czech interest-rate hiking cycle is
approaching,” Miroslav Plojhar, a London-based JP Morgan Chase
Bank analyst, wrote in an e-mailed report. “The  base rate  is at
an emergency low level of 0.75 percent, the economy continues to
recover, inflation is heading above the 2 percent target and the
ECB will likely initiate a tightening cycle in April.”  Three of the seven Czech policy makers voted for a quarter-
point rate increase on Feb. 3. One of the supporters of higher
borrowing costs,  Robert Holman , left the central bank’s board at
after his term ended and was replaced by Lubomir Lizal on Feb.
13.  Gross domestic product growth slowed to 2.6 percent in the
three months through December, from 2.8 percent in the third
quarter, data from the statistics office showed today. Household
and government consumption declined, as did fixed investments.  The majority of policy makers, led by Governor Miroslav Singer, will probably want to wait to see the first-quarter data
before raising interest rates, Plojhar said.  “Votes will likely be cast for a hike at the March 24 and
the May 5 meetings, but until Governor Singer changes his mind,
a majority favoring a hike is unlikely to be formed,” he said.  Czech  interest rates  may rise to 3.25 percent by the end
of 2012, while the euro-area’s benchmark rate should increase to
2.75 percent by end of next year, JP Morgan forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  