-- 
Daimler, Rolls-Royce Don't Plan to Raise Tognum Takeover Bid, Uebber Says

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-03-11T16:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/daimler-rolls-royce-don-t-plan-to-raise-tognum-takeover-bid-uebber-says.html
  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group
Plc (RR/)  see “no reason” to raise their joint takeover offer for  Tognum AG (TGM) , Daimler’s Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber said.  The bid of 24 euros per share “is our price,” Uebber told
Bloomberg News today. “We are sticking to that.” Tognum shares
fell for the first time since the companies said they were in
talks March 7.  Daimler and London-based Rolls-Royce offered to buy Tognum
in a deal valuing the heavy-duty engine maker at 3.2 billion
euros ($4.41 billion). The bid is 30 percent higher than the
Friedrichshafen, Germany-based company’s March 4 closing price,
the last trading day before the companies expressed interest.  The shares have traded above the offer price since Tognum
said it had not agreed with Rolls-Royce and Daimler on a price.
Some investors have said they expect the bid to be increased.
Juergen Siebrecht, an analyst with HSBC, said in a note today
that 29 euros per share would be a “fair takeover value.”  “The tender isn’t likely to be greeted with much
enthusiasm,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst with Bankhaus
Metzler. “It’s not really very attractive. The share price was
likely to rise to that level on its own over the next 12
months.”  Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-
Benz cars and trucks, and Rolls-Royce, the world’s second-
largest aircraft-engine maker, can hold firm with their offer
because Daimler’s current 28.4 percent holding allows them to
block any effort by other potential suitors for the company.
Under German law, shareholders with more than 25 percent of a
company have the power to veto any major strategic moves.  Shares Fall  “We have time,” Uebber said. “We already own 28.4
percent of Tognum and aim for 50 percent plus 1 share. We are
going to get there.”  Tognum fell 3 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 25.48 euros in
Frankfurt trading, valuing the company at 3.35 billion euros.  The company won’t comment on the price before reviewing the
offer after its approval by German financial regulators, Julia Loeffelsend, a spokeswoman for Tognum, said by telephone.  Daimler and Rolls-Royce are offering 16.5 times earnings
before interest and taxes for Tognum. Acquirers paid a median of
13.25 times Ebit for assets in the auto- and truck-parts
industry in the past five years, according to Bloomberg data.  “Both Rolls and Daimler see no reason at all to change
anything about the price,” Uebber said. “For every Tognum
shareholder, this offer is a unique opportunity.”  Tognum, which makes engines for ships, tanks, and power
generators, reported a 39 percent drop in 2010 net income to
63.2 million euros. Profit was negatively impacted by a 60
million-euro charge for discontinuing fuel-cell operations,
which may be transferred to Rolls-Royce in the deal.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or costs
will rise this year to about 10 percent of sales from 9.4
percent in 2010, and revenue will increase by more than 10
percent, the company forecast yesterday.  Tognum’s Chief Executive Officer Volker Heuer, Chief
Financial Officer Joachim Coers and board member Rainer Breidenbach together owned 5.3 percent of the shares as of the
end of 2010. They haven’t said whether they would tender their
stock in the offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  