-- 
Djibouti Forces Arrest Opposition Leaders, Scuppering Protests

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T15:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/djibouti-forces-arrest-opposition-leaders-scuppering-protests.html
  Djibouti ’s security forces detained
four opposition leaders, scuppering a planned demonstration
against President Ismail Guelleh, a member of the opposition
said.  “They were gathered in one place about to go out to the
demonstration,” Halimo Ismael, a member of the Union for a
Democratic Alternative, said today by phone from Djibouti city.
“Then the police, without any papers, came and took them away.”  Those arrested included leaders of the UDA, the Djibouti
Party for Development, the Union for a Democratic Movement and
the Movement for Democratic Renewal, Ismael said. Calls seeking
comment to the mobile phones of Interior Minister Yacin Elmi Bouh and Foreign Minister Mahmoud Ali Yousef weren’t answered or
didn’t connect.  Violence broke out at an opposition rally around the city’s
Hassan Guled stadium on Feb. 18 when security forces acted to
contain “trouble-makers” who hijacked the protest, Yousef said
on Feb. 21. One policeman died and nine other people were
injured, he said.  Demonstrators were forced to call off an unauthorized
protest last week after being prevented from gathering at the
stadium. Opposition parties have vowed to hold protests each
Friday until Guelleh resigns.  Opposition leaders will put themselves in a “radically
illegal position” if they organize unauthorized protests, the
official government newspaper, La Nation, yesterday cited Bouh
as saying.  U.S. Base  The U.S. has had a military base in Djibouti since 2001,
while former colonial power  France  has around 3,000 troops
stationed in the country, which is smaller than the U.S. state
of  Massachusetts .  Anti-government protests in the Middle East and North
Africa ousted the presidents of Egypt and  Tunisia  and spread to  Libya  and the  Persian Gulf . In Djibouti, Guelleh’s People’s
Rally for Progress party has ruled since independence in 1977.
The 63-year-old leader, first elected in 1999, amended the
constitution in March 2010 to allow him to extend his rule by
two more six-year terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 