-- 
Euro Rises From Near One-Week Low Before German CPI, ECB Officials Speak

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-11T05:23:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/dollar-falls-versus-euro-as-chinese-data-signals-economic-recovery-intact.html
The euro rose from near a one-week
low against the dollar before data forecast to confirm  Germany ’s
inflation rate reached a two-year high in February, backing the
case for increased borrowing costs.  The single currency gained versus 10 of its 16 major
counterparts on speculation European Central Bank officials will
reiterate their willingness to raise  interest rates  as soon as
next month. The Dollar Index fell from near the highest level in
a week after Chinese reports showed consumer prices and
industrial production rose by more than economists estimated.  “Inflation is still high and expectations for rate hikes
may intensify,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of
foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd., Japan’s
largest currency broker. “The euro is likely to be bought.”  The euro climbed to $1.3826 as of 1:51 p.m. in Tokyo from
$1.3798 in  New York  yesterday, when it reached $1.3775, the
lowest level since March 2. The currency was unchanged at 114.49
yen. The yen advanced to 82.81 per dollar from 82.98 yesterday,
when it touched 83.17, the weakest since Feb. 22.  The inflation rate in Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy,
was at 2.2 percent in February, based on a harmonized European
Union measure, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the final report today. The preliminary figure
of 2.2 percent was the highest since October 2008, and up from 2
percent in January.  ECB Governing Council member  Mario Draghi  speaks in Milan
today, while Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi speaks
in Lucca,  Italy .    China  Growth  The greenback weakened versus 13 of its 16 major peers as
signs of an improving Asian economic recovery sapped demand for
safer assets.  China’s consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in February from a
year earlier, government data showed today. That compared with
the median forecast for a 4.8 percent gain in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. Industrial output expanded 14.9 percent
last month, the data also showed, higher than the median
estimate for a 13 percent increase.  Australia’s dollar rose against all its major counterparts
after the reports spurred confidence that growth remains intact
in the South Pacific nation’s largest trading partner.  “The data showed the Chinese economy remains resilient and
eased concern that it may face a slowdown,” said Masahide Tanaka, a senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking
Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest bank. “It’s giving some
support to the commodity currencies.”    Australia ’s dollar rose to $1.0032 from $1.0008 yesterday,
paring to 1.1 percent its weekly decline. The currency fell as
low as 99.91 U.S. cents yesterday, the weakest since Feb. 23.  EU Summit  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, declined 0.1
percent to 77.135 today, after touching 77.349 yesterday, the
highest since Feb. 28.  The euro was still headed for its biggest weekly drop since
January on speculation European Union leaders meeting today will
struggle to agree on measures to combat the region’s debt
crisis. European leaders due to meet in Brussels have set a
March 25 deadline to approve a comprehensive package of
measures.  “There continues to be significant downside risk to the
euro with the EU summit today, and slowly we’re shifting back to
those periphery concerns,” said Greg Gibbs, a strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney.  The euro yesterday slid against most of its major peers
after Moody’s cut  Spain ’s credit rating to Aa2 and said the
outlook is “negative,” meaning the next change is likely to be
another cut. Spanish lenders will need as much as 50 billion
euros ($69 billion) to meet new  capital requirements , Moody’s
said, more than double the government’s estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ronnie Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 