-- 
Leaving Finance for NCAA Basketball Shows Robinson More Than Obama In-Law

-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/leaving-finance-for-ncaa-basketball-shows-robinson-more-than-obama-in-law.html
Craig Robinson, the head basketball
coach at  Oregon State University  and older brother of First Lady  Michelle Obama , tells Diane Brady in the March 14 issue of
Bloomberg Businessweek how he switched careers from finance
after deciding not to let money dictate his life choices.  “After playing basketball at  Princeton University  and in
Manchester, England, I got my MBA and spent several years at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in  Chicago . When they wanted to move me to  New York , I left for a boutique firm.  “I was going through a divorce and couldn’t leave my two
young kids. My plan was to put away enough money to pay off the
house and my kids’ college educations, then maybe teach and
coach high school basketball.  “Out of nowhere, Bill Carmody, one of my old Princeton
coaches, got the job at  Northwestern University  and asked me to
be an assistant coach in 2000.  “I could get in on the ground floor of a National
Collegiate Athletic Association Division I basketball program
and stay in Chicago. But it paid about one-tenth of my finance
salary.  “My financial goals hadn’t been met yet, and the divorce
made the decision harder. My children were facing a major shift,
and now they would have to go from having a fancy house and
fancy vacations to none of that.  “It turned out they couldn’t care less. They just wanted
to know I was going to be around. But the deciding factor was
opportunity: This chance probably would not come up again.  Brown to  Oregon  State  “I became head coach of  Brown University  in 2006. The
tough choice was coming to  Oregon State  in 2008. I was
inheriting a mess. Oregon had been so bad for so long, four or
five other coaches had turned it down.  “The reality, however, was that it was a  Pac-10  school and
the kids could use my help more than the kids at Brown, who were
already pretty driven and accomplished. I felt I could make more
of an impact in Oregon.  “People know Mike Krzyzewski or Tom Izzo. People wouldn’t
know Craig Robinson if I wasn’t the brother-in-law of the
President.  “It gives me a little bit of  brand recognition  and helps
with recruiting. I tell my players that everybody’s watching
what they do. It brings more pressure, but that’s life. I also
tell my players what my parents told me: Don’t pick your career
on the amount of money you make.  “When I got a chance to buy all the stuff I wanted, I
discovered it didn’t mean a thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diane Brady at  at
 Dbrady11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 