-- 
ECB’s Bini Smaghi Calls for New European Bond Issuing Agency

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-03-11T11:17:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/ecb-s-bini-smaghi-calls-for-new-european-bond-issuing-agency-2-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  proposed the creation of a new
agency to issue debt on behalf of euro-area governments as a
step toward a single European bond.  Bini Smaghi said the best way to ensure sound public
finances in the 17-nation euro area is to prohibit countries
from defaulting or restructuring their debt by laying down rules
that have constitutional weight.  “But how to make sure that such rules are followed? One
way to ensure that the discipline is actually binding is to
empower a supranational entity in the euro area to issue  government bonds  for the member states,” he said in a speech
today in Lucca,  Italy . “The countries would in fact no longer
have the capacity, technically or politically, to issue public
debt on the market. This could be a first step toward a single
European bond.”  Euro-area heads of state convening today in Brussels are
trying to break a deadlock over plans to revamp their rescue
mechanism for high-deficit countries and agree on better
coordination of economic policies. Bini Smaghi’s proposal is
likely to meet opposition from  Germany , which has said it’s not
in favor of a common euro-region bond.  Bini Smaghi, who acknowledged his proposal is “almost a
provocation,” said it would “not necessarily require an
integration of budgetary policies” or an integrated tax system.  ‘The Tap’  “What is in common is just the tap, i.e. an integrated
system of securities for issuing on the market the proceeds
from which are then allocated to individual countries, according
to joint decision-making mechanisms,” Bini Smaghi said. The
European Union “should decide how much debt can be issued by
the agency as a whole and how to distribute it to individual
states” and, by controlling the volume of emissions, “would
have the power to decide the budgetary balance of individual
countries,” he said.  Bini Smaghi said a second line of action is to reduce the
impact of a crisis in one country on the rest of the monetary
union.  “Leaving crisis resolution to voluntary cooperation is not
sufficient to prevent contagion between banking systems and
between them and the public debt of member countries,” he said.
“To reduce the dependence of the euro area as a whole on local
events the link between a country’s public finances and its
national banking system needs to be severed.”  The creation of the three European authorities in banking,
capital markets and insurance is a step toward implementing a
more homogeneous regulatory system, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jeffrey Donovan  in Lucca at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  