-- 
Hedge-Fund Survey, Popcorn, Energy Bill: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-11T16:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/hedge-fund-survey-popcorn-disclosure-energy-bill-compliance.html
(Corrects Stevens item to show that FHFA hasn’t had a
permanent director since August 2009.)  One in four hedge funds is already
clearing over-the-counter derivative trades, up from none in
October, before new rules require changes later this year to the
$583 trillion market, according to analysts at UBS AG.  Most interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps bought
and sold by money managers will be required to be processed by a
clearinghouse later this year under new U.S. regulations. UBS
analysts led by Alex Cram in  New York  surveyed money managers to
gauge how they’re reacting to the changes, following an initial
survey in October, they said in a note to clients yesterday.  About 50 firms responded to the survey, Cram said in an e-
mail. That would include 12 or 13 hedge funds, according to the
percentage breakdown of respondents in the note.  “The results from the current survey seem to indicate an
increasing level of urgency on the buy side around preparing for
the clearing of OTC derivatives,” he wrote.  Congress last year mandated that most OTC derivatives trade
on exchanges or similar electronic systems and be processed by
clearinghouses after credit-default swaps contributed to the
financial crisis.  Clearinghouses  increase stability in OTC
derivatives markets as well as transparency for regulators.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Senate Hearing on SEC  Schapiro Says Ex-Counsel Should Have Avoided Madoff Work  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
said David M. Becker, the agency’s former general counsel,
should’ve declined to work on policy related to Bernard Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme because of his family’s ties to the imprisoned
money manager.  “I wish that Mr. Becker had recused himself, absolutely,”
Schapiro told lawmakers at a House Oversight and Government
Reform subcommittee hearing yesterday. “It would have been
appropriate.”  Becker, 63, was sued over $1.5 million he and his brothers
reaped when they received their parents’ Madoff holdings after
their mother died in 2004. Becker said the lawsuit, filed by the
bankruptcy court trustee unwinding Madoff’s business, played no
role in his decision to leave the SEC last month and that his
Madoff work had been cleared by the agency’s ethics counsel.  Schapiro, who promised a “top-to-bottom” review of the
SEC’s ethics program, said she agreed after Becker was hired as
general counsel in 2009 that his work on Madoff policy wouldn’t
constitute a conflict of interest. Separately during the
hearing, Schapiro told the panel that SEC budget cuts sought by
Republican lawmakers would force staff furloughs, halt
technology improvements and block implementation of Dodd-Frank
Act rules. Those areas would be “profoundly impacted,” she
said, forcing “extremely difficult choices.”  Schapiro and five unit chiefs testified at House and Senate
hearings on SEC spending amid Republicans calls to slash the
agency’s budget by $25 million over the next six months. The SEC
officials pressed their case for funding to carry out new duties
imposed by the financial-regulation overhaul and boost market
oversight after missing Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Schapiro cited to the Boston Consulting Group’s 263-page
report, which her aides presented to Congress yesterday.  Federal spending for the current fiscal year -- including
the SEC budget -- has been frozen at fiscal 2010 levels by a
congressional standoff as Republicans who control the House push
to cut spending across the board to reduce the federal deficit.  President Barack Obama’s 2012 budget, released Feb. 14,
would give the agency a $305 million increase from the 2010
level and a 16 percent increase in staff.  The budget impasse is keeping the agency from improving its
market surveillance capabilities, which have been “severely
limited by our lack of technology,” Schapiro said, citing it as
one of the main areas where the new funding would be used.  For more, click here, and click here.  Schapiro, Katz, Cramming, Chairman Testify on  Capitol Hill   In addition to testimony by Schapiro, Jonathan Katz, a
former secretary at the SEC, Stephen Cramming, a former trial
attorney at the regulator, and Helen Chairman, a partner at
 Becker & Poliakoff LLP , also spoke before the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee in  Washington .  For video of the testimony, click here.  Issa Says Schapiro Hasn’t Kept Promise to ‘Fix’ SEC  U.S. Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican
and chairman of the  House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee , talked yesterday about the performance of Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro.  Issa said “public confidence is everything” with respect
to the SEC, and Schapiro “crossed the line” when she allowed
general counsel David M. Becker to “weigh in” on decisions
affecting the valuation of claims stemming from Bernard Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme, knowing that he had a personal interest in the
matter.  Issa spoke with  Carol Massar  and Matt Miller on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart.”  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  Movie Theaters Fight to Keep 1,460-Calorie Popcorn From Rule  Movie theater chains are fighting a U.S. requirement that
they disclose that their popcorn contains as many as 1,460
calories, or equal to almost three Big Macs.  Chain restaurants with at least 20 U.S. locations will have
to post the calorie content of menu items under a provision in
the health-care law. Regulators will propose rules by March 23
and can include concession stands and grocery stores, according
to  guidance  that came out last year.  Movie theaters and grocery stores are lobbying the Food and
Drug Administration to avoid the proposed regulation. Theater
chains led by Knoxville, Tennessee-based  Regal Entertainment
Group (RGC) , the biggest U.S. chain by sales, generate as much as one-
third of their annual revenue from concessions. Congress didn’t
mention theaters in the law and the idea of regulating them
never came up at legislative hearings, said Patrick Corcoran, a
spokesman for the  National Association of Theatre Owners , a
Washington-based trade group.  Movie theater chains were supposed to be targeted by the
mandate, said Representative Rosa DeLauro, a Connecticut
Democrat who sponsored a food-labeling bill in the House of
Representatives that was incorporated into the health-care law.  For more, click here.  House Proposes Oil Bill; Clean Energy Thwarted by Rules  Republicans in the U.S. House said they plan to introduce a
series of energy bills that would attempt to expand domestic oil
exploration as gasoline prices continue to rise.  The proposals will include legislation that would increase
access to domestic energy sources, speed regulatory review for
new pipelines and wells, and expand all forms of energy in the
U.S., House Speaker John Boehner and other Republicans said at a
news conference yesterday. They said the administration of
President Barack Obama has thwarted efforts at developing
domestic oil sources, a claim denied by the White House.  Separately, renewable-energy projects such as wind farms
and solar fields are just as hard to build in the U.S. as coal-
fired power plants because of regulatory obstacles and
activists’ protests, the U.S.  Chamber of Commerce  said.  Energy projects valued at $576.6 billion were abandoned,
delayed or challenged by the state governments or
environmentalists, according to a Chamber report released
yesterday. The Chamber is urging lawmakers to rein in
“excessive regulation” and President Thomas Donohue has led
criticism of regulations enacted during the Obama
administration.  The report listed 351 projects delayed by state and federal
action or by local protests.  For more, click here and click here.  EPA to Issue E15 Label Rules in Next Few Months, Chief Says  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency plans to issue
final rules for labeling gasoline pumps that carry a higher
blend of ethanol within months, Administrator Lisa Jackson said.  Jackson made the remarks yesterday in testimony before the
House Agriculture Committee about the EPA’s fiscal budget.  The EPA has been crafting label requirements after granting
a request from ethanol producers to raise the amount of the
corn-based additive in fuel for vehicles made for the 2001 model
year and later. Refiners will be able to blend gasoline with as
much as 15 percent ethanol, up from 10 percent.  The blend can’t be sold until federal rules are in place to
ensure that so-called E15 is labeled properly at gasoline pumps.
The requirements are aimed at preventing use of the fuel in
vehicles that aren’t approved to handle the new blend. Some
environmental groups and other opponents of E15 say they aren’t
convinced labeling measures will be enough to prevent damage to
engines.  For more, click here.  Norway Backs Sweden in Seeking Toughest Bank Capital Rules  Norway is signaling it may follow Sweden’s target of
imposing some of the world’s toughest capital requirements on
lenders as policy makers in Scandinavia embrace post-crisis
measures that banks warn will undermine competition.  Sweden’s regulator said this week it wants banks to target
capital ratios as high as 12 percent, and will probably require
systemically important lenders to aim for 15 percent by 2013.
The proposals have prompted the biggest Nordic lender,  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , to criticize policy makers, arguing that stricter rules
will distort competition and hurt the economy. Regulators in
Norway, home to the Nordic region’s second-biggest lender by
market value  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR) , say tighter rules are needed to stem
the risk of a housing bubble.  The Basel Committee for Banking Supervision set standards
in December that will require lenders to have a minimum core
Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of 7
percent plus a counter-cyclical buffer of 2.5 percentage points.
Banks have until 2019 to phase in the requirements. Basel is
also working on a model that will require systemically important
banks to have even higher buffers.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  States May Avoid Health-Law Mandates by Matching Coverage  U.S. states will be able to avoid mandates in the health-
care overhaul starting in 2017 by matching or exceeding the
law’s expansion of insurance coverage and maintaining its
consumer protections.  Under rules set to be issued yesterday by the Obama
administration, states may dodge provisions that have sparked
debate such as a mandate that most Americans obtain insurance.
To gain approval, the states also will have to prove their plans
won’t add to the deficit.  Vermont’s governor, Democrat Peter Shumlin, has said he
seeks to use an escape clause in the law to create a government-
run health system that would cover every resident and put
private insurers, including  Cigna Corp. (CI) , out of business in that
state.  The “innovation waivers” the government may issue in six
years enact that clause and will “empower states to take the
lead on implementing” the law, said Kathleen Sebelius,
President Barack Obama’s health secretary, in a statement.  The plan still gives the U.S. government final say over
what states must do to gain an exemption, said Michelle Dimarob,
a spokeswoman for House  Ways and Means Committee  Chairman Dave
Camp, Republican of Michigan.  SEC Suspends Trading in Securities of Five Companies  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in an e-
mailed statement that it temporarily suspended trading in five
companies.  The companies are:  Admiralty Holding Co. (ADMH) ,  American
Consolidated Management Group Inc. (ACMI) ,  DnC Multimedia Corp. (DCNMQ) ,  Dorsey
Trailers Inc. (DSYT)  and  ElectraCapital Inc. (ECTA)   Trading was suspended “due to a lack of current and
accurate information about the companies because they have not
filed certain periodic reports,” with the SEC, the agency said
yesterday in the statement.  Unnim, Bankinter to Address Capital Requirements in Spain  Unnim, a grouping of Spanish savings banks, is considering
“different alternatives” to raise capital, including seeking
funds from the state-rescue facility known as the FROB. It
commented about the capital needs in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The Bank of Spain said 12 lenders in the country need to
raise capital, of which eight are savings banks or “cajas.” It
made the comment in a statement yesterday.  Separately,  Bankinter SA (BKT)  needs 333 million euros of
capital, the Bank of Spain said in a statement on its website.
The bank has said it will issue 406 million euros in bonds that
must be converted into shares.  Courts  Rajaratnam Jurors Told of Inside Tips by Ex-McKinsey Director  Anil Kumar, then a McKinsey & Co. director, was secretly
updating Raj Rajaratnam while he helped  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD) ’s management negotiate a deal to sell chips to Hewlett-
Packard Co., Kumar told jurors.  Kumar, 52, testifying in Rajaratnam’s criminal insider-
trading trial in Manhattan federal court yesterday, said
Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, covertly hired
him as a consultant in 2003 for $500,000 a year in violation of
McKinsey rules. The money was paid into a Swiss bank account, he
said.  Beginning in 2004, Kumar began giving Rajaratnam
information about AMD’s finances, products and sales, he said.
Some of the first leaks centered on the efforts of AMD, Kumar’s
client, to sell $400 million of micro-processing chips to HP, a
deal that could dramatically increase AMD profits, he said.  In other evidence presented yesterday, jurors heard wiretap
recordings of Rajaratnam speaking to Kumar.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and hedge
fund traders. His trial started March 8.  Rajaratnam, who has denied wrongdoing, said he made his
trades as a result of legitimate Galleon research.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here, and click here, and click here.  Interviews/Speeches  FDIC’s Bair Warns of Possible Agriculture Credit Problem  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  spoke
about the possibility a steep rise in farmland prices in recent
years could spark an agricultural credit problem sometime down
the road.  Bair made the remarks at an FDIC farmland price symposium
in Arlington, Virginia. Her speech touched on FDIC “farm bank”
oversight and monitoring of risks.  For the video, click here, and for more, click here.  Millstein Says Some ‘Too Big to Fail’ Bigger Post-Crisis    Jim Millstein , former chief restructuring officer for the
U.S. Treasury, talked about the effectiveness of the Troubled
Asset Relief Program.  Millstein, who spoke with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack,” also discussed the performance of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and the profit made by the
U.S. government from TARP.  For the video, click here.  Bernstein’s Moffett Says Telecom Returns to Monopoly    Craig Moffett , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein, said
25 years after deregulation, the telecommunications industry is
headed “back to concentration and monopoly.”  Moffett talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Federal Housing Administration Head David Stevens to Resign  Federal Housing Administration Commissioner David H.
Stevens, who took over the agency in the midst of the worst
economic downturn since the 1930s, said he will leave the post
in mid-April.  Stevens, former president of real estate brokerage Long &
Foster, said yesterday he is considering a return to the private
sector.  Stevens’s departure will leave President Barack Obama with
two important housing posts to fill as homeowners continue to
struggle and foreclosures remain at record levels.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which regulates
government-run mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
hasn’t had a permanent director since James Lockhart left in
August 2009. Edward DeMarco, Lockhart’s top deputy, was
appointed acting director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 