-- 
Hedge-Fund Billionaire Bores Jury to Plant Doubts: Ann Woolner

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-03-11T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/hedge-fund-billionaire-bores-jury-to-plant-doubts-ann-woolner.html
Billed as a knock-down, drag-out
courtroom battle, the Raj Rajaratnam  insider trading  trial
opened in  Manhattan  this week with so many onlookers jockeying
for seats that it took two overflow rooms with closed-circuit TV
to accommodate them. The high-stakes prosecution of a hedge-fund
billionaire began with all the anticipated drama.  “Greed and corruption,” were the opening words of
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter as he began to
describe the case.  In a fast-moving hour, he took jurors on a tour of upcoming
trial highlights. He gave them tantalizing tidbits of tapped
phone conversations and described multimillion-dollar buy and
sell orders. One order in 2008, for $43 million in Goldman Sachs
stock, was too big for Wall Street to fill with only minutes
left until the closing bell, Streeter said.  Rajaratnam had been in a hurry to buy Goldman, and lots of
it, because at 3:55 p.m., the company’s director Rajat K. Gupta
had placed a call to him, moments after learning that  Warren Buffett  would be investing $5 billion in the then-troubled firm,
the prosecutor said.  So when it came time for lead defense lawyer John M. Dowd
to face jurors, he offered the combative tone you’d expect.  The feds are wrong about Rajaratnam because they “believed
the word of unbelievable people.” Dowd called witnesses against
Rajaratnam liars and fraudsters out to save their own skins.  Dense Defense  But in foreshadowing the defense case, Dowd gave jurors a
painful sampling of the tedium that lay ahead for them. Not
satisfied with laying out broad themes spiced with a few choice
highlights, he delved into excruciating detail to give reasons
for Rajaratnam’s trades. He explained what surely must have been
every suspicious trade the case covers. There are many.  As mid-afternoon stretched toward 5 p.m., Dowd was still
reading his statement, glancing up to make a stab at occasional
eye contact with jurors. The only relief came from memos the
defense displayed on monitors, but they proved boring and dense.  Jurors began fidgeting. One gazed upward to get a look at
the ceiling. Another adjusted his shirt cuff. There was a slouch
here, a squirm there. I expected to see some of them take off
their eyeglasses and begin eating them just for a diversion.  Finally, after 96 minutes, Dowd was done. He thanked jurors
for indulging him.  Was this a miscalculation by one of the country’s leading
white-collar defense lawyers? Or was it part of a strategy to
bore jurors into reasonable doubt?  Don’t laugh. If the defense can drag out regulatory
filings, company conference calls, newspaper clips and who knows
what to show so-called “insider knowledge” was actually public
knowledge, Rajaratnam wins and should.  Reason for Trade  And if all turns into an impenetrable haze, so be it.
Should jurors see an indecipherable glob of financial mumbo-
jumbo, the defense will call it a mosaic of legitimate
information that Rajaratnam amassed to inform his trades.  And maybe it is exactly that. We’ll see.  On the Goldman trade, Dowd told jurors Rajaratnam had just
learned, legitimately, that there was enough support in Congress
for a  Wall Street  bailout so he quickly bought millions of bank
shares, including Goldman.  The jury will have to decide whether that outweighs the
Gupta link. If the opening is any indication, the defense will
offer myriad explanations for the suspicious trades, enough to
intimidate even a savvy investor.  And this is a jury with few investors, savvy or otherwise.
Ten of the 12 jurors (and five of six alternates) have never
bought stocks, bonds or funds, if they accurately answered that
question during the selection process.  Ways of Street  As for education, it’s a mixed picture. Two jurors never
finished high school. Four have bachelor’s degrees, one a
master’s. Except for a juror who wasn’t asked and didn’t answer,
the others reported two or three years of college.  The prosecution’s job is to educate them in the arcane
world of Wall Street, down to the very complicated question of
when an insider’s tip is legal.  Streeter began the lessons at opening with some quick
primers on Wall Street,  hedge funds  and insider trading.  But in his questions to witnesses, he’s going to have to
keep it up.  Sometimes, the evidence will make Streeter’s job easy. This
happened yesterday when he began playing some of the phone
conversations the feds tapped into.  In one, Rajaratnam is talking with an investor friend about
a company’s pending acquisition.  “We know because one of our guys is on the board,”
Rajaratnam is heard saying. It doesn’t take a degree in  securities law  or a fat portfolio to figure out what that means.  Dowd is going to have a lot of explaining to do, and it
won’t be as entertaining as what Streeter has to offer.  But then, it isn’t meant to be.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in New York at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  