-- 
Egan ‘Goon Squad,’ Wilkerson ‘Migration’ Win Book Critics Award

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 
2011-03-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/egan-goon-squad-wilkerson-migration-win-book-critics-award.html
The National Book Critics Circle
gave its fiction award Thursday night in  Manhattan  to  Jennifer
Egan  for “A Visit From the Goon Squad” (Knopf), a time-
jumping, voice-shifting novel about youth, aging, power and pop
music.  Egan thanked her editors for their patience, especially
when she presented them with “an 80-slide PowerPoint” that
appears on individual pages in the novel.  “They published it so beautifully that Kindle readers have
e-mailed me to say that they were forced to buy the hardback to
read the PowerPoint,” Egan said. “So score one for print
publishing.”  The award for general nonfiction went to  Isabel Wilkerson 
for “The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America’s
Great Migration”   Random House ). Bloomberg’s review described
the book as an “extraordinary mosaic” in which “the Pulitzer
Prize-winning journalist combines oral history, research and
empathy to portray the origins and impact of the exodus of some
six million blacks from the South in the years 1915-1970.”  Darin Strauss  won the award for autobiography for “Half a
Life” (McSweeney’s), in which the author looks at the 18 years
following his accidental killing of a fellow high-school
student.  “This is obviously a very difficult thing,” Strauss said,
“so the fact that something positive is coming out of it is
really wonderful.”  The biography award went to  Sarah Bakewell  for “How to
Live, Or a Life of Montaigne in One Question and Twenty Attempts
at an Answer” (Other Press; Chatto & Windus in the U.K.), which
was shortlisted for the Costa biography award.  Long Time Coming  Clare Cavanagh  won in the criticism category for “Lyric
Poetry and Modern Politics:  Russia ,  Poland , and the West” (Yale
University Press). The book looks at how lyric poetry could make
political statements in totalitarian states.  Thanking Yale for sticking with a book that was a long time
coming, Cavanagh noted, “My son has a driver’s permit -- and I
was pregnant when they gave me the contract.”  The award for poetry went to  C.D. Wright  for “One With
Others: A Little Book of Her Days” (Copper Canyon). The book
was also a finalist for a National Book Award.  The Ivan Sandrof Lifetime Achievement Award went to the
 Dalkey Archive Press . Founded in  Chicago  in 1980 and based now
at the University of  Illinois , in Champaign, the nonprofit press
specializes in translations and contemporary fiction.  ‘Virtuosos of Their Art’  In presenting the award to founder John O’Brien, William
Gass noted the “pantheon” of writers -- such as himself, David
Markson, Joseph McElroy, Ishmael Reed and Gilbert Sorrentino --
Dalkey has published, as well as translations “of breathtaking
skill and utter dedication by virtuosos of their art.”  The Nona Balakian Citation for Excellence in Reviewing went
to Parul Sehgal, an editor for Publishers Weekly whose writing
appears in several publications and websites.  The  National Book Critics Circle  is an organization of
about 675 book reviewers and editors. Founded in 1974, the group
gave out its first awards the following year.  Nominees were chosen from books published in 2010 and
winners were selected by the group’s 24-member board of
directors, which includes Bloomberg book editor Laurie Muchnick.
The awards don’t come with a monetary prize, though they are
well-respected in the literary world.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 