-- 
Egypt’s First Political Changes May Neglect Women, Activists Say

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-03-11T01:49:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/egypt-s-first-political-changes-may-neglect-women-activists-say.html
  Egypt ’s initial efforts to revamp
its constitution are in danger of excluding protections for
women who helped lead the country’s 18-day revolution, according
to activists at the Women in the World conference in New York.  “Legal guarantees are absolutely critical,” said Sussan
Tahmasebi, who cofounded a campaign to end women’s inequality in  Iran . “This is the moment Egyptian women and Egyptians really
need to seize to ensure that women benefit from equal rights.
Women’s rights are human rights, you cannot bargain us away.”  Egypt, the most populous Arab country, in 1957 became the
first such nation to elect a woman to parliament, yet in 2005
just four women won seats. The People’s Assembly later created
64 positions for women. It’s unclear whether those posts will
remain reserved because the legislature was disbanded last month
after protests ousted President  Hosni Mubarak .  Mubarak was brought down by an unexpected coalition of
opposition politicians, members of the banned Muslim Brotherhood
group and tens of thousands of young people who planned and
organized demonstrations via Facebook and Twitter. In Tahrir
Square, the hub of the rebellion, women were from disparate
groups, veiled and not, Christian and Muslim, Westernized and
traditional.  Now, those women are being excluded from the formation of a
new constitution and government, said Dalia Ziada, 29, an
Egyptian author, blogger and activist.  Male protesters who stood side-by-side with women in the
streets are now telling them to go home, Ziada said.  ‘Shocking’ Reversal  “It was really shocking to everyone,” she said.
“Democracy will never happen without  women’s rights  being
achieved first.”  Egypt swore in new foreign, justice, interior and oil
ministers this month following protesters’ demands that the
government be purged of officials appointed under Mubarak.  “In the coming months and years, the women in Egypt and  Tunisia  and other nations have just as much right as the men to
remake their governments, to make them responsive, accountable,
transparent,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton   said in a 
March 8 speech at the 2011 International Women of Courage Awards
Ceremony.  The U.S. “will stand firmly for the proposition that women
must be included in whatever process goes forward,” Clinton
said. “No government can succeed if it excludes half of its
people from important decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sharon L. Lynch at 
 sllynch@bloomberg.net  