-- 
Egypt Buying of U.S. Crops Surged as Unrest Spurred Mubarak Exit

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-11T20:40:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/egypt-buying-of-u-s-crops-surged-as-unrest-spurred-mubarak-exit.html
  Egypt , the world’s largest wheat
importer, accelerated purchases of U.S. grain in the months
leading up to a revolution that ousted President Hosni Mubarak
in part because of high food costs and shortages.  U.S. exporters sold 1.48 million metric tons of wheat (3.3
million pounds) to Egypt in the four months through January, up
from 121,995 tons a year earlier, according to U.S. Department
of Agriculture data released today. The 550,058 tons shipped in
January was the most since August 2007, and purchases of U.S.
corn by Egypt more than doubled over four months, the data show.  Wheat, corn, soybean and rice prices surged to the highest
since 2008 in February, sending global food costs to a record,
after adverse weather damaged crops from  Australia  to  Russia  to  Canada . Mubarak, who ruled Egypt for three decades, resigned
Feb. 11 after 18 days of civilian protests.  “They’re trying to make sure the people in the street have
enough food to limit political instability,” said Alan Brugler,
the president of Brugler Marketing & Management LLC, a commodity
advisory company in Omaha,  Nebraska .  Egypt’s purchases from the U.S. were unusually high because
the government was competing for tighter global supplies, after
drought reduced output in Russia and rains limited harvests in
Australia, Brugler said.  “The Australians normally would be one of their alternate
suppliers, but they had a very wet harvest period, and their
quality went down,” he said.  Rising Demand    Algeria , Morocco, Iraq, Bangladesh,  Turkey  and Lebanon
issued tenders to buy wheat or rice last month, as food
inflation stoked political unrest in North Africa and the Middle
East. Worldwide food costs are up 34 percent in the past year,
according to a price index tracked by the  United Nations .  Rising demand for crops also is helping to boost U.S. net-
farm  income  in the U.S. by 20 percent this year to a record
$94.7 billion, the USDA said last month. Wheat has gained 50
percent in the past year on the Chicago Board of Trade.  U.S. corn exports to Egypt totaled 930,068 tons from
October to January, up from 351,604 tons a year earlier, and
soybean shipments are up 23 percent in that period, according to
USDA data. Corn prices have jumped 82 percent in the past 12
months.  U.S. agricultural shipments to  South Korea  also climbed,
according to today’s USDA report. Corn exports jumped 27 percent
during the October-to-January period, compared with the same
four months a year earlier. Wheat shipments rose 17 percent, and
soybean exports were up 11 percent, USDA data show.  South Korea culled more than 3 million animals because of
its worst outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. The Asian nation
may have stepped up its crop purchases early in the year to
secure supplies amid the outlook for higher prices, said  Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in West Des
Moines, Iowa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  