-- 
Lehman Doomed by Lending to Itself in Financial Alchemy Eluding Dodd-Frank

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d   a n d   B o b   I v r y
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/lehman-failed-lending-to-itself-in-alchemy-eluding-dodd-frank.html
By the time  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  became the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history,
plunging the economy into the worst financial crisis since the
1930s, the firm had made $3 billion in loans to itself in
transactions that even today would elude the Dodd-Frank law
designed to prevent such financial alchemy.  Lehman turned souring real estate investments into top-
rated securities that the bank’s insiders dubbed “goat poo,”
according to court records. The securities, called Fenway
commercial paper, helped keep Lehman afloat over the summer of
2008, until a trading partner determined they were “worth
practically nothing.” That precipitated Lehman’s demise on
Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy documents and a May 2010 Lehman
lawsuit show.  “It wasn’t a mistake to let Lehman fail, it was a mistake
to let it live so long,” said Ann Rutledge, a principal with
New York-based R&R Consulting and the co-author of two books on
structured finance.  Nothing in the 800-plus pages of the  Dodd-Frank  regulatory
overhaul enacted last year would prevent a bank from using
similar techniques to try to make regulators, credit-rating
companies and lenders believe it was healthier than it was, said
David Skeel, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law
School in Philadelphia.  “These kinds of transactions had a lot to do with the
financial crisis and Dodd-Frank doesn’t target them in any
direct way,” he said.    Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment for this story.  Pledged as Collateral  Lehman pledged Fenway notes as collateral to  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  in June 2008, according to a report by Lehman’s bankruptcy
examiner, Anton R. Valukas. By Sept. 11, 2008, JPMorgan
concluded the notes -- which Lehman valued at $3 billion -- were
“worth practically nothing as collateral,” the report says.  JPMorgan demanded $5 billion in cash to replace the notes
and other collateral on Sept. 12, 2008, according to the Valukas
report. Supplying those funds tapped Lehman out and accelerated
the bankruptcy, Lehman claimed in a May lawsuit.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to comment.  In its Fenway transactions, Lehman transferred dozens of
loans and equity positions in commercial real estate to a
conduit called Fenway Capital LLC, a unit of a finance firm
called  Hudson Castle Group Inc.  Lehman owned a minority stake in
Hudson Castle for years, the  New York  Times reported last year.  Lending to Itself  Hudson Castle had no financial stake in the Fenway notes or
the underlying assets, nor did it have a relationship with
Lehman that influenced the transaction, said Martin J. Bienenstock, a partner with Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in New York who
represents Hudson Castle.  Lehman sold its real estate assets under a repurchase
contract, or “repo” -- meaning the bank was agreeing to buy
them back later at a higher price. Then Fenway Funding LLC, a
Fenway Capital subsidiary, issued short-term notes backed by the
assets -- and Lehman bought the notes, said Irena M. Goldstein,
a lawyer who represents the Fenway entities, in a July 2009
deposition.  “It was basically, at the end of the day, one Lehman
entity owing money to another Lehman entity through Fenway as a
conduit,” Goldstein, a Dewey & LeBoeuf partner, said in her
deposition. It was given in a lawsuit brought against Lehman by
 SunCal Cos. , an  Irvine , California-based developer. The suit,
which seeks to put Lehman’s interests in 22 bankrupt projects
behind other creditors’, is awaiting a decision from the 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.  ‘Red Flags’  “Repo conduits” like Fenway allow banks to finance
longer-term assets such as real estate loans by borrowing short-
term from investors such as money-market funds. For Lehman
itself to buy the Fenway commercial paper was a sign of trouble,
Rutledge said.  “The fact that Lehman bought the Fenway notes after
creating them not only raises red flags, it shows that Lehman
was trying to sustain the illusion of financial health,” she
said.  It’s unclear which assets were backstopping the Fenway
notes when Lehman first pledged them to JPMorgan on June 19,
2008; Lehman was allowed to substitute them over time. A
document dated Aug. 14, 2008, and sent to potential buyers of
the notes makes clear that Lehman will cover interest and
principal payments on them “without regard to the market value
or credit quality of” the assets.  Records subpoenaed from JPMorgan Chase and dated Sept. 12,
2008, show that by that date, seven loans to SunCal were part of
the package. Lehman assigned those loans, which had a total face
value of $1.2 billion, a combined market value of $795 million,
according to the documents, which were made exhibits to SunCal’s
lawsuit against Lehman.  Desert Development  One of the loans was on 10,000 acres (4,046 hectares) of
land in  California ’s Mojave Desert, about 60 miles (97
kilometers) north of  Los Angeles , for a project called Ritter
Ranch. None of the 7,200 homes planned there has been built,
said David Soyka, a SunCal spokesman.  “The California real estate market was a bloody disaster
in 2008,” said John Burns, president of John Burns Real Estate
Consulting Inc. in Irvine, California.  While other buyers held at least some of the Fenway paper
through most of 2008, Lehman was the only buyer of its final
issuance, which defaulted in late September that year, according
to documents filed in the SunCal litigation and a report by
Deutsche Bank AG, the trustee for the commercial paper.  Unaware of Pledge  Lehman reimbursed Hudson Castle $1.6 million in April 2010
for Fenway-related fees and expenses, including legal costs,
through the end of February 2010, according to a settlement
agreement entered in the bankruptcy case. Hudson Castle didn’t
know Lehman pledged the Fenway notes as collateral to JPMorgan
until after the bankruptcy, said Bienenstock, Hudson Castle’s
lawyer.  “If Lehman did take advantage of JPMorgan by not being
candid that the paper was a Lehman credit, Hudson Castle is as
outraged and offended as JPMorgan,” he said.  Lehman’s use of certain repo transactions -- those known as
Repo 105 deals -- drew criticism in the Valukas report. The bank
used such transactions to move as much as $50 billion of assets
off its balance sheet just before reporting results -- and did
not disclose its obligations to buy the assets back, Valukas
found.  The New York Attorney General’s office sued Lehman’s
auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, on Dec. 21 for signing off on the
Repo 105 deals.  ‘Fight Another Day’  Unlike those transactions, the repos Lehman did with Fenway
didn’t make assets disappear. Instead, they turned illiquid
assets into highly rated securities that the bank used to
satisfy JPMorgan’s demand for collateral.  “Lehman was trying to live to fight another day,” said
Peter J. Henning, a professor at Wayne State University in  Detroit .  In April 2008, hedge fund manager  David Einhorn , the
president of New York-based Greenlight Capital Inc., told
attendees at an investment conference that he was betting
against Lehman’s stock because he believed the company was not
fairly valuing some real estate assets.  “I suspect that greater transparency on the valuations
would not inspire market confidence,” he said.  He also told the group he believed Lehman wanted “to shift
the debate to where it is on stronger ground. It wants the
market to focus on its liquidity.”  Lehman’s then-Chief Executive Officer Richard S. Fuld Jr.
told analysts in June 2008 that the bank’s liquidity -- that is,
its immediate access to funds -- was robust.  ‘Never Been Stronger’  Lehman’s “liquidity positions have never been stronger,”
Fuld said on June 16, 2008. Patricia Hynes, an attorney for
Fuld, did not respond to calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  In addition to posting the Fenway notes to JPMorgan as
collateral, Lehman improperly included them and other pledged
securities in its liquidity pool, the fund meant to be
accessible in case of emergency, the Valukas report said. Lehman
reported that the pool held $45 billion at the end of May 2008.  While there are no required minimums for such pools, “if
you tell the public something you can’t lie about it,” said Bob Byman, a partner with Jenner & Block LLP in  Chicago  and an
editor of the examiner’s report. “The truth was that Fenway
wasn’t liquid -- you couldn’t turn it into cash by calling a
broker and saying, ‘Sell it.’ But it was also pledged.”  Seeking Protection  After the near-collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. in March 2008,
JPMorgan and other Lehman trading partners, including  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and HSBC Holdings Plc, began asking
for additional cash and securities to protect their positions,
according to the Valukas report.  As Lehman’s clearing bank, JPMorgan settled its daily
trades and put up money to cover them. By August, Lehman had
posted about $8 billion in collateral, including Fenway paper,
to JPMorgan, the report said.  Lehman’s guarantee that Fenway would be repaid under its
repo won top grades for the commercial paper from  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) ,
which gave the notes the highest of three short-term investment-
grade ratings, and from  Standard & Poor’s , which gave them its
second highest rating. Both companies maintained high ratings
for Lehman until its bankruptcy. Edward Sweeney, an S&P
spokesman, and  Michael Adler , a spokesman for Moody’s, declined
to comment.  The guarantee that impressed the credit raters essentially
meant that JPMorgan, which was seeking collateral to protect
itself against a Lehman default, was “being given more Lehman
risk,” said Viral V. Acharya, a finance professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business.  ‘Layers of Complexity’  “The purpose of the Fenway transaction seemed to be to
create layers of complexity so that JPMorgan would not realize,
or not immediately realize, what they were being given,”
Acharya said.  It wasn’t until Sept. 11 that JPMorgan executives
questioned the value of the commercial paper and other
collateral, the Valukas report says. The next day, Craig M. Delany, a managing director at JPMorgan’s investment bank, wrote
to a colleague that he considered the Fenway notes “dicey,”
according to an e-mail in the report.  Delany and other JPMorgan executives determined that
various Lehman collateral, including the Fenway paper, “could
not be relied upon to be worth anything near” face value on the
open market, the Valukas report says. Delany “assigned no value
to Fenway,” it says.  ‘A Financial Gun’  As a result, JPMorgan officials requested $5 billion more
in cash collateral as a condition of extending credit to Lehman,
the report says. Lehman executives, who considered the demand
“a financial gun” to their head, posted the money on Sept. 12,
a Friday, according to a lawsuit Lehman filed against JPMorgan
in May.  It was “essentially its last available $5 billion of
cash,” Lehman said in the lawsuit. The following Monday, Lehman
declared bankruptcy.  Lehman is suing JPMorgan for allegedly calling for
unreasonable amounts of collateral, accelerating its failure.
JPMorgan is countersuing, saying it was misled over a portfolio
of securities it was left with after  Barclays Plc (BCS)  acquired
Lehman’s broker-dealer unit.  One such security was Restructured Assets with Enhanced
Returns, or RACERS. Like Fenway, it was created through a series
of transactions, including repos and guarantees, in which Lehman
entities were on both sides of a contract, according to a
monthly operating report Lehman filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission on Jan. 21.  ‘Toxic’ RACERS  The Lehman employees who called the Fenway notes “goat
poo” used the same term for RACERS, according to JPMorgan’s
countersuit. In April 2008, one of them called RACERS “toxic,”
according to the claim.  Mark Lane , a Barclays spokesman,
declined to comment.  In the 30 months since Lehman declared bankruptcy,
government officials haven’t done enough to require adequate
disclosure from financial firms about how they fund themselves,
said Acharya, the NYU professor. Regulators should see their
day-to-day liability structures -- and then make the data
available to markets after a delay, he said.  “The issue of frequency of public and regulatory reporting
is worth revisiting,” Acharya said.  While the Dodd-Frank legislation permits the  Federal
Reserve  to limit banks’ short-term debt, “including off-balance
sheet exposures,” the Fed has not proposed such a rule yet. It
will by January 2012, after seeking public comments, said  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman for the U.S. central bank.  Desperate Measures  Lehman’s use of the Fenway notes reflects the bank’s
desperation in the spring and summer of 2008, said William K. Black, a professor of law and economics at the University of
Missouri-Kansas City who testified to Congress about the
bankruptcy.  “When you’re insolvent, then it’s rats in a maze, a maze
with no exit,” Black said. “They scurry and bang against the
wall and then go in another direction and bang into the wall
again. It doesn’t work at the end of the day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Richard in New York at 
 Crichard5@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Ivry in New York at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 