-- 
Emerging Market Stocks Fall on Japan Quake, Chinese Inflation

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-03-11T12:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/emerging-market-stocks-fall-on-japan-quake-chinese-inflation.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
driving the benchmark index to its biggest weekly drop in a
month, after an 8.9-magnitude  earthquake  hit Japan, Middle East
protests spread and Chinese inflation rose more than estimated.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.1 percent to
1,103.57 at 11:28 a.m. in London, taking its weekly decline to
3.1 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 1.3 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.8 percent.  Russia ’s Micex Index
slid 1 percent as  oil prices  retreated. Turkish bonds rallied
after the country sold $2.2 billion of 10-year yen bonds in the
largest sovereign offering of Samurai debt in a decade.  The world’s strongest quake in more than six years struck
the coast of Japan causing a tsunami as high as 30 feet that
inundated towns north of Tokyo, fueling concern the economy may
slow.  Saudi Arabia  said security forces yesterday broke up a
protest in the city of al-Qatif ahead of an anti-government
“Day of Rage.” People’s Bank of  China  Governor Zhou Xiaochuan
said the government will use  interest rates  to control
inflation, at 4.9 percent in February.  “The Japan earthquakes added another uncertainty to
markets that were already plagued with turmoil in the Middle
East,” said Kang Shin Woo, chief investment officer at Seoul-
based Korea Investment Management Co., which manages $17
billion. “This could raise concern for the Japanese economy
that has showed some signs of recovery.”  The ruble declined as much as 0.7 percent against the
dollar, and the rand weakened by 0.6 percent. The Polish zloty
depreciated by 0.7 percent against the euro.  Oil Falls    Brent crude  slid 1.9 percent as the Japanese earthquake
forced refiners to shut processing plants, hitting the demand
outlook for oil.    Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. declined 2.2
percent in  Hong Kong , while China Construction Bank Corp.
slipped 1.8 percent. China’s central bank will use interest
rates to control inflation, while the yuan’s exchange rate isn’t
the most important tool for controlling consumer price gains,
central bank Governor Zhou said today.  The rise in consumer prices reported by the statistics
bureau today was more than the 4.8 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists. In January, the increase
was also 4.9 percent. The government has a 4 percent inflation
target for the full year.  “Speculation about tighter monetary policies may rebound.
That would lead the market to gyrate and move downwards,” said
Tu Jun, a strategist at Shanghai Securities Co.  Indian Inflation  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
slid 0.8 percent after factory output rose 3.7 percent in
January, raising concern the central bank will be more likely to
raise interest rates next week to quell inflation. The output
data compared with a median forecast of 2.9 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists.    South Korea ’s Daelim Industrial Co. dipped 4.7 percent,
while Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. fell 2 percent.
Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co. also dropped 3 percent.
South Korean builders won $47.25 billion of orders from the
Middle East last year, according to the Seoul-based  Korea Trade-
Investment Promotion Agency.   Muammar Qaddafi’s son said Libyan government forces are
mounting a full-scale attack on rebels, as NATO defense
ministers said they lacked authority to impose the no-fly zone
sought by the opposition.  In Moscow, state-run OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender,
agreed to buy Troika Dialog for at least $1 billion to move into  investment banking . Sberbank’s shares advanced as much as 0.5
percent after the announcement, and last traded down 1.9
percent.  Turkish Yields  Turkish two-year benchmark bonds rallied, pushing down
yields 5 basis points to 8.86 percent, after the country was
able to borrow in yen at the same borrowing costs as higher-
rated nations. The index shows yields have retreated 25 basis
points since March 8, the biggest three-day decline in a month.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps rose 2 basis points
to 201.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and  U.S. Treasuries  widened 1 basis point
to 267, according to the JPMorgan Chase EMBI+ Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  