-- 
Emerging Inflation `Danger' as Brazil's Fraga Assails Controls on Capital

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-03-11T02:02:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/emerging-inflation-danger-as-brazil-s-fraga-assails-controls-on-capital.html
Emerging markets face a
“definitive danger” from accelerating inflation and should
resist the temptation to impose capital controls to stem
currency gains, said  Arminio Fraga , the head of Brazil’s stock
exchange and a former central bank president.  The Bank of  Korea  raised interest rates for the second time
this year yesterday after inflation exceeded its target ceiling
for two consecutive months, joining Thailand and  Vietnam  in
lifting borrowing costs this week amid a surge in  oil prices .
Brazil boosted rates five times in the past year after annual
inflation quickened to the fastest pace since November 2008.  “There is a definitive danger and I think we have to watch
it,” Fraga, 53, told investors at an event at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York yesterday.  Inflation is picking up after crude oil in New York jumped
about 25 percent in the past year and futures touched $106.95 on
March 7, the highest intraday price since Sept. 26, 2008. In
developing nations, growing domestic demand and increased
foreign inflows lured by higher yields at a time when U.S. and
European  interest rates  are near zero are also fueling price
increases.  Investors withdrew $2.5 billion from emerging-market stock
mutual funds in the week ended March 2, the sixth straight week
of outflows, according to a March 4 Citigroup Inc. report that
cited data from research firm  EPFR Global . Investors are paring
bets on shares in the fastest-growing economies after pouring
more than $90 billion into emerging-market stock funds last
year, the biggest-ever annual inflows, according to EPFR data.  Capital Controls  Fraga, chairman of BM&F Bovespa SA, Latin America’s largest
exchange, said he is also worried that countries may be enticed
to impose more capital controls to stem currency appreciation as
rising interest rates lure speculators. The Brazilian real is up
40 percent in the past two years, second only to  South Africa ’s
rand among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Countries from Brazil to  South Korea  have taken steps such
as raising taxes on foreign purchases of bonds to stem currency
gains that hurt export growth. While capital controls may work
in the short-term and for individual countries, economic
fundamentals need to be addressed longer-term, Fraga said.  “It is also one of those things that tend to be a
temptation in the short term,” he said. “We used it in Brazil.
But long term, it doesn’t work, and you really have to address
the true problems. In the case of Brazil, very high interest
rates need to be addressed with solid fundamental responses in
order for us to attract less short-term money.”  Central Bank Target    Brazil  is taking the right steps to curb inflation, which
is being fueled by outside factors as well as by strong domestic
demand in Latin America’s largest economy, and price increases
should move toward the central bank’s target, Fraga said.  Banco Central do Brasil raised its benchmark overnight rate
on March 2 by a half-point to 11.75 percent to cool inflation
that accelerated to 6.01 percent in February on a year-on-year
basis, from 5.99 percent in January. The central bank has an
inflation target of 4.5 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage
points.  As the head of Brazil’s central bank from 1999 to 2002,
Fraga halted a plunge in the real and curbed inflation, paving
the way for an economic recovery following the country’s
decision to devalue the currency and let it trade freely against
the dollar in 1999.  Inflation is like “a disease, a virus -- it’s there and
you can never kill it,” Fraga said. “If you relax, it comes
back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in  New York  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  