-- 
Eni Chief Scaroni Warns of Risk That Libya Could Turn Into a Failed State

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 
2011-03-11T06:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/eni-chief-scaroni-warns-against-allowing-libya-to-become-a-failed-state.html
  Eni SpA (ENI) , the biggest foreign oil
producer in  Libya , warned against allowing Libya to end up as a
failed state.  “What would be the worst potential outcome is to have a
kind of Somalia situation in Libya that has no government for a
long period of time,” Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni 
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television late yesterday.
“But if this happens, this will not just be Eni’s problem. It
will be a problem for  Europe , for everybody.”  The uprising against the rule of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has intensified, sending oil prices to a 2 1/2-year
high. The division of the country into two wouldn’t
“necessarily be bad for us,” Scaroni said, since a prolonged
power vacuum would be the worst possible outcome.  As the biggest energy producer in  Africa , Rome-based Eni
has had plenty of experience in dealing with revolutions in the
past, the CEO said.  “And normally contracts are respected, simply because
everyone who is in power needs” the income generated by oil
exports, he said.  Eni said it will halt all remaining oil output from Libya
in the next few days. Production has already been cut by two-
thirds. The Italian company pumped 280,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day from Libya before the crisis.  Output Target  Eni is targeting output growth in excess of 3 percent
through 2014, led by projects in Iraq, Venezuela, Angola and  Russia . That forecast depends on the suspension of Libyan
production being temporary, Scaroni told analysts at the
company’s strategic plan presentation in  London  yesterday.  The company said that the impact of lower output in the
north African nation has been more than offset by higher  oil
prices .  Facilities are on “hot standby” in Libya ready to restart
quickly, it said in a  presentation . None of the company’s oil
infrastructure has been damaged by the violence. Eni is
currently producing 10 million cubic meters of gas a day to
supply the domestic market.  Speculation about a Libyan stake in Eni is a “legend,”
Scaroni told a press conference. “We found only one entity
which owns 0.5 percent of the company, has Libya in its name but
is based in  Bahrain ,” he said. The producer has since informed
the market regulator about the shareholding.  Investment  Eni plans 53.3 billion euros ($74 billion) of investments
in the next three years, most of which will be focused on
upstream operations. The company said its overall production in
2014 will exceed 2.05 million barrels of oil equivalent a day.
It had previously targeted annual output growth of 2.5 percent
from 2010 to 2013.  “Our confidence is underpinned by progress on giant
projects in Venezuela, Russia, and Angola,” Scaroni said. “We
are now entering a very positive productive phase.”  The current dividend estimate is based on oil prices at $70
a barrel, Scaroni said. Eni would consider changing the base for
the estimate if oil prices remain higher, the CEO said.  Eni will keep its 33 percent stake in Galp Energia SGPS
unless it gets a premium to the share price performance of
Portugal’s biggest oil company in the past three months,
according to Scaroni.    Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
producer, last month ended talks with Eni to buy a 4.1 billion-
euro stake in Galp.  Eni would also consider the sale of its stake in Snam Rete
Gas SpA, the owner of Italy’s natural-gas grid, Scaroni said.  “If we had approval of the government and found a buyer
willing to pay a premium on the market price we would consider
the sale,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net 
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy   at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 