-- 
European Leaders Back Merkel's Economy Pact as Debt-Crisis Endgame Nears

-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-11T21:46:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/eu-leaders-back-merkel-growth-pact-as-sovereign-crisis-endgame-approaches.html
Leaders of the 17 euro nations
backed a plan to tighten economic cooperation, clearing German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s condition for a comprehensive package
to counter the debt crisis.  The blueprint commits nations to enact budget rules into
law, a core German demand, a draft obtained by Bloomberg News
showed. Intended to boost competitiveness, the pact sets goals
rather than binding targets on policies from raising the  retirement age  to reducing labor costs. That helped overcome
objections to the version proposed by Germany and  France  last
month.  Euro-area leaders agreed “in principle on the pact for the
euro,” European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a
statement as the officials met in Brussels today. The leaders
are “still discussing the other elements of the package.”  Following the agreement, European policy makers will turn
to breaking a deadlock on crisis-fighting steps as they approach
a self-imposed deadline of a late-March summit. Bond yields in  Greece  and Portugal touched euro-era records this week and debt
ratings of Greece and  Spain  were cut, while the euro recorded
its biggest weekly drop since the first week of 2011.  “There is not much time left,” Pier Carlo Padoan, chief
economist with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris, said in a telephone interview. “This is a
critical time for Europe -- a failure to provide an effective
response to the situation would be something that everybody in
Europe would pay for and regret.”  Irish Clash  With two weeks to the summit endgame, Merkel and Irish
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  clashed over company tax rates after
the chancellor insisted on a common corporate tax base as the
condition for agreeing to ease the terms of Ireland’s 85
billion-euro ($118 billion) bailout.  Kenny dismissed her offer, which she outlined to lawmakers
in Berlin yesterday, as an attack on Ireland’s 12.5 percent
rate. Arriving for his first summit as leader, he called it
“harmonization of taxes through the back door.”  The European Commission, the EU’s executive body, will
present a proposal on a common corporate tax base in the coming
weeks, the agency said today.  Merkel, at the helm of  Europe ’s largest economy and the
biggest country contributor to the Greek and Irish bailouts,
also insisted that Greece sell state assets before winning any
relief on the cost of Greece’s rescue loans, four lawmakers who
attended the closed-doors briefing in Berlin said. Greece has
already dismissed selling state-owned land to cut debt.  Record Bond Yields  Greek 10-year yields rose 6 basis points to 12.81 percent
and similar-maturity Irish yields jumped 14 basis points to 9.65
percent. Greek securities plunged this week after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation’s rating, already at junk, by
another three levels, saying the probability of default had
increased. Credit-default swaps on Greek government debt rose 8
basis points to a record 1,048 basis points today.  Speaking in Brussels after a morning session with all 27 EU
leaders to discuss  Libya , Merkel for the first time hinted that
she may back bulking up the EU rescue fund for indebted states
to its full 440 billion-euro capacity.  Retooling the fund to its intended size and an easing of
Greek and Irish debt terms are “the least that international
investors can expect this month,” said  Stuart Thomson , chief
economist at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow. “Inevitably
this will end in a messy compromise that fails to resolve the
peripheral solvency crisis and merely prolongs the agony.”  Portuguese Deficit  The yield on  Portugal ’s five-year debt surged to a euro-era
record of 8 percent today on speculation that Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  would soon be forced to follow Greece and Ireland
and seek a bailout. Portugal’s 10-year bond yields reached 7.70
percent on March 9, the highest since at least 1997.  With the debt crisis lapping at Portugal’s shores,
Socrates’s government today announced “significant” new
commitments on deficit reduction amounting to 0.8 percent of
gross domestic product for this year.  The additional measures should allow Portugal to bring the
deficit down to the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2012, and are “an
important building block of the needed comprehensive response to
the sovereign debt crisis,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a statement.  “I hope the European leaders understand the seriousness of
the situation we’re facing,” Portuguese Finance Minister
Fernando Teixeira Dos Santos said in Lisbon.  ‘Remarkable’ Cuts  Merkel, hemmed in by coalition resistance to burdening
German taxpayers with additional rescue costs before six state
elections, praised the “remarkable” Portuguese budget cuts,
while saying that debt-wracked countries still have more
austerity “homework” to do as part of the deal that EU leaders
aim to have in place by month’s end.  The pact, which includes chapters on competitiveness,
labor, sustainable public finances and the stability of
financial systems, ran into opposition when it was floated by
Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on Feb. 4.  The document, reworked by a panel chaired by  Van Rompuy  and
Jose Barroso, president of the Brussels-based commission, leaves
countries free to find their own policy mix without imposition
from above.  “Concrete national commitments” will be made by leaders,
benchmarked against “the best performers” among EU states, the
pact said. The agreement will be ratified at the March 24-25
summit.  “There were proposals that went too far. What now is on
the table is fine,” Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  told
reporters. “At the same time, it is all very much national and
not enforceable, but it will undoubtedly help to strengthen the
economies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Brussels at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  