-- 
EU Should Urgently Set Carbon-Withholding Rules, Orbeo Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-11T19:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/eu-needs-to-urgently-set-rules-for-withholding-carbon-permits-orbeo-says.html
The European Union needs to move
quickly to set rules for removing and then bringing back carbon
permits in the world’s biggest emissions market, according to an
analyst at Orbeo.  The timing and quantity of any set-aside from the market,
affecting the supply and price of carbon permits, would make it
easier for utilities to decide about shutting down fossil-fuel
plants, said  Emmanuel Fages , a Paris-based analyst at Orbeo, the
emissions trading venture of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and Rhodia SA.  The EU is considering holding back permits after the
recession reduced demand for emissions and created an oversupply
of about 488 million metric tons in the five years through 2012,
according to estimates by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. At the
same time, utilities’ demand for pollution permits may be
limited as they begin to close coal plants, Fages said.  “If there is a set aside, utilities will decide to close
their most carbon-intensive  power plants  earlier,” he said
today by phone. “The more uncertainty there is, the more
difficult it is to make the right decisions on closures.”  The rules for returning reserve allowances to the market
also are important, because that would boost supply and limit
future price rises, Fages said. EU carbon futures for December
fell 0.3 percent to 15.75 euros ($21.86) a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London. They are up 17 percent from a
year ago.  Utilities may close 38 gigawatts of capacity as the EU
backs away from free carbon allowances and auctions become
predominant starting in 2013,  E.ON AG (EOAN)  said March 9 in a slide on
its website. “Full auctioning of CO2 certificates will lead to
significant capacities at risk,” according to the slide.  Lower Margins  The U.K. and Germany may close about nine stations,
assuming one gigawatt of capacity each, followed by seven in  Italy  and five in  Spain , according to the E.ON slide, which
didn’t specify a timeframe for the closures.  Without EU rules on set asides, utilities may keep coal
plants open in case there is no set aside, increasing costs and
curbing power profits, Fages said. The EU needs to set up a
regulator, perhaps a carbon bank, that would independently
decide when criteria are met, he said. Carbon-price volatility
may be a better criterion for triggering a set aside or
returning allowances than absolute carbon prices, he said.  Market Risk  “What the European Commission does by keeping its options
open is to increase the risk in the market for participants,”  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst for  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in London, said
yesterday by e-mail. “Will installations really invest in
greater emissions reductions if there is a risk that they may
not be needed?”  It may not be worthwhile to create uncertainty in the
markets only to bring forward a 25 percent emissions-reduction
target to 2020 from 2023, Sikorski said. The EU sets its
reduction targets from levels in 1990.  Utilities will have to pay for carbon allowances rather
than get them for free starting in 2013, which will take
precedence over any set aside as the companies decide which
generating stations to close, said Matthew Cowie, a London-based
analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “The fact that the
set-aside might raise the EU allowance price that they do have
to pay by a couple of euros should really be only of marginal
concern to them.”  The margin from selling power from coal generation in  Germany  in 2012 dropped as low as 1.91 euros a megawatt-hour on
Dec. 20 last year, the lowest since at least May 2008, when
Bloomberg began tracking the so-called clean dark-spread data.
The spread, which measures profits after coal and carbon-permit
costs, was at 2.15 euros a megawatt-hour today.  E.ON said there is a “massive” oversupply of generation
capacity, and utility profits may be hurt, said Mark Lewis,
analyst for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in Germany. Lewis likens the
situation to William Shakespeare’s Hamlet.  “Hamlet’s tragedy is that his indecision and dithering
means he fails to act in good time, his fatal hesitation finally
triggering a bloodbath at the end of the play,” the analyst
said yesterday by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  