-- 
EU Seeks Comment on Aid for Firms Prone to ‘Carbon Leakage’

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   P e t e r   C h a p m a n
-- 
2011-03-11T15:55:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/eu-seeks-comment-on-aid-for-firms-prone-to-carbon-leakage-1-.html
The European Union is seeking
comments on possible financial support after 2012 for companies
that would be inclined to relocate manufacturing to regions that
aren’t subject to emission restrictions.  Consultation on state aid to compensate companies prone to
what is known as “carbon leakage” started today and will run
through May 15, the EU said on its website. To prevent
businesses from shifting production elsewhere to avoid pollution
restrictions, the EU agreed in 2009 to grant 164 manufacturing
industries a greater share than other companies of free CO2
permits after 2012.  The 27-nations EU, which has given away the majority of
emission permits since it started the world’s biggest carbon-
trading system, will sell majority of allowances in the next
phase of the program beginning in 2013 and runs through 2020. EU
emissions law also allows member states to adopt measures to
compensate the companies for the costs relating to greenhouse
gas discharges passed on in electricity prices, or so-called
indirect emission costs.  “The purpose of this consultation is to invite member
states and stakeholders to express their views on the issue of
financial support for indirect emission costs,” the European
Commission, the EU regulatory arm, said in a  statement  in
Brussels today.  Contributions are particularly sought from environmental
organizations, industry groups representing companies in the
ETS, associations as well as national and regional authorities,
it said.  Industries at Risk  Permits still allocated for free in the cap-and-trade
program from 2013 will be handed out to companies based on a
benchmarking method that promotes the most-efficient
installations in a given industry. Industries deemed at risk
from carbon leakage will receive 100 percent of benchmarked
allowances for free, according to the EU law. The list will be
valid through 2014 and then revised based on unchanged criteria.  “The directive foresees that such support should only be
granted where it is necessary and proportionate and should
ensure that the EU ETS incentives to save energy and stimulate a
shift in demand from ‘grey’ to ‘green’ electricity are
maintained,” the commission said.  Manufacturers that aren’t on the list will receive 80
percent of benchmarked allowances for free in 2013 and face an
annual decline in that share to 30 percent in 2020, while most
utilities will face 100 percent auctioning as of 2013.  ‘Highly Distortive’  The EU’s emissions trading system, known as the ETS,
imposes limits on more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturing
companies and sets a 2020 cap on discharges that would be 21
percent below 2005 levels. One EU permit carries the right to
emit 1 metric ton of carbon dioxide.  The possibility of financial support under the EU law is
based on the premise that aid “for indirect emissions may be
highly distortive, if it is not properly targeted to sectors
that are at significant risk of carbon leakage due to indirect
emissions and limited to the additional cost stemming from the
third phase of the ETS for the most efficient firms,” the
commission said.  “Otherwise, aid would introduce economic distortions
within the EU economy and have a detrimental impact on the
efficiency of the EU ETS,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  