-- 
EU Summit Clash Looms as Irish Prime Minister Rejects Merkel Bailout Terms

-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-03-11T12:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/eu-summit-clash-looms-as-irish-prime-minister-rejects-merkel-bailout-terms.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
rebuffed German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s conditions on easing
bailout terms, setting up a clash as European Union leaders
struggle to break a deadlock on tackling the debt crisis.  Kenny, arriving for his first summit as Ireland’s leader,
rejected Merkel’s position to harmonize the corporate tax base
in the euro region. Greece has already dismissed selling state-
owned land to cut debt, her other prerequisite for reducing the
cost of rescue loans.  “I’ve come here in two days in government with a very
strong mandate from the Irish people,” Kenny told reporters in
Brussels today. Late yesterday, he said, “I would not support
any adoption of a common corporation tax rate.”  EU leaders are entering the final round of bargaining as
they attempt to hammer out a package to snuff out the euro-area
crisis by a March 25 deadline. Bond yields in  Greece  and  Portugal  touched euro-era records this week and debt ratings of
Greece and  Spain  were cut.  “There is not much time left,” Pier Carlo Padoan, chief
economist with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris, said in a telephone interview. “This is a
critical time for  Europe  -- a failure to provide an effective
response to the situation would be something that everybody in
Europe would pay for and regret.”  After Portugal’s 10-year bond yields reached 7.70 percent
on March 9, the highest since at least 1997, Prime Minister  Jose Socrates ’s government today announced “significant” new
commitments on deficit reduction.  Portuguese Cuts  The additional measures amount to 0.8 percent of gross
domestic product for this year and should allow Portugal to
bring the deficit down to the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2012, EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.  The move is “an important building block of the needed
comprehensive response to the sovereign debt crisis,” Rehn said
in a statement. Portugal’s five-year yield rose 15 basis points
to 7.92 percent, a fresh record, as of 11:15 a.m. in London amid
speculation Socrates would soon seek a financial lifeline.  “I hope the European leaders understand the seriousness of
the situation we’re facing,” Portuguese Finance Minister
Fernando Teixeira Dos Santos said in Lisbon.  Merkel, hemmed in by her coalition’s resistance to burden
German taxpayers with additional bailout costs before six state
elections, signaled flexibility yesterday for the first time in
tackling the crisis that forced Greece and then Ireland to seek
aid from the EU and International Monetary Fund.  Rescue-Fund Capacity  In addition to backing what she called a moderate reduction
in the cost of Greek and Irish loans, Merkel indicated support
for raising the European rescue fund’s effective lending
capacity to its headline figure of 440 billion euros ($605
billion) and for making sure that the facility replacing it in
2013 can pay out its full 500 billion euros if needed, according
to four lawmakers who were present at the closed-door hearing.  In return, she set a proviso that any about-turn by  Germany 
over interest paid by Greece and Ireland for aid be tied to
strict conditionality, the lawmakers said.  That offer was shot down by Kenny after he held talks with
European Commission President Jose Barroso.  “I’ve already made the case that I consider the common
corporate tax base would have the same effect: this would be
harmonization of taxes through the back door,” Kenny said.  Kenny and Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou traveled
to Berlin separately last month to persuade Merkel to support an
easing of lending terms. She snubbed Kenny’s plea to cut the
cost of Ireland’s 85 billion-euro bailout at a March 4 meeting
of their European  People’s Party , saying “relief isn’t the
issue.” Kenny wants to lower the 5.8 percent interest rate on
aid loans and end the protection of senior bank bondholders.  ‘Historic Decisions’  Papandreou, arriving for the summit today, called for EU
leaders to take “historic decisions.”  “We have taken the pain to make country economically
viable,” he said. “But we now need European decisions, strong
decisions, to calm the markets.”  Greek securities plunged this week after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the nation’s rating, already at junk, by another
three levels, saying the probability of default had increased.  The difference in yield, or spread, between Spanish and
German securities increased for a fourth day, rising five basis
points to 231 basis points, or 2.31 percentage points, as of
7:42 a.m. in  London . The Italian-German yield spread widened
four basis points to 176 basis points. The euro fell 0.3 percent
to $1.3758 as of 11:29 a.m. in Berlin.  Competitiveness Plan  As part of the quest for a comprehensive crisis-fighting
package, the EU is closing in on a plan today to raise the
region’s competitiveness and tighten economic cooperation,
German and French officials said.  The pact, which includes chapters on competitiveness,
labor, sustainable public finances and the stability of
financial systems, sets objectives rather than binding targets,
leaving countries free find their own policy mix, the officials
said on condition of anonymity because the talks are not public.  “I can imagine the euro zone countries will agree on the
competitiveness pact,” Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  told
reporters today. “At the same time, it is all very much
national and not enforceable, but it will undoubtedly help to
strengthen the economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Brussels at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Brussels at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  