-- 
EU Wants Qaddafi Out, Sees Libyan Rebels as Partners for Diplomatic Talks

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-03-11T17:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/eu-wants-qaddafi-out-sees-libyan-rebels-as-partners-for-diplomatic-talks.html
European Union leaders demanded
Libyan ruler  Muammar Qaddafi  step down and said they would talk
with insurgents, stopping short of agreeing to military steps or
following France in granting the rebels diplomatic recognition.  “We want the dictator Qaddafi to resign,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today after leaders of the 27-
nation bloc met in Brussels. “We accept the Revolutionary
Council as a partner for talks. That doesn’t imply recognition
as the only partner for talks, but it is a partner.”  The EU didn’t agree to new measures aimed at dislodging the
Libyan leader, saying it needed  United Nations  and Arab support
before steps such as a no-fly zone could be considered. EU
President Herman van Rompuy said leaders should hold a summit
with the Arab League and the  African Union .  “The truth is Qaddafi is still on the rampage waging war
on his own people and at the moment there is no sign of this
ending,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said. “We simply do
not know how bad this could get or what horrors already lie
hidden in the Libyan desert.”  EU leaders met after the U.S. and its NATO allies said
yesterday they lacked the authority to impose a no-fly zone over
Libya to ground Qaddafi’s air force. The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization agreed to deploy ships off Libya, holder of
Africa’s largest oil reserves, and said more planning and a UN
mandate were needed to establish a no-fly zone.  Qaddafi Offensive  Forces loyal to Qaddafi bombarded rebels in control of oil
installations in Ras Lanuf, which has a tanker terminal, storage
depot and the country’s largest refinery. Anti-regime forces
said they would seek to secure energy fields and infrastructure.  EU leaders failed to reach consensus on what actions might
trigger the imposition of a Libyan no-fly zone.  “We discussed the question about a military intervention
in  Libya  in great detail,” Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker told reporters after the meeting. “Opinions on
this point are partially if not completely divergent.”  Poland’s Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  also indicated that EU
leaders disagreed on the subject at the one-day meeting. “Some
countries were of the opinion that it would be too much of a
signal that we are ready for an intervention,” he said.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  hinted that UN approval
might not be necessary if Arab nations back a no-fly zone.
“We’ll see” if the UN fails to approve a no-fly zone over
Libya, but countries in the region ask for one, he said.  Chemical Weapons  Sarkozy said earlier that with backing of the UN and  Arab
League , he favored “targeted actions that are solely of a
defensive nature in case Mr. Qaddafi uses chemical weapons or
air strikes” against peaceful demonstrators.  Fighting raged around Ras Lanuf after Qaddafi’s son pledged
to mount a full-scale attack against the uprising.  Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, who has become a spokesman for his
father, said the government will never surrender to the rebels.  “This is our country. We fight here in Libya, we die here
in Libya,” he said at a press conference broadcast on Sky
television. “The Libyan people will never ever welcome NATO,
they will never ever welcome the Americans.”  The decision by NATO defense ministers doused calls for
more aggressive military action.  Air Strikes  Following media reports yesterday that  France  wanted air
strikes on Libya, Sarkozy said today that “France has always
had reservations as to a military and a NATO intervention,
because the Arab revolutions belong to the Arab people.”  France yesterday became the first major country to
recognize Libya’s rebels as the North African nation’s
legitimate rulers.  NATO won’t act alone militarily, U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said yesterday in Brussels. “A number of ministers
made clear that we wanted to put ourselves in a position to
assist the Arab League, the African Union or the UN in this
endeavor,” Gates said.  For now, the alliance will move ships closer to Libya to
observe what Qaddafi’s forces are doing and police the UN arms
embargo.  NATO will get a report March 15 on military options
regarding Libya, as the U.S. and its allies continue to examine
a full range of possibilities, Jay Carney, spokesman for
President  Barack Obama , said in  Washington  yesterday.  Anders Fogh Rasmussen, NATO’s secretary general, yesterday
expressed concern about the broader consequences of a breakdown
of the Libyan state.  “There is the risk of division within the country and the
risk of seeing a failed state in the future that could be the
breeding ground of extremism and terrorism,” he told reporters.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  was more blunt
about the risks of Western involvement. “We don’t want to get
sucked into a war in North  Africa ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Brussels at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  