-- 
Reinsurers Decline as Japan Quake, Tsunami May Cause $10 Billion in Claims

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a ,   K e v i n   C r o w l e y ,   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-11T22:53:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/european-reinsurers-fall-leading-u-s-carriers-lower-on-quake.html
Munich Re and Swiss Reinsurance
Co., the world’s biggest reinsurers, fell after Japan’s
strongest earthquake in a century unleashed a tsunami that
engulfed the coast north of Tokyo.  Global reinsurers may face losses “somewhere in the
$10 billion range” after costs are absorbed by Japan’s primary
insurers and its government, said  Meyer Shields , an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Japan backs a reinsurance program for
homeowners,  according  to the U.S. Congressional Budget Office.  Munich Re shares dropped 4.3 percent to 111.75 euros ($155)
in Frankfurt electronic trading. Swiss Re declined 1.9 Swiss
francs, or 3.5 percent, to 51.7 francs in Zurich trading.  The 8.9 magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of
Sendai, a city of 1 million in the northeast, and caused a
tsunami that killed hundreds. The Tohoku region, which includes
Sendai, accounts for about 8 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product, according to Macquarie Securities Ltd.  “The Japanese markets are dominated by Japanese
companies,” Shields said of primary insurance coverage. The
Baltimore-based analyst said his private reinsurer-loss estimate
is likely to change as he gets more information, and that for
now it’s not higher “because there’s so much residential
exposure and government participation. That’s why we’re sort of
dialing it down.”    Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, said yesterday
its full-year profit target of about $3.3 billion “will only
remain achievable if random losses in the further course of the
year remain below expectations.”  ‘Tough First Quarter’  Reinsurers already face losses tied to a February
earthquake in  New Zealand  and flooding in  Australia  in December
and January.  “It’s been a tough first quarter,” said Paul Newsome, an
analyst at New York-based Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. “We’ve
had a number of large events on a worldwide basis.”    XL Group Plc (XL)  slipped 1 cent to $22.22 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  fell as much as 1.8 percent, then rebounded to close
up 2.4 percent at $37.35. The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
said today it would consider the New York-based company’s $15.7
billion offer to buy back mortgage-backed securities from a
rescue fund.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Class A
shares rose 0.2 percent to $128,000.  ‘Expensive Incident’  AIG’s Chartis property-casualty unit got about 13 percent
of its premium sales in Japan, according to the group’s annual
statement. Allianz SE,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, has reinsurance
in Japan and “a very small” property-casualty unit selling
primary coverage, said Sabia Schwarzer, a company spokeswoman.
Ace sells to consumers and businesses in Japan, according to the
company’s annual statement.  “This looks like an expensive incident, but with that in
mind, both architects and the insurance industry plan for major
events in the region,” said Christian Muschick, a Frankfurt-
based analyst with Silvia Quandt & Cie. AG. “Tokyo seems not to
be severely hit.”  The earthquake and tsunami damaged “broad areas” of
northern Japan, according to  Newark , California-based  Risk
Management Solutions Inc.  Television showed footage of waves
sweeping away buildings and vehicles. Airports were closed and
bullet train services suspended. More than 4 million homes are
without power, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said.  “Since the communication lines are all down and access is
very limited, it’s very hard to know exactly what’s happened to
our clients,” said Ken Davey, senior vice president at
commercial insurer FM Global. “I think it’ll be a couple of
days before we actually make contact with clients in the
immediate area.”  ‘Peak Zones’  An earthquake in Japan is one of catastrophe insurers’ four
“peak zones,” along with a San Francisco earthquake, U.S.
hurricanes and Gulf of Mexico hurricanes, so costs will probably
be spread equally among the biggest reinsurers, according to Joy Ferneyhough, a London-based insurance analyst at Banco Espirito
Santo de Investimento SA.  “My initial sense is this isn’t going to be a huge
industry loss,” she said. “This will be something smaller and
manageable, which will impact 2011 earnings, but not ‘the big
one’ that we’ve been waiting for to turn pricing.”  Kobe Quake  The  insurance industry  may have to pay about $10 billion in
claims, according to James Shuck, a London-based insurance
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. That would make the
disaster the second-most costly temblor on record, after the
$15.3 billion quake that struck Northridge in the U.S. in 1994,
according to data compiled by Zurich-based Swiss Re.  Prior to today’s earthquake, the most destructive temblor
to hit Japan struck Kobe, Osaka and Kyoto in 1995, costing
insurers about $3 billion, not taking inflation into account.
The quake caused $100 billion in total economic losses, much
higher than the amount covered by insurers as infrastructure
such as roads and bridges were rarely insured due to the high
cost of insurance in earthquake-prone areas.  “Insurance penetration and density is very low when
compared to leading Western markets, particularly in commercial
and industrial lines,” RMS said of Japan in an e-mailed
statement. “Many small- to medium-sized businesses are
completely uninsured.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net 
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net 
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  