-- 
European Stocks Slide for Third Week as BHP Billiton, Reinsurers Retreat

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-12T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/european-stocks-slide-for-third-week-as-bhp-billiton-reinsurers-retreat.html
European stocks posted their third
week of losses as Spain and  Greece  suffered ratings downgrades
and Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi used planes to attack rebels, adding
to concern that the global economic recovery will falter.  BHP Billiton Ltd. led raw-material shares to the biggest
decline among 19 industry groups on the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
as a report showed export growth slowed in  China , the world’s
biggest consumer of commodities. Swiss Reinsurance Co. and
Munich Re paced a selloff in insurers after Japan’s biggest
earthquake on record.  The Stoxx 600 declined 2.3 percent to 275.42 this past
week. The benchmark gauge has lost more than 5 percent since
reaching a 2 1/2-year high on Feb. 17 as crude oil surged amid
fighting between Libyan rebels and forces loyal to their ruler
for the last 41 years, Qaddafi.  “To say that  market sentiment  has turned negative this
week would be something of an understatement,” said London-
based  Howard Wheeldon , a senior strategist at BGC Partners.
There is “renewed expression of doubt by markets as to where,
on the back of the oil price and Middle East contagion, the
global economy goes from here. Adding to market woes has been
the sizable earthquake in Japan.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 17 of the 18 western
Europe markets this week as Moody’s Investors Service cut
Spain’s credit rating to Aa2 and lowered Greece’s government
bond rating to B1. France’s CAC 40 Index dropped 2.3 percent,
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index sank 2.7 percent, Germany’s DAX Index
lost 2.8 percent and  Spain ’s IBEX 35 gauge slid 1 percent.
Greece’s ASE Index advanced less than 0.1 percent.  Trichet, Weber  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet this
week said the world’s central bankers were united in their
desire to prevent surging  oil prices  from fanning broader
inflation. Council member Axel Weber said he did not want to
correct market expectations for as many as three quarter-point
rate hikes this year.  “There are a number of factors that make us a little
cautious,”  Graham Secker , head of European equity strategy at
Morgan Stanley in  London , said on Bloomberg Television. “We are
at the start of a new interest rate hike cycle in Europe and the
higher oil price is putting pressure on economies.”  Oil prices posted their first weekly drop in a month in  New
York  following the Japanese tremor. In Saudi Arabia, police and
anti-riot vehicles prevented Arabs demanding a constitutional
monarchy from holding a “Day of Rage” in  Riyadh . Brent oil
fell for the first week in seven.    BHP Billiton , Vedanta  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, tumbled 7 percent,
leading a gauge of metal producers lower as base metals fell.
Vedanta Resources Plc sank 11 percent this past week, while
Antofagasta Plc dropped 6.8 percent.  Copper fell 7 percent on the London Metal Exchange this
past week as a report showed that China’s exports rose at the
slowest pace since November 2009.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, dropped 6.9
percent, while Munich Re, the largest, lost 6.3 percent after
the 8.9-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Japan,
shaking buildings in Tokyo and unleashing a seven-meter-high
tsunami that engulfed towns north of the capital.  Officials at the two reinsurers declined to comment on
their possible losses from the quake. Scor SE,  France ’s largest
reinsurer, plunged 9.6 percent. On March 8, Scor said that
catastrophes in Australia and  New Zealand  will cost it 200
million euros ($277.5 million), net of retrocession.  ARM, Home Retail  Elsewhere in the market, ARM Holdings Plc lost 10 percent
after analysts said tablet computer makers other than Apple Inc.
will sell few of their devices. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said ARM,
the designer of chips that power Apple’s iPhone, was most at
risk if demand for non-Apple tablets decreases.  Home Retail Group Plc slumped 7.7 percent in London after
the company lowered its full-year profit forecast as sales at
its Argos stores declined.  Iberdrola Renovables SA paced advancing shares, jumping 13
percent after parent company Iberdrola SA bid 2.5 billion euros
to buy out the minority investors.    Bulgari SpA (BUL)  soared a record 61 percent after LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA agreed to buy the world’s third-
largest jeweler for about 3.7 billion euros in what would be
LVMH’s largest acquisition in at least a decade.  Tognum AG surged 37 percent after Daimler AG and Rolls-
Royce Group Plc offered to buy the German maker of heavy-duty
engines for 24 euros per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 