-- 
Japan Orders Evacuation From Near Nuclear Plant After Quake

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-03-11T14:11:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/evacuation-order-issued-for-residents-near-japan-s-fukushima-nuclear-plant.html
About 5,800 residents near a Tokyo
Electric Power Co. atomic plant were ordered to evacuate because
of a possible radiation leak and the failure of the cooling
system after Japan was struck by a powerful earthquake.  People within 3 kilometers (2 miles) of the Fukushima
Daiichi nuclear power plant were told to evacuate, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said in Tokyo today. Residents within 10
kilometers were told to stay indoors, said Ryohei Shiomi, a
spokesman at the Emergency Information Center of the Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency.  Emergency power supply at the 4,696-megawatt plant 210
kilometers north of Tokyo failed after the quake triggered
automatic shutdowns of the reactors, officials at the trade
ministry’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency told reporters
without identifying themselves. Power is needed to keep cooling
the reactor to prevent rising pressure and damage, they said.  A battery, which can last about eight hours, is being used
to cool the reactor for now, the agency officials said. Another
six batteries have been secured, and the government may use
military helicopters to fly them in, they said.  The 8.9-magnitude quake struck at 2:46 p.m. local time and
unleashed a tsunami as high as 10 meters, engulfing towns along
the northern coast and killing at least 26 people. The temblor,
the biggest in more than a century, hit 130 kilometers off the
coast of Sendai, north of Tokyo, at a depth of 24 kilometers,
the  U.S. Geological Survey  said. A 7.1-magnitude aftershock
followed at 4:25 p.m., it said.  Tokyo Electric is still seeking government approvals for a
full restart of the Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear power plant, the
world’s biggest, which was shut after being damaged by an
earthquake in 2007. The company posted its first loss in 28
years after it was forced to buy fossil fuels at record prices
to make up for lost nuclear output.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  