-- 
Ex-Alaska Lawmaker Kohring Wins Retrial in Appeal of Bribery Conviction

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-11T19:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/ex-alaska-lawmaker-kohring-wins-new-trial-in-appeal-of-bribery-conviction.html
Victor Kohring, a former Alaska
state lawmaker accused of extortion and bribery, won an appeals
court ruling setting aside his 2007 conviction and ordering a
new trial.  Federal prosecutors violated rules by withholding
information favorable to Kohring’s case from his lawyers, a
three-judge panel of the San Francisco-based court said today.  Kohring and another Alaska state lawmaker, both
Republicans, were convicted of taking bribes from the owner of
an oil-contracting company in exchange for agreeing to torpedo a
vote that would have raised state taxes on  oil companies .  The new information in Kohring’s case came out after a
judge voided the conviction of former U.S. Senator Ted Stevens
stemming from the same investigation. Prosecutors withheld
information favorable to his case. Four prosecutors in the
Stevens case were involved in Kohring’s.  Kohring’s attorneys claimed the government suppressed
evidence that the oil executive he allegedly bribed had been
investigated for sexual misconduct with minors. Other evidence
cast doubt on the businessman’s memory and the amount paid to
Kohring, the defense lawyers said.  Kohring was imprisoned after his conviction. He won release
on bail in 2009 pending appeal.    Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, a Justice
Department spokeswoman, said in a telephone that government
lawyers were reviewing the decision.  Michael Filipovic, a federal public defender representing
Kohring, said the ruling “was not unexpected given how
egregious and expansive” the violations were. He was
disappointed that the appeals court didn’t dismiss the case
entirely, he said in a phone interview.  The case is U.S. v Kohring, 08-30170, U.S. District Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit   San Francisco ). The trial
court case is U.S. v. Kohring, 3:07-00055, U.S. District Court,
District of Alaska (Anchorage).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 