-- 
Mexico Closes Cabo San Lucas Pacific Coast Port Amid Tsunami

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-03-11T18:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/mexico-closes-cabo-san-lucas-pacific-coast-port-amid-tsunami-1-.html
  Mexico  closed the port of San Lucas
on the Pacific Coast because of the widespread tsunami warning
after Japan was hit by its strongest earthquake on record.  Two other ports -- Salina Cruz and Chiapas -- were shut for
bad weather unrelated to the temblor, the Merchant Marine said
today in a  bulletin  on its website. Small boats were banned from
operating at all remaining Pacific Coast ports, while bigger
vessels are still allowed to move about freely, Alejandro
Chacon, the Merchant Marine’s general coordinator, said in a
news conference today in Mexico City.  Latin American governments from Mexico to  Chile  have put
Pacific coast communities and ports on tsunami alerts. More than
20 countries were told to brace for possible tidal waves after
Japan’s coast was engulfed by water following an earthquake.
Mexico has the longest Pacific Coast shoreline in the Americas.  The oil export terminals of Cayo Arcas and Dos Bocas on the  Gulf of Mexico  have been closed since yesterday because of
inclement weather, such as high winds.    Petroleos Mexicanos , the second-largest supplier of oil to
the U.S., exported 1.361 million barrels of crude a day in 2010.
About 84 percent, or 1.139 million barrels, was sold to the U.S.
last year, according to Pemex statistics. Canada is the largest
supplier of crude to the U.S.  Gulf of Mexico  Cayo Arcas is the Mexico City-based company’s largest
export terminal, followed by Coatzacoalcos and Dos Bocas,
respectively. Pemex exports oil from the Gulf of Mexico ports,
which occasionally close during  hurricane season  and in winter.
The port of Coatzacoalcos remains open.  Pemex exported 958,798 barrels a day from Cayo Arcas;
156,514 barrels a day from Coatzacoalcos; and 99,196 barrels a
day from  Dos Bocas  in 2009. Cayo Arcas handles Maya crude, a
cheaper grade of heavy sour crude used by refineries in  Texas .
Coatzacoalcos is used to export Maya and Olmeca grade crudes.  “Sweet” and “sour” refer to the oil’s sulfur content,
while “heavy,” “medium” and “light” refer to its density.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Chicago at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 