-- 
Fannie Mae Ex-CEO Mudd May Face SEC Claims in Subprime Probe

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-12T00:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/fannie-mae-ex-ceo-mudd-may-face-claims-in-sec-subprime-loans-investigation.html
  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  Chief
Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  received notice from U.S.
regulators that he may face claims for misleading investors
about Fannie Mae’s exposure to subprime loans when he ran the
mortgage firm during the financial crisis.  Mudd, who was ousted when Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  were
seized by regulators in September 2008, confirmed in a statement
to Bloomberg News that he received the so-called Wells notice
from the Securities and Exchange Commission today. Mudd said he
plans to submit a written rebuttal to the allegations.  “I have the highest respect for the commission.
Nevertheless, I could not disagree more with this turn of
events,” Mudd said in the statement. “The disclosures and
procedures that are the subject of the staff’s investigation
were accurate and complete. These disclosures were previewed by
federal regulators, and have been issued in the same form since
the company went into government conservatorship.”  Mudd will remain CEO of the New York-based buyout and
hedge-fund firm, according to a person with direct knowledge of
the matter.  The SEC’s investigation involves several individuals who
were executives at  Fannie Mae  during the crisis and centers on
how the firm represented its exposure to subprime mortgages to
investors, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
investigation who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
matter isn’t public.  Soured Loans  Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac were placed under U.S. control in 2008 as losses on
soured loans pushed them to the brink of insolvency. The two
government-sponsored mortgage firms have been sustained by more
than $150 billion in U.S. aid. Congress and the Obama
administration are examining plans for winding down the
companies and building a new system for housing finance.  The SEC previously notified one current and one former
executive of Freddie Mac that the agency may file similar
allegations against them. Donald Bisenius, Freddie Mac’s
executive vice-president for single-family credit guarantee,
will leave the company April 1, according to a regulatory
filing. Anthony “Buddy” Piszel, who served as CFO from
November 2006 to September 2008, resigned as CFO of  CoreLogic
Inc. (CLGX)  last month.  Mudd, 52, took over from Franklin Raines as CEO of Fannie
Mae in 2004, four years after he had joined the company as chief
operating officer and as the company tried to recover from an
$11 billion accounting restatement and securities fraud charges.
He was appointed CEO of Fortress in August 2009, almost a year
after he was ousted from Fannie Mae.  Gordon Runte, head of  investor relations  at Fortress,
declined to comment. A phone call and e-mail to Fannie Mae
spokeswoman Amy Bonitatibus after normal business hours were not
immediately returned.  Citigroup Case  The SEC’s probe echoes the agency’s July case against
Citigroup Inc. The bank agreed to pay $75 million after the SEC
accused the bank and two executives of failing to disclose $40
billion in subprime assets before losses surged. U.S. District
Judge  Ellen Huvelle  faulted the agency for only sanctioning two
executives for their roles in the matter.  In 2008, Freddie Mac was informed that the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Eastern District of  Virginia  was investigating
“accounting, disclosure, and corporate governance matters,”
according to a regulatory filing. The SEC informed the company
that it was under investigation for possible securities
violations, and employees were interviewed.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were created by Congress to
encourage homeownership by making it easier for people to get
loans. The firms now own or guarantee more than half of all U.S.
mortgage debt, most of which they pool and sell on the secondary
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 