-- 
Fed's Dudley Says He's Encouraged by Expansion in U.S. Manufacturing Jobs

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-03-11T15:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/fed-s-dudley-says-he-s-encouraged-by-expansion-in-u-s-manufacturing-jobs.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President  William Dudley  said February’s increase in U.S. jobs
gives him more confidence that January’s figures were dampened
by harsh weather and reiterated the labor market will pick up.  “Particularly encouraging is the growth of manufacturing
jobs,” Dudley, 58, said today in a speech in Flushing, New
York. “This makes me more confident that job growth in January
was temporarily depressed by unusually bad winter weather.”
Other labor market indicators, including claims for unemployment
insurance benefits, “have also shown improvement recently,”
Dudley said.  At the same time, Dudley reiterated his remarks from Feb.
28 that “sustained strong employment growth” is needed to
assure the recovery, echoing recent comments from Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The Fed is about halfway through with its plan to
buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June in a second round of
so-called quantitative easing aimed at combating too-low
inflation, stimulating economic growth and creating jobs.  The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.9 percent in February, the
lowest in almost two years, and ending the longest period of
unemployment at 9 percent or higher since monthly records began
in 1948.  While most of Dudley’s economic remarks were similar to
those delivered Feb. 28 in New York, he omitted a comment that
it’s not yet time to withdraw record monetary stimulus amid
movement toward the Fed’s mandates for stable prices and maximum
employment. He spoke four days before the  Federal Open Market
Committee  meets in Washington. Fed officials tend to avoid
comments about monetary policy during the week before an FOMC
meeting.  ‘Faster Progress’  In last week’s speech, Dudley said that “faster progress
toward these objectives would be very welcome and need not
require an early change in the stance of monetary policy.”
Today, he shortened that to “faster progress toward these
objectives would be very welcome.”  Dudley said that because of the FOMC meeting next week, he
wasn’t commenting on the implication of the outlook for monetary
policy.  He said the Fed has the tools, such as raising the interest
rate paid on bank reserves, to tighten credit when needed.  “People worry that these purchases will ultimately be
inflationary, and I don’t think they have anything to worry
about,” Dudley said in response to questions after the speech.
“We are absolutely determined to prevent any long-term
inflation problem.”  Credit Improving  The availability of credit to small businesses is
improving, Dudley said. “I don’t think this is going to turn
around very quickly,” he said. “I would say the worst is
past.”  The asset purchases, announced in November, sparked the
harshest political backlash against the Fed in three decades
with Republican lawmakers warning that the additional stimulus
risked sparking a surge in prices. The so-called quantitative
easing program was dubbed “QE2” by analysts and investors
because it followed an earlier round of $1.7 trillion of asset
purchases that ended in March 2010.  Dudley is also vice chairman of the policy-setting FOMC,
which has kept its benchmark interest rate near zero since
December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  