-- 
Goldman Sachs 9.8% Stake in Avenue Financial Approved by Fed

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-11T17:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/fed-approves-goldman-sachs-proposal-for-avenue-financial-stake.html
The Federal Reserve Board approved  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s request to retain its 9.8 percent
stake in Avenue Financial Holdings Inc.’s voting shares.  “Goldman has committed not to exercise or attempt to
exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies
of Avenue or any of its subsidiaries,” the Fed said today in a
statement announcing the decision.  Fed approval is required for any bank-holding company to
own 5 percent or more of the voting shares of a bank. Through
its stake in Nashville, Tennessee-based Avenue Financial,
Goldman Sachs also indirectly holds voting shares in the Avenue
Bank unit, according to the statement.  Closely held Avenue Financial received $7.4 million from
the U.S. Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program,
which it hasn’t repaid, according to the Treasury’s website.
Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  Goldman Sachs, which was the largest U.S. securities firm
before converting to a bank-holding company in September 2008,
holds the Avenue shares through a hedge fund, Goldman Sachs
Investment Partners Master Fund L.P., the Fed said. The purchase
by the  Cayman Islands  limited partnership was made before
Goldman Sachs’s conversion and was a passive investment,
according to the statement.  The Fed’s approval “is specifically conditioned on
compliance by Goldman with the conditions imposed in this order
and the commitments made to the Board in connection with the
application," the central bank said in the statement.  Avenue was formed in 2006 and purchased Planters Bank of  Tennessee  in Maury City, Tennessee, in 2007, according to the
Fed. It changed the bank’s name to Avenue and moved the
headquarters to Nashville, the Fed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  