-- 
Fidelity Income Climbs 17% as Market Rebound Boosts Assets

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-03-11T16:11:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/fidelity-income-climbs-17-as-market-rebound-boosts-assets-2-.html
  Fidelity Investments , the second-
largest U.S. mutual fund company, reported a 17 percent increase
in full-year operating income as gains in stock and bond markets
lifted assets.  Operating income, which excludes costs such as interest and
taxes, climbed to $2.94 billion from $2.51 billion a year
earlier, the Boston-based company said today in its annual
report. Revenue rose 6.7 percent to $12.3 billion. Closely held
Fidelity didn’t report net income based on generally accepted
accounting principles.  “This was a turnaround from the financial crisis of just
two years ago, when the markets were taking a lot more than they
were giving,” Chief Executive Officer Edward C. Johnson III
wrote in a letter to shareholders.  Assets under management gained 6.3 percent to $1.6
trillion, as market gains more than offset redemptions of $49.4
billion. Vanguard Group Inc. passed Fidelity last year to become
the largest U.S. mutual fund company by assets, a distinction
Fidelity had held for more than two decades. Fidelity in May
named Abigail P. Johnson and Ronald P. O’Hanley to top roles
after splitting responsibility for running the company.  Money-Market Withdrawals  Abigail Johnson, the daughter of Edward, 80, oversees all
customer and client-focused businesses; O’Hanley, who joined
from  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , is in charge of asset
management and corporate services.  Customers pulled $49.7 billion from Fidelity’s money-market
funds last year, as low  interest rates  drove investors to seek
higher returns elsewhere, data from the annual report show.
Fidelity had $426 billion in money-market assets at the end of
February, more than any U.S. competitor, according to Crane Data
LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  Johnson called the overall level of withdrawals
“disappointing.” He did not provide detailed information about
deposits and redemptions from stock and bond funds.  Investors pulled $20.7 billion from Fidelity’s U.S. stock
funds last year, while adding $13.5 billion to its taxable bond
funds, Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc . said.  Fidelity’s mutual funds outperformed 67 percent of their
peers in 2010, down from 74 percent the previous year, according
to the annual report.  Second to Vanguard    Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard had $1.45
trillion in mutual funds at the end of January, compared with
$1.34 trillion for Fidelity, according to the  Investment Company
Institute , a Washington-based trade group.  Vanguard is best known for its  index funds  that mimic
market performance. Fidelity managers pick stocks in an attempt
to beat the averages. The firm, started by Edward Johnson’s
father in 1946, has expanded from its fund-company roots into  stock trading ,  retirement plans  and institutional  money
management .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned 15 percent last
year including reinvested dividends. The Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate & Government Master Index, a broad gauge of
bond returns, gained 6.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  