-- 
Fired Goldman Banker Advised Massachusetts Candidate While Seeking Deals

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/fired-goldman-banker-seeking-deals-aided-massachusetts-campaign.html
Neil Morrison, a  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  banker fired in December, began advising former
Massachusetts Treasurer Tim Cahill’s gubernatorial campaign in
2009 even as he was seeking to underwrite state bonds, according
to e-mails obtained through a public records request.  Morrison, 36, a top aide to Cahill before he left for  Wall
Street  in 2007, helped the treasurer review consultants for his
independent run for governor last year, analyzed polls and
discussed strategy at the same time he lobbied for bond
business, correspondence from his Goldman Sachs e-mail address
shows. The New York-based bank underwrote at least $5.6 billion
of Massachusetts bonds at the same time Morrison was helping
Cahill’s campaign, according to state data.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked for
documents from Cahill and his aides on Jan. 21. Bloomberg News
reported Dec. 16 that the bank stopped underwriting state-level
bonds in October when the Cahill campaign revealed that Morrison
was acting as an adviser. So-called pay-to-play rules restrict
bankers from contributing to politicians who control bond sales,
including limiting volunteer work. Breaking the rules can
trigger a two-year underwriting ban.  If the SEC determines Morrison’s volunteer work represented
in-kind contributions to the campaign, Goldman is “going to
have a problem,” said Christopher “Kit” Taylor, a former head
of the  Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board . The Alexandria,
Virginia-based group writes industry regulations. Goldman Sachs
would have to return underwriting fees, and possibly face a
fine, if it managed sales when it shouldn’t have, he said.  Offering Advice  Morrison began offering political advice as early as
February 2009 when Cahill was still plotting a campaign for
governor. In one e-mail that month, Morrison offered to deny a
rumor that Cahill would leave the  Democratic Party  to run as a
Republican. He ran as an independent against incumbent  Deval Patrick , a Democrat, and Republican Charlie Baker. Patrick won.  “I like that they think he’s running but the Republican
part is not helpful to him,” Morrison wrote in a message to
Scott Campbell, his successor as Cahill’s chief of staff, on
Feb. 24, 2009. “He has raised too much as a D to be an R. Now
independent -- that would be different.”  The SEC has been bolstering its oversight of the $2.93
trillion municipal-bond market. The agency appointed Elaine Greenberg to head a municipal-securities and public-pensions
unit last year, one of five task forces created after the global
credit crisis. Greenberg has focused on bid-rigging for
municipal-investment contracts by banks, public officials who
hire advisers based on political contributions and local
governments that don’t disclose their true financial condition.  ‘Personal’ Relationship  “My personal and political relationship with  Tim Cahill 
was just that -- personal and political,” Morrison said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to a request for comment.  “From my perspective, it will stay that way,” Morrison
said. “It had absolutely nothing to do with Goldman Sachs.”    John Nester , an SEC spokesman in  Washington , declined to
comment.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  New
York , also declined to comment.  On Jan. 21, the SEC subpoenaed e-mails from the
Massachusetts Treasurer’s office that were sent or received
since June 1, 2008, that relate to Cahill, Morrison, Goldman
Sachs and the selection of underwriters, according to a copy of
the document. It also requested the daily calendars showing the
schedules for the treasurer and some of his aides.  Cahill ‘Not Responsible’  “In Tim Cahill’s eight years of service to the
commonwealth, he received political advice and encouragement
from many people,” Joseph DeMeo, the former treasurer’s lawyer,
said by e-mail. “In any event, he is not responsible for what
other people write, nor did he respond to Morrison’s e-mails.”  “It is far from clear that Morrison violated any rule by
forwarding advice from his work e-mail rather than his home e-
mail,” DeMeo said.  Barry Nolan, a spokesman for Steven Grossman, a Democrat
who was elected in November to succeed Cahill as treasurer, said
the office is cooperating “fully and completely with the SEC’s
request for documents.”  The e-mails show Morrison sharing information from
Patrick’s campaign with Cahill, analyzing polls and reviewing
candidates the treasurer considered to be his campaign
consultants before he announced his candidacy in September 2009.
Morrison mixed comments on the campaign with bond business,
intervening in a debate between aides to Cahill and the state’s
Administration and Finance Department about whether  Massachusetts  should sell long-term debt or short-maturity
securities called bond-anticipation notes.  Debt ‘Angst’  “I have been working with the treasurer on some non-
Treasury items over the past couple of days, but during that
time he has also mentioned a couple of times his angst regarding
the correspondence with A&F and the BAN versus long-term debt
issue,” Morrison wrote in a message to Colin MacNaught, the
treasury debt manager, on July 6, 2009.  A graduate of  Boston College  and Suffolk University’s law
school, Morrison helped Cahill in his first campaign for the
treasurer’s office in 2002. At the time, Morrison was a city
councilor in Taunton, a municipality with 56,000 residents about
40 miles (64 kilometers) southwest of Boston, and worked for
Boston Title Co. in nearby Stoughton, according to information
filed with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Top Aide  Morrison joined the state treasury in 2003, rising to first
deputy treasurer before leaving in 2007 to join  UBS AG. (UBSN)  Goldman
Sachs hired him and three other public-finance bankers,
including his boss, Jeff Scruggs, from UBS the following year.
Zurich-based UBS shuttered its municipal-bond origination
operations in 2008.  Goldman Sachs terminated Morrison on Dec. 19, citing
“allegations involving outside activities without
preapproval,” according to a Finra filing.  The company shared in at least $26 million of fees for
underwriting state bonds between September 2008 and July 2010,
according to treasury data.  The e-mails show Morrison pushing state treasury officials
for bond underwriting business in 2008, using his relationships
with former colleagues to arrange a meeting between Scruggs and
Cahill in January 2009 at a Ruth’s Chris restaurant in Boston.  Between October and December 2008, the state paid Goldman
Sachs $502,414 to sell $725 million of notes, according to the
treasurer’s office. In February 2009, the state paid a group of
underwriters led by Goldman Sachs $2.6 million to sell $525
million of general obligation bonds, according to state records.  ‘This Is Great’  “Thank you very much for the business, this is great,”
Morrison wrote to Campbell on Oct. 7, 2008, the day after the
first note sale. “I really appreciate your help -- no joking
around.”  In January 2009, Morrison pitched a proposal to have
Goldman Sachs privatize the state lottery, which is run out of
the treasurer’s office, the e-mails indicate. He also suggested
ways that lottery revenue could be used to buy Massachusetts
debt in the wake of the credit crisis.  Morrison, who was based in the bank’s  Boston  office at 125
High St., also argued against proposals to seek competitive
offers for oversight of the state’s interest-rate swaps, the
correspondence show. He wrote to oppose a plan to invite open
bids from investors for Build America Bonds as an alternative to
hiring investment banks to negotiate sales of the debt.  Offering Goldman ‘Insights’  “If you have a competitive bid, the environment for price
discovery is ruined because the investors do not know who to
talk to and who can give them real information,” he wrote to
MacNaught, the debt manager, in an Aug. 19, 2009, e-mail. The
note cited “insights” Morrison said were from Scruggs.  In November 2009, the treasurer’s office paid a group of
bankers led by Goldman Sachs $6.45 million to underwrite $956.5
million of the federally subsidized Build America Bonds,
according to state documents.  Morrison continued to mention Cahill’s campaign in messages
sent to the treasurer and his aides before last year’s election,
making suggestions on public appearances, advertising and
positions on immigration and health care. At the same time he
pushed for more business, the e-mails show.  The Massachusetts Water Pollution Abatement Trust, which is
controlled by the treasury, paid banks led by Goldman Sachs
$2.62 million to underwrite $486.5 million in June 2010,
according to offering documents.  “Goldman hired me to direct our activities here in
Massachusetts and my feelings are that we remained committed to
the success of the Cahill administration,” Morrison said in a
message to MacNaught on July 6, 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  