-- 
Four North Sea Forties Cargoes Said to Be Dropped From Program

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-03-11T15:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/four-north-sea-forties-cargoes-said-to-be-dropped-from-program.html
Four cargoes of North Sea Forties
crude were dropped from the loading program for March due to
unstable production, three traders who participate in the market
said today.  Shipments originally planned for three-day loading periods
starting March 25, March 27, March 28 and March 30 were dropped,
bringing the total number of cargoes this month to 23, according
to the people with knowledge of the trades who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  A London-based spokesman for BP Plc declined to comment,
citing company policy. BP operates the Forties Pipeline System.  Production from the Buzzard field, which accounts for
nearly one third of total Forties production, fell over the past
two weeks.  The share of Buzzard in the blend declined to 22 percent in
the week to March 6, from 23 percent a week earlier, according
to BP’s  website . The crude’s share is estimated to be 33 percent
in March, BP said Feb. 28.  Canadian oil explorer  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , the operator of Buzzard,
installed the fourth platform at the field last year and is
scheduled to complete commissioning in March, Chief Executive
Officer Marvin Romanow said earlier this week.  “There are five stages of commissioning it and we are just
going through the very final one,” he said. “We have to take
down oil production and we have to ramp it up slowly to go
through the fourth facility.”  The company will probably finish the commissioning in
March, he said.  Forties is one of the four grades used to set the price of
Dated Brent, the benchmark of more than half of the world’s oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 