-- 
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Declines to Three-Month Low After Japan Tsunami

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-03-11T17:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/ftse-100-index-declines-to-three-month-low-after-japan-is-hit-by-tsunami.html
U.K. stocks fell to a three-month
low, led by insurers, after the biggest earthquake on record in
Japan shook buildings across Tokyo and unleashed a seven-meter-
high tsunami that killed hundreds.  RSA Insurance Group Plc dropped 2.6 percent and  Prudential
Plc (PRU)  slid 1.9 percent.  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , the U.K’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, fell 2.3 percent after Citigroup
Inc. cut its recommendation for the stock.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 16.62, or 0.3
percent, to 5,828.67 at the 5:35 p.m. close in London, the
lowest level since Dec. 10. The benchmark had a weekly loss of
2.7 percent. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  dropped 0.4 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 1 percent.  Global stocks fell for a third day today, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  in the U.S. yesterday posted its steepest
decline since August, as violence in Libya, a slowdown in
China’s export growth and concern that some European countries
may fail to service debt hurt the outlook for equities.  “People may be starting to worry we’ll see a stronger
correction, it does look quite weak,” said  David Jones , chief
market strategist at IG Index Plc. “The selling pressure has
increased over the last few sessions and with the FTSE 100 at
new lows it is raising some concern.”  The FTSE 100 gained as much as 3.2 percent this year before
erasing the advance yesterday. The gauge has still climbed 65
percent since March 2009 as central banks lowered  interest rates 
to record lows and companies boosted earnings.  Risk/Reward  “The risk-reward for investors is beginning to
deteriorate,”  Graham Secker , head of European equity strategy
at Morgan Stanley in London, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “There are a number of factors that make us
cautious in the short term. We are suggesting we take a little
European bit of money off the table.”  RSA, the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by market value,
declined 2.6 percent to 133 pence. Prudential fell 1.9 percent
to 721 pence.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  declined 1.5 percent to 453.9 pence. The
Stoxx Insurance 600 Index of European insurers declined 2.2
percent, the worst performance among 19 industries in the
broader Stoxx 600.  Japan’s earthquake, the world’s strongest in more than six
years, struck the coast of the country. Many are missing after
the quake and waves as high as 23 feet swept ashore, according
to state broadcaster NHK. Airports were closed and bullet train
services suspended, and an emergency evacuation order was issued
for a nuclear power plant north of Tokyo.  Dixons dropped 2.3 percent to 17.16 pence. The shares were
cut to “hold” from “buy” at Citigroup, which said it cut
profit estimates given indication of a “ step-down in high-
ticket consumer demand patterns.”  FirstGroup, JJB    FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  sank 3.6 percent to 347.4 pence. The
Aberdeen, Scotland-based transport company said the trading
environment for its First Student school-bus unit “remains
challenging.”    JJB Sports Plc (JJB)  dropped 10 percent to 13.5 pence.  JD Sports
Fashion Plc (JD/)  said it terminated talks to take over the sportswear
retailer and has “no intention” of making an offer. JD rose
5.3 percent to 930 pence.    Aga Rangemaster Group Plc (AGA) , which makes cast-iron cookers,
jumped 13 percent to 138 pence, leading gains in the All-Share
index. The company reported a full-year operating profit, from a
loss a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 