-- 
Gabelli's Segrich Shorts JA Solar as Italy, Germany Plan Cut to Subsidies

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-03-11T08:47:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/gabelli-s-segrich-shorts-ja-solar-as-italy-germany-plan-cut-to-subsidies.html
Gabelli & Co. fund manager John Segrich said he has shorted JA Solar Holdings Co. and  Power-One
Inc. (PWER)  as  Italy  and Germany plan cuts to solar-power subsidies.  Segrich, who didn´t disclose how much borrowed stock he
sold, said some of the best markets for their products have too
much supply. Shanghai-based JA Solar makes solar cells, and
Power-One of  California  is the second-largest manufacturer of
solar-power inverters, according to the company’s  website .  “It’s going to take prices collapsing to open up new
markets,” Segrich, who manages about $40 million at Rye, New
York-based Gabelli, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“We’ve got the hard-landing scenario.”  The Italian government plans to reduce incentives for
photovoltaic power generators in June as developers installed as
much as 6 gigawatts of capacity last year, five times its total
potential at the end of 2009.  Germany , the world’s biggest
market, is set to lower subsidies in July. The Bloomberg Global
Leaders Solar Index has lost about 15 percent since Feb. 18.  “You may not need to ship any more modules into Italy for
the rest of the year,” Segrich said. “You have companies that
are earning money now that might not earn any money in the
second quarter.”  JA Solar said yesterday it agreed to set up a new factory
in the Chinese city of Hefei that will add 3 gigawatts to its
annual production capacity from 2012. The company saw profit
surge to $118.7 million in the fourth quarter from $3.3 million
in the year-earlier period. Its stock has slumped about 20
percent since Feb. 18.  Segrich, who manages one hedge fund and one mutual fund,
said he sees solar panels selling for between $1.65 and $1.70 a
watt compared with $1.90 in the fourth quarter. He forecast
panel prices will dip below $1.50 per watt by the end of June.  Power-One has lost about 34 percent since Feb. 4 when its
management said first-quarter sales will trail analysts’
expectations. Segrich said the two companies are among his
biggest short positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  