-- 
Garrison Fund Loses Suit Over Virginia Mortgage Debt Guarantee

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-03-11T23:30:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/garrison-fund-loses-suit-over-virginia-mortgage-debt-guarantee.html
A  Garrison Investment Group  fund
that took control of a group of Virginia office buildings is
liable for paying the mortgage loan on the property after
guaranteeing the debt, a judge ruled.    New York  State Supreme Court Judge Melvin Schweitzer in a
decision dated March 8 ruled in favor of a commercial mortgage-
backed securities trust that sued the Garrison fund for
$111.5 million plus interest.  “The court made it clear that such guarantees will be
enforced as written,” Robert Weigel, an attorney that
represented the trust and the other plaintiff, Normandy Reston
Office LLC, said in an interview today.  The four Virginia properties took out a $107 million
mortgage loan from UBS AG. Part of it was securitized and sold
to investors, and another piece was assigned to the Normandy
Reston Office entity, according to court papers in a related
bankruptcy case.  After the mortgage matured, Garrison Special Opportunities
Fund asked the Normandy entity and the securities trust to hold
off on foreclosing on their collateral, and in exchange issued
the guaranty on the debt in September, according to court
papers. In November, it took ownership of the properties and
tried unsuccessfully to restructure the debt.  The Garrison-controlled entities that had taken out the
loan filed for bankruptcy, triggering Garrison’s obligations
under the guaranty, the plaintiffs said in court papers.  Raymond Hannigan, an attorney for Garrison, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The case is UBS Commercial Mortgage Trust 2007-FL1 v.
Garrison Special Opportunities Fund LP, 652412-2010, New York
state  Supreme Court    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 