-- 
Gates Chastises European Allies as NATO Cites Afghan Advances

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-03-11T14:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/gates-chastises-european-allies-as-nato-cites-afghan-advances.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
told European counterparts that a hasty withdrawal from
Afghanistan could spoil progress NATO has made as it prepares to
hand security to President Hamid Karzai this year.  Gates criticized governments “on this continent” for
focusing too much on withdrawal at the expense of gains against
the Taliban insurgency at a meeting today of defense ministers
of the 28-member North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Brussels.  “There is too much talk about leaving and not enough talk
about getting the job done right,” Gates told defense
ministers, according to remarks posted on  the website  of the
U.S. embassy to NATO. He referred to “too much discussion of
exit and not enough discussion about continuing the fight.”  Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen cited “progress
all over  Afghanistan ” as Western militaries aim to hand over
security to Afghan forces in all the country’s provinces by
2014, a target date embraced by NATO leaders at a summit meeting
in Lisbon last November. Karzai will announce the first tranche
of regions where the country’s security forces will take over
authority from international troops on March 21, Rasmussen said.  The U.K., which has 9,500 troops in Afghanistan, may begin
withdrawing this year. Prime Minister  David Cameron  says British
combat troops will be gone by 2015. “The British public deserves
a deadline,” Cameron said in November.  The German government, which has the third-largest military
contingent among NATO allies, pledged in January to begin
withdrawing some of its more than 4,900 troops deployed in the
north of Afghanistan, by the end of the year.  The U.S. has 97,000 troops in Afghanistan fighting
alongside almost 50,000 from 47 other nations. The campaign has
focused primarily on ousting the Taliban from the most populous
areas, including its heartland of Kandahar in the south and the
neighboring province of Helmand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at  pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  