-- 
Germany, France Said to Fight Basel Bank-Leverage Disclosures

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-11T17:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/germany-france-said-to-fight-basel-rules-forcing-banks-to-reveal-leverage.html
Germany and  France  are fighting
global rules that would force lenders such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and BNP Paribas SA to reveal their reliance on debt, according
to an internal note prepared by the  European Commission .  The euro region’s two biggest economies are “fiercely
against” proposals drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  for lenders to reveal as soon as 2015 whether they
would meet a cap on borrowing, known as a  leverage ratio , that
may only become binding three years later. Austria and  Greece 
are also opposed, according to the document obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The “total transparency” may put pressure on lenders to
meet the leverage rules three years early, the countries argue,
according to the commission document. The nations may accept
publication of methods regulators use to measure “leverage
risk” that don’t identify specific banks, the document says.  The Basel rule is part of an overhaul of bank capital and
liquidity standards designed to prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis. Investment banks’ extensive use of borrowed
funds was blamed by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  for
contributing to the financial crisis.    Tier 1 Capital   The Basel ratio would force a lender to hold reserves of
tier 1 capital equivalent to three percent of its assets,
limiting excessive levels of debt in the banking system, the
Basel group said in December. Tier 1 capital is a gauge of a
banks’ financial strength and includes retained earnings, common
equity and some other types of securities.  Bertrand Benoit, a spokesman for the German  finance
ministry , declined to immediately comment, as did the French
finance ministry.  The European Commission is responsible for proposing laws
to apply the rules in the 27-nation EU.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, has promised draft legislation “by
the end of the summer.”  “Basel has made its views clear on this issue,”  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for Barnier, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It’s now up to the commission to see how we put
into European legislation the Basel framework. This is in
discussion and no final decisions have been taken.”  While the Basel committee doesn’t expect banks to adhere to
the leverage rule until 2018, lenders are supposed to disclose
data on how close they are to meeting it from 2015. The Basel
committee has said it may revise the leverage plan, depending on
the outcome of an observation period until the end of 2016.  ‘Clear Danger’  “There is a clear danger that disclosure before the rules
are finalized could well undermine the ability to make any
modifications to the calculations which are found to be
necessary in the trial period,” Peter Beales, a managing
director at the  Association for Financial Markets in Europe ,
said in an e-mail.  “Any disclosure, if required, should be made solely to the
regulator,” Beales said. AFME represents international lenders
including investors Deutsche Bank,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Austrian Finance Ministry spokesman Harald Waiglein had no
immediate comment. Greece’s finance ministry didn’t immediately
respond to calls and e-mails.  A majority of EU countries and the  European Central Bank 
“are in favor of this transparency,” the EU note says. Credit
rating companies will, in any case, make their own leverage-
ratio calculations for banks, it says.  Regulators will “closely monitor disclosure of the ratio”
by lenders, the Basel committee said in December.    Sheila Bair , chairwoman of the U.S. Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. has advocated international application of a
leverage ratio -- something the U.S. has had on its books since
the 1980s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 