-- 
Germans Satirized as Blond Dog-Walkers in ‘Almanya’: Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/germans-satirized-as-pork-munching-blond-dog-walkers-in-almanya-review.html
Germans don’t wash, eat only
potatoes and pork and are obsessed with official bureaucratic
stamps, according to a movie that just opened.  Two sisters born into a Turkish family in Germany, Yasemin
and Nesrin Samdereli, have mined their own past to inject some
welcome humor into the immigration debate. “Almanya” is an
affectionate depiction of the cultural differences between Turks
and Germans, a breath of fresh air after the xenophobic rantings
of former Bundesbank board member Thilo Sarrazin that have
dominated the debate in the past months.  Huseyin Yilmaz leaves  Turkey  for Almanya (Germany) in the
1960s as a Gastarbeiter, or guest worker, and gets permission to
settle his family there. Forty-five years later, he tells his
children that he has bought a house in Turkey and that they are
all going back -- at least for the summer. They reluctantly
agree to go.  The trip provides the framework for a family history told
through flashbacks that hold a mirror to German and Turkish
societies. When Huseyin arrives as the 1,000,001st Gastarbeiter,
he finds a country where dogs all have owners and walk on
leashes, people speak gibberish, Coke has replaced water and God
is nailed to a cross and hung on the wall.  The children learn the language faster than their parents
and adapt to the new world, even bugging their father to shave
his mustache because German men don’t have them (he refuses).  Christmas Flop  The kids are enchanted by Christmas and goad their Muslim
parents into celebrating it. The disappointment is palpable when
their mother doesn’t know she is supposed to wrap the presents
and the Christmas tree is a scrawny branch of fir in a jar on
the mantelpiece, decorated with a few sad baubles.  After 40 years in  Germany , Huseyin and his wife finally
decide to apply for passports. The night before they collect
them he has a nightmare in which a bureaucrat at a desk lined
with official stamps makes them promise to holiday in Majorca,
watch the “Tatort” (“Crime Scene”) police series -- a German
institution -- and join a shooting club. The official also makes
them eat a plate of pork and cabbage.  The film was a hit with audiences at the  Berlin Film
Festival  last month and is likely to appeal to both Germans and
Turks for its gentle fun-poking at stereotypes and cliches on
both sides.  There is unnecessarily manipulative tear-jerking at the end
and the movie flags in places. Yet “Almanya” hammers home a
valuable point that has been missing from the heated discussion
about Muslim immigrants in Germany: A meeting of cultures does
not have to be a clash or a social problem -- it can be funny
and enriching too.  Rating: **1/2  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 