-- 
Gold May Advance, Reducing Weekly Drop, on Increased Demand From Investors

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-11T13:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/gold-rebounds-paring-first-weekly-decline-in-six-amid-middle-east-unrest.html
Gold may gain in  New York ,
narrowing the first weekly loss since January, as demand for the
metal as an alternative asset increases.  European equities slipped for a third day and commodities
including crude oil and copper fell as an 8.9-magnitude
earthquake in Japan, the world’s strongest in more than six
years, shook buildings across Tokyo and triggered a 10 meter-
(33 feet-) high tsunami. Muammar Qaddafi’s son said Libyan
government forces are mounting a full-scale attack on rebels.
Gold futures retreated 1.2 percent yesterday, the most in a
week.  “It is the demand for safety that is driving the buying of
precious metals as geopolitical tensions in the Middle East and
North Africa region escalate” Marc Ground, an analyst at
Standard Bank Plc in Johannesburg, said in a report. Sovereign
credit-rating downgrades have “seen market fears surrounding
the euro zone debt crisis resurface” and the earthquake may
also support gold, he said.  Gold futures for April delivery rose $1.30, or 0.1 percent,
to $1,413.80 an ounce at 8:05 a.m. on the Comex in New York.
Prices are down 1 percent this week, after reaching a record
$1,445.70 on March 7. The metal for immediate delivery in  London 
was 0.1 percent higher at $1,413.85.  Gold declined to $1,409.75 an ounce in the morning
“fixing” in London, used by some mining companies to sell
output, from $1,413.25 at yesterday’s afternoon fixing.  The earthquake was Japan’s strongest in at least a century,
and at least 26 people were killed by the wave and many are
missing, according to state broadcaster NHK Television. The  Philippines ,  Indonesia  and  Papua New Guinea  were among more than
20 countries bracing for a possible tsunami. A refinery on fire
outside Tokyo exploded. Nuclear power stations were shut.  Inflation Concern  Concern about rising inflation and currency debasement
drove  gold prices  up 30 percent last year for a 10th annual
gain. Chinese consumer prices rose at an annual 4.9 percent pace
in February. The pace of inflation was unchanged from January
and compared with the 4.8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. Increasing food and commodity prices
have contributed to unrest in North Africa and the Middle East
that toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Saif al-Islam Qaddafi said the Libyan government will never
surrender and Western countries will lose if they support the
uprising. Saudi Arabian security forces yesterday broke up a
rally in the eastern city of al-Qatif before a “Day of Rage”
protest planned for today, a local activist said.  European Union leaders meet today to discuss tackling the
region’s debt crisis after Moody’s Investors Service this week
cut credit ratings for Spain and  Greece .  ‘Bargain Hunting’  “Given the mix of inflation concerns and the situation in
the Middle East and North Africa and European Union debt, we
expect dips will continue to be viewed as bargain hunting
opportunities,”  James Moore , an analyst at TheBullionDesk.com
in London, said in a report.  Ten of 16 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 63 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Four
predicted lower prices and two were neutral.  Silver for May delivery in New York declined 1.4 percent to
$34.57 an ounce. It climbed to $36.745 on March 7, the highest
level since March 1980. That year futures reached a record
$50.35.  Palladium for June delivery was down 1.2 percent at $757 an
ounce after earlier today falling to $742, the lowest level
since Jan. 7. Platinum for April delivery was 0.6 percent higher
at $1,776.40 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 