-- 
Gold Futures Rebound on Demand for Haven Amid Escalating Turmoil in Libya

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-03-11T20:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/gold-futures-rebound-on-demand-for-haven-amid-escalating-turmoil-in-libya.html
Gold rose the most in a week on
demand for an investment haven as tensions mount in  Libya  and
protests spread to  Saudi Arabia .  The civil war in Libya is the deadliest conflict to emerge
from protests across the Middle East inspired by the overthrow
of longtime leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . Today, Saudi Arabia,
the world’s biggest crude-oil exporter, deployed police in  Riyadh  to deter political activists from a “Day of Rage.” Gold
reached a record $1,445.70 an ounce on March 7.  “The rise in metals is a reflection of the fear
appetite,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist
at Lind-Waldock in  Chicago . “Investors want some kind of
protection in case of a flare-up over the weekend.”  Gold futures for April delivery rose $9.30, or 0.7 percent,
to settle at $1,421.80 at 2:04 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since March 4. The
metal, down 0.5 percent this week, has climbed 28 percent in the
past year.  Crude oil headed for the first weekly drop in a month after
an earthquake shut refineries in Japan, the world’s third-
largest user.  “A lot of people who liquidated this week are stepping
back in” for gold, Klopfenstein said. “This is more a flight-
to-quality than a demand for an inflation hedge. There’s an
anxiety premium.”  Rally May Stall  The rally may stall after the metal failed to top the
record this week, said Matt Zeman, a market strategist at
Kingsview Financial in Chicago.  “For gold to continue to go higher, we need more
inflationary concerns,” Zeman said. “Gold still has the
makings of a false breakout.”  Silver futures for May delivery gained 86.9 cents, or 2.5
percent, to $35.935 an ounce. This week, the price gained 1.7
percent, the seventh straight gain and the longest rally in
three years. The metal has more than doubled in the past 12
months.  Palladium futures for June delivery slid 90 cents to
$765.50 an ounce on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The price
dropped for the seventh straight session, the longest slide
since August.  Platinum futures for April delivery rose $16.10, or 0.9
percent, to $1,781.70 an ounce, ending a four-day slump.  Palladium, down 5.5 percent this week, has gained 66
percent in the past 12 months.  Platinum, down 3.1 percent this week, has climbed 10
percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  