-- 
Google Antitrust Probe Is Urged by Republican U.S. Senator

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-12T00:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/google-antitrust-investigation-urged-by-republican-u-s-senator.html
Senator  Mike Lee , a Utah
Republican, added his support to a growing number of lawmakers
seeking congressional hearings on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s business
practices.  In a letter to Herb Kohl, chairman of the Senate Judiciary
antitrust subcommittee, Lee said he has “strong concerns” that
Google, owner of the most popular Internet search engine, is
abusing its dominant market position.  “The powerful position Google occupies in the general
search arena creates myriad opportunities for anticompetitive
behavior,” Lee  wrote . The letter, dated March 10, was released
today.  Kohl, a Wisconsin Democrat,  said  in a statement yesterday
that he would “examine allegations raised by e-commerce
websites that compete with Google that they are being treated
unfairly in search ranking and in their ability to purchase
search advertising.”    Mountain View , California-based Google also has drawn
congressional criticism for what the company said was the
accidental collection of people’s personal computer information
from unsecured wireless networks. Representative  Joe Barton , a
Texas Republican who is a co-chairman of the Congressional
Privacy Caucus, has called for a hearing on the matter.  Google’s Response  Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, said competition
exists in the search market.  “Our goal is to provide users with the best possible
answers as quickly as possible,” he said in a statement. “We
know that if we don’t deliver useful results, competition is
only one click away.”  As a Salt Lake City-based attorney for Howrey LLP, Lee
provided legal advice to 1-800 Contacts Inc. as the company
pressed the state legislature to pass a search-related bill,
said Joe Zeidner, general counsel for the Draper, Utah-based
company.  The legislation would have prevented rivals’ ads from
appearing in results for Internet searches based on the
company’s trademarked name.  After spending millions of dollars on advertising, “our
competitors get to freeload off the awareness we’ve built,”
Zeidner said in an interview.  Google and other search firms opposed the bill, which died
in the state Senate after passing the House.  More Oversight  In his letter to Kohl, Lee said that the growing number of
technology companies in  Utah  gives the state “a significant
interest in preserving open competition in this important area
of our economy.”  Representative Charles Gonzalez, a Texas Democrat and a
member of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee that deals
with privacy issues, said he also favored more congressional
oversight of Google.  “We’re always hoping that a department or an agency is
minding the store, but we’ve learned in the past that’s not
always true,” he said in an interview. “You can have a
reasonable question about cornering markets and expanding by
acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  