-- 
German Bonds Advance as Japanese Earthquake Spurs Demand Before EU Meeting

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-03-11T10:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/government-bonds-increase-as-japanese-earthquake-strikes-eu-leaders-meet.html
German 10-year  government bonds 
rose for a third day after the world’s strongest earthquake in
six years struck northern Japan, boosting demand for the
perceived safety of fixed income.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish, Portuguese
and Spanish securities instead of benchmark 10-year bunds
widened before leaders from the euro area meet to discuss
measures to tackle the debt crisis. Italian bonds were higher
before the nation sells as much as 5 billion euros ($6.9
billion) of 2015 and 2026 debt. Bunds headed for a weekly gain
after unrest in the Middle East and North Africa boosted demand.  “There are safe-haven flows because of the Japanese
earthquake, the crisis in North Africa and uncertainties about
the debt crisis,” said Birgit Figge, a bond strategist at DZ
Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “There are a lot of uncertainties in the
market and that’s driven bunds higher.”  The yield on the German bund was five basis points lower at
3.20 percent as of 10:01 a.m. in London. It earlier reached 3.18
percent, the least since March 2. The 2.5 percent security due
January 2021 rose 0.405, or 4.05 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 94.18. The two-year note yield also fell five basis
points, to 1.65 percent.  Portuguese 10-year government bonds declined a fifth day,
driving the yield four basis points higher to 7.54 percent and
widening the spread over bunds by nine basis points to 434 basis
points, or 4.34 percentage points. The yield difference between
Irish and German bonds jumped eight basis points to 633 basis
points and the spread between Spanish and German 10-year yields
was three basis points wider at 229 basis points.  Leaders Meet  EU leaders gather today in Brussels, aiming to agree to a
blueprint to improve competitiveness, a plan  Germany  demanded as
a condition for expanding the bailout effort. Investors will
also be looking for signs that differences over how to solve the
debt crisis are narrowing ahead of a second meeting on March 24-
25 that German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has said will produce a
comprehensive package of measures.  Stocks fell in  Asia  and Europe after an 8.9 magnitude
earthquake rocked buildings in Japan’s financial center and a
tsunami as high as 10 meters was reported in northern Japan,
boosting demand for government bonds. Bunds pared gains and
Treasuries erased an advance after the  Bank of Japan  pledged to
ensure financial stability.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares declined 1.4 percent,
while Stoxx  Europe  600 Index lost 0.7 percent.  As violence escalates in  Libya , protests are scheduled
today in  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s largest oil
reserves.  Security forces broke up a protest yesterday in Qatif,
Saudi Arabia. Police fired above the crowd of 120-150 people to
end the rally after a policeman taking video to document the
event was attacked, Major General Mansour al-Turki, an interior
ministry spokesman, said in an interview. Three people were
injured, two protesters and one policeman, he said.  A report showed German inflation accelerated to the fastest
pace in more than two years in February. The rate increased to
2.2 percent, from 2 percent in January, according to the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Daniel Tilles
at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  