-- 
Greek Solar Power Capacity May Double After Permit Process Streamlined

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-03-11T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/greek-solar-power-capacity-may-double-after-permit-process-streamlined.html
Greek solar-power developers will
double the pace of installations this year after a new law
streamlined procedures to get permits, the industry’s lobby
group said.  About 300 megawatts of capacity will be set up, twice last
year’s level, according to the  Hellenic Association of
Photovoltaic Cos.  That will bring the total to almost 500
megawatts by year-end from less than 55 megawatts in 2009.  Incentives for clean energy and the strength of  Greece ’s
solar radiation have spurred developers to apply for licenses to
build 9,500 megawatts of solar capacity, two-thirds of which
were received since June, government figures show. Constraints
restricting the amount of new power that can be hooked into the
transmission grid may prevent a boom like those seen in the
Czech Republic or  Italy .  “There are so many applications that the government can’t
cope, and the grid connection takes much longer than it
should,” Stelios Psomas, a policy adviser at the lobby group,
said in a telephone interview. “It will take some time before
many of these projects can take off.”  The government, targeting 2,200 megawatts of solar power by
2020, adopted a renewable energy law in May that speeds up the
process of obtaining building and environmental permits. One
megawatt in photovoltaic capacity can power about 350 Greek
households, according to the adviser.  Companies Connecting  Greece’s largest project, with 10 megawatts, was connected
last month at Polydamanta by a unit of Ellaktor SA.  Public Power
Corp SA (PPC) , Greece’s biggest electricity producer, plans to develop
a 50-megawatt plant in Megalopolis and a 200-megawatt project at
Kozani. Yannis Papazoglou, a spokesman for PPC, said those
projects may be linked to the grid without delay.  Applications for 9,500 megawatts of power in all have been
made, the Greek  Ministry of Environment, Energy and Climate
Change  earlier this month said in its annual report. The
government’s solar target, the second-biggest in  Europe  behind  Germany , seems “rather conservative” when considering the
current interest in developments, Psomas said.  Even if most of those projects were approved and connected,
Greece’s solar energy industry would trail Germany’s, which had
17,800 megawatts connected at the end of 2010, the biggest
photovoltaic market in the world, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance estimates.  Capacity Quadrupled  Greece, which offers the highest premium for solar
electricity in Europe, almost quadrupled its capacity to 200
megawatts last year. Its feed-in tariffs averages about 400
euros per megawatt hour, according to New Energy Finance.  The  Czech Republic  and Italy by comparison increased their
bases about five-fold during 2010. The Czech Republic may have
reached 2,200 megawatts and Italy may have built as many as 6
gigawatts, according to the London-based research firm.  “The amount of future capacity installed in Greece will
eventually come down to government’s ambitions,” said Pietro Radoia, a solar analyst at New Energy Finance in London. “The
government cannot afford the cost of new PV installations, and
the slow permitting process has been possibly the best thing
that could have happened to Greece.”  The Greek government approved 1,793 megawatts of solar
photovoltaic projects by the end of 2010, compared to 393
megawatts a year earlier, according to the environment ministry.  Greece’s Regulatory Authority for Energy has started a
consultation on how renewable-energy producers can improve
access to the grid, focusing on the problems developers have
reported in gaining access, it said on its website last week.  ‘Accelerating’ Market  “The market is accelerating for all kinds of projects,
particularly residential ones,” Psomas said. “All applications
are now being accepted again for large solar parks, after a long
freeze, and small projects need much less paperwork.”  There are 30,000 applications for small projects with 5,182
megawatts in capacity and 1,688 applications totaling 4,255
megawatts for large projects, according to the government
report. Priority goes to those filed before last summer’s bill,
some as far back as 2006, Psomas said.  Small projects have been boosted by simplified procedures
such as the elimination of both production licenses for projects
of less than 1 megawatt and environmental permits for rooftop
plants.  Larger projects will need to wait longer for grid
connections. The nation’s Regulatory Authority for Energy has
received around 180 applications for projects larger than 1
megawatt since the new law was implemented, according to Georgia
Glinou, head of renewable energy at the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in  London  at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  