-- 
Gross Says Treasury Investors ‘Under-Rewarded’ With Low Yields

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-11T17:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/gross-says-u-s-to-retain-aaa-credit-rating-for-some-time.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said investors aren’t being compensated enough for
owning U.S. Treasuries after he eliminated government-related
debt from his flagship fund last month.  “We’re being under-rewarded at this point in time,”
Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said today on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.” “A
saver should be rewarded for the liquidity they are providing
and the risk they are accepting relative to inflation.”  Treasuries are less valuable compared with other assets as
the  Federal Reserve  finishes a round of bond purchases to flood
the economy with cash and keeps it target rate for overnight
loans between banks a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent,
Gross said. If U.S. nominal gross domestic product increases at
the 4 percent to 5 percent pace that the Fed expects, Gross
said, 10-year notes should yield about 4 percent.  “There are better choices than Treasuries,” he said. “It
is simply a reflection of the value of Treasuries relative to
other sovereigns or corporate bonds or other issues in the
marketplace.”  Treasuries returned 5.9 percent in 2010, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. After slumping 2.7 percent in
the fourth quarter, the securities have gained 0.1 percent this
year. The yield on the 10-year note climbed four basis points
today to 3.40 percent.  Total Return Fund  Gross last month eliminated government-related debt from
Pimco’s $237 billion Total Return Fund, which last held zero
government-related debt in January 2009. Gross had cut the
holdings to 12 percent of assets in January, according to the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s  website .  The fund’s
net cash-and-equivalent position surged from 5 percent to 23
percent in February, the highest since May 2008.  While the U.S. will retain its AAA credit rating for some
time, yields on Treasuries are about 1.50 percentage points
lower than they normally are, Gross said.  Pimco is starting a new version of the  Pimco Total Return
Fund (PTTRX)  that will rely less on derivatives and leverage, two of the
tools he used to build it into the world’s largest mutual fund.  The new fund, identified as Pimco Total Return Fund IV in a
February regulatory filing that details the changes, will forgo
high-yield debt, borrowing to create leverage, and investing in
options. It will serve as an alternative to, rather than a
replacement for Pimco Total Return. Gross declined to comment
today on the new fund, citing regulatory restrictions.  Investment Alternatives  Gross set up two other versions of his flagship fund in
1991. Pimco Total Return II is barred from investing in high-
yield bonds while Pimco Total Return III is a socially conscious
fund that avoids investing in industries such as tobacco, gaming
and spirits. Apart from those limitations, their terms are
identical to those of the initial Total Return Fund, including
the ability to make unlimited investments in derivatives,
subject to applicable securities laws and any caveats in their
governing documents.  The Total Return Fund has returned 7.43 percent in the past
year, beating 84 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 1.86 percent over the past
month.  Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the company’s website. The fund can have a so-called negative
position by using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  Derivatives are financial obligations whose value is
derived from an underlying asset. Futures are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a later specific price and date. Shorting is
borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation of making a
profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.24 trillion of assets as of December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  