-- 
Gross Starts Derivative-Lite Version of Pimco Total Return as Rally Ends

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-03-11T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/gross-starts-derivative-lite-version-of-pimco-total-return-as-rally-ends.html
  Bill Gross  is starting a new
version of his Pimco Total Return Fund that will rely less on
derivatives and leverage, two of the tools he used to build
Total Return into the world’s largest mutual fund.  The new fund, identified as Pimco Total Return Fund IV in a
February regulatory filing that details the changes, will forgo
high-yield debt, borrowing to create leverage, and investing in
options. It will serve as an alternative to rather than a
replacement for Pimco Total Return, which had $237 billion in
assets as of last month.  Gross, the co-founder of Pacific Investment Management Co.
in  Newport Beach ,  California , is tinkering with a strategy that
helped him beat 98 percent of rivals over almost 24 years and
attract $25.1 billion of new deposits last year. With Gross
forecasting an end of the three-decade bond rally, Pimco may be
targeting investors who prefer a more conservative approach over
the risks associated with excess yields, according to Francois
Otieno, a senior fixed-income analyst at Hewitt EnnisKnupp,
which advises institutional investors.  “The total return fund is the largest mutual fund in the
world, yet very few underlying investors have a clue on how
their strategy is executed,” Otieno said in an interview from  Chicago . “There is an appetite for a more conservative strategy
in the marketplace.”    Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pimco, said the firm
can’t comment on the new fund while its disclosure documents are
being reviewed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Gross, 66, didn’t respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking
comment.  No Limits  Pimco Total Return has produced average annual returns of
8.42 percent since starting in May 1987, a performance that
ranks it seventh out of 353 bond funds, according to Morningstar
Inc., the Chicago-based stock and fund research firm. Its
benchmark, the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Index, has had
average annual returns of 7.26 percent from April 30, 1987,
through Feb. 28 of this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The fund benefited from a bond market rally that dates back
to the early 1980s, as well as Gross’s ability to discern
macroeconomic trends and the wide latitude he has to boost
returns through complex instruments and strategies. Pimco Total
Return may invest “without limitation” in derivatives,
including options, futures contracts or swap agreements,
according to the fund prospectus.  $2.38 Trillion  Pimco, founded in 1971, has used derivatives as an integral
part of its strategies since 1980, primarily to manage risk and
take advantage of market inefficiencies, according to a July
2009 report by Hewitt EnnisKnupp. Pimco Total Return’s “most
unique aspect,” according to the report, “is its extensive use
of derivative securities.”  At the end of 2008, the fund’s portfolio, including
derivatives, had a gross notional value of $2.38 trillion and a
market value of $133.1 billion, Hewitt EnnisKnupp said in the
report. That resulted in an accounting leverage, or total assets
to net capital, of 17 times, the report said.  The Hewitt EnnisKnupp report shows Pimco Total Return’s
accounting leverage fell to 4 times at March 31, 2009. Gross’s
firm argues that as long as the fund’s risk profile in aggregate
is similar to that of its benchmark, it doesn’t employ leverage
on an “economic” basis, according to the report.  Clients who rely on Pimco as their sole bond manager “may
want to” consider diversifying into more traditional fixed-
income managers or an index fund, the report said.  ‘Complex Strategy’  “EnnisKnupp remains comfortable with the  Pimco Total
Return Fund (PTTRX)  and its related strategies,” according to the
report. “But we acknowledge that this complex strategy relies
heavily on derivatives and may not be ideal for all investors,
particularly those investors that view their fixed-income
portfolio as an anchor to windward as opposed to a source of
total return.”  The restrictions imposed on Pimco Total Return IV would
create an alternative that more closely mirrors the benchmark
Barclays aggregate index, said  Adam Cohen , director of fixed-
income research at Fortigent LLC, a Rockville, Maryland,
consultant to investment advisers, family offices and bank and
trust companies.  It will seek to invest at least 80 percent of total assets
in bonds and other debt securities, according to a Feb. 11  SEC
filing , whereas the main Pimco Total Return has a lower target
of 65 percent that can be met through the use of forwards or
derivatives, including options, futures and swap agreements.  While Pimco Total Return seeks to maintain an average
portfolio duration that is within two years of the Barclays
aggregate index, the new fund will try to stay within one-and-a-
half years of the benchmark.  Client Withdrawals  “This is for investors who are looking to hold a more
traditional fixed-income fund,” said Cohen. “It makes the fund
more constrained and more targeted towards the aggregate” he
said, referring to the Barclays aggregate index.  Pimco Total Return’s growth reversed late last year amid
signs that the 30-year bond market rally was coming to an end, a
possibility that Gross himself raised in an Oct. 27  commentary 
on Pimco’s Web site. After taking in a net of $32 billion from
investors during the first 10 months of 2010, the fund recorded
net redemptions of $9.45 billion between November and January,
according to Morningstar. November marked the first time in two
years that withdrawals exceeded share purchases.  Flagship Fund  Gross set up two other versions of his flagship fund in
1991. Pimco Total Return II is barred from investing in high-
yield bonds while Pimco Total Return III is a socially conscious
fund that avoids investing in industries such as tobacco, gaming
and spirits. Apart from those limitations, their terms are
identical to those of the initial Total Return Fund, including
the ability to make unlimited investments in derivatives,
subject to applicable securities laws and any caveats in their
governing documents.  The $3.3 billion Pimco Total Return II produced average
annual gains of 7.9 percent during the past five years, compared
with 8.3 percent for the original Pimco Total Return, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its management fees are 0.50
percent of assets, compared with 0.46 percent for institutional
shares of the larger fund.  Pimco Total Return IV, the latest edition of Gross’s fund,
will hold only investment-grade securities, can’t have more than
15 percent of total assets invested in securities denominated in
foreign currencies, and will under normal circumstances limit
its foreign  currency risk  to 5 percent of total assets, the
filing shows. The comparable ceilings for the existing Pimco
Total Return are 10 percent of total assets in high-yield
securities, 30 percent in foreign-denominated debt, and a 20
percent ceiling on overall currency exposure.  No Options  The new fund may not borrow to create leverage, though it
can take out temporary loans equaling as much as 10 percent of
assets to meet redemptions or for emergency purposes. In
contrast, the existing Pimco Total Return may borrow money “to
the extent permitted under the 1940 Act,” generally defined as
33 percent of net assets.  While Pimco Total Return may invest “without limitation”
in derivatives, the new version of the fund will “seek to
limit” exposure to interest rate swaps to 10 percent of total
assets and will cap its credit default swaps at 5 percent of
total assets. The new fund “may not invest in options,”
according to the SEC filing, nor can it engage in reverse  repurchase agreements .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  