-- 
Li Ka-shing's Hutchison Port Said to Raise $5.4 Billion in Singapore IPO

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-03-11T11:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/li-ka-shing-s-hutchison-port-said-to-raise-5-4-billion-in-singapore-ipo.html
Li Ka-shing’s Hutchison Port
Holdings Trust expects to raise $5.4 billion in Southeast Asia’s
biggest initial public offering, according to three people with
knowledge of the transaction.  The trust, which will own port assets in Hong Kong and  China  from Li’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , plans to sell about 5.4
billion units at $1.01 each, said the people, who declined to be
identified before an announcement. A final decision will be made
on March 14, they said. The price range was initially set at 91
cents to $1.08 before being narrowed to 99 cents to $1.03.  The price “will make the yield more attractive,” Wong Sui Jau, general manager of Fundsupermart, the online division of
IFAST Financial Pte, which manages $2.8 billion, said today in a
Bloomberg TV interview. “It’s still overall a positive business
because of Hong Kong’s proximity to China and China’s growth.”  Investors have cooled on Asian equities as unrest in the
Middle East pushes  oil prices  higher and accelerating inflation
from China to  India  prompts central banks to boost borrowing
costs. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has slipped 2 percent this
year after gaining 14 percent in 2010.    DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  are managing the Hutchison Port sale, the world’s
largest IPO this year. Hutchison Whampoa spokeswoman Laura Cheung wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Port Yields  The port trust’s yield is expected to be 5.89 percent based
on the final sale price and its 2011 earnings forecast,
according to the people. Hong Kong-listed terminal operators
China Merchants Holdings International Co. and Cosco Pacific Ltd.
will both have dividend yields of less than 3 percent this year,
based on analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Hutchison, controlled by Li,  Hong Kong ’s richest man, fell
1.7 percent to HK$91.15 on the city’s stock exchange today. It’s
gained 14 percent this year, compared with the benchmark Hang
Seng Index’s 0.9 percent advance.  China Hongqiao Group Ltd., the country’s largest privately
owned aluminum producer, in January scrapped plans to raise as
much as $2.2 billion in a Hong Kong IPO, citing “deterioration
in market conditions,” according to a Jan. 31 filing to the
city’s stock exchange. China Kingstone Mining Holdings Ltd. will
sell stock in Hong Kong at the low end of a price range,
according to a term sheet for the deal.  Companies have sold $2.8 billion of IPO shares in the Asia-
Pacific region this year, compared with $18.5 billion in the
first quarter of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Port Assets  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust will own assets including
container terminals in Hong Kong and neighboring  Guangdong
province . Hutchison, the world’s container-terminal operator,
will manage the trust and retain a 25 percent stake, according
to a Jan. 18 statement.  Cornerstone investors led by Capital Research & Management
Co. and Paulson & Co. will invest $1.62 billion in the trust IPO,
according to the prospectus filed with the Monetary Authority of  Singapore .  Capital Research will invest $634 million in the offering,
according to the term sheet. Paulson & Co., managed by  John Paulson , will buy a $350 million stake and Lone Pine Capital LCC
will invest $186 million, it said. Jenkin Hui and family,
Singapore’s state investment company Temasek Holdings Pte,
Cathay Life Insurance Co. and Metropolitan Financial Services
Ltd. will each invest $100 million, and Ally Holding Ltd. will
buy a $50 million stake.  The IPO will likely surpass the $4 billion raised in  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ’s 1993 offering, previously
the city-state’s largest, and  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM) ’s
$4.1 billion initial offering in November in Malaysia.  Hutchison, which also invests in drugstores, real estate
and mobile-phone services, opted to sell the port assets in
Singapore as business trusts can’t be listed in Hong Kong. The
company chose a trust structure because of the assets’ stable
cashflow and growth potential, it said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at   fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  