-- 
Libya Solution Requires Aid From Arab League, African Union, Albright Says

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-03-11T20:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/libya-solution-requires-aid-from-arab-league-african-union-albright-says.html
The U.S. needs support from the  Arab League  and the African Union to halt the burgeoning civil
war in Libya, former Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright  said
today in  New York .  Both Albright, who became the first woman to lead the State
Department when she was named to the post in 1997 by President
Bill Clinton, and  Condoleezza Rice , who served in the same role
during President George W. Bush’s administration, said the
region’s turmoil is likely to unleash voices Americans don’t
want to hear.  “What you have in Libya is a place that is run by a nut,”
Albright told guests at the  Women in the World  conference
organized by Newsweek Editor-in-Chief Tina Brown. The matter is
further complicated because intervening in Libya would mean
“the U.S. taking on one more Muslim country,” Albright said.  Rebellions in  Tunisia  and Egypt toppled governments in
those counties in the past two months, and protests have spread
to Yemen, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Libya. Fighting raged around
Zawiyah and Ras Lanuf, Libya, today, the latter a key location
because of its tanker terminal, storage depot and the country’s
largest oil refinery, said Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, a spokesman for
the opposition’s transitional national council.  Libya Unrest  It wasn’t clear whether Qaddafi loyalists, who took control
of the city’s center yesterday, were able to hold their gains.
Ghoga said Qaddafi is engaged in “a desperate attempt to get
his hands on the oil,” and urged foreign powers to impose a no-
fly zone to limit Qaddafi’s military options.  Uprisings in the region may not initially produce results
the U.S. would like to see as Arab countries evaluate the role
Islam will play in politics, society and individual rights, Rice
said.  “Voices are going to be released that we don’t like and we
don’t like hearing,” she said. “It’s going to be quite
turbulent and very difficult.”  Both former diplomats said a no-fly zone over  Libya  is a
policy option that requires careful consideration.  “No-fly zones are no small matter,” Rice said. “We flew
a no-fly zone over Iraq for 12 years and almost every time we
flew, he shot at our planes,” she said of the late Iraqi
dictator  Saddam Hussein .  Before serving as secretary of state, Albright, 73, was the
U.S. permanent representative to the United Nations and taught
at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service, where she
was director of the Women in Foreign Service Program.  No Role Models  Albright had no real female role models as a young woman
pursuing a foreign policy career, she said in a 2008  interview 
with the Wall Street Journal.  “People said initially that a woman could not be secretary
of state, primarily because I was dealing with patriarchal
systems or some of the Middle Eastern countries,” Albright said
in the interview. “But I didn’t have any problems, because I
arrived in a large plane that said United States of America and
they also knew that I had to be the one to talk with them.”  Rice served as national security adviser to Bush from 2001
to 2005. Before joining the administration, she was a professor
of political science at  Stanford University  in  Palo Alto ,  California , where she served as provost. She returned to
Stanford after her tenure in  Washington  and is now a fellow at
the university’s Hoover Institution.  U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said yesterday she
will go to  Egypt  and Tunisia next week and will meet with
members of the Libyan opposition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Greene in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sharon L. Lynch at 
 sllynch@bloomberg.net  