-- 
Industrial Production Quickens, Allowing Scope for Higher Interest Rates

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-03-11T06:10:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/india-production-growth-accelerates-giving-scope-for-interest-rate-rise.html
  India ’s industrial output grew more
than analysts expected in January, supporting economic growth
and giving the central bank scope to increase interest rates and
fight inflation.  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 3.7 percent
from a year earlier after a revised 2.5 percent gain in December,
the government said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
median estimate of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 2.9 percent increase.    Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will decide
on March 17 whether to boost rates an eighth time in a year as
economic expansion exceeding 8 percent fuels inflation. A jump
in crude oil of almost 20 percent in the past three weeks is
escalating the risk of price pressures in  Asia , prompting South  Korea ,  Thailand  and  Vietnam  to raise borrowing costs this month.  “The surge in crude oil prices will further pose headwinds
for inflation management,” said  Ramya Suryanarayanan , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “The RBI will
continue with its tightening mode to bring inflation under
control.”  India’s stocks have tumbled as the central bank raised
interest rates to stem consumer-price increases and the crude
oil rally stoked inflation. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive Index has retreated more than 10 percent this year,
the fourth-worst performer among 90 benchmark indexes tracked by
Bloomberg globally.  Economic Growth  The benchmark stock index fell 0.4 percent at 11:37 a.m. in
Mumbai. The yield on the 8.13 percent note due in September 2022
rose one basis point to 8.05 percent, according to the central
bank’s trading system.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand as much as 9.25
percent in the next fiscal year starting April 1, the fastest
pace since 2008, compared with an estimated 8.6 percent gain in
the current year, the  finance ministry  said last month.  Faster economic growth is spurring incomes and leading to
higher demand for cars, motorbikes and other consumer goods. Car
sales in India by companies including Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.,
the nation’s biggest carmaker, and Toyota Motor Corp. rose to a
record in February. Deliveries climbed 23 percent to 189,008
vehicles from 154,132 a year earlier, the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers  said in a release on March 9.  Consumer demand may strengthen further after Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee in his Feb. 28 budget exempted more
people from paying taxes to protect citizens from rising prices.  Salaries Climb  Salaries in India this year are set to rise the most in the
Asia-Pacific region with wages expected to grow an average 12.9
percent in 2011, compared with 11.7 percent last year, a survey
by Aon Hewitt LLC showed this month. In  China , salaries may
increase 9 percent.  The RBI is likely to raise the benchmark repurchase rate,
the rate at which the central bank injects money in the banking
system, by 0.25 percentage point to 6.75 percent, and increase
the reverse repurchase rate by a similar margin to 5.75 percent,
according to all seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Governor Subbarao raised the repurchase rate by a quarter
of a percentage point on Jan. 25 and said persisting with an
“anti-inflationary monetary stance” was necessary as he lifted
the nation’s inflation forecast because of higher food costs.  The Bank of Korea raised  interest rates  for the second time
this year on March 10 after inflation exceeded its target
ceiling for two consecutive months, increasing the benchmark
seven-day repurchase rate to 3 percent from 2.75 percent.
Vietnam and Thailand also raised borrowing costs this week.  Increased Headwinds  Crude oil prices are up 25 percent from a year earlier and
traded at $102.68 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange at 11:19 a.m. Singapore time. Crude futures
in New York rose to $105.44 a barrel on March 7, the highest
settlement since Sept. 26, 2008, as violence in Libya renewed
concern Middle East supply disruptions will worsen.  “The surge in crude  oil prices  has only increased
headwinds for India as for other Asian countries,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , a Mumbai-based economist at Crisil Ltd., the
local unit of Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. The production
data “is understating the growth momentum and is actually much
better than what the numbers are showing,” he said.  India relies on overseas purchases to meet three-quarters
of its annual energy needs.  Inflation reduces purchasing power in India, where the
World Bank estimates more than three-quarters of the people live
on less than $2 a day. India’s benchmark wholesale-price
inflation rate averaged more than 9 percent in 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing rose 3.3 percent in January, compared with a
2 percent gain in December, today’s report showed. Mining
production expanded 1.6 percent and electricity output added
10.5 percent. Capital goods production fell 18.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  