-- 
ING Says It Retains Holding Exceeding 5% in Engine Maker Tognum

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-03-11T16:44:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/ing-says-it-retains-holding-exceeding-5-in-engine-maker-tognum.html
ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, said it retains a stake exceeding
5 percent in  Tognum AG (TGM) , the German engine-maker that  Daimler AG (DAI) 
and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  are seeking to buy.  A statement by Tognum today referring to ING’s stake
involved a subsidiary of the Amsterdam-based bank, ING SFE BV,
that ceased to exist on Dec. 31, 2007, said Johan Govers, an
analyst at ING’s investment-management unit in the Hague that
manages the stake on behalf of the bank’s insurance division.
Tognum said it was informed on March 8 that ING SFE no longer
owned the manufacturer’s shares as of the end of 2007.  “ING has a stake of well above 5 percent in Tognum,”
Govers said by phone today. “Despite this morning’s
notification, the stake hasn’t been changed.”    ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s last filing on its holding in
Friedrichshafen-based Tognum dates from Nov. 14, 2007, when the
firm reported it owned 5.02 percent. The next stake threshold
requiring notification under German market rules is 10 percent.  The Dutch bank is the second-largest shareholder in Tognum
after Daimler, according to Bloomberg data. The Stuttgart,
Germany-based automaker, which holds 28.4 percent of Tognum, is
making a joint bid of 24 euros a share with Rolls-Royce, the
world’s second-biggest maker of  jet engines .  Julia Loeffelsend, a spokeswoman for Tognum, said that the
company has no indication that ING has sold shares, and that
today’s notification relates to an older reorganization of the
holding.  Daimler Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber told Bloomberg
News today that there’s “no reason” to raise the bid even
though the share price is hovering above the offer.  Tognum declined 0.1 percent to 25.48 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 29 percent this
year, valuing the company at 3.35 billion euros ($4.63 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  