-- 
Innkeepers Judge Approves Lehman Ali, Five Mile Bid for Bankrupt Hotels

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-11T20:41:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/innkeepers-judge-approves-lehman-ali-five-mile-bid-for-bankrupt-hotels.html
  Innkeepers USA Trust  won permission
to auction its bankrupt hotels under a revised deal with Lehman
Ali Inc. and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC that values the
properties at $970.7 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  New York  today
approved the so-called stalking-horse offer from the unit of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ; Connecticut-based asset manager
Five Mile;  Midland Loan Services , a division of PNC Bank; and
 Apollo Investment Corp.  Such offers serve as a baseline
agreement to be challenged by competing bidders at an auction.  Chapman overruled objections from creditor  Appaloosa
Investment LP , which said a deal calling for Lehman to get
$200.3 million in cash to cover its claims is improper, and
“creates an unsupportable hurdle to competitive bidding.”  “Far from being chilled, the bidding appears to be quite
heated,” Chapman said, praising Innkeepers for marketing itself
so well in bankruptcy that competitive offers to be a stalking
horse were received as late as last night.  The revised offer, announced March 7, separates seven
hotels from the sale. Innkeepers will continue to market those
hotels, seeking to raise more money for creditors.  The offer was sweetened a third time last night to remove a
$7 million breakup fee that would have compensated the stalking-
horse bidders if a higher offer was received. Chapman adjourned
a hearing yesterday amid talk that there was other interest in
the company.  ‘$7 Million More’  “We weren’t apart more than 24 hours, and we already have
$7 million more in value for the estate,” the judge said.  An $8 million overbid, or total offer of $978.7 million, is
required to top the Lehman and Five Mile agreement, according to
papers circulated in the courtroom and not yet filed.  According to court papers, “Bidder D” has submitted
competitive bids for Innkeepers, and the agreement approved
today agrees to reimburse the undisclosed bidder.  The agreement calls for unsecured creditors to get a
distribution as high as 65 percent of their claims. Lehman will
support Innkeeper’s exclusive control of its bankruptcy until
June 30, if the new bidding procedures are approved before March
29, Innkeepers said in court papers.  Innkeepers’ unsecured creditors said an earlier stalking-
horse offer protected the sponsors of a 2007 buyout and the
company at their expense.  The parent of Innkeepers, owner of 72 hotels in 20 U.S.
states, including Residence Inns by Marriott and Hampton Inns,
is managed by an affiliate of Apollo Global Management LLC,  Leon Black ’s private-equity firm.  Lehman Ali helped Apollo finance the buyout of the  Palm
Beach , Florida-based hotelier with a $1.2 billion loan.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 