-- 
Investment Technology Group, Liquidnet Settle Patent Dispute

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-03-11T23:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/investment-technology-group-liquidnet-settle-patent-dispute-1-.html
  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) 
agreed to settle an intellectual-property dispute with Liquidnet
Holdings Inc., with both companies licensing their patents to
each other.  ITG announced the settlement in a statement today.
Liquidnet filed a complaint in 2006, saying ITG’s Channel, Posit
Alert and Macgregor XIP products infringed on its patent for a
system that alerts traders when someone may want to execute an
order with them. U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in  New
York  ruled in December that Liquidnet’s claims had been
dismissed.  In a counterclaim, New York-based broker ITG said the
patent invented by Liquidnet Chief Executive Officer and
President Seth Merrin as well as others was procured in part
through fraud. That ITG claim has now been dropped, with both
companies agreeing to cross-license one another’s patents
relating to trading processes.  “It was in the best interest of both companies to resolve
the issue as some significant clients were getting frustrated,”  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in
New York, said in an e-mail.  Settling the litigation and agreeing to a cross-licensing
arrangement allows the two companies to continue accessing the
trading blotters where institutions such as mutual funds and  hedge funds  display their buy and sell requests as part of their
effort to match orders among clients. The methodology is often
called blotter scraping.  ‘A Monopoly’  J.T. Farley, an ITG spokesman, and Liquidnet’s Richard Myers declined to comment beyond the statement.  “The litigation was important because Liquidnet was using
its patent to try to obtain for itself a monopoly on methods of
linking order management systems to electronic trading
destinations,” said  Steven Lieberman , partner at Washington-
based intellectual property law firm Rothwell, Figg, Ernst &
Manbeck PC and lead counsel for ITG. “Judge Scheindlin’s
opinion and order addressed the merits of that argument,
rejecting the broad arguments made by Liquidnet.”  ITG had said the inventor of the Liquidnet patent was
Richard Holway, who conceived of the idea in 1997 and hired a
company run by Merrin and others to develop the technology for a
block trading system for  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)   Liquidnet, based in New York, operates two private venues
known as dark pools that don’t display bids and offers publicly.  Blotters  ITG  and Liquidnet also today announced a “commercial
agreement” that relates to information accessed from the
blotters of ITG’s Triton and Macgregor products. Both are
systems that allow customers to see and manage orders they’re in
the process of executing. That agreement will be in place
through August 2014, the ITG notice said.  A Liquidnet claim that broker Pulse Trading Inc.’s crossing
system had infringed the same patent was also dismissed by Judge
Scheindlin in December after three years of litigation, Pulse’s
law firm Gilman Clark LLC said in January. Pulse still has an
outstanding claim against Liquidnet alleging that the relevant
patent was obtained in part through fraud.  Bloomberg Tradebook, which is also owned by Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is a distributor of information from Pulse
Trading’s BlockCross system.  The settlement of litigation between ITG and Liquidnet
follows a  decision  earlier this month that the  Chicago Board
Options Exchange  hadn’t infringed on a trading-related patent
held by the  International Securities Exchange .  CBOE Holdings
Inc. (CBOE)  owns the largest option market in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  