-- 
Inventories in U.S. Increased 0.9% in January; Sales Jump

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-11T18:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/inventories-at-u-s-companies-rise-0-9-in-january-sales-jump.html
Inventories in the U.S. rose more
than forecast in January as companies tried to keep pace with
the biggest gain in sales in almost a year.  The 0.9 percent increase in stockpiles followed a revised
1.1 percent gain in December that was bigger than initially
estimated, the Commerce Department said today in  Washington . The
median projection in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.8
percent rise. Sales jumped 2 percent in January, the most since
March 2010.  As companies and consumers gain confidence in the recovery,
businesses may have to step up orders to factories, ensuring
enough goods are on shelves and in warehouses to meet demand.
Inventories may contribute to growth this quarter as businesses
replenish stockpiles.  “Sales are starting to pick up to the point that
manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers are likely to start
stocking up,” said Michael Brown, an economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “For economic
growth, we’re looking at some positive momentum in manufacturing
output and industrial production.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg News survey of 47 economists
ranged from increases of 0.5 percent to 1.1 percent. December
stockpiles were revised from a previously reported 0.8 percent
gain.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s report not
previously released, rose 0.4 percent in January as sales
increased 0.8 percent.  Manufacturing Inventories  Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of
total stockpiles, grew 1.3 percent in January. Another 30
percent of inventories, held by wholesalers, grew 1.1 percent
during the month.  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.23 months in January, matching April 2010 as the
lowest on record, according to today’s figures.  Inventory rebuilding, a major driver of the early stages of
the economic recovery, slowed in the fourth quarter as sales
surged. Stockpiling subtracted 3.7 percentage points from the
2.8 percent gain in gross domestic product, according to the
Commerce Department.  Companies may need to replenish inventories as sales are
sustained. J.C. Penney Co., Macy’s Inc. and Ross Stores Inc.
were among retailers last week reporting February same-store
sales that topped analysts’ estimates. Purchases at stores open
at least a year climbed 6.4 percent at J.C. Penney, 5.8 percent
at Macy’s and 3 percent at Ross, company data showed.  “Sales built up momentum as demand progressed” in
February, Angelika Torres, J.C. Penney’s director of  investor
relations  said March 3 during a conference call. “Heading into
March, the company remains comfortable with the level and
content of its inventory, as it continues to be in line with the
current sales trends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  