-- 
Irish Gangster Battles Italian Mob; Mia’s Plain ‘Jane’: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/irish-gangster-battles-italian-mob-mia-s-plain-jane-movies.html
Orson Welles, George C. Scott,  Elizabeth Taylor  and William Hurt have appeared in film
adaptations. John Houseman and Aldous Huxley wrote one of the
screenplays. Mexico, India and  Hong Kong  have produced their own
versions.  “ Jane Eyre ,” Charlotte Bronte’s timeless 1847 novel about
the roller-coaster life of a British orphan, is one of the most-
filmed stories in history. Since 1910, when the first silent
version was released, there have been at least 18 feature films
and nine made-for-TV movies based on Jane’s dark journey through
the moors.  The latest version, from director Cary Fukunaga and
screenwriter Moira Buffini, is a worthy addition that’s
handsomely shot, crisply acted and cleverly constructed.  Using flashbacks to weave together the sprawling story,
Fukunaga (“Sin Nombre”) and Buffini (“Tamara Drewe”)
emphasize the book’s dark, brooding undercurrent while
maintaining its romantic core.  Mia Wasikowska, an Australian actress who starred in Tim Burton’s “Alice in Wonderland” and played a suicidal teenager
on TV’s “In Treatment,” is a perfect plain Jane with her
straight parted hair, drab outfits and blunt speech.  Governess, Runaway  She makes believable Jane’s transition from abused child to
governess and then runaway before reuniting with her lost love
and former employer, Edward Rochester (Michael Fassbender), at
the gothic mansion where he hides a terrible secret in the
attic. The part requires a broad acting range and Wasikowska, in
her early 20s, is up to the task.  Sally Hawkins, as Jane’s cruel aunt, and Judi Dench, as
Rochester’s kind housekeeper, headline a strong supporting cast
that includes Amelia Clarkson as the young Jane and Jamie Bell
as the austere clergyman who asks Jane to accompany him to  India 
for missionary work.  This probably won’t be the last “Jane Eyre” movie, but
it’s one of the best.  “Jane Eyre,” from Focus Features, is playing in New York
and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***  ‘Kill the Irishman’  Just in time for St. Patrick’s Day comes “ Kill the
Irishman ,” based on a real 1970s mob war in Cleveland between
Irish gangster Danny Greene and the Mafia.  Jonathan Hensleigh’s film is a grainy, low-rent version of
“Goodfellas.” They’re both about a group of hoodlums climbing
the ladder of organized crime through extortion, murder and
other unsavory acts. Both feature ethnic tensions between Irish
and Italian mobsters, narration by one of the main characters
and buckets of blood, including the stabbing of a guy trapped in
a car trunk.  But “Kill the Irishman” has enough distinctive elements
to avoid the blatant copycat label, particularly a gripping
performance by Ray Stevenson as Greene, the homegrown brawler
who rose to power as a union boss and then became one of the
city’s most notorious criminals.  In 1976, during the height of Greene’s war with the  Cleveland  Mafia, 36 car bombs exploded and body parts were
strewn all over the streets. Greene even publicly dared the
Mafia to come after him, which turned out to be an unwise move.  “Kill the Irishman” has an all-star lineup of tough guys,
including Christopher Walken as a Jewish mobster, Val Kilmer as
a sympathetic cop and Vincent D’Onofrio as Greene’s main partner
in crime. And just to be sure you don’t miss the “Goodfellas”
connection, Paul Sorvino reprises his role as a New York
wiseguy.  “Kill the Irishman,” from Anchor Bay Films, is playing in
New York, Los Angeles and Cleveland. Rating: **1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 