-- 
Irish Banks Seek to Delay `Evil Day' as Home-Loan Losses Rise

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-11T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/irish-banks-seek-to-delay-evil-day-as-home-loan-losses-rise.html
Perched on a chair overlooking a
wood panel-lined room in Dublin’s  High Court , a bespectacled
 Judge Elizabeth Dunne  has become all-too-used to hearing from
the victims of Ireland’s economic meltdown.  Each Monday, Dunne presides over repossession hearings,
with one in 10 Irish mortgages now in trouble. At the end of
last year, more than 79,000 borrowers were behind on payments or
had loan terms altered due to “financial distress,” the
country’s central bank said on Feb. 28.  “Things are getting worse and worse,” said Dunne, as she
weighed the case of a couple about 114,000 euros ($158,000) in
arrears on a 558,938-euro home loan, one of 74 cases on her list
on March 7. “Putting off the evil day is not going to help.”  Irish mortgages account for more than a third of about 270
billion euros of loans that remain with the nation’s so-called
viable lenders --  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , Bank of Ireland Plc,
Irish Life & Permanent Plc and EBS Building Society. The
country’s new coalition parties are not convinced “that there
has been proper transparency or full disclosure by the banks”
on home-loan impairments, Alan Shatter told RTE Radio on March
7, two days before his appointment as Minister for Justice.  “There has been a continual under-estimation of loan
impairments in Irish banks over the past few years,” Ray Kinsella, banking professor at the  Smurfit Business School  at
University College Dublin, said by telephone. “I am seriously
concerned about mounting loan losses in their mortgage books.”  New Stress Test  The bad loans may be reassessed as early as this month when
Ireland’s  central bank  concludes a third round of  stress tests 
on the country’s lenders. The results will determine how much of
a 35 billion-euro international bailout fund Ireland will need
to draw down.  A year ago, Irish regulators stress-tested for a 5 percent
loss rate on Irish mortgages. This year’s review “will take
account of the deteriorating economic conditions and hence”
loan-loss assumptions “may be higher,” said Nicola Faulkner, a
spokeswoman for the central bank, by e-mail.  Ireland is suffering after a decade-long real estate boom
collapsed in 2007. Already, the state has bought 72.3 billion
euros of risky commercial property loans from the banks, at an
average discount of 58 percent. Irish  house prices , which
quadrupled in the decade to 2007, have since plunged more than a
third. Unemployment has tripled to 13.5 percent over the same
period.  House Price Declines  This year’s tests may stress loan books against the  unemployment rate  rising to 16 percent, house prices falling 60
percent from their peak and “negligible” economic growth, said
analysts including  Jim Ryan  and Michael Cummins of Glas
Securities, the Dublin-based fixed-income firm, in a note to
clients March 9. The central bank declined to comment.  More than 300,000 households, or about 40 percent of
mortgages, may find their mortgages are worth more than their
homes, so-called negative equity, before the property market
bottoms out, said David Duffy, an economist at the  Economic &
Social Research Institute  in Dublin, who estimates that house
prices will fall by as much as half from peak to trough.  Morgan Kelly, a University College Dublin economics
professor dubbed “Doctor Doom” for his bleak assessments of
Ireland’s housing market, wrote in the  Irish Times  on Nov. 8
that banks face “mass mortgage defaults” and a “wave of
foreclosures.” Kelly declined to be interviewed.  EU Bailout  Iceland, where almost 40 percent of residential mortgages
were in negative equity by December, decided that month to write
off mortgages and other household debt by as much as $858
million. Unlike Ireland and other western nations, the Nordic
nation placed its biggest lenders in receivership in 2008 rather
than offer taxpayer-funded capital injections.  Ireland has bolstered its banks with 46.3 billion euros of
additional capital over the past two years. The nation was
forced to agree to an 85 billion-euro bailout on Nov. 28, led by
the  European Union  and the  International Monetary Fund . That
package includes 10 billion euros to recapitalize the banks up-
front and a further 25 billion euros of “contingency” capital
to be used if required.  “When the teams from the EU, ECB and IMF arrived in
November, they probably thought they would find huge holes
remaining in the banks’ loan books, but they did not,” said
Alan Ahearne, who was economics adviser to  Brian Lenihan , the
former finance minister. “It’s not that there’s some black hole
in the Irish banks that hasn’t previously been discovered.”  10 Billion Euros  Still, a previous regulatory target for banks to hold 8
percent core tier 1 capital, a gauge of financial stability,
“wasn’t enough to support confidence in the banks” given the
economy’s problems, Ahearne said. Ireland agreed as part of the
bailout to increase lenders’ capital levels to no less than 10.5
percent by the end of this month.  The 10 billion euros of initial capital destined for banks
under the rescue package “pretty much covers our base case
scenario” for remaining losses in Irish banks, said Ross Abercromby, a London-based analyst at Moody’s Investors Service,
by telephone. “The additional 25 billion euros contingency fund
would cover our stress scenario, which is pretty severe.”  Moody’s estimates that losses on Irish mortgages may be as
high as 14 percent where the loan-to-value ratio is over 90
percent. That rises to 16 percent “in our worst case,” the
ratings company said.  Household debt soared from 48 percent of disposable income
in 1995 to 176 percent in 2009, catapulting Irish consumers into
fourth place in 2008 in an international league table of
personal indebtedness from 17th place in 1995, according to
Ireland’s  Law Reform Commission .  Savings Rise  On the other hand, Irish households’  net savings  as a
percentage of disposable income rose from zero in 2007 to 12
percent in 2009, according to the  Central Statistics Office . The
savings rate should remain around the same level for this year
and next, the ESRI said on Jan. 20.  Irish Life & Permanent Plc Finance Director David McCarthy
said he doesn’t believe there are undiscovered losses in banks’
mortgage books. The group, which has 26.3 billion euros of Irish
home loans, saw arrears of less than 90 days peak in mid-2010,
McCarthy said on March 2, and they’ve “been falling, albeit
quite slowly, since then,” he said.  Bank of Ireland spokeswoman Anne Mathews referred to CEO
Richie Boucher’s Nov. 12 statement to analysts that there was
“clear evidence” that arrears were “beginning to stabilize.”
Allied Irish and EBS spokesmen declined to comment.  ‘Different Phenomenon’  The Irish home-loan market is “a totally different
phenomenon” to the commercial real-estate market, said John Reynolds, chief executive officer of Belgian-owned KBC Ireland.  “Irish banks have been hamstrung by a narrative that has
been allowed to develop that all their lending was as mad as
their real-estate lending,” said Reynolds. “The reality is
that the Irish banks, when they didn’t do the real-estate stuff,
which was a seductive drug, did bog-standard, criteria-driven
lending.”  “Banks are exercising huge forbearance on borrowers in
arrears,” partly because of pressure from the authorities “but
also because they don’t want to repossess houses as there’s no
second-hand market to sell them,” said Kinsella, the banking
professor. Lenders only held  585  repossessed residential
properties at end-2010, according to the central bank.  The new government said on March 6 it may bring in a two-
year  moratorium  on repossessions “of modest family homes where
a family makes an honest effort to pay their mortgages.”
Currently, mortgage holders can enjoy 12-month protection from
legal action if they are co-operating with lenders.  The coalition also pledged to fast-track changes in laws
requiring bankrupted individuals to wait 12 years before they
are discharged from their debts.  Rising Interest Rates  The issue of full recourse for  mortgage loans  is positive
for banks, if not for borrowers in negative equity, said
Abercromby. “If that level of recourse is watered down, by
introducing less stringent bankruptcy laws, you could be looking
at higher losses,” he said.  There is also concern that rising interest rates will hit
borrowers who have managed to remain out of trouble so far. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on March 3 the bank may
raise its benchmark rate from a record low of 1 percent as soon
as next month.  Banks have already increased variable home loan rates from
an average of 3.16 percent in mid-2009 to 3.87 percent by
November, according to the ESRI. Lenders, including Irish Life
and EBS, have hiked borrowing costs again since then.  Meanwhile, at least half of all Irish mortgages are so-
called tracker products, with pricing linked to ECB’s key rate,
according to the  Irish Banking Federation .  Tracker Rates  While banks may be able to contain bad-loan losses on their
mortgage books, “a big and ongoing problem is that a large part
of their mortgage books are based on ECB tracker rates, which
banks are funding at a loss,” said Karl Deeter, operations
manager with Dublin-based Irish Mortgage Brokers.  Back in the  High Court , Dunne is listening to how a house
builder from Co. Cavan, close to the border with  Northern
Ireland , is 67,000 euros in arrears on a 360,000 euro home loan
taken out three years ago.  Times are hard out there, says the man, who has a plant
hire and quarrying business, but is making partial remortgage
payments. “I understand that well,” says Dunne. “I see that
every Monday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  