-- 
Swaps Association Asked Whether Irish Restructuring Credit Event Occurred

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-03-11T18:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/isda-asked-whether-irish-bailout-means-restructuring-credit-event-occurred.html
The  International Swaps &
Derivatives Association  said it was asked to determine whether a
“restructuring credit event” has occurred on credit-default
swaps insuring Ireland’s government debt.  It’s the first time the trade group has been asked to make
such a ruling on sovereign debt since an overhaul of the market
in 2009. The anonymous request cited Ireland’s bailout led by
the  International Monetary Fund , which may have made the
Washington-based organization a preferred creditor, ISDA said on
its website today.  “The IMF certainly enjoys de facto preferential creditor
status” and has claimed such a position “with regards to their
loan to the Republic of Ireland,” the request on ISDA’s website
said.  Ireland became the second nation after  Greece  to request an
international rescue when it agreed an 85 billion-euro ($118
billion) bailout in November. The net amount of default
protection bought and sold on Irish government debt totaled
$4.15 billion as of March 4, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. Credit-default swaps protecting its debt have
risen 4 percent this month to 599 basis points, according to
CMA.  ‘Big Bang’  The request for ISDA to consider whether a restructuring
credit event occurred is the first on sovereign debt since the
market adopted a single standard for settling trades in 2009, in
a series of reforms known as the “Big Bang” and the “Small
Bang.”  The changes created a committee of dealers and asset
managers to make binding decisions such as when the contracts
can be settled. Two voting members need to agree to consider any
credit event requests for the process to move forward, according
to ISDA.  Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  have been pushing for
greater stability in the over-the-counter  derivatives market 
after the collapse in September 2008 of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., one of the largest credit-default swap dealers.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  -- Editors: Paul Armstrong, Andrew Reierson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  