-- 
Ivory Coast's Workers Queue for Salaries as Political Stalemate Drags On

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-03-11T14:52:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/ivory-coast-s-workers-queue-for-salaries-as-political-stalemate-drags-on.html
Jacques Kouassi, a literature
teacher in  Ivory Coast ’s commercial capital, Abidjan, waited for
six hours to get his February salary as a political crisis in
the West African nation deepened into a financial crunch.  “It’s exhausting,” he said while he waited with hundreds
of others outside a branch of Caisse National de Credit et
d’Epargne on March 9. “I’ve been waiting in line since 6 a.m. I
hope I’ll be served.”  Civil servants in  Ivory Coast  have faced long lines to get
their pay checks after international banks in the West African
nation closed their branches. Many are struggling to start
accounts at the five state-owned lenders that remain open.  “The procedure is too long,” said Patrick Batoua, who
works at the Forestry Commission. “We’re asked to bring tons of
documents including appointment orders, two photographs and
forms proving we had accounts in the banks that closed,” he
said while waiting in line at the bank, known locally as Caisse
d’Epargne.  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa producer, has as many as
160,000 civil servants or state agents, according to the website
of the country’s Employment Ministry. The inability of incumbent
President  Laurent Gbagbo  to pay his workers may risk the loss of
a key support base in his bid to cling to power.  Banks Closed  Gbagbo refuses to cede to  Alassane Ouattara , the
internationally recognized winner of a disputed Nov. 28
election. At least 10 commercial banks, including the units of,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Ecobank Transnational Inc. and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  closed their offices last month amid escalating
violence and instability in the country’s financial sector. At
least 365 people have been killed in clashes since the election,
according to the  United Nations .  “Civil servants and state agents are still receiving their
salaries,” said Ahoua Don Mello, a spokesman for Gbagbo, in a
statement read on state-owned Radio Television Ivoirienne today.
“More than 130,000 civil servants have been paid so far,” he
said.  An opposition coalition that supports Ouattara cast doubt
on Gbagbo’s ability to pay workers. “We all know that Laurent
Gbagbo faces big difficulties in paying the civil servants,”
Anne Ouloto, a spokesman for Ouattara, said by phone yesterday.  Retirees have not received their pensions since January and
most civil servants received deductions of 20 percent to 30
percent on their salaries, Ouloto said.  Don Mello in an interview March 9 blamed the banks for the
extra charges, claiming that Gbagbo’s administration had paid
workers in full.  Alain Yapi, a science teacher, said his monthly salary of
200,000  CFA francs  ($419) was cut by his bank, which took
“10,000 CFA francs to open a new account and then 10,000 other
CFA francs for bank charges and other taxes,” he said in an
interview at Versus Bank on March 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier and Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 