-- 
Japan’s Government Bonds Extend Gains After 8.8 Magnitude Temblor Strikes

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-11T07:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/japan-s-bond-futures-advance-as-stocks-fall-on-economic-concerns.html
Japan’s government bonds extended
gains, completing a weekly advance, after an 8.8 magnitude
earthquake struck off the coast of northern Japan and shook
buildings violently as far away as Tokyo.  Bond futures advanced the most in three months as Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s office set up an earthquake response team.
Bonds rose earlier as stocks fell before data today that
economists said will show U.S. consumer sentiment worsened this
month. Two-year notes advanced after the Asahi newspaper
reported thatKan had accepted a donation from a foreign
resident in violation of political contribution laws.  “People have been buying bonds even as the big earthquake
spread,” said Jun Fukashiro, a money manager who helps invest
$18 billion at Toyota Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “I’m
surprised.”  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 fell 2.5
basis points to 1.27 percent as of 3:35 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price rose 0.222 yen to 100.266 yen. The yield has declined
2.5 basis points this week.  The two-year yield dropped half a basis point to 0.22
percent. Ten-year bond futures for June delivery jumped 0.66 to
139.20 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest gain for a lead
contract since Dec. 17.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.7 percent after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.9 percent in  New York .  The yen fell versus all 16 of its most-traded counterparts
after the temblor shook buildings violently in Tokyo. A tsunami
of more than 10 meters was reported in northern Japan.  Kan Donation  Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters
in Tokyo today that Kan isn’t thinking of stepping down after
receiving a campaign donation from a foreign resident. The prime
minister said before parliament today that he wasn’t aware the
donation was from a non-Japanese.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
March index of consumer sentiment dropped to 76.3 from 77.5 in
February, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Bonds advanced after reports yesterday showed U.S.
applications for first-time jobless benefits rose by 26,000 to
397,000 last week, and  China  reported an unexpected $7.3 billion
trade deficit, the biggest in seven years.  “Various events abroad are adding to uncertainty about the
global economic outlook and people are buying bonds as a safer
asset,” said  Koji Ochiai , chief market economist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Investors Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
largest publicly traded lender. “If the political confusion
causes the economy to worsen, people may buy short- and mid-term
debt and refrain from purchasing long-term bonds due to the
fiscal risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 