-- 
Japan Bonds Rise After 8.9 Magnitude Earthquake, Stocks Fall

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-11T22:34:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/japan-bonds-rise-after-quake-tsunami-hit-northern-coast-stocks-decline.html
Japan’s government bonds rose after
an 8.9 magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of northern
Japan, shaking buildings as far away as  Osaka .  Bond futures completed the biggest weekly advance in 10
weeks as Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s office set up an earthquake
response team. Bonds rose even before the temblor yesterday as
stocks fell. Two-year notes advanced after the Asahi newspaper
reported yesterday thatKan had accepted a donation from a
foreign resident in violation of political contribution laws.  “People have been buying bonds even as the big earthquake
spread,” said Jun Fukashiro, a money manager who helps invest
$18 billion at Toyota Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “I’m
surprised.”  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 fell 2.5
basis points to 1.27 percent this week at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The price rose
0.222 yen to 100.266 yen.  The two-year yield dropped one basis point to 0.22 percent
this week. Ten-year bond futures for June delivery jumped 0.70
to 139.20 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange
yesterday, the biggest weekly gain since the week ended Dec. 31.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 4.1 percent this week,
the steepest weekly decline since July.  Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters
in Tokyo yesterday that Kan isn’t thinking of stepping down
after receiving a campaign donation from a foreign resident. The
prime minister told lawmakers he wasn’t aware the donation was
from a non-Japanese.  U.S.,  China   Bonds advanced after reports on March 10 showed U.S.
applications for first-time jobless benefits rose by 26,000 to
397,000 last week, and China reported an unexpected $7.3 billion
trade deficit, the biggest in seven years, increasing demand for
the relative safety of government debt.  “Events abroad are adding to uncertainty about the global
economic outlook and people are buying bonds as a safer asset,”
said  Koji Ochiai , chief market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
publicly traded lender. “If the political confusion causes the
economy to worsen, people may buy short- and mid-term debt and
refrain from purchasing long-term bonds due to the fiscal
risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 