-- 
Radiation Levels, Pressure Rise at Japanese Reactors Damaged in Earthquake

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a ,   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-03-12T01:25:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/japan-reactor-damaged-in-quake-may-need-to-vent-radiation-official-says.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. said it
lost control of pressure building at three reactors at one of
its nuclear  power plants , and radiation levels are rising at
another after a powerful earthquake shut down the plants’
cooling systems.  The company is venting radioactive vapor at the Dai-Ichi
plant in Fukushima, Japan, to reduce the pressure building up
from steam inside the reactor containment structure, Tokyo
Electric Power said in a statement. It’s preparing to vent at
the second plant, also. The company is monitoring radiation from
the discharges.  The national government widened an evacuation order for
residents who live near two of the utility’s plants in Fukushima
to a radius of 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) from 3 kilometers, the
company said.  The radiation level in the central control room of the Dai-
Ichi No. 1 reactor rose to 1,000 times higher than normal,  Kyodo
News  reported, citing Japan’s nuclear safety agency.  Temperatures in the control room at the nearby Daini plant
have risen higher than 100 degrees Celsius (212 Fahrenheit),
said Noaki Tsunoda, a spokesman for Tokyo Electric. Water levels
to cool fuel are being "maintained," the company said in a
statement.  Radiation in vapor released from the Dai-Ichi No. 1 reactor
won’t pose a threat to public health, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said at a press conference earlier today in Tokyo.  Pressure Building  “The clock is ticking,” Jim Walsh, a research associate
at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s Security Studies
Program, said in a telephone interview. “The pressure is
building and they are racing to get electricity generated so
they can start the pumps and get the coolant running again.”  The plants, 210 kilometers (130 miles) north of Tokyo, lost
power after the earthquake yesterday and about 5,800 residents
near the plant were ordered to evacuate. The reactors were built
by  General Electric Co. (GE) , said Michael Tetuan, a Wilmington,
North Carolina-based spokesman for Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy,
the joint venture now servicing the plants.  The Dai-Ichi facility is currently using a battery, which
can last about eight hours, to run systems that keep the
reactor’s uranium fuel from overheating, officials of the trade
ministry’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety agency told reporters
yesterday. Another six batteries have been secured, and the
government may use military helicopters to fly them in, they
said.  24 Hours  “They probably have about 24 hours before they have
something to be concerned about,” Walsh said.  The uranium core of the reactor will stay hot for several
days so water must be continually cycled through the plant to
cool it, Joonhong Ahn, associate professor of nuclear
engineering at the  University of California  at Berkeley, said in
a telephone interview yesterday. If pumps cycling the water
fail, the water in the core will evaporate, leading to a buildup
of steam pressure, said Ahn, who taught at the  University of
Tokyo  and visited the Fukushima nuclear complex before leaving
Japan in 1995.  “The water is probably evaporating,” Ahn said. “That’s
the source of the pressure.”  If the pumps can’t be restarted,
“they may have to release some radioactivity into the
atmosphere or into the sea, depending on how they can control
the buildup up of pressure inside the building,” he said.  Reactor Meltdown  Lack of adequate cooling for a reactor may cause a core
meltdown, the most dangerous kind of nuclear power accident,
according to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  A meltdown could potentially breach a reactor’s containment
building, releasing massive amounts of radiation, according to
information on the agency’s  website . The 1979 accident at the
Three Mile Island reactor in  Pennsylvania  resulted in a partial
meltdown, without a breach in the containment building,
according to the commission.  “The worst thing that could happen is that the core gets
exposed and starts to melt,” said Robert Alvarez, a senior
scholar at the Institute for Policy Studies in  Washington ,
formerly a senior policy adviser at the U.S. Department of
Energy under President  Bill Clinton  and a U.S. Senate staff
expert on nuclear weapons.  Exactly what might happen is unknown, because no GE boiling
water reactor has ever melted down, he said.  “It’s not this stuff turning into gloop and burning a hole
down into the earth,” Alvarez said. “You have a lot of other
stuff going on such as fires and possible explosions that could
breach the containment.”  Explosions, Fires  At 700 degrees to 1,000 degrees Celsius, the zirconium
metal cladding the uranium fuel would catch fire, he said. The
coolant water would disintegrate into the potentially explosive
elements, hydrogen and oxygen.  The 1986 Chernobyl accident in  Russia  caused the release of
at least 5 percent of the radioactive reactor core, according to
the  World Nuclear Association , which represents the industry.  The 8.9-magnitude quake struck at 2:46 p.m. local time and
unleashed a tsunami as high as 7 meters (33 feet), engulfing
towns along the northern coast and killing hundreds. The temblor
hit 130 kilometers off the coast of Sendai, north of Tokyo, at a
depth of 24 kilometers, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said. A 7.1-
magnitude aftershock followed at 4:25 p.m., it said.  GE has confirmed that its 50 employees and 30 contractors
working at the plant site are safe, Tetuan said. GE-Hitachi
established a 24-hour command center in  North Carolina  and has
not been able to reach Tokyo Electric to offer help. The venture
had a team working on an out-of-service reactor at the site when
the first trembler struck, Tetuan said.  One person is confirmed dead at the Daini nuclear power
plant, which is also also in Fukushima, said Atsushi Sugiyama, a
Tokyo Electric spokesman. Two people from the Dai-Ichi plant are
missing, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net 
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net 
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  