-- 
Japan’s Post-Quake Energy Import Surge Will Boost Reliance

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-03-11T21:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/japan-s-post-quake-energy-import-surge-seen-boosting-reliance-bg-shell.html
Japan’s strongest earthquake on
record will boost global demand for natural gas, coal and oil
products as production lost from damaged nuclear reactors and
refineries is replaced.  Tokyo Electric Power Corp. and other Japanese utilities may
increase output at gas, oil and coal-fired plants to replace
production from the 11 reactors closed yesterday, Wood Mackenzie
Consultants Ltd. said. Companies will need to import fuel from
Asian refineries because the quake shut 20 percent of the
country’s crude-processing capacity.  The biggest beneficiaries are probably global liquefied
natural gas suppliers, analysts at Alliance Bernstein said, a
group that includes  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which operates the world’s largest
export refinery in India, and other refiners will see demand
rise, according to Purvin & Gertz Inc. Power generators in
China, Taiwan and  South Korea  may have to pay more for fuel.  “Over the coming months, it looks like we will need more
thermal fuel in Japan, potentially more oil,”  Francisco Blanch ,
head of global commodity research at Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch, said in a television interview. “Several nuclear plants
are down.”  BG Group jumped 2.9 percent in London, the biggest gainer
in the benchmark  FTSE 100 index (UKX) , on the outlook for gas prices.
Reliance advanced 0.7 percent in India on a day the wider stock
market dropped.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the biggest miner of coal for power
stations, rose as much as 2.4 percent in London.  Tesoro Gains    Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , the San Antonio-based refiner with three
plants on the U.S. West Coast, rose the most of any company in
the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index. Other U.S. refiners posted
gains of 5 percent or more today, including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  Holly Corp. (HOC) ,  Frontier Oil Corp. (FTO) ,  Western Refining Inc. (WNR) ,  CVR
Energy Inc. (CVI)  and  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ)   U.K. gas gained amid concern that LNG may be diverted away
from Britain to be used in Japan’s power generation. The winter
contract, for the six months from October, climbed as much as
3.5 percent. Japan has virtually no domestic gas production and
no import pipelines, so relies on LNG for its needs.  “If we have a prolonged nuclear shutdown, you would expect
it to have a significant impact on prices,” said Noel Tomnay,
head of global gas research for Wood Mackenzie in Edinburgh.
“Gas and oil are likely to be more favored. The gas price has a
long way to go up before you’d rather burn oil than gas.”  U.S. Gas Producers  More longer term, U.S. natural-gas producers may benefit as
applications to build new nuclear plants would be more closely
scrutinized for earthquake resistance, said Philip Dodge, an
analyst at Tuohy Brothers in  New York .  “The plants that were built as part of the necessary
expansion would have gas as the first choice and coal as the
second choice, but not nuclear,” Dodge said in a telephone
interview. “It might accelerate what had already been
happening, but it would be an inflection point.”  Emergency power supply at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Dai-
Ichi nuclear power plant in Fukushima, Japan, failed after the
earthquake, officials of the trade ministry’s Nuclear and
Industrial Safety agency told reporters yesterday. Power is
needed to keep cooling the reactor to prevent rising pressure
and damage, they said.  About 5,800 residents near the plant were ordered to
evacuate yesterday.  Reactors Shut  Japan was struck by an 8.9-magnitude temblor yesterday that
shook buildings across Tokyo and unleashed a seven-meter-high
tsunami that killed hundreds as it engulfed towns on the
northern coast. As many as 300 people were killed, a Japanese
police official said.  More than a dozen aftershocks greater than magnitude 6 have
rocked the region, Dave Applegate, a senior adviser at the  U.S.
Geological Survey , told reporters on a conference call.  Eleven reactors operated by Tokyo Electric, Asia’s biggest
utility, Tohoku Electric Power Co., and Japan Atomic Power Co.
were shut, the trade ministry said in an e-mailed statement.
Nuclear and other power plants closed by the quake account for
at least 9 percent of Japan’s power production capacity,
according to calculations based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  The closure of Tokyo Electric’s Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear
plant, the world’s biggest, after an earthquake in July 2007
boosted the use gas-fired generation units and Japan paid more
than $20 a million British thermal units for spare LNG cargoes.
That’s double Asia prices for cargoes last month, Spectron LNG
data show. Some of its reactors remain shut down today because
of the damage sustained more than three years ago.  LNG Purchases  Japan is the world’s largest buyer of LNG, gas chilled to a
liquid for transport by ship, importing a total of 85.9 billion
cubic meters of the fuel in 2009, or 35 percent of the world’s
production. The biggest suppliers were Indonesia, Malaysia and
Australia, according to BP’s 2010 Statistical Review of World
Energy.  “Direct burning of crude oil and fuel oil will be used by
Japanese power plants,” Johannes Benigni, managing director of
Vienna-based research consultant JBC Energy GmBH, said in an
interview. “The nuclear power plants will go off the grid,
because they have to make safety checks and assess the damage.”  Coal-fired plants may also be pressed into action,
increasing imports from Indonesia and Australia, the two largest
exporters of the fuel. That will boost miners including Xstrata,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  And Rio Tinto Ltd. In Australia and Jakarta-
based PT Bumi Resources.  “There may be some uptick in thermal coal demand as a
consequence” of nuclear shutdowns, said  Daniel Brebner , head of
commodities at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “Power consumption
will immediately decline and that will slowly recover, but as it
recovers that will draw mostly on natural gas and coal.”  Refinery Closures  Japan is the world’s third-largest oil consumer after the
U.S. and China, using more than 4 million barrels of crude oil a
day in 2010, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Firefighters are still battling a blaze at Cosmo Oil
Corp.’s 220,000 barrel-a-day Chiba refinery, according to local
officials. JX Nippon Energy & Corp. shut refineries at Sendai,
Kashima and Negishi with a total capacity of 554,000 barrels a
day, the company said.  “The product markets will tighten up as Japan is a
significant exporter of distillates in the region,” said Victor Shum, a senior principal at Purvin & Gertz in Singapore, a
consultant, referring to group of products includes gasoil, or
diesel. “It helps the regional margins.”  Gasoil’s premium to the Asian benchmark Dubai crude, or the
crack spread, rose for the first time in four days in Singapore.
The difference was $19.77 a barrel compared with $19.72
yesterday, according to PVM Oil Associates, a broker.    Neil Burrows , a spokesman at Reading, England-based BG,
declined to comment. Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance,
didn’t answer calls to his office in Mumbai. Kirsten Smart, a
London-based spokeswoman at Shell, declined to comment as did
Xstrata spokeswoman Pam Bell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Farey in  London  at   bfarey@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  