-- 
Kabel Baden-Wurttemberg to Seek $690 Million IPO in Frankfurt, Terms Show

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-03-11T09:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/kabel-bw-owner-eqt-targets-at-least-690-million-in-ipo-term-sheet-shows.html
Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH’s
private-equity owner EQT Partners AB plans to seek at least 500
million euros ($690 million) in an initial public offering of
the German cable company.  EQT, Kabel BW’s largest holder, will receive all the net
proceeds from the IPO, with the shares to be listed in April,
according to the sales document obtained by Bloomberg News. The
Stockholm-based buyout firm was considering selling part or all
of its holding in Heidelberg, Germany-based Kabel BW to a
strategic investor. EQT may retain a stake in the company after
the IPO, the terms show.  Kabel BW,  Germany ’s third-largest cable-television
operator, is starting the stock sale process as shares of rival  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , the country’s largest, trade about
67 percent higher than at their debut in March 2010. Kabel
Deutschland’s IPO raised about 760 million euros.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization at Kabel BW rose 21 percent to 316 million euros
last year as more customers signed up for Internet and phone
services, the company reported this month. Sales increased 14
percent to 563 million euros.  Both  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , the Englewood, Colorado-based
cable operator controlled by U.S. billionaire  John Malone , and
Kabel Deutschland’s largest owner,  Providence Equity Partners ,
have said they’re interested in buying Kabel BW. Liberty Global
owns Unitymedia, Germany’s second-biggest cable-TV provider.  Attempts by cable operators in Germany to consolidate have
failed in the past because of antitrust objections. The
companies argue that their push into broadband and telephony
means that they should be regulated as telecommunications
companies rather than as television distributors.    Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the
Kabel BW sale, along with Bank of America Merrill Lynch and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , according to the terms
document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 