-- 
Kabel BW Owner EQT Said to Weigh Sale as IPO Preparations Move Forward

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-03-11T16:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/kabel-bw-owner-said-to-still-consider-sale-as-ipo-preparations-continue.html
Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH’s
owner EQT Partners AB is weighing a sale of Germany’s third-
largest cable operator even as it prepares for an initial public
offering, said four people with knowledge of the matter.    Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , the cable operator controlled by U.S.
billionaire  John Malone , as well as private equity firms CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. and Hellman & Friedman LLC are the
remaining bidders for the company, said three of the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are confidential. A
decision on a sale or IPO will likely come before the end of
this month, said one of the people.  Kabel BW, which reported higher earnings last year after
adding customers, may be valued at more than 3 billion euros
($4.2 billion) including debt in an IPO or sale, one of the
people said. Kabel BW is starting the stock sale process as
shares of rival  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , the country’s
largest cable TV provider, trade about 65 percent higher than at
their March 2010 debut.  Spokesmen for Kabel BW, EQT and CVC declined to comment.
Hellman & Friedman and Liberty Global couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  EQT, based in  Stockholm , may seek at least 500 million
euros in the Frankfurt IPO in April, according to the sales
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the Kabel BW share sale, along
with Bank of America Merrill Lynch and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) , according to a document on the sale terms.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization at Heidelberg-based Kabel BW rose 21 percent to 316
million euros as more customers signed up for Internet and phone
services, the company reported this month. Sales increased
14 percent to 563 million euros.  Attempts by cable operators in  Germany  to consolidate have
failed in the past because of antitrust objections. The
companies argue that their push into broadband and telephony
means that they should be regulated as telecommunications
companies rather than as television distributors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
rifh at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 