-- 
BOJ Pledges Support on Japan Earthquake; Toyota Halts Output

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-03-12T07:29:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/kan-mobilizes-forces-central-bank-pledges-liquidity-after-japanese-quake.html
  Japan ’s central bank pledged to
ensure financial stability after the nation’s strongest
earthquake on record forced  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to shut some
plants, shut down oil refineries and sparked a plunge in stocks.  Yesterday’s magnitude 8.9 earthquake struck off the coast
of Sendai, a city of 1 million in the northeast, unleashed a
tsunami as high as 10 meters (33 feet) that engulfed towns
along the coast. More than 500 people have been reported killed.
The Tohoku region, which includes Sendai, accounts for about 8
percent of the country’s gross domestic product, according to
the Cabinet Office figures.  The disaster may curb Japan’s recovery from an economic
slump in the fourth quarter as Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
struggles to convince investors about his ability to tackle the
world’s largest public-debt burden. While the  Finance Ministry 
said it’s too soon to gauge the quake’s economic impact, the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 1.7 percent yesterday.  “The nagging question in the background here, given that
public finances are in such a weak condition already, is: Is
this going to push Japan over the edge,” said Brendan Brown,
chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International in
London. “If we’re talking about less than 5 percent of GDP,
then it probably wouldn’t be the make or break factor.”  Oil for April delivery tumbled $1.54 to $101.16 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement
since March 1.  Japan Crude Oil  “This is in response to the tsunami in Japan and the lack
of the Day of Rage in  Saudi Arabia ,” said  Hamza Khan , an
analyst with the Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “If the Japanese refineries are down,
then we’re going to see lower demand for crude oil.”  The temblor set ablaze a Cosmo Oil Co. refinery near  Tokyo 
and closed at least three others, temporarily curbing demand
for crude in  Asia ’s second-largest oil-consuming nation.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan, returning from an inspection of
the devastated area today, said he would mobilize 50,000 Self
Defense Force personnel to aid the relief effort. “It’s very
important to make as much progress as possible in the
rescue effort in this first day.”  The  Bank of Japan (8301) , which has already cut its benchmark
rate to zero in an effort to end deflation, set up an emergency
task force and said it will do everything to provide liquidity.
The central bank said its settlement system was working and
that it was able to settle all accounts without disruption.  Big Earthquake  Policy makers will hold a policy board meeting on March 14
and announce their decision on the same day instead of March 15.  “The BOJ considers it’s better to make a policy decision
earlier, following the big earthquake,” said Seiichi Tsurumi,
a spokesman at the Tokyo-based central bank. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa will also hold a press conference.  The earthquake struck less than half an hour before
Japan’s stock market closed. The yen initially dropped before
paring its losses and later advanced at least 1 percent against
all 16 of its most actively traded peers. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index slid 0.9 percent in  Frankfurt  and the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.7 percent in New York.  Munich Re and Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s two
biggest reinsurers, lost 4.3 percent and 3.5 percent,
respectively.  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the insurer that got 76 percent of
2010 revenue from Japan, shed 0.3 percent.  ‘Economic Impact’  “It’s difficult to estimate the economic impact right
now,”  Takuji Okubo , an economist at Societe Generale SA, told
Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” from
Tokyo yesterday. “I’m sure this earthquake will reduce
Japanese manufacturing output.”  The economy may nevertheless weather the shock, which
evoked memories of the Great Hanshin Earthquake that hit the
port city of Kobe in January 1995, said  Richard Jerram ,
Singapore-based head of Asian economics at Macquarie Securities
Ltd. While Japanese industrial production dipped 2.6 percent in
the month that the Kobe quake hit, it rebounded 2.2 percent the
following month and 1 percent in March.  The area around Sendai “is a lot smaller part of the
economy than Kobe, so we would expect the damage to be much
less serious on the economy,” said Jerram. “The early
indications are that it’s not probably going to be all that
destructive from an economic point of view.”  Japan’s economy contracted 1.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2010 on an annualized basis. It shrank 2.7 percent
in the same period of 1994.  ‘Social, Economic Damage’  “The greater the social and economic damage, the larger
the threat to the government’s ability and willingness to ward
off a fiscal crisis,”  Julian Jessop , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London , wrote in a note.  The quake is disrupting a region that’s a center for auto
making in the world’s third-largest economy. Toyota, the
world’s biggest carmaker, said it and its affiliates closed
three factories in the Tohoku region. Nissan Motor Co. said
about 2,300 new vehicles were damaged by tsunami surges. The
company suspended operations at a plant in Kanagawa prefecture,
west of Tokyo that produces lithium-ion batteries for electric
cars. The suspension adds to the four other Nissan factories.  ‘Car Production’  “The Tohoku region is one of the major production areas
of cars and other products in Japan, so the quake may affect
economic activity mainly through this sector,” said Tohru Nishihama, economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in Tokyo. “In addition, it’s possible to affect food prices as
agriculture is another major industry in the region.”  Nippon Paper suspended three Japan plants after the shock,
Kyodo reported yesterday. All Nippon Airways Co. cancelled 43
domestic flights and 18 international flights today, said
spokesman Ryosei Nomura. Most of the domestic flights were to
Sendai, the city most affected by yesterday’s earthquake.  The quake struck at 2:46 p.m. local time 130 kilometers
(81 miles) off the coast of Sendai, north of Tokyo, at a depth
of 24 kilometers, the U.S. Geological Service said.  Televised footage showed a tsunami striking the northeast.
Outside of Tokyo, Narita airport, the area’s main international
hub, began operating normally today. Flights stopped landing
yesterday, stranding 13,800 passengers at the airport. Haneda,
the main domestic airport, resumed flights, the transport
ministry said.  ‘Had No Idea’  For Kan, managing the aftermath of the disaster may
deflect immediate public attention from his becoming embroiled
in a political-donation controversy. He told lawmakers
yesterday he “had no idea” a political contributor to his
office wasn’t a Japanese citizen, violating campaign rules. The
Asahi newspaper reported Kan received 1.04 million yen ($12,500)
from a South Korean resident. A similar charge prompted the
foreign minister to resign March 6.  With opposition parties already calling for Kan to step
down and refusing to pass bills authorizing sales of deficit-
financing bonds, the tumult had risked prolonged paralysis.
Political failure to set a path for reining in the world’s
largest public debt has spurred credit-rating firms to lower,
or put on notice for a cut, Japan’s sovereign grade.  The head of the  Liberal Democratic Party , the biggest
opposition group, said it would cooperate with the government
to approve extra spending to cope with the disaster.  ‘Worst Time’  “We will probably need a supplementary budget to work on
this,” LDP leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  told reporters after Kan
convened a meeting of party leaders. “We will cooperate with
all our might.”  Boosting fiscal spending on any reconstruction effort in
the wake of the temblor would risk adding to the nation’s
borrowing without cuts elsewhere or an increase in taxes.
Government debt is set to reach 210 percent of GDP in 2012, the
highest among countries tracked by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, compared with an
estimated 101 percent of GDP for the U.S.  ‘There will be fiscal stimulus to reconstruct but Japan
already has a budget deficit of close to 10 percent of” GDP
and an aging population,  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who
predicted the global financial crisis, told Bloomberg
Television in an interview from London. “This is certainly the
worst thing that can happen in Japan at the worst time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  