-- 
Kan Donation Charge Poses ‘Limited’ Yen Risk, BOA’s Fujii Says

-- B y   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 
2011-03-11T03:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/kan-donation-charge-poses-limited-yen-risk-boa-s-fujii-says.html
Tomoko Fujii, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s senior foreign-exchange strategist in Tokyo,
comments on how the yen may be affected by reports that Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  violated campaign financing rules.  Kan told lawmakers today he “had no idea” a political
contributor to his office wasn’t a Japanese citizen, after the
Asahi newspaper reported that he’d received 1.04 million yen
($12,500) from a South Korean resident. A similar accusation
prompted foreign minister Seiji Maehara to resign on March 6.  “If the reports are true, a case could be made that it
would be strange if Kan didn’t resign. The support rate for Kan
is low, so there’s already speculation that he may not last
long, or that he may resign in return for the passage of budget
financing bills.  ‘‘Kan hasn’t always been rated that well by the markets.
His cabinet still has a majority in the lower house of
parliament, so unless the  Democratic Party  of Japan were to
splinter, there won’t be an immediate change of government.
There doesn’t seem to be any potential successor who can
exercise leadership and unite the party.  ‘‘Prime Minister Kan is a strong advocate of rebuilding the
nation’s finances, so if he were to quit, there would emerge
uncertainties in the debate on how to improve Japan’s fiscal
condition. Such a risk would usually weaken the yen. There is
speculation that the European Union summit on the region’s debt
may prove to be a disappointment, and some people are focusing
on the situation in  Saudi Arabia . These factors may outweigh the
risk that Kan may leave, so the impact on the yen may be
limited.”  ---With translation by Taku Kato in Tokyo.
Editor: Rocky Swift  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net ; 