-- 
Marching Backward From Selma on Right to Vote: Michael Waldman

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-11T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/keeping-mickey-mouse-off-the-voting-rolls-commentary-by-michael-waldman.html
  Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker 
sparked a ruckus, of course, by stripping public-sector workers
of most collective-bargaining rights. More quietly, and with
possibly equal ramifications, Republican lawmakers in Madison
and other state capitals are trying to muscle through rules
making it harder for millions of citizens to vote.  Americans have always battled over the ballot. Since the
republic was formed when only white men with property could
vote, we have widened the circle of democracy, in fits and
starts, to include blacks and women. Now, for the first time in
a century we see a swift, seemingly coordinated drive to
actually shrink  voting rights . Consider the past two weeks of
startling events.  In Wisconsin, when Democratic senators fled, Walker, a
Republican, tried to pass a new voting law. Under its terms,
eligible citizens could vote only if they produced a government
photo identification with a current address. Few of the state’s
college students have such an ID. Lawmakers yanked the bill when
it turned out to cost millions of dollars, mocking the idea that
it would help balance the budget. No doubt it will return.  Meanwhile, in  Florida , Governor  Rick Scott  on March 9
abruptly denied the right to vote to even nonviolent former
felons who have completed their sentences. This undid a proud
accomplishment of the previous governor, Republican  Charlie Crist . The state’s lifetime felony voting ban was first enacted
during Reconstruction to try to curb black voting. Today, 1
million Floridians pay taxes and can’t vote, ever.  ‘Foolish’ Voters  In  New Hampshire , lawmakers tried to pass the country’s
tightest restrictions on student voting. The bill died this week
after a Washington Post  report  and accompanying YouTube video
quoted the state’s Republican House speaker saying he wanted to
target “foolish” college students who vote liberal because
“they don’t have life experience and they just vote their
feelings.” Happily, this time, the College Republicans and
Democrats both howled.  And later this month in  Texas , a Tea Party offshoot calling
itself “True the Vote” gathers in a national conference. Its
demand: voters should have to prove citizenship by producing
documents such as a birth certificate or passport on Election
Day. Activists will be trained in how to challenge voters at the
polls. Vigilance could shade into vigilantism.  At this point, you may be wondering if you missed the
newspaper the day it revealed massive fraud. In fact, there is
simply no evidence of widespread voter impersonation, the only
kind of fraud these new rules would affect. That’s not
“little” evidence -- no evidence. Statistically you are more
likely to get killed by lightning than to commit voter fraud,
based on law enforcement records.  Nobody Wants Fraud  The only recent high-profile voter fraud prosecution came
last week when  Indiana ’s top election official was charged with
casting a ballot from a district where he didn’t live.  Yet this voter fraud obsession has taken on the elements of
a mass delusion. It’s “birtherism” as a governing strategy. At
a time of red ink and mass unemployment, the focus is odd, to
say the least. To be sure, nobody wants fraud. And we should
insist that people are who they say they are, and find ways to
prove it. But these new rules seem surgically targeted to voting
by specific groups, whether minorities, students or the poor.  In the Tammany Hall era, Democrats stuffed ballot boxes
with glee. These days, it’s Republicans who have made voter
suppression a long-term political strategy. The party is waging
a get-out-the-vote drive, in reverse.  Mobile Voters  We do urgently need to modernize our rickety voter
registration system. Lists are rife with error and duplication.
Dead people stay on the rolls not because they are voting but
because nobody removes their names. We’re the only major
democracy that makes people register themselves, then lets them
fall off the rolls when they move (something one in five of us
do every year).  The U.S. could easily switch to a system where government
kept the list of eligible voters, and updated it automatically.
That would add as many as 65 million eligible citizens to the
rolls, permanently. It would help curb potential fraud,
too.   Mickey Mouse ” won’t show up on any government rolls
(even in Florida, where he lives).  New computerized statewide voter lists put this reform in
reach. Modernizing voter registration would cut costs and ease
Election Day chaos. That’s something conservative “True the
Vote” and progressive “Rock the Vote” should agree on. In 17
states recently, elements of this reform have been implemented -
- quietly, and without partisan rancor.  March 7 marked the anniversary of the epochal 1965 voting
rights march in Selma,  Alabama . On the Edmund Pettus Bridge,
protesters paid for democracy with their bodies and blood.
Regardless of party, let’s make sure when it comes to voting,
we’re not marching backward.    Michael Waldman , former head speechwriter for President  Bill Clinton , is executive director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at  New York University School of Law  and the author of
“My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman.comments@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  