-- 
Kenya Stocks Snap 9-Day Drop, Rise Most in 2 Months, on Bets Fall Overdone

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-11T13:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/kenya-stocks-snap-9-day-drop-rise-most-in-2-months-on-bets-fall-overdone.html
Kenyan stocks snapped a nine-day
decline and surged the most in two months today, led by  Equity
Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , as a technical indicator showed its 8.2 percent
decline may have been excessive.  The 55-member All Share Index climbed 1.2 percent to 71.96
by the 3 p.m. close in Nairobi, paring its drop this week to 5.8
percent, the biggest since February 2009. Equity Bank, the East
African nation’s biggest lender by customers, added 4.2 percent
to 25 shillings, the biggest increase in two weeks.  The gauge’s 14-day relative strength index fell to 11.9
yesterday, below the 30 threshold that some traders see as a
sign an asset’s price has fallen too far and is poised to rise.
The measure fell this week on concern drought and high  oil
prices  will curb economic growth and after the government said a
summons by the  International Criminal Court  for leaders sent a
signal that it was a “failed state.”  “Buyers have been keeping off but today we have seen them
coming in because the shares are cheaper,” Crispus Wasonga, an
equities dealer at Nairobi-based Tsavo Securities Ltd. said in a
phone interview today. “I don’t think the rebound is
sustainable because the fund managers are not yet in the
market”.  Much of  Kenya , the world’s biggest black-tea exporter, will
probably receive below normal rainfall during the March-to-May
long rainy season, crimping agricultural production, the Kenya
meteorological Department said March 8. Inflation quickened
or a fourth month in February to 6.5 percent, the highest since
October 2009, as fuel costs rose.  ICC Challenge  The Kenyan government plans to challenge whether the ICC
cases against six Kenyans alleged to have led violence after
elections in 2008, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta ,
are admissible and whether the Hague-based court has
jurisdiction over them, Justice Minister Mutula Kilonzo,
Attorney General Amos Wako and Internal Security Minister George
Saitoti said on March 9 in a statement, according to the
Nairobi-based Daily Nation’s website.  Equity Bank Ltd. snapped four days of declines, rising 4.2
percent to 25 shillings after falling 12 percent this week
before today. Equity Bank’s relative strength index, or RSI,
sank to 20 yesterday.  “Profit-taking has ended and it has also regained support
from investors because it is attractive at the current price,”
Anne Kahure, a research analyst at Nairobi-based CFC Stanbic
Financial Services Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  