-- 
Kier Group Wins U.K Cartel Fine Appeal, Penalty Reduced to $2.7 Million

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T18:03:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/kier-group-ballast-nedam-win-u-k-cartel-fine-appeals-penalties-reduced.html
  Kier Group Plc (KIE) , the U.K. builder
that helped construct the Channel Tunnel, won the reduction of
an antitrust fine to 1.7 million pounds ($2.7 Million) from 17.9
million pounds after a court ruled the penalty “excessive.”  The ruling today at the  Competition Appeal Tribunal  in
London also reduced fines imposed by the  Office of Fair Trading 
on five other construction companies accused in Britain’s
biggest cartel probe.  Ballast Nedam (BALNE)  NV, a Dutch civil
engineering and infrastructure company, had its fine reduced to
534,375 pounds from 8.3 million pounds.  “This is an embarrassing result for the OFT, which has
heralded this case as one of its key recent enforcement
successes,” said  Mark Friend , who leads the antitrust practice
at Allen & Overy LLP in  London .  The dispute is one of the biggest challenges to the OFT and
comes nine months after the agency’s first criminal antitrust
case collapsed at trial due to a lack of evidence. Kier and
other builders argued the watchdog failed to account for their
low profit margins or early admission of bid rigging. The
appeals court agreed.  The OFT’s view of the violations “did not appropriately
reflect their essential nature” and the fines “are excessive
to a significant degree,”  the tribunal ruled  in a 111-page
judgment. The tribunal must still rule on appeals from 19 other
construction companies accused in the case.  Biggest Builders  The regulator in September 2009 levied fines totaling 129.5
million pounds against 103 companies, including  Balfour Beatty
Plc (BBY)  and  Carillion Plc (CLLN) , the U.K.’s two biggest builders. Twenty-
five of the firms appealed the fines, including six which had
their appeals ruled on today.  “The Tribunal accepted that the original penalty was
excessive and disproportionate, as there must be a reasonable
connection between the deterrent effect of a penalty and
culpability,” said Charles Bankes, Kier’s lawyer with the firm  Simmons & Simmons  in London.  The OFT will consider appealing the ruling to the Court of
Appeal after studying the judgment and the rulings on the 19
other firms, the regulator said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Today’s judgment was limited to the level of penalty for
these six companies, who did not challenge our finding that they
engaged in illegal cover pricing,” the OFT said.  The judgment calls into question the regulator’s approach
to calculating fines, especially extra penalties it can add as a
“deterrence factor,” said  Gillian Sproul , whose client John
Sisk & Son Ltd. had its fine reduced to 356,250 pounds from 6.2
million pounds.  “It is crystal clear from the CAT’s judgment that the
OFT’s ‘one size fits all’ approach to deterrence in this case
was wholly wrong,” said Sproul, who leads Mayer Brown LLP’s
London competition practice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 