-- 
NATO Cites Afghan Advances Before Security Transfer to Karzai

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-03-11T12:25:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/nato-cites-afghan-advances-before-security-transfer-to-karzai.html
NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said the alliance is gaining ground against the
Taliban-led insurgency in Afghanistan as governments begin to
hand over security to President  Hamid Karzai  this year.  Karzai will announce the first tranche of Afghan regions
where the country’s security forces will take over authority
from international troops on March 21, the Afghan New Year,
Rasmussen said at a North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting.  “Our strategy is working and it is being achieved in ever
closer partnership with the Afghans,” he told journalists after
meeting with the 28-member alliance’s defense ministers in
Brussels today. “We are seeing progress all over Afghanistan.”  Rasmussen said Western militaries are preparing to hand
over security to Afghan forces in all the country’s provinces by
2014, a target date embraced by NATO leaders at a summit meeting
in Lisbon last November. U.S. and NATO forces led by General
David Petraeus last year sent over 30,000 fresh American troops
against the Taliban insurgency.  Ministers today endorsed the recommendations of the joint
Afghan-NATO transition board on which areas should be given over
to  Afghanistan ’s leaders, Rasmussen said.  The southern and western provincial capitals of Lashkar Gah
and Herat, as well as Mazar-i-Sharif in the country’s north, are
among the areas where Afghan forces will take over this year,
the  Associated Press  reported, citing a Western official. All of
Bamiyan and Panshir provinces will also be handed over, AP said.  Civilian Deaths  Increased violence and civilian deaths in the war in its
10th year have raised tensions between NATO and Afghanistan.
U.S. helicopter crews killed nine Afghan boys who were cutting
firewood on a forested mountainside this month, prompting
hundreds of Afghans to march in Kabul this week.  U.S.-led forces may have killed a 65-year-old cousin of
Karzai during a raid in Kandahar two days ago, AP said, citing
Karzai’s brother. Rasmussen declined to comment on the report.  U.S. troops in Afghanistan’s south are bracing for a
Taliban counterattack as winter conditions in the mountainous
country subside, Marine Corps Major General Richard Mills said
last week. The U.S.-led forces’ ability to hold on to gains made
in 2010 will determine how many troops the U.S. and its partners
can pull out of Afghanistan this year.  The U.S. has 97,000 troops in Afghanistan fighting
alongside almost 50,000 from 47 other nations. The campaign has
focused primarily on ousting the Taliban from the most populous
areas, including its heartland of Kandahar in the south and the
neighboring province of Helmand.  Afghan and NATO forces have made security gains in the
south, west and north since the Lisbon summit, Rasmussen said.
As NATO troops pull out of areas handed over, a "transition
dividend" will allow them to redeploy in other areas, he said.  NATO’s withdrawal from security command in the various
regions didn’t mean the alliance was leaving Afghanistan,
Rasmussen said. “On the contrary,” he said. “Our forces will
stay in the country to support the Afghans and give more
training to new recruits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at  pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net . 