-- 
NBA Union Urges Players to ‘Prepare for Worst’ in Lockout Instruction Book

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T18:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/nba-union-urges-players-to-prepare-for-worst-in-lockout-instruction-book.html
The  National Basketball
Association ’s players union has a message for its members, and
it has put it in writing: “Hope for the best. Prepare for the
worst.”  That’s the motto on the front cover of the  National
Basketball Players Association ’s Lockout Handbook, which was
distributed at team meetings between November and February,
according to Dan Wasserman, a union spokesman.  A copy of the 56-page handbook was obtained by Bloomberg
News.  The collective bargaining agreement between the union and
league is set to expire on June 30, and this is the first time
such a handbook was created to prepare NBA players for financial
burdens that may arise from a work stoppage, Wasserman said in
an interview.  “There’s no magic pill,” Wasserman said. “As long as
they’re thinking about what they’re spending, it’s a step in the
right direction.”  The  National Football League ’s players union recently
issued a similar handbook to prepare members for a possible
lockout. That league’s collective bargaining agreement, which
has been extended twice, is set to expire tonight unless it’s
extended again or a new accord is reached.  The NBA guide includes tips on how to handle household
expenses such as mortgages and rents; suggestions not to
purchase new cars, clothing and jewelry, or travel to gambling
destinations such as  Las Vegas  and  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey ;
and advice on communicating with wives, children, agents and
entourages.  ‘Protect Yourself’  “Clothing and jewelry often have little or no resale
value, so if times get tough, you will not be able to liquidate
it quickly,” the handbook says in the section labeled
“Clothing and Jewelry.” “Instead of making large purchases in
the next year, save the money you were going to spend on clothes
and jewelry in a lockout fund to protect yourself and your loved
ones.”  Billy Hunter, the union’s executive director, warns in the
handbook that “a lockout is VERY likely.”  “The revenue increases and unprecedented growth the league
is experiencing has done nothing to assuage ownership’s demand
that we drastically reduce player salaries and benefits,”
Hunter says in the guide. “Commissioner (David) Stern and the
owners have given us but one option and that is to fight for a
fair deal.”  Expenses Up  The revenue growth Hunter mentions doesn’t speak to the
financial health of the league, said Mike Bass, an NBA
spokesman.  “He disregards the increased expenses that have generated
those increased revenues, and that 57 percent of those increased
revenues go to the union off the top,” Bass said in a telephone
interview. “Expenses, led by players’ salaries, have
substantially exceeded revenues during every year of the current
CBA. Such a system is not sustainable.”  Players Juwan Howard and  Shaquille O’Neal , both of whom
were in the NBA during the lockout-shortened 1998-99 season,
also are quoted in the handbook.  “Remember the last lockout,” says Howard, now a member of
the  Miami Heat . “Remember the experience that we all had to go
through. From a financial standpoint, please save your money.
Invest right, budget yourself the right way, because it is very
important -- no matter lockout or not, you are supposed to save
up for a rainy day.”  Media Spotlight  The handbook contains a section on interacting with the
media, pointing out how one player “garnered a lot of
undesirable attention and took the focus away from our agenda”
in 1998.  That player was Kenny Anderson, who in October 1998 told
the New York Times that he was “thinking of selling one of my
cars.”  “I don’t need all of them,” Anderson  told the Times ,
laughing. “You know, just get rid of the Mercedes.”  Also included is a timeline of potential key dates from
July 2010 to July 2012. Under Jan. 7, 2012, it says: “Season
canceled. Approximate deadline for league and owners canceling
2011-12 season. NBA becomes only second North American
professional sports league to have its entire season canceled
due to labor struggle.”  Jim McIlvaine, a former NBA center who was secretary-
treasurer of the union in 1998, said he wished there had been a
similar handbook then. He added that not every player is likely
to heed the advice now being offered.  “You’re going to have people that aren’t smart with their
money or make poor decisions,” McIlvaine, who was in  New York 
for the Big East men’s basketball tournament as part of
Marquette University’s radio broadcast team, said in an
interview. “They can wallpaper the inside of guys’ houses with
these things and there’s still going to be a guy who’s a
knucklehead and not make good decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 