-- 
New Silk Route Says Gupta Charges Don’t Involve its Investments

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-03-11T14:54:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/new-silk-route-says-founder-gupta-s-charges-don-t-involve-its-investments.html
New Silk Route Partners, a $1.4
billion private-equity firm that focuses on  South Asia , said
U.S. allegations of  insider trading  by its co-founder, Rajat K. Gupta, have nothing to do with its investments.  Gupta, 62, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director,
voluntarily took a leave of absence from New Silk Route to
“avoid any distraction and ensure New Silk Route’s continued
focus on the execution of its investment strategy," according to
a statement yesterday from the New York-based firm.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Gupta, 62,
on March 1, accusing him of passing on confidential information
regarding Goldman Sachs to Raj Rajaratnam, the billionaire
hedge-fund manager who went on trial this week in  New York  for
insider trading. Gupta started  New Silk Route  in 2006 with
partners including Rajaratnam.  ‘‘The matters involving Mr. Gupta have nothing to with New
Silk Route or any of our portfolio companies,’’ Chief Executive
Officer Parag Saxena said in the statement. ‘‘The allegations
relate to the U.S. public markets, while New Silk Route is
focused on investing in private companies in the Indian sub-
continent.’’  Gupta didn’t return telephone messages seeking comment.  SEC Charges  Gupta, the former head of consulting firm McKinsey & Co.,
resigned last week from Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s
board. He had stepped down from Goldman Sachs’s board last year.  The SEC accused him of leaking confidential information
about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5 billion investment in Goldman
Sachs in 2008, as well as quarterly earnings for the New York-
based bank and for Procter & Gamble. The tips generated more
than $18 million, the regulator said.  Gupta was a direct or indirect investor in some of
Rajaratnam’s hedge funds at the time of the tips, the SEC said.
Lawyers for Rajaratnam and Gupta have said their clients aren’t
guilty. Gupta hasn’t been criminally charged.  New Silk Route invests primarily in South Asia, as well as
the Middle East, and has offices in Mumbai, Dubai and Bangalore,  India , according to its website. Gupta, who is chairman, leads
the firm with Saxena and senior adviser Victor Menezes.  Gupta’s involvement in New Silk Route was a ‘‘big
attraction” for investors, Saxena said an October 2009
interview. “He knows a lot of people in the areas we were going
to invest in.”  Saxena said in the interview that Rajaratnam cut ties with
the firm when it abandoned plans to start a hedge fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  