-- 
Google Rejects Skyhook’s Allegations Over Android Phone-Location Service

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-18T17:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/google-rejects-skyhook-s-allegations-over-phone-location-service.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  rejected allegations that
it undermined plans by Samsung Electronics Co. and the former
 Motorola Inc. (MOT)  to use a competing location-finding service on
Android-based mobile phones.  Skyhook Wireless Inc. , a closely held  software company  in
Boston, claimed in a September lawsuit that Motorola and Samsung
were willing to pay for its service until Google threatened to
cut off the phonemakers’ access to third-party applications in
the Android Market. Motorola and Samsung rely on Google’s
Android operating system for some of their devices.  Google said it did nothing improper with regard to any
contracts Skyhook had with the phonemakers, according to a May
13 filing in response to the lawsuit in Suffolk County,
Massachusetts, Superior Court in  Boston . The service, a software
system that uses Wi-Fi positions, GPS and cell-tower
triangulation to pinpoint a phone’s location, is used by
advertisers and businesses to target potential customers.  “To the extent Google took any action that affected
Skyhook, those actions were the lawful exercise of legitimate
rights of Google and therefore are not actionable,”  Mountain
View , California-based Google said in the filing. “If Skyhook
suffered any damages, which is denied, then any such damages
resulted solely from its own acts or omissions.”  Skyhook and Google in 2005 talked about licensing the
Skyhook XPS service and decided not to enter into an agreement.
Google said Skyhook refused to provide information needed to
verify claims about how well the service worked.  Rubin, Jha Conversation  Android creator  Andy Rubin  contacted then-Motorola Co-Chief
Executive Officer Sanjay Jha to prevent Motorola from shipping
Android phones with Skyhook’s XPS software, Skyhook said in its
complaint. Google called that allegation “so incomplete and
misleading as to be false.” It said that Rubin did call Jha
“about Skyhook’s failure and refusal at the time to comply with
Android compatibility standards.”  Jha now heads Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc., the mobile-phone business spun off from
Motorola in January. The remaining portions of the original
company, which sell emergency-communication devices such as two-
way radios and scanners, was renamed Motorola Solutions Inc.  In a separate complaint in federal court in Boston, Skyhook
has claimed that Google infringed four of its patents related to
ways to establish the precise location of a smartphone. Google
has denied infringing the patents, and said in court filings
that the patents are invalid.  The state case is Skyhook Wireless Inc. v. Google Inc.,
2010-3652,  Massachusetts  Superior Court, Suffolk County
(Boston). The patent case is Skyhook Wireless v. Google Inc.,
10cv11571, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  