-- 
Nippon Life Said to Buy Stake in India's Reliance Insurance

-- B y   K o m a k i   I t o   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-03-11T03:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/nippon-life-said-to-buy-stake-in-india-s-reliance-insurance.html
Nippon Life Insurance Co., Japan’s
biggest life insurer, is in talks to purchase a stake in  India ’s
Reliance Life Insurance Co. to boost business overseas,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Nippon Life may acquire a 26 percent stake in Mumbai-based
Reliance Life for 60 billion yen ($720 million), said the
person, who spoke under the condition of anonymity because the
information hasn’t been made public. Japan’s Asahi Newspaper
earlier today reported the deal.  Japanese life insurers, mostly mutual societies owned by
policyholders, are expanding abroad to offset slowing premium
growth in a home market where the birthrate is declining and the
average age is increasing at the world’s fastest rate. Indian
billionaire Anil Ambani, who controls Reliance Life’s parent
company,  Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT) , said in September that the
financial services company planned to list the insurer.  “Given the potential of India’s market, it’s a good way
for Nippon Life to boost their earnings in the midterm,” said
Keiko Mizuguchi, chief analyst at Japan Credit Rating Agency
Ltd. in Tokyo. “The size of the investment isn’t too big for
Nippon Life, so it wouldn’t hurt their finances.”  The deal values the Indian insurer at $2.8 billion, about
the same as parent Reliance Capital. Reliance Life has more than
170 billion rupees ($3.76 billion) in assets under management of
as of Nov. 30, according to the company. India is home to 23
life insurance companies according to the Insurance Regulatory
and Development Authority.  Sharad Goel, a spokesman for Reliance Life in Mumbai,
declined to comment as did a Nippon Life spokesman.  ‘Buying Spree’  The latest investment by Nippon Life follows its effort to
expand into overseas markets.  The insurer with head offices in Tokyo and  Osaka  invested
$250 million in Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. last year
and $500 million in  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  2009. Both
companies are based in the U.S.  The investment in Northwestern Mutual last year was part of
the two insurers’ efforts to expand an alliance formed in July
2008 when Nippon Life bought a 5 percent stake in Russell
Investments, a Northwestern subsidiary.  Japanese companies are accelerating their overseas
expansion plans by taking advantage of the strong yen that makes
it cheaper to buy assets denominated in foreign currencies.  Japanese firms have spent a combined $28.8 billion over the
past five years purchasing companies in emerging markets in  Asia , including India, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Buyouts of Indian firms accounted for the most, making up $10.1
billion of the total purchase amount, it shows.  “Just as we are seeing how Japanese companies have been on
an international buying and expansion spree over the past few
years, it seems we are set to see a similar pattern in the  insurance industry ,” said  Kirby Daley , a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist with Newedge Group’s prime brokerage business. “The
strong yen is contributing to this as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net ;
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  