-- 
Nomura Said to Plan the Sale of Japanese Restaurant Chain Skylark to Bain

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-03-11T02:17:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/nomura-said-to-prepare-sale-of-japanese-restaurant-chain-skylark-to-bain.html
  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s
largest brokerage, plans to sell local family restaurant chain
Skylark Co. to Bain Capital LLC, said a person with knowledge of
the matter.  Bain is in talks to buy Skylark from Nomura in a deal
valued at about 300 billion yen ($3.6 billion) including debt,
the Nikkei newspaper reported earlier today, without citing
anyone. Nomura spokeswoman Keiko Sugai declined to comment, as
did Bain Capital’s Atsushi Kuse.  Skylark would be the second sale by Nomura’s private-equity
unit this year, as the Tokyo-based securities firm prepares for
stricter global capital rules. Nomura agreed to sell Japanese
bearing and machine tool maker Tsubaki Nakashima Co. to  Carlyle
Group , the brokerage said on March 1.  Skylark, which started business in 1970, operates about
3,700 restaurants mainly in Japan. Nomura led a management and
employee buyout of Skylark in 2006.  Buyout deals in Japan this year will probably exceed 2010
levels, when there were 69 transactions valued at 174.1 billion
yen, Tamotsu Adachi, head of the Japan Private Equity
Association, said this month. Japanese companies are selling
more secondary businesses and looking for partners that can help
them expand abroad, said Adachi, who is also co-head of
Carlyle’s Japan operations.  Nomura Principal Finance Co.  owns 40.2 percent shares in
Skylark, and Nomura-led investors have 34.7 percent, according
to the restaurant group’s financial statement published on Feb.
16. The brokerage has 3.7 percent of preferred shares in Skylark.
Skylark posted profit of 7.9 billion yen for the year ended Dec.
31, and revenue was 242.1 billion yen, the statement showed.  Nomura ended investments in Huis Ten Bosch, a Japanese
holiday resort, and builder Misawa Homes Co. last year. It still
has a stake in Ashikaga Bank Ltd., a regional lender. The
brokerage is expanding abroad including in the U.S., where it’s
spending 250 billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  