-- 
Northeast Carbon Dioxide Permits Auctioned for $1.89 Each, Minimum Bid

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-03-11T16:16:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/northeast-carbon-dioxide-permits-auctioned-for-1-89-each-minimum-bid.html
Carbon-dioxide permits in the U.S.
Northeast sold at auction this week for $1.89 each, the minimum
allowable bid, the  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative  said on
its  website .  Each permit gives a power plant the right to emit one ton
of carbon dioxide in a cap-and-trade program that spans 10
states from  Maryland  to Maine. The auction on March 9 sold 44.1
million carbon-dioxide permits, called allowances, raising $83
million for the program’s 10 states, according to a report
posted today on the website.  The price of permits this week was 3 cents, or 1.6 percent,
higher than the previous auction in December because the states
raised the minimum bid from $1.86 per allowance to $1.89.  The permits sold for the minimum bid because the supply of
allowances “is well above demand,” Peter Shattuck, a carbon-
markets policy analyst at Rockport, Maine-based advocacy group
 Environment Northeast , said in an interview. While the states
issue 188 million permits a year,  power plants  in the Northeast
probably released about 137 million tons of carbon dioxide in
2010, Shattuck said.  “Emissions are down due to cheap natural gas, increased
renewable and nuclear generation and investments in
efficiency,” Shattuck said. Natural gas releases less carbon
dioxide than coal or oil when burned to generate electricity.
Renewable electricity sources, such as solar panels and  wind
turbines , and nuclear reactors don’t release carbon dioxide.  $861 Million Raised  The states have held 11 allowance auctions since September
2008 and raised $861 million, according to the regional carbon-
trading program.  The Northeast states are spending most of the money on
efficiency and renewable-power projects that result in “energy-
bill savings, new jobs and improved business competitiveness,”
David Littell, a commissioner of the  Maine  Public Utilities
Commission and chairman of the cap-and-trade program’s board,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Low demand left some permits unsold in the program’s
December and September auctions. It’s “a little bit of a
surprise” that all the permits sold this week, Shattuck said.  Power companies are probably buying up allowances for use
in future years, when states start to cut back the number of
permits they issue, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  