-- 
Northern Rock Said to Consider Sale of Mortgage Securities

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-03-11T13:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/northern-rock-said-to-consider-sale-of-mortgage-securities-1-.html
Northern Rock Plc may sell retail
mortgage-backed securities for the first time since its rescue
in 2007, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  The Newcastle, England-based bank is considering offering
the securities in the first half of the year, though it would
continue to be funded mainly by retail deposits, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the plans are
private. A final decision hasn’t been made, the person said.  The funding plan would potentially enable the bank to
expand its balance sheet by increasing lending. It could also
use excess liquidity to purchase mortgage assets from other
banks, the person said. These could include mortgages held by
government-owned  Northern Rock (Asset Management) Plc , which
split from the rest of the bank last year.  Northern Rock “will look at ways to diversify
funding going forward,” spokesman Brian Giles said, without
elaborating.  Northern Rock was bailed out by the  Bank of England  in
2007 when money markets froze, leaving the bank unable to gain
funding by securitizing its mortgages. Retail deposits account
for 99 percent of the bank’s funding and the bank lends less
than it takes in from customer deposits. Chairman Ron Sandler
said this week the bank plans to increase new lending and seek
new ways to use its excess liquidity.  Banks create mortgage-backed securities by packaging
property loans into notes of varying risk and returns.  Northern
Rock  this week disclosed customer mortgage arrears of 0.17
percent, compared with an industry average of 2.11 percent.  Prices Rise  Northern Rock is considering returning to the U.K.
securitization market as its existing mortgage bonds are trading
at the highest level since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed
for  bankruptcy protection . Senior bonds issued through Granite
Master Issuer Plc are trading at 95 percent of face value, the
highest since September 2008, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
data. The notes dropped as low as 67 percent of face value in
January 2009.  The U.K. lender issued and kept 2.2 billion pounds ($3.5
billion) of mortgage-backed securities in January 2010 through
Gosforth Funding Plc, a company set up to create the notes.
Banks in  Europe  can use senior portions of securitizations as
collateral to raise liquidity from central banks.  Northern Rock this week posted a 232.4 million-pound loss
for 2010, partly because of costs related to restructuring.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 