-- 
Norway Backs Sweden in Seeking Toughest Bank Capital Rules

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-11T10:50:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/norway-backs-sweden-in-seeking-toughest-bank-capital-rules.html
Norway is signaling it may follow
Sweden’s target of imposing some of the world’s toughest  capital
requirements  on lenders as policy makers in Scandinavia embrace
post-crisis measures that banks warn will undermine competition.  “There are good reasons for the level suggested by the
Swedish authorities,” Bjoern Skogstad Aamo, the head of
Norway’s  Financial Supervisory Authority , said in an interview
in Oslo yesterday. “I don’t have very different views.”  Sweden’s regulator said this week it wants banks to target  capital ratios  as high as 12 percent, and will probably require
systemically important lenders to aim for 15 percent by 2013.
The proposals have prompted the biggest Nordic lender,  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , to lash out at policy makers arguing stricter rules
will distort competition and hurt the economy. Regulators in  Norway , home to the Nordic region’s second-biggest lender by
market value DnB NOR ASA, say tighter rules are needed to stem
the risk of a housing bubble.  “We are in favor of consultation between the  Nordic
countries  on the speed of the new capital requirements,”
Skogstad Aamo said. “The most important banks have to expect
higher capital requirements than others.”  The Basel Committee for Banking Supervision set standards
in December that will require lenders to have a minimum core
Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of 7
percent plus a counter-cyclical buffer of 2.5 percentage points.
Banks have until 2019 to phase in the requirements. Basel is
also working on a model that will require systemically important
banks to have even higher buffers.  ‘Far More Vulnerable’  “If you’re sitting outside the eurozone, in  Sweden , in
Switzerland, in the U.K., in a relatively small currency with
big banks, you are far more vulnerable than if you are sitting
in the eurozone,”  Simon Maughan , co-head of European equities
at MF Global Holdings Ltd., said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Mark Barton  today. “There will be a two-tier
regulatory system, and investors have to take that into
consideration.”  Shares in DnB NOR slumped as much as 1.2 percent today and
were trading 0.5 percent lower at 85.55 kroner at 11:16 a.m. in
Oslo.  Policy makers in Norway, like their Swedish counterparts,
are trying to stem the risk of a housing bubble after near
record-low  interest rates  fueled borrowing and sent property
prices above a pre-crisis peak.  Rate Rises  The Oslo-based central bank has signaled it will start
raising the benchmark interest rate from 2 percent in the middle
of the year as it struggles to balance the impact of monetary
tightening on the krone against credit risks. Low borrowing
costs and  Europe ’s smallest unemployment rate have spurred
asset-price growth in the world’s second-richest country per
capita.  House prices  surged an annual 9.2 percent in February,
after rising 7.6 percent the previous month, according to the
Association of Norwegian Real Estate Agents.  While Nordea Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen last
month called plans to impose stricter rules in Sweden “a bit
strange” and “not realistic,” the head of  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR)  says
he’s open to discussion.  “We are willing to discuss what is proper regulation, what
is the right level of taxation and what is the level of buffers
and capital you should go for, but the most important thing is
to coordinate,” DnB NOR CEO Rune Bjerke said in a March 9
interview.  Investors Take Note  Investors should listen closely to talks on differing
capital requirements across Europe when deciding which bank
stocks to hold, Maughan said.  “We need to look at the eurozone and say: where are the
stronger economies? They’re in  France , they’re in  Germany . The
banks there are going to have lower capital requirements than
they are in Sweden, the U.K. and  Switzerland . You should be
buying banks in these countries,” he said.  DnB NOR will participate in stress tests being conducted
across Europe to restore investor confidence, Skogstad Aamo said
yesterday. The bank has the “right” to be compared with
international rivals in the tests, he said in a statement.  A second round of stress tests in Europe started on March
4, with banks being assessed on their liquidity buffers as well
as capital requirements. The  European Banking Authority  is due
to publish the macroeconomic scenarios that the tests will be
based on as well as the names of the banks to be tested a week
from today. Results will be made public in June. DnB NOR had a
core Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.1 percent, according to its
fourth-quarter report.  Bank Debt  “The Norwegian market is an area for competition between
Nordic banks, so we think it is of great importance to have fair
competition between these,” Skogstad Aamo said. “From the
starting point the Norwegian requirements are somewhat stricter
than the others, so harmonization should not pose specific
problems to us.”  Norwegian banks reduced their foreign debt by 129 billion
kroner ($22.8 billion) in 2010 to 1.2 trillion kroner at the end
of the year. At the same time mortgage lenders increased their
bond debt to 675 billion kroner from 526 billion kroner,
 Statistics Norway  said today.  In Sweden, home to four of the Nordic region’s six biggest
lenders, the bankers’ association says it will fight rules that
undermine competitiveness. Policy makers say they want to
emulate initiatives in Switzerland to impose stricter standards.  Swiss Standards  The Swiss government has proposed laws that would require
its biggest banks  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to hold
capital equal to 19 percent of risk-weighted assets.  Norway’s banks may also face a financial stability fee and
taxes on bank profits and pay if proposals by the country’s
Financial Crisis Commission are adopted by the  Finance Ministry .
The FSA wants banks to achieve capital and liquidity goals
before looking into new taxes, Skogstad Aamo said.  “That proposal that will increase taxation should rather
wait until we have strengthened capital and liquidity,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  