-- 
Obama Says No Sign Yet of Nuclear Leak in Japan After Earthquake, Tsunami

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-11T18:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/obama-says-no-sign-yet-of-nuclear-leak-in-japan-after-earthquake-tsunami.html
President  Barack Obama  said there
has been no sign of radiation leaks from Japan’s nuclear power
plants and he’s directed Energy Secretary Steven Chu to provide
whatever U.S. assistance is needed.  The U.S. Air Force is helping deliver coolant to a Japanese
plant damaged by the earthquake that struck the island nation,
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said earlier today.  “So far they have not seen evidence of radiation leaks,”
Obama said at a White House news conference. “Obviously you’ve
got to take all potential precautions.”  The U.S. has one  aircraft carrier  in Japan and another is
on the way to provide assistance in the recovery effort, Obama
said. While there so far hasn’t been any major damage in the
U.S. from the tsunami that followed the earthquake, Obama urged
residents in areas that may be affected to follow warnings from
local and federal authorities.  He said the 8.9 magnitude temblor is a “potentially
catastrophic disaster” for Japan. Obama said with a powerful
and technologically advanced economy, “Japan will successfully
rebuild.”  The president said having grown up in  Hawaii , he is
familiar with Japanese culture, making his concern about the
situation there “that much more acute.”  “I’m heartbroken by this tragedy,” he said.  Obama was informed about the quake early this morning and
he called Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  before the news
conference.  He also has instructed the  Federal Emergency Management
Agency  to assist Hawaii and other U.S. states and territories
that may be affected by a tsunami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 