-- 
Obama Sets Timeline for Overhaul of U.S Trade Agencies

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-11T20:59:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/obama-sets-timeline-for-overhaul-of-u-s-trade-agencies-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  directed his
advisers to craft a plan to “consolidate and reorganize”
government agencies with roles in supporting exports.  “Government agencies have grown without overall strategic
planning and duplicative programs have sprung up, making it
harder for each to reach its goals,” Obama wrote in a
memorandum he sent to department and agency heads today. The
nation’s competitiveness requires a government that
“judiciously allocates scarce government resources to maximize
its efficiency and effectiveness,” he wrote.  Obama has directed Jeffrey Zients, the White House chief
performance officer, to undertake the review which will focus on
ways to make government trade operations more efficient.
Recommendations are due in 90 days.  Zients, who is also the deputy director for management at
the Office of Management and Budget, will analyze the “scope
and effectiveness, areas of overlap and duplication, unmet
needs, and possible cost savings” of the trade agencies, the
president said in the memorandum.  Collecting Recommendations  The president is directing Zients and his staff, which
includes Obama’s staff secretary Lisa Brown, to seek input from
current agency heads, business executives, unions, government
reform experts, nongovernmental organizations, and members of
Congress to get their input.  The president said he will examine Zients’s recommendations
and submit a plan to Congress to streamline agencies so that
they can “most efficiently and effectively facilitate the
competitiveness of American businesses.”  “The responsibilities, authorities, programs, and
requirements of agencies should be transparent, understandable,
and easily accessible to the American public,” the president
said.  “There is little doubt that if you were designing the
government with a clean sheet of paper, you would organize
things differently,” Zients told members of the president’s
export council which met today. Members include  Boeing Co. (BA) 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James McNerney and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  CEO  Alan Mulally .  Trade Gap  The Commerce Department reported yesterday that the  U.S.
trade deficit  increased 15 percent in January to $46.3 billion
from $40.3 billion the month before. While exports grew 2.7
percent, imports jumped 5.2 percent, the most since March 1993,
as the cost of imported  crude oil  rose amid unrest in the Middle
East and North Africa.  Government efficiency was also a topic at the first meeting
of the president’s Management Advisory Board today. The panel,
led by Zients and composed of private sector executives, was
established last year to recommend ways of improving management
of federal agencies.  Zients brought in government officials including members
from the Office of Personnel Management, the Department of  Veterans Affairs , and U.S.  General Services Administration , to
get panel members’ suggestions on ways to cut general
contracting waste and to improve the recruiting and training
government executives.  Move to Simplicity  “It’s about size, speed, impact, line of sight,” Motorola
Solutions Inc. CEO  Greg Brown , a panel member, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “It’s no secret that the
federal government is large, its complex.” Brown said that the
reorganization creates an “opportunity for simplicity.”  Members of the advisory group include Sabre Holdings Corp.
CEO Sam Gilliland; the chief executive officer of BET Holdings
Inc., Debra Lee; CEO of Cummins Inc. Tim Solso; chairman of  Aetna Inc. (AET)  Ronald Williams; Liz Smith, chief executive officer
of OSI Restaurant Partners LLC; CEO of Symantec Corp. Enrique Salem;  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  President and CEO Shantanu Narayen;
and Gail McGovern, president and CEO of the American Red Cross.  In addition to the reorganization of the executive branch
trade offices, Obama is searching for a new secretary of
Commerce. He announced March 9 that he would nominate Gary Locke, who currently holds that post, as the next U.S.
ambassador to  China .  Locke, Small Business Administrator Karen Mills, Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton , and National Economic Council Director  Gene Sperling  led discussions on individual topics at the export
council meeting where Zients also spoke.  Members of that panel include  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
Chairman and CEO Scott Davis;  MetLife Inc. (MET)  Chairman and CEO
Robert Henrikson;  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  Chairman and CEO
Ivan Seidenberg; Archer Daniels Midland Co. Chairman and CEO
Patricia Woertz; and UAL Corp. Chairman and CEO  Glenn Tilton .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  