-- 
Obama Says More Time Needed on Short-Term Budget Extension

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-03-11T19:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/obama-says-extra-budget-extension-needed-as-compromise-on-cuts-worked-out.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Congress is running out of time to find a compromise on budget
cuts and may have to pass another short-term extension to keep
the government operating beyond next week.  Obama said at a White House news conference that Democrats
and Republicans must compromise and agree on “prudent cuts” to
this year’s budget. Republicans shouldn’t expect to get all of
the spending trims they want, he said.  “We may not be able to fully resolve this and meet next
week’s deadline,” Obama said. “There may be potentially one
more short-term extension,” he said, meaning another stopgap
measure to give lawmakers time to reach agreement on a budget
for the rest of the 2011 fiscal year.  The cuts are being debated to help deal with a  budget
deficit  that the administration forecasts will hit $1.6 trillion
this year and $1.1 trillion in fiscal 2012.  Republicans are proposing a stopgap funding measure
intended to give lawmakers more time. The interim appropriation
would provide three weeks of spending and make about $6 billion
in cuts that both parties agree on, said Representative Steve LaTourette, an Ohio Republican on the House Appropriations
Committee.  Obama has appointed Vice President  Joe Biden  to lead a team
of White House negotiators to find common ground, though there
has been no evidence of a breakthrough. Without an agreement
between Democrats and Republicans by March 18, non-essential
government services would shut down.  House Republican freshmen are urging their leaders to
resist compromising on spending cuts after the Democratic
majority in the Senate on March 9 defeated the party’s plan to
cut $61 billion from the budget this year.  Telephone Calls  Still, the president said he made it clear in telephone
calls to House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell    about what he could accept on reducing
spending.  Republicans “are not going to get 100 percent of what they
want,” he said. “Both sides are going to have to sit down and
compromise,” and “it shouldn’t be that complicated.”  “We can’t stop investing in our people. We can’t stop
investing in research and development,” he said. “But we’re
going to make sure we hold the line when it comes to some
critical programs,” education and research among them.  Senate Democratic leaders say they want to broaden the
budget talks by considering spending reductions in future fiscal
years, as well as tax increases. Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New
York  has suggested cutting Medicare and farm programs, as well
as eliminating tax benefits for oil and gas drilling.  Bringing up tax increases and other matters would “muddle
the current issue,” Boehner said. “That’s what the next budget
process is for, and we’ll have plenty of opportunities to talk
about that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net  