-- 
Obama’s Trade Advisory Council Meets Amid Department Shuffle

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/obama-s-trade-advisory-council-meets-amid-department-shuffle.html
The business executives on
President Barack Obama’s export council will convene today to
discuss publicly an idea that has been circulating inside the
administration: reorganizing White House trade operations.  Members of the  panel , who include  Boeing Co. (BA)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer James McNerney and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  CEO  Alan Mulally , are gathering as Obama’s trade team is being
shuffled and the president is seeking ways to achieve his goal
of doubling U.S. exports.  On the council’s agenda is an export agency reorganization.
Obama, as soon as today, plans to issue a memorandum directing
his chief performance officer, Jeffrey Zients, to undertake a
review of “restructuring and streamlining” the executive
branch, including ways to make U.S. trade agencies more
efficient, according to a draft of the document.  The Commerce Department reported yesterday that the  U.S.
trade deficit  increased 15 percent in January to $46.3 billion
from $40.3 billion the month before. While exports grew 2.7
percent, imports jumped 5.2 percent, the most since March 1993,
as the cost of imported  crude oil  rose amid unrest in the Middle
East and North Africa.  In addition to the prospect of a reorganization, Obama is
searching for a new secretary of Commerce. He announced March 9
that he would nominate Gary Locke, who currently holds that
post, as the next U.S. ambassador to  China .  Administration Representatives  Locke, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and Small Business
Administrator Karen Mills will address the council. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton , National Economic Council Director  Gene Sperling  and Zients are scheduled to lead discussions on
individual topics. Obama isn’t currently scheduled to attend.  The executives expected at the meeting include  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  Chairman and CEO Scott Davis;  MetLife Inc. (MET) 
Chairman and CEO Robert Henrikson;  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
Chairman and CEO Ivan Seidenberg; Archer Daniels Midland Co.
Chairman and CEO Patricia Woertz; and UAL Corp. Chairman and CEO  Glenn Tilton .  Among the contenders for Commerce secretary is U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk, according to a person familiar with the
selection process. Kirk has had a leading role in pushing
Obama’s trade agenda, including efforts to get a South Korea
free trade agreement through Congress and to revise accords with
Colombia and  Panama .  The administration also is considering former  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Kindler, whom Obama named to the
President’s Management Advisory Board last night, and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  CEO  Eric Schmidt , another person said. Both spoke on
condition of anonymity because no decisions about the Commerce
Department post have been made.  Management Board  The reorganization also will be a topic when the Management
Advisory Board meets for the first time today. The panel was
 established  last year to find ways to make the federal
government more efficient.  The board is headed by Zients, who is also deputy director
of the U.S. Office of Management and Budget.  In addition to Kindler, members include  Sabre Holdings
Corp . CEO Sam Gilliland; the chief executive officer of BET
Holdings Inc., Debra Lee; CEO of  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  Tim Solso;
Motorola Solutions Inc. CEO  Greg Brown ; chairman of  Aetna Inc. (AET) 
Ronald Williams; Liz Smith, chief executive officer of OSI
Restaurant Partners LLC; CEO of  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  Enrique Salem;  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  President and CEO Shantanu Narayen; and Gail McGovern, president and CEO of the American Red Cross.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net 
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  