-- 
Obama Says U.S. Prepared to Tap Strategic Petroleum Reserve If Necessary

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-03-11T19:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/obama-says-u-s-prepared-to-tap-strategic-petroleum-reserve-if-necessary.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
prepared to tap the nation’s strategic oil reserve if necessary
to deal with any disruptions in the  energy supply  and said the  Justice Department  will be on the watch for any evidence of
price gouging.  “In an economy that relies on oil, gas prices affect
everybody,” Obama said at a White House news conference. He
said higher fuel prices are “an added burden” for American
families “already facing tough times.”  Obama refused to say what level prices would have to hit in
order to prompt the government to open the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve stored in caverns along the U.S. Gulf coast. He said the
government could begin pumping from the reserve within a few
days if necessary.  “One of the messages that I want to send today is that we
are confident about our ability to fill any potential gaps in
supply,” Obama said.  The cost of oil has surged 22 percent over the past year
and gasoline prices are at their highest in more than two years
on concern that the unrest in the Middle East and North Africa
will spread to major oil-producing countries.  Economic Impact  Obama said the  U.S. economy  is able to manage the
disruption and a 2 percent payroll  tax cut  that took effect Jan
1 “should help act as a cushion” to the impact of rising
gasoline prices on consumer spending. He said the tax cut added
an extra $80 per month to the average U.S. worker’s paycheck.  Even with the recent rise in energy costs, the U.S. economy
is continuing to recover from the recession and is moving toward
greater job growth, the president said.  The nation should boost domestic oil and gas production, he
said, while also intensifying efforts to encourage a shift to
alternative clean-energy fuels, a goal that has been a
centerpiece of Obama’s White House agenda.  Quoting billionaire energy investor  T. Boone Pickens , Obama
said, “This is one emergency we can’t drill our way out of.”  “We can’t place our long-term bets on a finite resource
that we only control 2 percent of,” Obama added, referring to
the U.S. share of global oil reserves. The U.S. consumes more
than a quarter of worldwide production, he said.  Oil for April delivery fell 1.5 percent, to $101.19 a
barrel at 1:48 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
dropped after Japan’s strongest earthquake in at least a century
shut refineries in the world’s third-largest oil-consuming
country.  Calls for Reserve  Some Democratic members of Congress have been pushing the
administration to release some of the 727 million barrels of oil
stored in the nation’s  Strategic Petroleum Reserve  to help calm
markets and reduce prices. Republicans blamed Obama’s energy
policies for higher energy costs.  “The Obama administration has consistently blocked
American energy production that would lower costs and create new
jobs,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
yesterday as party leaders announced plans for legislation
intended to increase access to domestic energy sources, speed
regulatory review for new pipelines and wells, and expand all
forms of energy in the U.S.  U.S. Production  Obama said at the press conference U.S. oil production last
year reached its highest level since 2003.  “Any notion that my administration has shut down oil
production might make for a good political sound bite, but it
doesn’t match up with reality,” Obama said.  He said that following the  oil spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico 
the White House has put in place “common-sense standards like
proving that companies can actually contain an underwater
spill.”  Obama said he has ordered the Interior Department to assess
how many oil leases held by industry have gone undeveloped in
order to determine how companies can be encouraged to start
production from  oil reserves they have leased. He also said the
administration is looking at potential new onshore and offshore
development in  Alaska  and elsewhere.  Gasoline costs have increased every day except one since
mid-February. The average retail price for a gallon of regular
gasoline was at $3.54 yesterday, compared with $2.77 a year ago,
according to the AAA  price survey .  The higher prices at the pump may restrain the gains in  consumer spending  that has bolstered the U.S. recovery. As a
rule of thumb, a sustained $10 a barrel increase in the price of
oil reduces growth in the U.S. gross domestic product by 0.2
percentage points, said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist for
IHS Global Insight.    Consumer confidence  fell last week to the lowest level in a
month as surging gasoline prices soured Americans’ outlook about
their finances and the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 44.5
in the period to March 6 from the prior week’s minus 39.7, which
was close to the highest in almost three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net  