-- 
Obama Instructs FEMA to Be Ready to Assist Hawaii After Tsunami in Japan

-- B y   B r i g i t t e   G r e e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-11T16:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/obama-instructs-fema-to-be-ready-to-assist-hawaii-after-tsunami-in-japan.html
President  Barack Obama  said today
that he has instructed the  Federal Emergency Management Agency 
to be ready to assist  Hawaii  and other U.S. states and
territories that may be affected by a tsunami.  “We are asking all our citizens in the affected region to
listen to their state and local officials,” Obama said in a
written statement released by the White House today.  Obama is likely to address the federal response at a 12:30
p.m. news conference that had previously been scheduled for
11:15 a.m. to discuss rising energy prices.  Japan was struck by its  strongest earthquake  in at least a
century, an 8.9-magnitude temblor that shook buildings across
Tokyo and unleashed a tsunami as high as 10 meters, engulfing
towns along the northern coast.  As many as 300 people were killed, a Japanese police
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity in line with
department policy. Many are missing after the quake and waves as
high as 23 feet swept ashore. Airports were closed and bullet
train services suspended, and an emergency evacuation order was
issued for a nuclear power plant north of Tokyo.  The U.S. “stands ready” to assist the people of Japan,
Obama said.  “The friendship and alliance between our two nations is
unshakable, and only strengthens our resolve to stand with the
people of Japan as they overcome this tragedy,” Obama said.  Call to Kan  Obama called Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  at about
10:15 a.m. Washington time to discuss the effects of the quake
and tsunami.  The U.S. State Department issued an alert saying U.S.
citizens should avoid non-essential travel to Japan.  Obama said he and the first lady “send our deepest
condolences to the people of Japan, particularly those who have
lost loved ones.”  White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  said later that
the fears of major destruction from the tsunami hitting Hawaii
“seem to have dissipated.”  At the  United Nations  in  New York , Ambassador Li Baodong of  China , which holds the rotating presidency of the UN Security
Council this month, told reporters the panel would observe a
minute of silence at the start of today’s meeting in sympathy
for earthquake and tsunami victims.  “On behalf of the council I express our deep condolences
and sympathy to the people who lost their lives and property in
Japan,” Li said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brigitte Greenberg in Washington at 
 Bgreenberg2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  