-- 
Obama Assured By Pentagon That WikiLeaks Detainee Not Mistreated

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-03-11T20:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/obama-assured-by-pentagon-that-wikileaks-detainee-not-mistreated.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Pentagon officials have assured him that the treatment of
Private First Class Bradley Manning, the detained soldier
accused of providing classified documents to the anti-secrecy
group WikiLeaks, is “appropriate” and “meeting our basic
standards.”  Obama declined comment at a press conference in Washington
today on the reported remarks last night by State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley , at a forum in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , that the military has “mistreated” Manning in a
way that is “ridiculous and counterproductive and stupid.”  Crowley also reportedly said Manning “nonetheless is in
the right place,” and that there is a “need for secrets” for
diplomacy to be conducted effectively. He did not answer
telephone and e-mailed requests for comment today.  Crowley is reported to have made his remarks in response to
an audience member at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
The questioner characterized Manning’s maximum security
detention, and a requirement that he strip naked at night, as
“torturing a prisoner,” according to a blog post by BBC News
reporter  Philippa Thomas , who attended the event as a journalism
fellow on sabbatical at  Harvard University .  “We are aware of Mr. Crowley’s remarks and have since sent
him the facts on PFC Manning’s pre-trial confinement,” said
Marine Corps Colonel Dave Lapan, a Pentagon spokesman. He cited
a Defense Department statement that describes Manning’s
confinement at Quantico as complying “in all respects with U.S.
law and  Department of Defense  regulations.”  Undergarments Taken  Manning is in a cell alone, like others in maximum or
medium security at the facility, the statement said.  “In recent days, as the result of concerns for PFC
Manning’s personal safety, his undergarments were taken from him
during sleeping hours,” according to the statement.  Manning always had a blanket to cover himself. On one day,
Manning “chose” to stand naked for morning count even though
he was not forced to do so, the Pentagon said in the statement.
Manning “has since been issued a garment to sleep in at night.
He is clothed in a standard jumpsuit during the day,” according
to the statement.  “None of the conditions under which PFC Manning is held
are punitive in nature,” the department said.  Obama said he couldn’t discuss details about authorities’
concerns, though “some of this has to do with Private Manning’s
safety as well,” he told reporters.  ‘Aiding the Enemy’  Manning, 23, a former Army intelligence analyst, is
awaiting trial on dozens of charges, including “aiding the
enemy” and theft of public records. He is accused of copying a
database of more than 250,000 diplomatic cables between March
and May 2010.  Manning’s attorney, David E. Coombs, reported on his  blog 
yesterday that Quantico Base Commander Colonel Daniel Choike had
denied Manning’s request to be removed from “prevention of
injury watch” and have his custody classification reduced from
maximum to medium. Coombs wrote that if Navy Secretary Ray Mabus, who will make a final review, denies Manning’s request,
his defense team will file a writ of habeus corpus to the Army
Court of Criminal Appeals.  The United Nations special rapporteur on torture said he
submitted an inquiry to the State Department about Manning’s
treatment. State Department officials did not respond to
inquiries today about whether the reply has been completed.  David House, a spokesman for the Bradley Manning Advocacy
Fund, defended Crowley’s remarks today. “There is no
justification for his inhumane treatment. I agree with Mr.
Crowley that it’s just stupid and unproductive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  