-- 
Hockney Sees Images as Crucial to Arab Rebellion: Interview

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-03-11T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/hockney-sees-images-as-crucial-to-revolt-in-arab-countries-martin-gayford.html
“If the Egyptian army had started
shooting at the crowd in Tahrir Square,” says  David Hockney ,
“it would have been hard to keep that secret because people had
mobile phones. They could have described what was happening by
text and sent a picture. That is, confirmation.”  Right now, we are seeing just such images of state violence
in Libya.  There has been plenty of debate about the causes of the
events rippling across the Middle East. The basic factors, of
course, are the courage, anger and frustration of the
populations involved. Social media such as Facebook and Twitter
are believed to have played a role in spreading information.
Hockney, as a visual artist, suggests another important element
is involved: namely, pictures.  Indeed, he sees pictures -- or, to be precise, control of
the display and distribution of images -- as an overlooked
factor in history. Hockney, 73, argues that this always has been
a source of political and religious power.  In  Europe , for hundreds of years, he says, “the Church was
the main supplier of images. If you wanted to see images,
churches were where they were. Churches had effective social
control.” There you saw heaven, hell and martyrdom.  The point about pictures is that they pack far more
emotional force than words. As the art historian David Freedberg
wrote in his book “The Power of Images” (1989), “People are
sexually aroused by pictures and sculptures, they mutilate them,
kiss them, cry before them and go on journeys to them; they are
calmed by them, stirred by them and incited to revolt.” That
was true in the past, and it’s still true.  Image Power  The world-changing events unfolding were touched off by a
young man, Mohammed Bouazizi, setting fire to himself on Dec.
17, 2010, in the town of Sidi Bouzid. According to Khaled Koubaa, president of the  Internet Society  in Tunisia (quoted by
Peter Beaumont of the  Guardian newspaper  in a Feb. 25 article)
there had been a similar case three months earlier in Monastir.
“But no one knew about it because it was not filmed. What made
a difference this time is that the images of Bouazizi were put
on Facebook and everybody saw it.”  Hockney argues that in the 19th and early 20th centuries,
the social control of the church waned and was replaced by that
of the mass media: films, newspapers, magazines and eventually
television. These distributed the images of glamour, power,
stirring and emotive events. That’s changing.  Crumbling Media  “What we are now seeing is that old mass media are
crumbling,” Hockney says. “The power is shifting again, in a
way that will have unpredictable consequences. It is spreading
to the masses themselves. We don’t know where that will go.”  The defining image of the turmoil in the Middle East,
Beaumont suggested in that Guardian piece on new media and the
Middle East revolutions, is “a young woman or a young man with
a smartphone.” They are holding it aloft and taking moving
images of what’s happening around them -- in Cairo, Tunis,
Benghazi, Bahrain, Oman, the list extends by the day.  Refugees from  Libya  reported that their phones and SIM
cards were being confiscated in an attempt to prevent the spread
of images. But that was too late. Once a population has access
to portable media and the Internet, no government can control
the free flow of images. “Obviously, something has happened
that’s new,” says Hockney. “I’ve no idea whether its long-term
effects will be good or bad. But it’s there.”  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 