-- 
Ohio Democrats Weigh Stalling a Union Bill or Asking Voters to Repeal It

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/ohio-democrats-unable-to-flee-consider-ways-to-kill-union-bill.html
  Ohio  Representative Armond Budish
said if bolting the state would stall a bill restricting
collective-bargaining rights for public employees, he’d do it
“in a heartbeat.”  It wouldn’t work as it did for Democratic lawmakers in
Wisconsin and  Indiana . Too few to block Republicans from having
a quorum, Ohio Democrats are asking for more public involvement
and hearings on the bill in an effort to sway opinion and will
seek a ballot issue to repeal it if necessary, Budish said.  “If I have to take the lead on a statewide referendum, we
will fight until we win,” Budish, the House minority leader,
said in a telephone interview from Columbus.  With states facing what may be $175 billion in combined
budget deficits during the next two years, Republican governors
in Ohio and  Wisconsin  are seeking to increase contributions from
public employees for pensions and health-care coverage while
restricting their rights to bargain for future benefits.  Ohio Governor John Kasich and  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin say
the measures will give state and local governments flexibility
to manage budget cuts. Democratic lawmakers say they are a power
play to break unions.  In Wisconsin, 14 Democratic senators fled to  Illinois  on
Feb. 17 to block Walker’s “budget-repair bill” by preventing a
quorum. Senate Republicans approved the measure March 9 by
removing fiscal provisions, which allowed them to vote with
fewer people present.  Detente in Indiana  Forty Democratic House members in Indiana also went to
Illinois on Feb. 22 to prevent a vote on union-related bills,
including a measure to limit collective bargaining for teachers.  House Minority Leader B. Patrick Bauer said he spoke by
telephone March 9 from an Urbana hotel with Republican House
Speaker Brian Bosma. They are making progress on compromises
that would let the Democrats return, he said.  “I’m cautiously optimistic,” Bauer said during a
conference call March 9.  The Ohio bill would require about 360,000 state and local
government workers to bargain only for wages, hours and working
conditions, and make them pay at least 15 percent of their
health-care premiums. It would prohibit governments from
contributing toward workers’ share of pension costs and ban
strikes by government unions.  Playing Charades  Ohio requires a simple majority for a quorum, so Democrats
can’t prevent a vote by leaving the state. The bill passed the
Senate 17-16 on March 2.  With Republicans holding a 59-to-40 seat advantage in the
House, Democrats should focus on a repeal referendum, said
Representative Robert Hagan, a Democrat from Youngstown.  “What we’re doing now is performing a charade,” Hagan
said in an interview. “They should get it over with, and we
should put this on the ballot as soon as possible.”  A referendum would be held if petition forms with more than
231,000 voters’ signatures are filed within 90 days of the law’s
approval, according to the secretary of state’s office. The
number of signatures is 6 percent of the total vote cast for
governor last year.  Prolonging the debate by offering amendments -- even if
they fail -- can shape opinion, said Paul Beck, a political
science professor at  Ohio State University . He pointed to recent
polls showing that most Americans oppose Republican attacks on
collective-bargaining rights.  “Does it make sense for opponents to try to extend the
debate?” Beck said in a telephone interview from Columbus. “I
think in Wisconsin it did.”  Ohio House Speaker William Batchelder, a Republican from
Medina, said it is “a disturbing factor” that Democrats are
not offering their own solutions for what Kasich has said is an
$8 billion budget shortfall in the coming biennium.  “I don’t expect any votes on that side, but I think we’re
all facing tough times here,” Batchelder told reporters March
9.  Hearings on the bill are being held in a House committee
this week. Batchelder has said he plans a final vote as early as
next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  