-- 
Oil Supplies Could Fall in Second Quarter on Outages, OPEC Says

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-03-11T11:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/oil-supplies-could-fall-in-second-quarter-on-outages-opec-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries said global oil stockpiles could drop in the
next three months as production outages tighten supplies.  “The market could see a contra-seasonal draw in the second
quarter of 2011, if the recent supply disruption were not offset
by production increases,” OPEC said in its monthly oil market
report today. “Additionally, this draw could be easily
accommodated by reportedly high commercial oil inventories
across the globe, particularly in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development countries.”  Violent clashes in  Libya  between forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and anti-government rebels have reduced Libya’s
oil exports to “well below” 500,000 barrels a day, according
to the Paris-based  International Energy Agency . The only
reference to Libya in OPEC’s 68-page document, apart from data
tables, was in a list of the group’s members where production
declined.  Libyan oil production was 1.35 million barrels a day in
February, compared with 1.6 million barrels a day in January.  “Events in the Middle East, North Africa region and the
associated  risk premium  have pushed crude oil prices to the
highest level since September 2008,” OPEC said.  The group said it has about 6 million barrels a day of
spare production capacity and stands ready to act to support
market stability.  OPEC forecast it will have to produce 29.8 million barrels
a day this year, unchanged from last month’s report. That’s an
increase of about 500,000 million barrels a day from last year.  Global oil demand is projected to grow 1.4 million barrels
a day in 2011 to 87.8 million barrels a day, little changed from
OPEC’s estimate last month.  “Despite the recent unrest, the world economy has
continued to enjoy a solid recovery,” OPEC said. “Many
uncertainties remain that could slow the current momentum. These
include the recent surge in  oil prices , which, if sustained for
a long period, could impact growth in oil importing countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  