-- 
Oil at $100 Kills Brain Cells, Impairs Thinking: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-03-11T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/oil-at-100-kills-brain-cells-impairs-logic-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
It must be the noxious fumes or the
stratospheric prices because crude oil crossing the $100
threshold makes normally thoughtful individuals funny in the
head.  The early symptoms of high oil price syndrome, or HOPS, can
easily be masked or confused with a more generalized form of
lazy economic thinking.  For example, those afflicted with HOPS start making
assertions that higher  oil prices  are inflationary, as if
relative price changes can morph into an economy-wide rise in
prices without help from the central bank.  HOPS sufferers aren’t beyond doing a quick 180, pronouncing
higher oil prices to be deflationary because they sap consumer
demand.  Which is it?  When oil prices aren’t standing in for the central bank,
the ultimate arbiter of all things monetary, they’re doubling as
the tax man. HOPS sufferers claim oil prices are a tax on the
consumer, even though the effect is nothing like a tax, which
drives a wedge between consumers and producers.  Finally, higher oil prices devastate the economy and
destroy jobs. What happens to producers’ profits?  I find myself getting light in the head from all this
nonsense. For my own peace of mind, I need to set the record
straight. Here goes.  No. 1. Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar  For folks who use the term “inflation” interchangeably
with higher prices -- as in wage inflation or commodity
inflation --they are not the same thing. A higher price for oil
and/or other commodities is a higher relative price until
ratified by the central bank.  What does the central bank have to do with it?  Inflation is a monetary phenomenon: too much money chasing
too few goods and services.  Where does the money come from?  In the U.S., it comes from  Ben Bernanke , chairman of the  Federal Reserve , and his trusted band of governors and district
bank presidents.  To be more accurate, it comes from the  New York  Fed’s Open
Market Desk, which buys  Treasury securities  (generally) from a
group of primary dealers at the direction of the Fed’s policy
committee.  Higher oil prices don’t cause inflation. They aren’t
synonymous with inflation. Higher oil prices represent a
relative price increase until proven differently.  No. 2. Zero Sum Game  Higher oil prices are always viewed as a negative because
they crimp consumer purchasing power.  It’s not a one way street. Wealth is transferred from
consumers to producers and recycled.  Higher prices act as an incentive for oil exploration.
Exxon Mobil Corp. buys new drilling equipment and hires more
workers. Those dollars go back into the economy, they don’t suck
life out of it.  Because the U.S.  imports  about half of its crude oil,
according to the U.S. Department of Energy, some of those
profits end up in the pockets of the Saudi royal family and
other Middle East potentates.  What do they do with them? They spend them on U.S. goods
and services. They buy U.S. stocks, bonds, trophy real estate
and F-16 fighter jets.  This doesn’t happen simultaneously, of course. But to
portray every dollar of oil profit as a net drain on the economy
is inaccurate.  When oil prices rise, consumers have to allocate more of
their household budget to filling the tank and heating the
house, leaving less for discretionary purchases. The composition
of their spending may change, but nominal spending shouldn’t be
affected. There will be some effect on real GDP, but that
depends on the Fed.  No. 3. Taxing Thought  The claim that oil is a tax on the consumer is one of the
most common talking points during every oil-price spike. It also
happens to be dead wrong.  An excise tax raises the price to the consumer, who will
demand less, and lowers the price received by the producer, who
will supply less. The result is  deadweight loss .  The recent increase in oil prices qualifies as a supply
shock -- a decline in Libyan oil production and expectations of
further disruptions in Middle East supply -- on top of what was
already a demand-driven rise as the world economy recovered.
Crude oil had already breached the $90 a barrel mark at the end
of last year, well before Egyptians took to Tahrir Square in
January to demand that President  Hosni Mubarak  step down.  A supply shock results in higher prices and a lower
quantity demanded. It’s only taxing if you think about it
incorrectly.  No. 4. Mo’ Money  The Fed needs to respond to higher oil prices, HOPS victims
say.  Bad idea, especially if “respond” means print more money.
That was the medicine applied in the 1970s. The result was
higher inflation and slower growth, which created a problem for
those who thought there was a trade-off between the two.  “Respond” could have another meaning for those who think
higher oil prices are inflationary (see No. 1 above) -- tighten
policy. HOPS victims will have to sort that one out before they
decide on a recommended course of action.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  