-- 
Oil Caps Its First Weekly Decline in a Month as Japan Quake Shuts Plants

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-03-11T21:44:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/oil-in-new-york-drops-most-in-four-months-as-quake-shuts-japan-refineries.html
Crude oil fell in New York, capping
the first weekly drop in a month, after Japan’s strongest
earthquake on record shut refineries and dissidents in  Saudi
Arabia  failed to stage planned protests.  Oil declined 1.5 percent after the 8.9-magnitude temblor
unleashed a 7-meter (23-foot) tsunami that killed hundreds of
people in the world’s third-largest oil-consuming country. Saudi
Arabian police and anti-riot vehicles patrolled central  Riyadh 
today, preventing a “Day of Rage” proclaimed by activists.  “This is in response to the tsunami in Japan and the lack
of the Day of Rage in Saudi Arabia,” said  Hamza Khan , an
analyst with the Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “If the Japanese refineries are down,
then we’re going to see lower demand for crude oil.”  Oil for April delivery tumbled $1.54 to $101.16 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
March 1. Oil decreased 3.1 percent this week while it has risen
23 percent in the past year.  Oil also declined as President  Barack Obama  said he’s
prepared to tap the U.S.  Strategic Petroleum Reserve  if the
supply situation warrants.  Futures have surged 11 percent since Jan. 14, when the
president of  Tunisia  was ousted in the first of the unrest that
has rocked the Middle East and North Africa, including Saudi
Arabia’s neighbors Yemen, Oman and Bahrain. Prices touched 29-
month high of $106.95 a barrel in intraday trading March 7.  ‘Significant Disruptions’  “If we see significant disruptions or shifts in the market
that are so disconcerting to people that we think a Strategic
Petroleum Reserve release might be appropriate, then we’ll take
that step,” Obama said at a White House news conference.  The earthquake off Japan’s northern coast near the city of
Sendai struck at 2:46 p.m. local time. The tsunami that followed
engulfed towns along the northern coast.  A storage-tank fire shut Cosmo Oil Co.’s 220,000 barrel-a-
day refinery in Chiba, outside Tokyo, said Yusuke Kanada, a
company spokesman. JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. closed
refineries in Sendai, Kashima and Negishi. JX Nippon’s three
plants that shut have a combined processing capacity of about
600,000 barrels a day.  Lower Demand  “Oil demand from Japan could temporarily be lower,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Japan consumed 4.42 million barrels a day of oil in 2010,
according to data from the  International Energy Agency ’s Feb. 10
Monthly Oil Market Report.  China  used 9.39 million barrels and
the U.S. consumed 19.25 million, the agency said.  The IEA doesn’t expect Japan to tap its emergency crude and
oil-product stockpiles after the quake, said Aad van Bohemen,
the head of emergency policy at the Paris-based organization.
Oil-sector impact there is “limited,” he said.  In Saudi Arabia, checkpoints were set up around the Al-
Rajhi mosque. Three people were injured yesterday when security
forces broke up a protest in the city of Qatif in Saudi Arabia’s
Eastern Province, home to many of its minority Shiite Muslims,
said Major General Mansour al-Turki, an Interior Ministry
spokesman.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell $1.59, or 1.4 percent, to $113.84 a
barrel. The contract slipped 1.8 percent this week.  Nobody’s Interest  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries said in
its monthly report today that there may be a “contra-seasonal”
drop in global oil stockpiles over the next three months as a
result of turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa.  Mideast unrest led to the resignation of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  on Feb. 11 after weeks of protests, and  Libya  shut
in crude exports as it fell into a civil war.  Shipments from Libya are “well below” 500,000 barrels a
day, according to the IEA. That represents about a third of the
oil the North African nation produced on average in January and
February, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Exports may have dropped to as little as 300,000 barrels a
day, Al Arabiya television reported, citing Shokri Ghanem,
chairman of Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News were split over the
direction of crude  oil prices  next week amid spreading unrest in
the Middle East and signs that the global economic rebound is
slowing.  Fifteen of 36 analysts, or 42 percent, forecast crude will
advance through March 18. Fifteen predicted futures will
decline. Six said there will be little change.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 660,986
contracts as of 3:44 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 929,247
contracts yesterday, 16 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was a record 1.6 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 