-- 
Flights Resume at Tokyo's Narita Airport After Earthquake Strands 13,800

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-03-11T13:33:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/tokyo-narita-airport-cancels-all-flights-today-after-quake.html
Tokyo’s Narita International
Airport, Japan’s main overseas gateway, said nine flights would
leave today as carriers begin clearing a backlog of about 13,800
travelers stranded by delays following an earthquake.  No planes will land at the airport, Shohei Kagawa, a
spokesman, said by telephone. It has yet been decided what
services will operate tomorrow, he said. There was no visible
damage to runways, Ryoko Yabe, a spokeswoman, said earlier.  Tokyo’s Haneda airport,  Asia ’s second-busiest by passengers,
resumed flights after an initial shutdown following the 2:46 p.m.
earthquake, the nation’s biggest in at least a century. Japan
Airlines Corp. and All Nippon Airways Co. canceled at least 292
flights nationwide, affecting more than 60,000 travelers,
following the magnitude 8.9 quake, which also forced the
suspension of Tokyo subway and bullet-train services.  “It is likely that flights to Japan may continue to be
affected in the coming days,” Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement. The carrier advised
passengers to check its website before traveling.  China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s largest carrier,
canceled four Tokyo flights for tomorrow and halted ticket sales
for services on March 13, it said in an e-mailed statement.  British Airways canceled its Narita and Haneda flights
today and the return legs tomorrow, Cathy West, a spokeswoman,
said by phone.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group diverted a flight to  Osaka 
and delayed takeoff for another in Paris by four and half hours,
it said by e-mail.    Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s Jetstar budget unit diverted two
Tokyo-bound flights to  Guam  and  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) 
sent one to Taipei.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  