-- 
Thousands of Tokyo Commuters Stranded as Quake Shuts Down Train Services

-- B y   A k i   I t o ,   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-03-11T13:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/tokyo-subway-bullet-trains-halted-after-quake-commuters-queue-for-taxis.html
Yuri Hamada sat in the foyer of an
office building across from Tokyo station, staring at televised
pictures of the damage from Japan’s worst earthquake in a
century. After being shaken so hard she had to cling to a wall
to keep from falling during the quake, she now had to figure out
how to get home.  “I’m totally stranded,” said Hamada, whose house in the
mountains west of Tokyo is 45 minutes away by rail. “I guess
I’ll have to spend the night here if the trains don’t start
running. I can’t walk home.”  Tokyo’s  subway system , the world’s busiest with about 8
million riders a day, shut down, leaving commuters to wait hours
for taxis or search for somewhere to spend the night. Commuter
trains serving the city and suburbs were also halted. The 8.9
magnitude quake struck at 2:46 p.m., before the evening rush
hour.  Office workers stood in lines for taxis at the city’s
central railway station while buses picked up passengers who
stood in a 100-meter queue. Some people started to walk.  “I want to get home before it gets dark, but look at this
line,” said Kazuko Kubo, 72, gesturing at a crowd stretching
around a block in the city’s Otemachi central business district.
“I can’t get a hold of my family. I hope they’re okay.”  Air Travelers  Tokyo Metro Co. restarted the Ginza line at 8:40 p.m. while
the Hanzomon line had partial service.  East Japan Railway Co. (9020) ,
the nation’s largest train operator, stopped all Tokyo-area
commuter services and its Joetsu, Tohoku and Nagano bullet-train
operations.  Checks of the city’s largest subway system revealed no
casualties as of 8:30 p.m., Tokyo Metro said. The company was
conducting “walk-through” checks in the halted system’s
tunnels, according to the statement.  Air travelers were also stuck. About 13,800 passengers were
stranded at Tokyo’s Narita Airport, Japan’s main international
gateway, during a shutdown. Nine flights were due to leave late
at night, after the airport initially said that no services
would operate. Travelers were being given water and food, Ryoko
Yabe, a spokeswoman, said by phone.  There was no visible damage to runways, she said. Tokyo’s
Haneda airport,  Asia ’s second-busiest by passengers, resumed
flights, the transport ministry said.  Flight Cancelations  Japan Airlines Corp. and All Nippon Airways Co., the
country’s two biggest carriers, canceled at least 292 flights
nationwide between, affecting more than 60,000 travelers, based
on faxed statements.  Hotels were not an option as travelers who had been
scheduled to leave returned and empty rooms disappeared. Hotels
in central Tokyo including Conrad Tokyo, New Otani and Four
Seasons were all fully booked.  “I might go to my relatives for the night, but that’s also
far away,” said Junko Kitou, 41, a part-time computer
instructor, who lives in a suburb 45 minutes by train from
central Tokyo. “I’m just going to wait around for a little
longer to see if the trains start running.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;  Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  