-- 
Tsunami Slams Japan After Record Earthquake, Hundreds Dead

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k
-- 
2011-03-11T21:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/tokyo-buildings-shaken-by-7-9-earthquake-highest-tsunami-warning-issued.html
Japan was struck by its strongest
 earthquake  on record, an 8.9-magnitude temblor that shook
buildings across Tokyo and unleashed a seven-meter-high tsunami
that killed hundreds and engulfed towns on the northern coast.  Hundreds more were reported missing after waves as high as
23 feet swept ashore, according to state broadcaster NHK. Flood
waters washed away buildings and vehicles, airports were shut,
bullet train service was suspended, and an emergency evacuation
order was issued for a nuclear power plant north of Tokyo.  More than a dozen aftershocks greater than magnitude 6 have
rocked the region, Dave Applegate, a senior adviser at the  U.S.
Geological Survey , told reporters on a conference call.  “They will continue for not just days, weeks but months
and potentially years,” Applegate said.  He said the energy released by the temblor was 30 times
that of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, and it was the
biggest quake within the boundaries of the North American and
Pacific tectonic plates in more than a thousand years.  “The only evidence we have is from monastic records going
back to AD 869 -- 1,200 years ago -- of an earthquake of this
magnitude” in the region, he said.  ‘Catastrophic Disaster’  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  appealed to his people to
“act calmly,” in a nationally televised address after
convening an emergency response team.  Kan said he is taking all possible action to deal with the
aftermath of yesterday’s 8.9-magnitude earthquake. He made the
comment to reporters as he departed to view the quake-hit area
by helicopter. He will also visit a nuclear power plant in the
area, where residents had been evacuated.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , saying he was “heartbroken”
over what he called “a potentially catastrophic disaster,”
called Kan and offered “whatever assistance is needed.”  The  Philippines , Indonesia and  Chile  were among more than
20 nations that braced for a possible tsunami. Taiwan roads
later opened and the Philippines and Indonesia reported no
unusual waves.  Tsunami waves began reaching the western U.S. coast as
communities from southern Oregon to  Los Angeles  prepared for
swells and rough seas. The U.S. Coast Guard said it was
searching for a person swept out to sea in northern  California 
as waves prompted evacuations of some coastal areas.  “Our harbor has been destroyed,” said Scott Feller, a
harbor commissioner in Crescent City, a logging and fishing town
of about 7,600. “We have 35 boats that have been crushed or
stacked up on each other that didn’t leave the harbor. Our dock
has been destroyed.”  Still, the tsunami’s effect would be blunted in the U.S. as
it hit at the lowest tide point of the day, the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration said earlier.  Evacuations in Japan  It was the world’s strongest earthquake since a December
2004 temblor in  Indonesia  that left about 220,000 people dead or
missing in 12 countries around the  Indian Ocean . The earthquake
struck at 2:46 p.m. local time yesterday 130 kilometers (81
miles) off the coast of Sendai, north of Tokyo, at a depth of 24
kilometers, the U.S. Geological Survey said. It was followed by
a 7.1-magnitude aftershock at 4:25 p.m.  An evacuation order was issued to residents living within 3
kilometers of a reactor at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co., said Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano. An emergency order was issued earlier,
the first of its kind.  “One of the reactors can no longer be cooled,” Edano told
reporters. “Therefore, we’ve decided to request an evacuation
just in case there’s an emergency.”  Eleven units of Tokyo Electric’s six thermal-power plants
were shut, while 22 hydro plants were halted, the company said
in a statement. About 3 million homes serviced by Tokyo Electric
were without electricity, it said.  Oil Falls  Oil slumped 1.5 percent to $101.16 a barrel at 3:09 p.m. in
New York and earlier fell 3.6 percent to $99.01 for its biggest
drop since November. The MSCI World Index, a gauge of stocks in
developed markets including Japan, erased a loss of as much as
0.5 percent while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.9
percent to 1,306.49.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average tumbled 1.7 percent, led
by insurers, as the earthquake struck less than half an hour
before the market closed. The yen strengthened 1.3 percent
against the dollar.  Japan has mobilized 8,000 troops and 300 planes and has
asked the U.S. military personnel stationed in the country to
aid victims, Edano said. Tsunami warnings will continue for more
than another day, he said.  Seeking U.S. Help  “We’ve asked for help from the U.S. military stationed in
Japan,” Edano told reporters in Tokyo. Options being considered
include allowing firefighting helicopters to land on the USS  Ronald Reagan , an  aircraft carrier , for refueling and
transporting medical supplies, he said.  Navy spokesman Lieutenant Commander Justin Cole said
various vessels in the U.S. fleet are being repositioned to
eastern Japan to assist, if needed.  Obama said at a press conference Friday at the White House
that there has been no sign of radiation leaks from Japan’s
nuclear power plants and that he has directed Energy Secretary
Steven Chu to provide whatever aid Japan needs.  “Obviously, you’ve got to take all potential
precautions,” Obama said.  The U.S.  Air Force  is helping deliver coolant to a damaged
Japanese plant, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  In the space of an hour, tsunami waves swept inland,
buffeting Japan’s coast from Erimo in the northern island of
Hokkaido to Oarai, Fukushima, about 670 kilometers to the south,
according to the  Japan Meteorological Agency . The waves reached
as far as 20 kilometers inland, NHK reported.  Boats Smashed  Boats smashed into walls as the tsunami struck, inundating
buildings and flyovers with black water full of debris across
stretches of coast north of Tokyo, NHK images showed. Hundreds
of cars were washed around like toys and one large building was
lifted off its foundations and dragged into the ocean.  Farmland was flooded with burning debris in some other
areas as the tidal surge swept inland. Large boats were left
stranded after the water surged back to sea.  A fire at Cosmo Oil Co.’s refinery in Chiba, outside Tokyo,
was spreading, a Fire Department spokesman said. JX Nippon Oil &
Energy Corp. shut refineries in Sendai, Kashima and Negishi.  Toru Yoshihashi, 48, was in Ginza, one of Tokyo’s upscale
shopping areas, when the earthquake struck. “The ground
suddenly started shaking,” he said. “I stayed outside and
watched all these tall buildings sway. I’ve never seen anything
like this before.”  ‘Holding On’  At Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. in the capital, strategist  Ayako Sera  said “traders kept working through the quake” and
were “grabbing the edges of our desks and holding on.”  Tokyo’s streets filled with traffic and pedestrians trying
to get home after train services were closed. Government
buildings are being opened for people to take shelter in the
capital after officials urged residents not to try to walk home.  Tokyo’s subway system, the world’s busiest with about 8
million riders a day, shut down, leaving commuters to wait hours
for taxis or search for somewhere to spend the night. Commuter
trains serving the city and suburbs were also halted.  Office workers stood in lines for taxis at the city’s
central railway station while buses picked up passengers who
stood in a 100-meter queue.    East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , the nation’s largest train
operator, stopped all Tokyo-area commuter services and its
Joetsu, Tohoku and Nagano bullet-train operations.  ‘Rigorous’ Building Code  “Japan has a rigorous earthquake building code and
excellent tsunami warning system and evacuation plans -- this
event will likely provide a severe test for all of them,”  James
Goff , co-director of the Australian Tsunami Research Centre and
Natural Hazards Research Lab at the University of New South
Wales, said in an e-mailed statement.  Tokyo’s Narita Airport, Japan’s main international gateway,
restarted some flights after stopping services earlier. About
13,800 passengers had been stranded, Ryoko Yabe, a spokeswoman
for the airport, said by phone. The airport gave the travelers
water and food, she said.  There was no visible damage to runways, she said. Tokyo’s
Haneda airport,  Asia ’s second-busiest by passengers, resumed
flights, the transport ministry said.  All Nippon Airways Co., Japan’s largest listed carrier, has
canceled 131 flights, affecting 32,700 passengers, and diverted
another 24, it said in a faxed statement. Japan Airlines Corp.
said at least 27 flights were affected.  ‘Ring of Fire’  Like Indonesia, Japan lies on the so-called “Ring of
Fire,” an arc of volcanoes and fault lines surrounding the
Pacific Basin. A 6.9-magnitude earthquake in Kobe, western
Japan, killed more than 6,000 people in 1995, while the 7.9-
magnitude Great Kanto Quake of 1923 destroyed 576,262 structures
and killed an estimated 140,000.  The Japan Meteorological Agency told people to avoid
coastal areas and evacuate to higher ground because of possible
aftershocks, according to an official at a press conference in
Tokyo shown on NHK.  The airport in Sendai, a city of 1 million people 310
kilometers north of Tokyo, was flooded by the tsunami, according
to NHK footage.  The  Bank of Japan , the central bank, set up an emergency
task force and said it will do everything it can to provide
ample liquidity. The BOJ, which has already cut its benchmark
rate to zero in an effort to end deflation, had last month said
the economy was poised to recover from a contraction in the
fourth quarter.  The Ministry of Finance said it was too soon to gauge the
economic impact of the temblor.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the UN
“stands by the people of Japan and we will do anything and
everything we can” to help.  “The world is shocked and saddened by the images coming
from Japan this morning,” Ban told reporters Friday in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 Sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 