-- 
Hong Kong’s CLP to Triple Renewable Energy Capacity in India

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-03-11T10:23:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/hong-kong-s-clp-to-triple-renewable-energy-capacity-in-india-in-3-years.html
The Indian unit of  CLP Holdings
Ltd. (2) , Hong Kong’s biggest power supplier, plans to more than
triple its renewable-energy capacity in the next three to five
years in the South Asian nation, using mostly wind parks.  CLP Power  India  Pvt. will spend as much as 12 billion
rupees ($265 million) to add wind and solar parks in India, said
Mahesh Makhija, the company’s director of business development
for renewable energy. CLP Power India aims to expand its 650
megawatts of capacity to 2,000 megawatts by 2016.  “The renewable energy market is quite robust, growing
overall at 30 to 40 percent,” Makhija said.    Asia ’s third-largest economy is seeking more non-polluting
domestic energy sources to reduce its dependence on foreign
suppliers and cut carbon emissions. The country imports more
than 75 percent of its crude oil and burns polluting coal to
generate more than half of its power.  The company is in discussions for as much as 200 megawatts
of wind orders with four equipment manufacturers to be developed
this year. Suppliers could include Vestas Wind Systems A/S and
Enercon GmbH of  Germany , Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA from Spain
and Kenersys India Pvt Ltd. Projects are being planned in the
Indian states of Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra, Makhija
said.  CLP India plans to build two wind farms to generate about
150 megawatts in the states of  Andhra Pradesh  and Rajasthan,
Rajiv Mishra, managing director of CLP Power India, said in an
interview in Mumbai on March 7.  “We’re focused on wind for now as it’s an established
technology; we will consider solar once the government meets
international markets standards of 50 megawatt-to-100 megawatt
projects,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  