-- 
Hong Kong Residential Property Prices Rise to 13-Year High, Centaline Says

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-03-11T08:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/hong-kong-residential-property-prices-rise-to-13-year-high-centaline-says.html
  Hong Kong   home prices  rose to a 13-
year high in the week ended March 6, raising concerns that
government efforts to curb real estate speculation are not being
effective.  The Centa-City Leading Index, an index compiled by the
city’s biggest closely held realtor, rose 1.7 percent during the
week to the highest since October 1997, Centaline Property
Agency Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement today. The index has
risen for five straight weeks, Centaline said.  Hong Kong’s government in November intensified a yearlong
battle to curb housing prices by imposing additional property
transaction taxes and pledging to increase land supply for
medium and small housing units. Home prices have gained about 65
percent in the past two years, fuelled by an economic recovery,
record low mortgage rates and an influx of buyers from  China .  “It just shows that any government intervention would be
ineffective in the face of strong demand,” James Cheung, a
surveyor at Centaline, said in a phone interview. “With the way
the economy has been growing there are many people looking to
upgrade to bigger apartments. There is just not enough supply in
the market to meet this demand.”  The number of home sales in Hong Kong surged 30 percent in
February from the previous month, according to data from the
city’s  Land Registry  on March 2. The 10,390 sales and purchase
agreements registered fetched a combined HK$45.6 billion ($5.9
billion), a 37 percent jump from January and 12 percent more
than a year ago, it said.  More Units  The city’s government may auction as many as 52 plots of
land this year, Hong Kong Financial Secretary John Tsang said in
his Feb. 23 budget speech. The land will provide for 16,000
units, an almost 80 percent increase from last year.  The city is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home,
because of a supply shortage, according to a study released by
London-based Savills Plc in January.  Hong Kong’s home market fundamentals are “positive,”
Thomas Kwok, vice-chairman of  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
city’s biggest developer by value, said at a press conference on
Feb. 28.  Home prices in the city fell more than 50 percent after
peaking in 1997 as the city slid into a recession following the
Asian financial crisis.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks seven developers
in the city, declined 2.1 percent at the 4 p.m. local time close
of trading, extending this year’s drop to 3.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  