-- 
House Republicans Propose Three-Week Stopgap Budget Amid Spending Impasse

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-03-11T21:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/house-republicans-to-offer-new-stopgap-budget-plan-as-standoff-continues.html
House Republicans proposed a
stopgap budget measure to fund the government until April 8
while lawmakers try to work out their differences on spending
for the rest of the fiscal year.  The bill would cut about $6 billion in spending, in part by
ending or reducing funds for 25 programs. Most of those changes
have been endorsed by President  Barack Obama  or Senate
Democrats. About $2.6 billion of the reduction would be made by
rescinding unspent funds for lawmakers’ pet projects.  “While short-term funding measures are not the preferable
way to fund the government, we must maintain critical programs
and services for the American people until Congress comes to a
final, long-term agreement,” said House Appropriations
Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican. “A
government shutdown is not an option.”  The bill, to be put to a vote next week, would replace the
current funding measure that expires March 18. It would be the
sixth stopgap measure since the fiscal year began Oct. 1. By
cutting $2 billion per week, it would keep Republicans on track
to cut $61 billion this year.  Democrats and Republicans remain far apart on how to fund
the government through September. Lawmakers are arguing over
which side should make the next move after a House-approved plan
to cut $61 billion and a Democratic alternative were defeated
this week in the Senate.  Democrats said it’s up to  House Republicans  to show
flexibility after the Senate made clear their plan wasn’t viable
in that chamber.  “We’re looking for a counteroffer,” Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the second-ranking Democrat, said today.  ‘Prepared to Move?’  “Are you prepared to move?” Hoyer asked Majority Leader
Eric Cantor on the House floor. “I’m asking you and I can’t get
an answer and you apparently are not going to make a
counteroffer.”  Cantor said it’s up to Senate Democrats to produce a
budget-cutting plan that can clear the chamber that could
provide the basis of negotiations with the House.  “There is really no offer on the table that is valid
because it can’t pass the Senate,” said Cantor of  Virginia .
“What is the Democratic Senate’s offer?”  Obama today urged lawmakers to work out a deal, saying the
public expects them to “stop with the political bickering.” He
said, “We can’t keep on running the government on two-week
extensions. That’s irresponsible.”  “The notion that we can’t get resolved last year’s budget
in a sensible way with serious but prudent spending cuts, I
think, defies common sense,” Obama said. “It shouldn’t be that
complicated.”  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, said he will
attempt to amend the new short-term proposal to fund the
Pentagon for the rest of the year.  “We can’t subject our nation’s national security to a two
week-by-two week process,” McCain said. “It is not the way the
Defense Department can function and this nation can defend
itself and its vital security interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  