-- 
Sony, Toyota Halt Plants as Quake Damages Japanese Factories

-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 
2011-03-11T10:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/toyota-other-japanese-companies-assessing-damage-from-miyagi-earthquake.html
Companies including  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  halted output at plants after an 8.9-
magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of  Japan , damaging
production facilities and causing power outages.  Sony halted and evacuated six factories in northeastern
Japan, said Yasuhiro Okada, a spokesman at the Tokyo-based
company. He said the company was assessing the impact of power
outages and damage to its facilities in the region, which make
Blu-ray discs, magnetic heads and batteries.  The  quake , Japan’s strongest in at least a century, struck
at 2:46 p.m. local time 130 kilometers (81 miles) off the coast
of Sendai, north of Tokyo, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said. The
tremor caused a tsunami as high as 10 meters (33 feet) that
inundated northern towns and caused buildings to shake violently
as far away as  Tokyo . At least 26 people were killed by the wave
and many were missing, state broadcaster NHK Television said.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, and its affiliates
closed three factories, said  Shiori Hashimoto , a spokeswoman in
Tokyo. The Toyota City-based carmaker began production at a new
plant in Miyagi this year that makes Yaris compact cars and has
capacity to make 120,000 vehicles a year.  Honda, Nissan  Honda Motor Co. closed two factories, said Hajime Kaneko, a
spokesman for the Tokyo-based carmaker. A 42-year-old male
employee was crushed to death by a collapsing wall at a research
and development center in Tochigi prefecture and about 30 other
employees were injured, Kaneko said.  Nissan Motor Co. closed four factories including car plants
in Tochigi and Kanagawa and engine factories in Kanagawa and
Fukushima,  Mitsuru Yonekawa , a spokesman for the Yokohama-based
company, said by phone. Two workers suffered minor injuries, he
said.  A refinery on fire outside Tokyo exploded, while nuclear
power stations were shut down. Narita airport, Tokyo’s main
international gateway, was closed and bullet-train services
suspended. More than 4 million homes were without power, Tokyo
Electric Power Co. said.  Toyota shares traded in  Frankfurt  fell as much as 3.8
percent, the biggest intraday decline since Jan. 21, to 30.45
euros as of 10:15 a.m. local time. Honda dropped as much as 4.5
percent and Sony slid as much as 2.5 percent in the German city.  Fuji Heavy    Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) , the maker of Subaru cars,
closed five factories, said Kenta Matsumoto, a spokesman for the
Tokyo-based company.    Toyota Boshoku Corp. (3116) , a Toyota Motor supplier, reported
damage at a plant in Miyagi. Roads were also cracked near its
factory, said Misako Nagata, a spokeswoman for the parts maker.  Denso Corp. (6902) , Japan’s biggest auto-parts maker, said a plant
under construction south of Miyagi was damaged. All of its
workers were safe, said Goro Kanemasu, a spokesman for the
company.    Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501) , Japan’s fourth-biggest beermaker,
suspended operations at factories in Sendai and Chiba due to
power outages and damage, Katsuhito Ogawa, a spokesman for the
Tokyo-based company, said by e-mail.  Oriental Land Co., the operator of Tokyo Disney Resort,
will close the amusement park tomorrow to inspect facilities,
the company said in a statement today. It hasn’t yet decided
whether to open the resort on March 13. No injuries were
reported at the resort, the company said.  Panasonic, Canon    Panasonic Corp. (6752)  said several employees at its three
factories in Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures sustained minor
injuries. The Osaka-based company is still assessing the damage
to facilities, Yuichi Takatoku, a Tokyo-based spokesman for the
company, said by phone.    Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s biggest camera maker, didn’t suffer
damage to plants that would halt output, said Hirotomo Fujimori,
a spokesman in Tokyo, where the company is based.  The quake was followed by a 7.1-magnitude aftershock at
4:25 p.m., the U.S. Geological Service said.  Boats smashed into walls as the tsunami struck, inundating
buildings with black water full of debris across stretches of
coast north of Tokyo, NHK images showed. One large building was
lifted off its foundations and dragged into the ocean.  Farmland was flooded with burning debris in some areas as
the tidal surge swept inland. Large boats were left stranded
after the water surged back to sea.  Airport Flooded  The airport in Sendai, a city of 1 million people 310
kilometers north of Tokyo, was flooded by the tsunami, according
to NHK footage.  Japan Airlines Corp. diverted 22 flights to other airports,
the company said in a faxed statement. In total, 27 flights have
been impacted by the quake, affecting 5,290 people, the
statement said.    East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , the nation’s largest train operator,
suspended operations of trains in the Tokyo area along with its
bullet-train operations, according to its website. Tokyo Metro
Co., the capital’s largest subway operator, said on its website
it stopped trains, forcing commuters to line up for taxis.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  ordered the army to aid rescue
efforts after the quake, which struck 373 kilometers northeast
of Tokyo.  The following is a summary of what companies have said regarding
damage from the earthquake:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 Tlangeland1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson in Tokyo at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  