-- 
PBS Skips Sheen Antics for Abuse in Guatemala, Swipe Fees: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-03-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/pbs-skips-sheen-antics-for-abuse-in-guatemala-swipe-fees-tv.html
“ PBS NewsHour ” didn’t inform its
viewers this week that  Charlie Sheen  labeled his former “Two
and a Half Men” co-star Jon Cryer a troll. The newscast did,
however, devote 10 minutes -- the airtime equivalent of several
dog years -- to a discussion of swipe fees.  If you’re thinking “I’ll take Charlie, thanks,” my
response on some days might be “Me, too.” But swipe fees --
the 44 cents invisibly tacked on to each of our debit-card
transactions --will add up to almost $20 billion this year.
“NewsHour” thought we should know.  PBS, like its radio equivalent NPR, is once again under
attack from conservatives in Congress. House Republicans
recently passed a bill cutting all funding for public
broadcasting, while President  Barack Obama  has proposed a $6
million increase to $451 million in his 2012 budget. The Senate
likely will land somewhere in between.  But at an annual cost to each taxpayer of about $1.35,
money isn’t the big issue here. Both PBS and NPR have
reputations as bastions of urbane, smart liberality, cemented in
place by classical music, British costume dramas and the
occasional ginned-up political scandal.  Not everyone is a fan, though. This week, NPR’s chief
executive resigned after the organization’s top fundraiser
blasted Tea Party followers in a secretly recorded video. It was
the second major embarrassment for NPR in the past five months,
following the firing of news analyst Juan Williams for remarks
he made about Muslims on Fox News.  Big Bird  Even PBS’s highly regarded kids’ series aren’t immune from
attack. Big Bird and Elmo, foes claim, are money-making
characters that would survive just fine without the public
housing of “ Sesame Street .” But a quick surf through the
brainless, commercial-laden landscape of most children’s
programming suggests just how unfriendly the terrain can be for
such gentle creatures. Nickelodeon’s Samurai Power Rangers would
eat them alive.  As for charges of liberal partisanship (and as a TV critic,
I’ll limit my comments to PBS), you’ll look in vain for anything
approaching the one-sided name-calling permeating even the tamer
of today’s cable news shoutcasts.  “NewsHour,” PBS’s take-your-medicine presentation of the
day’s events, is level-headed and no-nonsense, just the sort of
old-school approach to news so many viewers claim to want. Fun,
“NewsHour” isn’t.  Abused Women  But it’s as close to indispensable as any one TV newscast
can be in the Internet era. The deliberately paced, hourlong
format, free of commercial interruptions, is long enough to
include all of the day’s must-cover headlines as well as more
in-depth segments that demand and reward full attention.  “NewsHour” headline reports this week on the political
turmoil in  Libya  were not dissimilar to coverage on the
broadcast networks. But deeper into the program, on Monday and
Tuesday, “NewsHour” marked International Women’s Day with
lengthy reports by correspondent Ray Suarez about  gang violence 
against women and girls in  Guatemala . It was thoroughly
reported, important and very grim stuff.  On Monday night, ABC’s “World News with  Diane Sawyer ”
also included a segment on women’s health: treating menopausal
hot flashes with acupuncture.  Obviously I’m cherry-picking, but in the commercial
marketplace of TV news, the drive for attractive demographics
and big ratings leaves no room for expansive reports on subjects
like swipe fees and misogyny in Guatemala. Even in tough
economic times, that’s an argument worth remembering.  ‘Triangle Fire’  Outside of the “NewsHour” domain, PBS’s prime-time
schedule this week included two terrific documentaries:
“ Troubadours ” about the singer-songwriter movement in  Los
Angeles  in the early 1970s; and “ Me Facing Life: Cyntoia’s
Story ,” an unnerving chronicle of the murder trial and
conviction of a 16-year-old prostitute.  Even better was “ Triangle Fire ,” about the shirtwaist
factory blaze of 1911, an engrossing example of the historical
documentaries PBS does better, or at least more consistently
fine, than any TV channel.  Later this month,  HBO  will air “Triangle: Remembering the
Fire.” Available to subscribers only, of course.    Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 