-- 
Tsunami Fades in Asia as Hawaii, U.S. West Coast Remain on Alert

-- B y   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T11:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/philippines-indonesia-hawaii-placed-on-tsunami-alert-after-japan-quake.html
Taiwan roads reopened and guests at
a  Philippines resort  reported no unusual waves after Japan’s
strongest earthquake in at least a century triggered tsunami
warnings across the Pacific, including the U.S. west coast.  Sirens sounded in Hawaii and low-lying areas were evacuated
after the  Pacific Tsunami Warning Center  raised an alert
following the 8.9-magnitude temblor off Japan’s northeast, the  Associated Press  reported. The West Coast and Alaska Tsunami
Warning Center extended the warning to the U.S. west seaboard.  The  Philippines , Indonesia and  Chile  were among more than
20 countries that were told to brace for a possible tsunami
after Japan’s coast was engulfed by water. At least 26 people
were killed by waves as high as 7 meters (23 feet) and many more
are missing, according state broadcaster NHK Television.  Taiwan’s Central Weather Bureau ended its tsunami alert
around 7 p.m. local time, saying there’s no imminent danger. The
waves that landed on the island from 5.47 p.m. to 6.10 p.m. were
between 8 centimeters and 12 centimeters high, the bureau said.
The main island of  Taiwan  isn’t in a direct line to the
epicenter of the quake.  The temblor struck at 2:46 p.m. local time 130 kilometers
(81 miles) off the coast of Sendai, north of Tokyo, at a depth
of 24 kilometers, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said. It was
followed by a 7.1-magnitude aftershock at 4:25 p.m., the agency
said. The quake was the fifth-biggest since 1900, according to
USGS  data  on its website.  Wave Surge  Waves traveling as fast as 800 kilometers an hour radiated
from the epicenter, sparking warnings in countries lying in
their path. A  9.1 magnitude temblor  off North Sumatra in
Indonesia in December 2004 left about 220,000 people dead or
missing in 12 countries around the  Indian Ocean .  In the Philippines, residents living in coastal areas in 19
provinces were advised to seek higher ground. Waves were
expected to hit Philippine shores between 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m.
local time, the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Council said in a bulletin.  At the Misibis Bay luxury resort in the Philippines there
were no signs of large waves at 6:30 p.m., according to two
Bloomberg News journalists staying there. Staff had briefed
guests, who remain on alert, they said.  Evacuations earlier began in the provinces of Surigao and
Eastern Samar, police officials said.  Corn, Rice Harvests  The provinces put on alert include some of the nation’s
biggest corn and rice producing areas such as Cagayan, Isabela
and Aurora. Harvesting of the first rice crop in the world’s
biggest buyer of the grain will peak between this month and May.  The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center also issued warnings for
Indonesia,  Russia ,  New Zealand  and  Australia , as well as
countries down the west coast of Central and Latin America as
far as Chile and Antarctica. Lack of adequate warnings after the
2004 Indonesia quake were blamed for many of the deaths.  Chile’s government said it is not ruling out evacuating
Easter Island, located 3,500 kilometers (2,100 miles) off the
Chilean coast, where waves generated by the quake may arrive at
about 6 p.m. New York time.  A tsunami warning is in effect in Indonesia for the
provinces of Papua, northern Sulawesi and Maluku, the country’s
Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency said in an e-
mailed statement. Affected areas are “expected to pay attention
to this warning and immediately guide their communities for
evacuation,” the statement said.  The waves may reach parts of eastern  Indonesia  at 8:35 p.m.
local time -- about 6:35 p.m. in Jakarta, the agency said in a
mobile-phone text message. The tsunami may reach different areas
at different times, and the first wave may not be the strongest.  BP Monitoring  BP Plc said it is “closely monitoring” its operations in
Papua. “So far Tangguh LNG is operating as normal, but we are
closely monitoring the situation and readying our resources for
any eventuality,” William Lin, president of BP Asia Pacific
Exploration & Production, said in an e-mailed statement.  Taiwan’s eastern counties of Taitung, Yilan, Hualien and
north eastern Keelung city had earlier shut schools and
businesses after the Central Weather Bureau issued a tsunami
alert, the Central Personnel Administration said in statements
on its website.  Waves may reach  Hawaii  by 12:59 p.m. GMT, the Pacific
center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Richardson in  Hong Kong  at 
 Brichardson8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  