-- 
Portugal’s Five-Year Yield Jumps to Euro-Era Record on Bailout Speculation

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-03-11T17:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/portugal-5-year-yield-rises-to-a-euro-era-record-after-santos-comments.html
The yield on Portuguese five-year
debt reached a euro-era record amid speculation the nation may
be nearing a request for financial aid. Bunds rose for a third
day as stocks fell after an earthquake struck northern Japan.  Ten-year Portuguese bonds fell for a fifth day. When asked
whether his country was preparing to request a bailout, Finance
Minister Fernando Teixeira  Dos Santos  said European leaders must
understand the “seriousness” of the region’s debt crisis. He
made the remarks at a press conference in Lisbon before a
European summit later today. Spanish and Italian bonds jumped,
while Irish and Greek securities fell.  The minister’s comments “might indicate that financial
support for Portugal will be discussed at the weekend,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in
Dusseldorf,  Germany . “Yields show that the market is concerned,
and is waiting for something,” he said.  The yield on the Portuguese five-year bond rose 22 basis
points to 7.99 percent as of 4:45 p.m. in London, the most since
at least 1997 when Bloomberg began collecting the data. The 6.4
percent securities maturing in February 2016 dropped 0.83, or
8.30 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,386) face amount, to 93.725. The
yield premium for the securities over similar-maturity German
debt widened to a record 546 basis points, or 5.46 percentage
points.  The 10-year yield was 10 basis points higher at 7.74
percent. Credit-default swaps on Portuguese government debt rose
14 basis points to 520, the highest since Jan. 11, according to
CMA. Contracts on  Greece  rose 8 basis points to a record 1,048.  Leaders Meeting  EU leaders gather today in Brussels, aiming to agree on a
blueprint to improve competitiveness, a plan Germany demanded as
a condition for expanding the bailout effort. Investors will
also be looking for signs that differences over how to solve the
debt crisis are narrowing ahead of a second meeting on March 24-
25 that German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has said will produce a
comprehensive package of measures.  “We’re going to wait for this meeting to take place,” Dos
Santos said after announcing additional budget-cutting measures
equivalent to 0.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 and
2.5 percent next year. “I hope the European leaders understand
the seriousness of the situation we’re facing.”    Portugal  may be moving closer to seeking a bailout, Fabio Scacciavillani, chief economist of Oman Investment Fund, said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions, citing the
nation’s “deteriorating” debt position.  Market Access  “Portugal is a clear case of a country that’s going to
lose market access,”  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who
predicted the global financial crisis, told Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” in London today. “There is
not going to be a comprehensive plan that resolves the problems
of the peripherals of the euro zone” after the EU leaders’
meeting, he said.  Greek 10-year yields rose six basis points to 12.81 percent
and similar-maturity Irish yields jumped 14 basis points to 9.65
percent. The nations both accepted rescues from the EU and
International Monetary Fund last year.  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  rebuffed conditions set out
by Merkel for easing bailout terms, rejecting proposals for a
common  corporation tax  across the euro area. Greek Prime
Minister George Papandreou today called for “strong decisions,
to calm the markets.”  Spanish Bonds Rise  Spanish and Italian bonds rose as investors bet assistance
for Portugal would reduce debt-crisis “contagion” to other
nations, according to WestLB’s Leister.  The 10-year yield on Spanish bonds fell eight basis points
to 5.43 percent and similar-maturity Italian yields fell 11
basis points to 4.87 percent. Italy sold 1.98 billion euros of
bonds maturing in March 2026 and 2.81 billion euros of 2015
securities today.  The yield on the benchmark German bund was four basis
points lower at 3.21 percent as stocks fell in  Asia  and  Europe 
after an 8.9 magnitude earthquake rocked buildings in Japan’s
financial center and a tsunami as high as 10 meters was reported
in northern Japan, boosting demand for  government bonds . Euribor
futures rose, sending the yield on the contract due in December
down six basis points to 2.045 percent as investors cut bets for
higher  interest rates .  Saudi Protests  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares declined as much as
1.8 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost as much as
1.1 percent.  As violence escalates in  Libya , protests are scheduled
today in  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s largest oil
reserves.  Security forces broke up a protest yesterday in Qatif,
Saudi Arabia. Police fired above the crowd of 120-150 people to
end the rally after a policeman taking video to document the
event was attacked, Major General Mansour al-Turki, an interior
ministry spokesman, said in an interview. Three people were
injured, two protesters and one policeman, he said.  “There are safe-haven flows because of the Japanese
earthquake, the crisis in North Africa and uncertainties about
the debt crisis,” said Birgit Figge, a bond strategist at DZ
Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “There are a lot of uncertainties in the
market and that’s driven bunds higher.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  