-- 
Portugal Fails to Assuage Bailout Concern With Increased Spending Measures

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-11T14:03:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/portugal-fails-to-assuage-bailout-concern-with-increased-spending-measures.html
  Portugal ’s announcement of
additional budget-cutting measures failed to ease investor
concerns on whether the country will be able to avoid following
Greece and Ireland in seeking a bailout.  Portugal’s 5-year bond slumped, with the yield jumping 15
basis points to 7.92 percent, more than the 7.58 percent yield
on its 10-year debt, which fell for a fifth day. The declines
accelerated after Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos
said European Union leaders must understand the “seriousness”
of the crisis when asked whether the country would seek external
aid as a presentation of the budget measures in Lisbon.  “There were some rumors Portugal would ask for a bailout
and also talk of Greek restructuring,” said  Chiara Cremonesi ,
strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in  London . “The fact that the
government comes out with some extra measures doesn’t change the
outlook drastically.”  EU leaders are meeting in Brussels today to seek to bolster
the region’s temporary bailout fund and forge a permanent
mechanism to try and convince investors that governments can
defend the euro and insure its most debt-strapped members have
access to financing. The efforts aim to stop a worsening of the
region’s debt crisis and lower borrowing costs enough for
Portugal and  Spain  to avoid having to seek emergency aid.  “Greece and Ireland have already lost market access,”  Nouriel Roubini , founder of Roubini Global Economics, told
Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” in London
today. “Portugal is a clear case of a country that’s going to
lose  market access .”  Default Risks  The premium investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese
bonds over equivalent German debt rose 13 basis points to 439
basis points. The cost of insuring Portuguese debt against
default also gained, adding 14 basis points to 520.  When asked to respond to speculation that Portugal was
poised to seek a bailout, Dos Santos indicated that the EU
summits this month would influence his country’s fate.  “I don’t think it’s worth suffering in advance,” he said.
“Let’s wait for those meetings to take place and I hope the
European leaders understand the seriousness of the situation
that we face. Above all we need to preserve the euro, ensuring
its stability, and we have to do it because the euro is more
than a coin, the euro is the cement that unites  Europe .”  Bond Maturities  The jump in Portuguese borrowing costs comes as the country
is seeking to raise funds to cover its only two bond redemptions
of the year. Portugal must pay back 4.2 billion euros ($5.8
billion) of bonds next month and another 4.9 billion euros in
June. If it can get over that financing hump, it won’t face
another bond redemption until June of next year.  With yields on both its 5-year and 10-year debt exceeding 7
percent, the country may need to sell a new 2-year bond as early
as next month because current financing costs are
“unsustainable” UBS AG’s London-based interest-rate strategist
Gianluca Ziglio said in an note today.  “If the option of requesting financial aid from its EU
partners is rejected by Portugal, the Portuguese authorities
will need to significantly increase their financing at the front
end of the curve, even if the two- and three-year area of the
curve has never been explicitly targeted by the country’s debt
agency,” Ziglio wrote.    Deficit Reduction   The government’s additional budget cuts will allow it to
trim the  budget deficit  from about 7.3 percent of gross domestic
product last year to 4.6 percent of GDP in 2011 and to bring the
shortfall within each the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP in 2012.  The additional measures, which are the equivalent of 0.8
percent of gross domestic product in 2011, 2.5 percent next year
and 1.2 percent in 2013, will include a reduction in pensions of
more than 1,500 euros a month. The government also plans further
cuts in tax benefits, Dos Santos said said.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said the measures were a “significant new commitment to deficit
reduction.  ‘‘I welcome and support this package of far-reaching and
concrete measures,’’ Rehn said in an e-mailed statement. ‘‘It’s
an important strengthening of the Portuguese macro-economic
policies.’’  The  Finance Ministry  has forecast that Portugal’s public
debt as a percentage of GDP will climb to 86.6 percent in 2011
from about 82.1 percent last year.  Dos Santos  said has said he
expects the ratio to ‘‘stabilize’’ in 2012 and to start
declining in 2013.  Portugal’s austerity measures have been weighing on
economic growth, making it harder for the country to expand
enough to reduce its debt. The Bank of Portugal on Jan. 11 said
GDP will drop 1.3 percent in 2011 as consumer demand declines
and the government cuts spending. GDP fell 0.3 percent in the
final three months of 2010, the first quarterly contraction in a
year, the country’s national statistics institute said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;  Andrew Davis  in Rome at  abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Silver at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net  