-- 
PPR’s Redcats Aims to Boost Online Revenue in 2011 Ahead of Sale

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-03-11T10:35:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/ppr-s-redcats-aims-to-boost-online-revenue-in-2011-ahead-of-sale.html
Redcats, the fashion and home-
furnishing retailer that PPR SA wants to sell, plans to boost
online revenue by at least 10 percent this year as it seeks to
build on its first sales increase since 2007.  “Growth remains our first priority in 2011,” Redcats
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Michel Noir said in an interview at
his office in Paris this week. “We will continue to grow
double-digit on the Internet.”  Redcats,  which operates 17 brands in 31 countries, boosted
sales by 1.5 percent to 3.44 billion euros ($4.75 billion) in
2010, ending two years of decline. Online sales rose 13 percent,
accounting for more than half of total revenue for the first
time. The goal is to get 80 percent of sales via the Internet as
quickly as possible, said Noir, who joined the company in 2009.  “My approach is to have a portfolio of companies with
different growth profiles and different maturity so one after
the other they contribute to growth,” said 43 year-old Noir.  PPR plans to sell Redcats and the Fnac electronics and
media chain to focus on a luxury unit that includes the Gucci
brand and a sports and lifestyle division that includes Puma. It
sold furniture retailer Conforama to Steinhoff International
Holdings Ltd. for 1.21 billion euros in January.  Redcats has an enterprise value of 1.35 billion euros and
is seen as an ideal target for a private-equity acquirer,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein analysts. The unit accounted
for 24 percent of  PPR (PP) ’s sales last year. Noir, who started his
career at a unit of Credit Lyonnais working on mergers and
acquisitions, declined to comment on PPR’s plans or whether he
would be interested in leading a leveraged buyout.  Le Redoute  Redcats’  OneStopPlus , which specializes in large-size
clothing, will enter at least five countries this year,
including Spain and  Portugal , while the Ellos apparel business
will open in the U.K. and  Switzerland .  La Redoute , which Redcats
says is the second-largest retailer of women’s clothing in
France, will expand in eastern  Europe .  “The biggest element for us is to move the existing brands
in existing geographies that they don’t cover,” Noir said.
Redcats generated 43 percent of sales in  France , 34 percent in
the U.S. and 10 percent in Scandinavia last year. “The next
frontier” is  Asia , where Redcats may expand as early as the end
of this year, the CEO said.  Redcats, which sells Esprit Holdings Ltd. products via
Ellos in  Sweden  and La Redoute in France, will add more third-
party brands to its retail platforms this year as it seeks to
become a “marketplace” for fashion, Noir said. Redcats is in
negotiations mainly with French, German and Italian mass-market
brands, the executive said, declining to specify which.  Baby Cots  La Redoute, which sells 24.90-euro cotton blouses and
230.30-euro baby cots, opened a store on Facebook last month,
becoming only the second European fashion retailer to do so
after  Asos Plc. (ASC)  About 80 percent of Redcats’ products are
available on mobile phones and other devices, after the company
developed more than a dozen applications last year, Noir said.  Redcats aims to be “at the forefront of what happens in
terms of fashion on the Internet,” the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 