-- 
Libya Fighting Centers on Oil Fields as NATO Weighs Action

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   M a s s o u d   D e r h a l l y   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-03-11T16:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/qaddafi-s-son-mounts-offensive-as-nato-holds-back-on-imposing-no-fly-zone.html
Libyan forces loyal to Colonel  Muammar Qaddafi  bombarded rebels in control of oil installations
in Ras Lanuf after anti-regime forces said they would seek to
secure energy fields and infrastructure.  Fighting raged around Ras Lanuf, which has a tanker
terminal, storage depot and the country’s largest refinery, as
well as in Zawiyah, said Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, a spokesman for the
opposition’s transitional national council, who said its forces
are in control of the oil instillations. Al Jazeera television
also reported that the facilities are held by the rebels.  It wasn’t clear whether Qaddafi loyalists, who took control
of the city’s center yesterday, were able to hold their gains.
Ghoga said Qaddafi is engaged in “a desperate attempt to get
his hands on the oil,” and urged foreign powers to impose a no-
fly zone over  Libya  “very quickly.”  The civil war in Libya is the deadliest conflict to emerge
from popular protests across the Middle East inspired by the
overthrow of longtime leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt . Saudi
Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, deployed police in
Riyadh today to prevent the wave of unrest from affecting the
kingdom. In Bahrain, clashes erupted near the compounds of the
ruling family between security forces and protesters, the  Associated Press  reported, citing witnesses.  Financing War  Oil has risen about 20 percent in three weeks of fighting
in Libya, and jumped $3 in 15 minutes yesterday after reports
that Saudi police fired at protesters in the kingdom’s Eastern
Province. Oil futures, which have reached a 2 1/2-year high this
month, pared gains today, dropping 2.1 percent to $100.60 a
barrel at 10:45 a.m. in  New York , after the earthquake in Japan
forced refiners to shut plants.  The Libyan rebels may be seeking control over oil regions
to help finance their fight against Qaddafi’s better-equipped
conventional forces, said Shashank Joshi, an associate fellow at
the  Royal United Services Institute  in  London .  “If the rebels can harness oil revenues, it would
certainly reinforce abilities and possibly buy arms on the
international market,” he said. The Arabian Gulf Oil Co.,
Libya’s second-largest state-owned oil company, is trying to
raise funds for the uprising, the Financial Times reported on
its website, citing an unidentified company official. The
company, wholly owned by the National Oil Co. of Libya, is based
in rebel-held Benghazi.  ‘We Fight Here’  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, who has emerged as the
regime’s top spokesman, vowed to regain lost territories with a
full-scale offensive against the rebellion, which has split the
country and killed more than 1,000 people. He said the
government would never surrender to the rebels and Western
countries will lose if they support the uprising.  “This is our country. We fight here in Libya, we die here
in Libya,” he said at a press conference broadcast on Sky
television. “The Libyan people will never ever welcome NATO,
they will never ever welcome the Americans.”  Qaddafi’s forces yesterday fired mortars on the western
city of Misrata, home of the  Libyan Iron and Steel Company ,
which remains under rebel control. Around 54 people have been
killed and another 122 have gone missing or been kidnapped, said
Reda Almountasser in a phone interview from Misrata today.  Misrata ‘Surrounded’  “Qaddafi’s forces have surrounded the city,” said
Almountasser, who comes from one of the biggest families in
western Libya. “In general morale is strong and high, shops and
restaurants are open and today after Friday prayers a large
number of people will go out on the streets.”  The London-based  Times newspaper  said government forces
retook control of the western city of Zawiyah, which had been
the rebel outpost nearest the capital, Tripoli. The green flags
of the regime were displayed around the central square, scene of
the worst fighting, while tanks stood guard. A nearby building
showed damage from gunfire and tank rounds, the Times said.  The  Red Cross  reported a “sharp increase” in casualties
in recent days.  The U.S. and its allies have pledged measures to protect
Libyan civilians from the violence while displaying divisions
over steps such as the imposition of a no-fly zone.  UN Mandate  Some North Atlantic Treaty Organization members have cast
doubt on the proposal for a no-fly zone. NATO can’t impose one
without a mandate from the  United Nations Security Council , NATO
Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said yesterday.  Turkey ,
home to NATO’s eastern air component command headquarters, would
only support intervention that was intended to protect civilians
and that was led by the UN and backed by other Muslim nations,
diplomats told Sabah newspaper.  The  Arab League , which will hold an emergency meeting
tomorrow, has backed a no-fly zone, while the  African Union 
rejected foreign intervention and said five African heads of
state will try to start talks among Libyan factions.  Rebel leaders yesterday won French diplomatic recognition
for their Interim Transitional National Council, and a promise
of talks with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  when she
visits the region next week.  In Saudi Arabia, police set up checkpoints and searched
cars in the center of  Riyadh , and helicopters circled overhead.
Opposition activists had called for a “Day of Rage” today to
demand more democracy in the country, an absolute monarchy,
while police and religious leaders have said protests are not
permitted. The capital stayed quiet, though there were rallies
in the eastern city of Al-Hofuf and the Shiite Muslim village of
Awwamiya.  Clashes in Bahrain  In Bahrain, the Associated Press reported clashes between
protesters and security forces who used tear gas and fired
rubber bullets at tens of thousands of protesters who gathered
near the offices and compounds of the royal family in the
capital, Manama. The Ministry of the Interior had told citizens
not to take part in a march toward the king’s palace in Riffa,
saying unrest might inflame sectarian tensions.    Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf states yesterday announced a
plan to provide Bahrain and Oman, which has also faced popular
protests, with $10 billion each over a decade. The aid would be
aimed at developing infrastructure and housing, Bahraini Foreign
Minister Sheikh Khalid bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa said on his Twitter
account.  In Yemen, police opened fire to disperse a protest in the
port city of Aden demanding the departure of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, and four people were injured.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  