-- 
RadiumOne Raises $21 Million From Investor Group Led by Crosslink Capital

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   C o r y   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/radiumone-raises-21-million-from-investor-group-led-by-crosslink-capital.html
RadiumOne Inc. , an online
advertising company that uses social-networking data to help
marketers reach consumers, raised $21 million from an investor
group led by  Crosslink Capital .  DFJ Esprit ,  Adams Street Partners  and  Trinity Ventures 
joined the financing, the San Francisco-based startup said today
in a statement. The funding values RadiumOne at more than $200
million, according to two people with knowledge of the deal.  Founded by Chief Executive Officer Gurbaksh Chahal,
RadiumOne develops software that analyzes connections between
friends and uses the data to help brands target customers.
RadiumOne, which is working with more than 200 of the biggest
U.S. companies, plans to use the capital to expand globally and
make acquisitions. Chahal also founded ad company BlueLithium
Inc., which Yahoo! Inc. bought in 2007 for $300 million.  “When we look at potential portfolio companies, we try to
identify who has the technology and vision to really disrupt an
industry and make a global impact,” Jim McLean, a partner at
Crosslink in  San Francisco , said in the statement. McLean is
joining RadiumOne’s board.  Prior to the fundraising, RadiumOne received an offer to be
bought at close to $200 million, said one of the people familiar
with the matter. It opted to raise private capital instead,
according to the person. Chahal, 28, declined to comment on the
valuation or the acquisition offer. The company has raised a
total of $33.5 million, and it was profitable in the fourth
quarter, he said.  ‘Outside of Facebook’  Demand for RadiumOne’s service is soaring because
advertisers are looking for ways to take advantage of social-
networking without relying on Facebook Inc., Chahal said.  “We’re filling the void of socially targeted advertising
outside of Facebook,” he said.  RadiumOne’s lead investor, Crosslink, is the biggest
shareholder in Pandora Media Inc., the Internet-radio company
that filed to sell shares to the public last month. Crosslink
also invested in  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM) , the world’s largest online
provider of family histories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Cory Johnson in San Francisco at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  