-- 
Rajaratnam, BofA, Credit Suisse, AstraZeneca in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-03-11T11:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/rajaratnam-ensco-lyondell-astrazeneca-ho-in-court-news.html
Ex-McKinsey & Co. director  Anil
Kumar  told a jury that Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam secretly hired him as a consultant in 2003 for
$500,000 to be paid into a Swiss bank account, in violation of
McKinsey rules.  Kumar, testifying yesterday at Rajaratnam’s insider-trading
trial in  New York , said the hedge-fund billionaire pulled him
aside after a 2003 charity event and offered to pay Kumar to
contact him every four to six weeks.  Kumar declined at first, saying McKinsey didn’t permit
outside consulting work.  “If you could get someone on the outside to accept it,
then McKinsey doesn’t have to know about it,” Rajaratnam
replied, according to Kumar.  Kumar said he found a friend in  Europe , whom he didn’t
identify, who agreed to sign a consulting agreement with Galleon
for $500,000 a year. That entity, called Pecos Trading Co., had
a bank account in  Switzerland , he said.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and hedge
fund traders. His trial started March 8.  Kumar pleaded guilty to leaking tips to Rajaratnam about
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. deals, including its acquisition of
ATI Technologies Inc. in 2006. He also admitted telling
Rajaratnam about a deal in which AMD was getting an investment
from Mubadala Development Co., an Abu Dhabi government investor.  Prosecutors yesterday introduced the first three wiretap
recordings of Rajaratnam, in which the hedge fund co-founder
could be heard giggling, asking about the stock market and
questioning a friend about a public company.  The recordings were just “snippets” of Rajaratnam talking
with two friends and two Galleon traders, said defense attorney
Terence Lyman.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here and here.  Roche Drug Caused ‘Tragedy’ for Actor, Brian Dennehy Says    Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Accutane acne drug, blamed for
destroying James Marshall’s colon, created a “tragedy” by
cutting short the entertainer’s career, actor Brian Dennehy
said.  Dennehy, who testified yesterday in the  New Jersey  trial of
Marshall’s lawsuit against Roche, said the 44-year-old actor and
musician was headed toward stardom before inflammatory bowel
disease linked to the drug sidelined his career. Marshall played
U.S. Marine Louden Downey in the 1992 movie “A Few Good Men.”  “This is an unbelievable tragedy,” Dennehy said in an
interview outside the Atlantic City, New Jersey, courthouse.
“It amazes me that something like this could have happened and
could have had such a long-range effect on a career that should
have topped.”  About 16 million people have taken Accutane, once Roche’s
second-biggest-selling drug, since it went on the market in
1982, according to plaintiffs’ lawyers. Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, pulled its
brand-name version of Accutane off the market in 2009 after
juries awarded millions of dollars in damages to former users
over bowel-disease claims. Roche, which has lost all seven cases
that have gone to trial, contends it didn’t pull the drug for
safety reasons.  Marshall, a New Jersey native who now lives in Thousand
Oaks,  California , is seeking at least $11 million in damages for
his Accutane-related injuries, including emergency surgery to
remove his colon. Jurors are hearing claims by Marshall and two
other ex-Accutane users that the drug destroyed their intestinal
systems.  The latest New Jersey case is Greenblatt v. Hoffmann-
LaRoche Inc., ATL-l-1246-06, New Jersey Superior Court, Atlantic
County (Atlantic City).  For more, click here.  U.S. Appeals for Delay in 30-Day Order on Drill Permits  U.S. offshore regulators asked a New Orleans appellate
court to postpone a judge’s March 19 deadline for them to act on
certain Gulf of Mexico drilling permits delayed by the Obama
Administration’s drilling ban.  The Interior Department had asked U.S. District Judge
Martin Feldman, also of New Orleans, to delay his own order so
that the U.S. Court of Appeals would have time to review it.
When Feldman didn’t respond to that request, the U.S. turned to
the appellate court.  “The 30-day deadline is a clear abuse of discretion,”
lawyers for the agency said in their filing yesterday at the New
Orleans appeals court. Meeting Feldman’s deadline would require
the agency to act “nearly as quickly as it did prior to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster, even though the enormously negative
consequences of inadequate containment planning in that incident
unquestionably altered the landscape for consideration of such
applications,” they said.  U.S. offshore regulators said they may deny the seven Gulf
of Mexico drilling permits Feldman singled out for quick action
if they are forced to act by the judge’s deadlines. Feldman
ordered government action by March 19 on five permits and by
March 31 on two additional permits.  The Obama Administration suspended all drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet in May in response to the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. More than 4.1 million barrels of
crude leaked into the Gulf after the Deepwater Horizon exploded
and sank while drilling a subsea well for  BP Plc (BP/)  off the
Louisiana coast in April.  After offshore companies and regional business and
political leaders sued in June, Feldman threw out the
government’s moratorium as overly broad and punitive to the Gulf
Coast economy.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  BofA-Led Lender Group Bilked of $130 Million, U.S. Says  The U.S. accused a California couple of defrauding an
eight-bank lending group led by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  of about
$130 million by exaggerating the financial status of their
decorating business.  Thomas Chia Fu, 61, and his wife, Cheri L. Shyu, 48, were
arrested at their Newport Coast home by federal authorities,
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday by U.S. Attorney
Andre Birotte Jr. in  Los Angeles . They were indicted on nine
counts of bank fraud and face as long as 30 years in prison if
convicted, prosecutors said in the statement.  The couple imported home-decorating items from  China  and
obtained a $130 million revolving line of credit from the banks,
according to the indictment. They borrowed against the credit
line by exaggerating the in-transit inventory and accounts
receivable for their company, Anaheim, California-based Galleria
USA Inc., according to the filing.  “Had Bank of America and other banks known the true facts,
they would not have continued the revolving line of credit and
loaned additional funds,” according to the filing.  Dave Wiechert, a lawyer for Shyu, and Steve Katzman, a
lawyer for Fu, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Fu, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California.  Drydocks World Sued in  Singapore  for Failing to Pay Suppliers  Two Singapore units of Drydocks World LLC, the ship repair
unit of state-owned Dubai World, which is attempting to
restructure $24.9 billion of debt, were sued in Singapore’s High
Court for not paying suppliers.  Drydocks World Singapore Pte and Labroy Shipbuilding &
Engineering Pte, failed to pay S$6 million ($4.7 million) for
goods sold and delivered between May and December, according to
four complaints filed with the Singapore High Court. The cases
had their first closed hearing March 9.  Drydocks refused repeated requests to pay Beng Hui Marine
Electrical Pte, Hoe Seng Huat Pte and Z-Power Automation Pte,
according to the lawsuits of the Singapore-based suppliers.  The Dubai state-owned company hasn’t filed a defense to the
lawsuits. Drydocks’s lawyer Arthur Yap of Tan Kok Quan
Partnership declined to comment. Sumaya Tahlak, a Dubai-based
Drydocks spokeswoman, didn’t return four calls to her mobile
phone and didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The cases are Beng Hui Marine Electrical Pte v Labroy
Shipbuilding & Engineering Pte S18/2011, Beng Hui Marine
Electrical Pte v Drydocks World-Singapore Pte S19/2011, Hoe Seng
Huat Pte v Drydocks World-Singapore Pte S20/2011 and Z-Power
Automation Pte v Labroy Shipbuilding & Engineering Pte S21/2011
in the Singapore High Court.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Blavatnik Seeks to Dismiss Accusations in Lyondell Case  Billionaire Len Blavatnik is seeking to dismiss half of the
accusations made in a lawsuit claiming that he and board members
benefited from the $22 billion merger of Lyondell Chemical Co.
and Basell AF SCA that drove it into bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber in Manhattan held a
hearing yesterday on whether the claims should be dismissed.
Allegations of fraud against creditors and claims that require
judges to interpret foreign law are among those being
challenged, according to court filings.  Creditors claim the buyout enriched advisers by about $1
billion and profited management, including Blavatnik, while
leaving Lyondell with too much debt. Assets transferred in the
merger left Lyondell insolvent and thus defrauded creditors,
according to the complaint. The company’s 2009 bankruptcy was a
“direct consequence of the merger,” creditors alleged.  Summonses filed in Manhattan in August listed Blavatnik,
chairman of  Access Industries , and 41 other people and companies
that allegedly played a role in Lyondell’s takeover by
Luxembourg-based Basell.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lyondell Chemical Co., 09-
10023, and the adversary case is Official Committee of Unsecured
Creditors v. Citibank NA, 09-01375,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Credit Suisse to Pay $70 Million to Settle Subprime Suit    Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
agreed to pay $70 million to settle a lawsuit by investors
claiming the bank misstated its subprime asset losses.  The settlement, filed in federal court in Manhattan
yesterday, must be approved by a judge before it can take
effect.  In July, U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in Manhattan
threw out claims by the Louisiana Municipal Employees Retirement
System against Zurich-based Credit Suisse, ruling they were
barred by the  Supreme Court ’s decision in Morrison v. National
Australia Bank. In that case, the high court held that U.S.
securities laws don’t apply to claims of foreign buyers of non-
U.S. stocks on foreign exchanges.  The settlement filed yesterday would resolve claims against
Credit Suisse by all purchasers of its American Depositary
shares on the New York Stock Exchange and U.S. residents who
bought the bank’s stock on the Swiss Stock Exchange from Feb.
15, 2007, to April 14, 2008.  The case is Cornwell v. Credit Suisse Group, 08-cv-3758,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  AstraZeneca to Pay $68.5 Million to States Over Seroquel    AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  agreed to pay $68.5 million to 37 U.S.
states and the District of Columbia to resolve allegations that
the company deceptively marketed its anti-psychotic drug
Seroquel.  The settlement is separate from a $520 million agreement
London-based AstraZeneca reached with the U.S. last year over
the marketing of Seroquel, said  Tony Jewell , a company
spokesman. AstraZeneca doesn’t admit wrongdoing and the
settlement doesn’t resolve lawsuits brought by about seven
states, including South Carolina and  Mississippi , Jewell said in
an interview yesterday.  “While we deny the allegations, AstraZeneca believes it is
important to bring these matters to a close and move forward
with our business of providing medicines to patients,” Jewell
said. The company intends to “vigorously defend ourselves” in
the remaining lawsuits, he said.  The U.S. and states claimed that AstraZeneca marketed
Seroquel for uses that weren’t approved by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration. AstraZeneca promoted Seroquel, approved for
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, for dementia, depression and
anxiety in violation of federal drug rules, according to the
states.  While doctors can prescribe medicines for other diagnoses,
companies aren’t allowed to market drugs beyond approved uses.  The office of New Jersey Attorney General Paula Dow
announced the settlement. In addition to paying the $68.5
million, AstraZeneca officials agreed to ban financial
incentives tied to off-label marketing, instruct salespeople not
to market Seroquel to doctors who are unlikely to prescribe it
for an approved use, and post payments to doctors on a website,
according to the statement.  The New Jersey lawsuit is Dow v. AstraZeneca, MER-C-24-11,
Superior Court, Mercer County, New Jersey.  For more, click here.  Macau Casino Magnate  Stanley Ho  Says Family Dispute Resolved  Billionaire Stanley Ho’s dispute with some family members
over ownership of their gambling business has been fully
resolved and he has withdrawn his lawsuit, according to an e-
mailed statement from his office.  A settlement agreement was executed on March 8 among all
branches of Ho’s family on the basis of “mutual understanding
and mutual accommodation,” according to the e-mail received
March 9 and confirmed by Ho’s secretary, Janet Wong.  “We have agreed that we shall work together and continue
to develop the gambling business in Macau founded by Dr. Ho and
operated by the Ho family to enable it to flourish,” Ho and his
family wrote in the statement.  The 89-year-old Ho, who built his casino business with a
four-decade monopoly in Macau, was embroiled in a family feud
over a stake that is worth at least HK$11.7 billion ($1.5
billion). A  writ  filed Feb. 16 in  Hong Kong ’s High Court by law
firm Oldham, Li & Nie accused Ho’s daughters Pansy Ho and Daisy
Ho of seizing his holding in Sociedade de Turismo e Diversoes de
Macau SA, or STDM. Ho said March 9 he had withdrawn the writ.  The Ho family members agreed to discharge their duties to
the family companies, closely held STDM and publicly traded  SJM
Holdings Ltd. (880) , according to the March 9 statement. The dispute
was resolved “amicably,” the family said in the statement.  Wong, Ho’s secretary, declined to comment on the contents
of the settlement and Crystal Chan, an external spokeswoman for
the family’s Lanceford Co. at Brunswick Group, said she couldn’t
immediately provide further information. Ho’s lawyer, Gordon
Oldham, didn’t return a voice-mail message left after regular
business hours.  The case was Ho v. Ho Chiu King, HCA268/2011, High Court of
Hong Kong.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court News  Berlusconi Passes Italian Justice Overhaul as Trial Looms  Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s government passed an
overhaul of Italy’s justice system aimed at making judges more
independent from prosecutors, whom he has accused of trying to
destroy him politically.  The measure seeks to separate the career paths of
prosecutors and judges, who will be overseen by different
governing bodies, Justice Minister Angelino Alfano said at a
news conference in  Rome . Berlusconi, currently a defendant in
four criminal trials, has said that judges, who often begin
their careers as prosecutors, are too influenced by them.  The measure isn’t linked to his current legal problems,
Berlusconi said. Had it been approved 20 years ago, “we would
have avoided the prosecutors’ meddling in politics, including
the current attempt by them to put an end to this government,”
he told reporters after the Cabinet approved the measure.  Berlusconi has also pledged measures to shorten the length
of trials and clamp down on the use of wiretaps. Newspapers have
been filled with details of parties with young women that have
been leaked from a probe alleging he paid an underage prostitute
for sex. The premier, 74, is also accused of abuse of power to
cover his tracks in the case, for which he stands trial on April
6 in Milan.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 