-- 
Rand of South Africa Heads for First Weekly Loss in Four After Japan Quake

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-11T13:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/rand-of-south-africa-heads-for-first-weekly-loss-in-four-after-japan-quake.html
The rand fell to its lowest in more
than a week, heading for its first weekly decline in four, on
concern an earthquake in Japan may hurt growth of the world’s
third-biggest economy.  The South African currency depreciated as much as 0.7
percent to 6.958 per dollar, the lowest intraday level since
March 2, and traded 0.6 percent weaker at 6.9469 by 3:27 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  Investors sold emerging-market assets after an 8.9-
magnitude earthquake hit the coast of Japan, followed by a
tsunami of more than 10 meters that caused extensive damage. The
dollar strengthened against 22 out of 25 emerging-market
currencies monitored by Bloomberg as investors sought safe
havens.  “There was a bit of an uptick on  risk aversion ,” said
Trevor Barsdorf, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Econometrix
Treasury Management, which advises companies on bond and
foreign-exchange transactions. The rand may fall as low as 7.05
per dollar in coming days, he added.  South Africa’s currency has depreciated 1 percent this week
after rising 5.6 percent in the previous three weeks.  The rand also weakened as  oil prices  fell, helping cushion
the country from inflation. Lower inflation would enable the
central bank to maintain its benchmark interest rate at a 30-
year low of 5.5 percent. Higher interest rates increase the
appeal of rand assets for foreign investors.  “If oil retreats, we could see scope for extended rand
weakness,” said  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based analyst at  Standard Bank , Africa’s largest rand trader, in an e-mailed
note. “However, for such rand selling to gain momentum, the
dollar must make a more sustained recovery and oil would have to
show more definite signs of cooling.”    Brent crude  for April settlement fell $2.53 to $112.90 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange after the earthquake
and aftershocks set an oil refinery on fire near Tokyo and
closed at least three others, temporarily curbing demand for
crude in  Asia ’s second-largest oil-consuming nation.  The 13.5 percent government bond due September 2015 added
44 cents 120.978. The yield fell 1 basis point to 7.98 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 