-- 
Treasuries Drop on Speculation Insurers May Sell to Pay Earthquake Claims

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-03-11T22:23:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/treasuries-drop-as-report-shows-u-s-retail-sales-rose-most-in-four-months.html
Treasuries fell, paring weekly
gains, on speculation insurers in Japan may sell  U.S. government
debt  to pay claims on damage caused by the nation’s strongest
earthquake on record.  Yields on 10-year notes had slid to the lowest level since
January on demand for safety as the 8.9-magnitude temblor caused
a 23-foot-high tsunami that killed hundreds in coastal towns.
The yields had a weekly drop as fighting in  Libya  over control
of oil installations spurred demand for a refuge.  “The events in Japan have spurred some thought that local
domestic investors there may have to liquidate foreign assets to
meet insurance claims,” said  Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate
strategist in Greenwich,  Connecticut , at UBS AG, one of the 20
primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .  Benchmark 10-year note yields increased four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.40 percent at 5:11 p.m. in  New
York , according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.625
percent security maturing in February 2021 dropped 12/32, or
$3.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 26/32.  Yields on 10-year notes slid earlier as much as three basis
points to 3.33 percent, the lowest level since Jan. 31. Yields
on 30-year bonds climbed five basis points to 4.55 percent after
dropping yesterday as much as 11 basis points following the
strongest demand at a government auction of the debt since 2000.  For the week, the 10-year note yield fell 9 basis points
and the 30-year bond yield slid five basis points. Treasuries
have returned 0.1 percent this year through March 10, according
to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Earthquake Claims  After initial demand for the safety of U.S. government
debt, investors now expect many insurance companies will sell
Treasuries to help pay earthquake claims, according to  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York.  “You have a situation where assets have to be sold to pay
claims,” he said. “It’s going to take a swath of international
buyers out of the equation.”  Japanese insurers in particular may sell Treasuries, their
most liquid holdings, rather than Japanese  government bonds 
before the end of the fiscal year on March 31, when companies
typically repatriate funds, Franzese said.  The  insurance industry  may have to pay out about $10
billion in earthquake claims, according to James Shuck, a
London-based insurance analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. That
would make the disaster the second-most-costly temblor on record
after the $15.3 billion Northridge,  California , quake in 1994,
according to data compiled by Swiss Re.  BOJ Response  The  Bank of Japan  pledged to ensure financial stability
after the earthquake forced Toyota Motor Corp. to shut some
plants, knocked out oil refineries and sparked a plunge in
stocks, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropping 1.7 percent.  Even as investors focus on the possibility insurance
companies may need to sell Treasuries, the BOJ may buy the debt
to support exports by weakening the yen, according to Tom di Galoma, head of U.S. rates trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a
New-York based brokerage for institutional investors.  “They’ll buy Treasuries and drive the exchange value of
the yen down to stimulate the economy and help exports,” di
Galoma said. “One of the problems in Japan is production
facilities have been damaged, and they’re an export-driven
economy. Things are going to slow down over there.”  Libyan Fighting  Treasuries advanced this week as Libyan forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  bombarded rebels in control of oil installations
in Ras Lanuf after anti-regime forces said they would seek to
secure energy fields and infrastructure.  Turmoil in the region helped push demand for 30-year bonds
at yesterday’s $13 billion auction to the highest since August
2000. The government also sold $32 billion of three-year debt on
March 8 and $21 billion of 10-year notes the next day for a
total of $66 billion this week.  U.S. 10-year notes dropped earlier today after the Commerce
Department reported that retail sales increased 1 percent in
February after a 0.7 percent gain in the previous month. The
advance matched the median forecast of 82 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The data have been quite encouraging,” said Rohit Garg,
an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, a
primary dealer. “Of course we all think the sell-off is going
to be limited for various reasons, like geopolitical risk.”  Gross on Treasuries  Investors aren’t being compensated enough for owning  U.S.
Treasuries , said Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross ,
who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, in an interview with
Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.”  Gross eliminated government-related debt from his main fund
last month as the U.S. projected record budget deficits. Pimco’s
$237 billion Total Return Fund last held zero government-related
debt in January 2009.  While the U.S. will retain its AAA credit rating for some
time, yields on Treasuries are about 1.50 percentage points
lower than they normally are, Gross said.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said February’s
increase in U.S. jobs gives him more confidence that January’s
figures were damped by harsh weather and reiterated the labor
market will pick up.  At the same time, Dudley reiterated his remarks from Feb.
28 that “sustained strong employment growth” is needed to
assure the recovery, echoing recent comments from Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The Fed is about halfway through with its plan to buy $600
billion of Treasuries through June under the second round of
quantitative easing. The  Fed  expects to buy $18.5 billion to
$25.5 billion of Treasuries next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  