-- 
Treasuries Rise, Reversing Loss, as Japan Earthquake Spurs Safety Demand

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-11T07:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/treasuries-trim-earlier-decline-as-investors-seek-safety-after-japan-quake.html
Treasuries rose, erasing initial
losses, as an earthquake in Japan bolstered demand for the
relative safety of  U.S. government debt .  “When you have the potential for natural disaster, people
seek safe-haven assets, and Treasuries fit the bill,” said Andy Cossor, Hong Kong-based chief Asia market strategist at DZ Bank
AG,  Germany ’s fifth-largest lender.  Ten-year yields declined two basis points to 3.34 percent
as of 7:36 a.m. in  London , according to BGCantor Market Data.
The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 gained 5/32, or
$1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 3/8. The note was down 9/32
in early Asian trading.  An 8.8 magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of
northern Japan, the USGS said, shaking buildings in Tokyo. The
highest tsunami warning was issued for the country’s northeast
coast. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.7 percent,
dropping for a second day.  Treasuries declined in early Asian trading as economists
said a U.S. report today will show retail sales rose in February
by the most since October.  Bonds also slid after crude oil had its steepest loss in a
month, easing concern that protests in the Middle East will send
fuel costs higher and slow economic growth. U.S. retail sales
increased 1 percent, following a 0.3 percent gain in January,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the report.  ‘Knocked Back’  “The market may get knocked back a little bit,” said
Colin Embree, Singapore-based head of fixed-income trading and
sales at Bank of Nova Scotia Asia Ltd., a unit of  Canada ’s
third-largest lender. “We’ll be reminded today that the economy
is improving.”  Crude oil for April delivery traded at $101.14 a barrel,
after rising to $106.95 on March 7, the highest level since
September 2008. It dropped 1.6 percent yesterday, the biggest
decline since Feb. 7.  Separate reports in the U.S. today will show business
inventories rose and consumer sentiment declined, the Bloomberg
surveys show.    China  reported consumer prices and industrial production
figures that beat expectations among economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.    Libya  Violence  Treasuries have gained this month as violence in Libya
spurred demand for the relative safety of government debt.  U.S. securities have returned 0.2 percent in March, based
on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The MSCI All Country
World Index of stocks dropped 2.6 percent in the period, after
accounting for reinvested dividends.  Muammar Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, said
government forces are mounting an attack on rebels.
Demonstrators in  Saudi Arabia  are advocating a “Day of Rage”
for today.  “Treasury yields will decline,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a
senior investor in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $42.2 billion and is a unit of
Japan’s second-largest bank. “There’s a risk this will spread
to China or other emerging markets, and that’s driving a flight
to quality globally.”  Ten-year yields will fall to 2.8 percent by the middle of
the year, he said. Nakamura holds a minority view.  Ten-year yields will climb to 3.93 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 