-- 
Treasuries Fall, Erode Weekly Gain, on Speculation Retail Sales Increased

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-11T04:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/treasuries-fall-snap-two-day-gain-on-speculation-retail-sales-increased.html
Treasuries fell, eroding a weekly
advance, as economists said a government report today will show
retail sales rose in February by the most since October.  Bonds snapped a two-day advance after crude oil had its
steepest loss in a month, easing concern that protests in the
Middle East will send fuel costs higher and slow economic growth.
U.S. retail sales increased 1 percent, following a 0.3 percent
gain in January, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the report.  “The market may get knocked back a little bit,” said
Colin Embree, Singapore-based head of fixed-income trading and
sales at Bank of Nova Scotia Asia Ltd., a unit of  Canada ’s
third-largest lender. “We’ll be reminded today that the economy
is improving.”  Ten-year yields climbed three basis points to 3.39 percent
as of 1:22 p.m. in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 declined 7/32, or
$2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 31/32.  Yields will rise to 3.93 percent by year-end, according to
a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Crude oil for April delivery traded at $102.58 a barrel,
after rising to $106.95 a barrel on March 7, the highest level
since September 2008. It dropped 1.6 percent yesterday, the
biggest decline since Feb. 7.    China  Inflation, Output  Separate reports in the U.S. today will show business
inventories rose and consumer sentiment declined, the Bloomberg
surveys show. Sales at Macy’s Inc., the second-largest U.S.
department store chain, and Limited Brands Inc., which owns the
Victoria’s Secret clothing stores, beat analysts’ estimates in
February, data showed this month.  China reported consumer prices and industrial production
figures that beat expectations among economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Treasuries gained this month as violence in  Libya  spurred
demand for the relative safety of government debt.  U.S. securities have returned 0.2 percent in March, based
on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The MSCI All Country
World Index of stocks dropped 2.3 percent in the period, after
accounting for reinvested dividends.  Muammar Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, said
government forces are mounting an attack on rebels.
Demonstrators in  Saudi Arabia  are advocating a “Day of Rage”
today.  Higher Auction Demand  “Treasury yields will decline,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a
senior investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, which
oversees the equivalent of $42.2 billion and is a unit of
Japan’s second-largest bank. “There’s a risk this will spread
to China or other emerging markets, and that’s driving a flight
to quality globally.”  Ten-year yields will fall to 2.8 percent by the middle of
the year, Nakamura said.  Demand rose at three Treasury auctions this week. Investors
submitted orders for 3.02 times the amount of debt offered at a
30-year sale yesterday, the most since 2000.  Bidding totaled 3.32 times the amount of available debt at
a 10-year sale March 9, and the figure was 3.22 times at a
three-year auction March 8, both more than the average.  “Investors have swung back to being bullish,” analysts at  Morgan Stanley & Co . led by  Jim Caron , the head of global
interest-rate strategy, wrote in a report yesterday. “This
week’s strong auctions are evidence,” according to the New
York-based company, one of the 20 primary dealers that
underwrite the  U.S. debt .  Yield Spreads  Rates on 10-year notes dropped to a five-week low of 3.36
yesterday. The extra yield that investors get for buying the
securities in the U.S. instead of Japan narrowed to 2.07
percentage points yesterday, the least since December.  The TED spread, the difference between what banks and the
U.S. government pay to borrow for three months, widened to 24
basis points today, the most in seven months.    Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., told PBS this week that
yields are too low. His $237 billion Total Return Fund held no
government-related debt as of Feb. 28, according to a report on
the Pimco  website .  Wall Street banks are among those cutting their holdings of
Treasuries. The 20 primary dealers reported that holdings of  U.S.
government debt  tumbled to a net short position of negative
$7.47 billion as of March 2, the Fed reported yesterday. It was
the biggest short, or bet against Treasuries, in a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 