-- 
Republican Sessions Says He Will `Fight' for House $61 Billion Budget Cut

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-12T05:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/republican-sessions-says-there-s-little-room-for-compromise-on-budget-cuts.html
The Senate  Budget Committee ’s top
Republican is warning Democrats that there’s not much room for
compromise on the House plan to slash $61 billion in U.S.
government spending this year.  “I really think that’s a good number,” Senator  Jeff Sessions  said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “And
I think we should fight for it.”  Current spending authority ends March 18, and a failure to
enact funding by then would force a shutdown of non-essential
government services. Lawmakers plan to vote next week on a plan
to keep the government running until April 8.  Sessions, 64, also said he’s willing to consider tax
increases, along with cuts in entitlement program costs, as
part of an effort to craft a longer-term, bipartisan plan to
tame the U.S. debt and deficit.  Tax increases will “be a bitter pill for me, but we have
got to get this country on the right path,” said Sessions, who
became the ranking Republican on the budget panel in January.  Still, the Alabama lawmaker said he would question whether
any tax increase was needed. “I’d have to challenge it, but I
would look at it,” he said.  Sessions joined nine other Republicans March 10 to warn
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  that they will hold
up consideration of any measure that doesn’t provide
“meaningful” cuts to government.  ‘Defensible’  While the Senate rejected the House spending  bill  this
week, Sessions said the amount it proposes to cut is
“defensible” and would reduce the deficit by $860 billion
over a decade.  Some developments in the fight over the fiscal year ending
Sept. 30 are aiding prospects for a longer-range debt-reduction
proposal, Sessions said. Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  of  Virginia  and Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia are
leading talks on such a plan.  This week 10 Democratic senators and independent Bernie Sanders of  Vermont  voted against a Democratic spending bill for
this year that would have cut about one-tenth as much as the
House plan. The  vote  showed that many Democrats support larger
spending reductions, Sessions said.  “The momentum for containing spending is growing, because
the crisis is more real than a lot of us like to admit,”
Sessions said. “We have people who are in denial. The
president’s budget was very disappointing.”  Entitlements  On entitlement spending, Sessions said it’s important to
get an early start on reducing projected Social Security costs
to extend the life of the retirement program. Still, he said,
to make a dent in the  U.S. debt  it’s more important to look at
the Medicare health system for the elderly.  “Medicare is a bigger problem, and I’m a bit surprised
we’re not focusing more on that, although a lot of people think
it’s more achievable to do Social Security,” he said.  In discussing foreign issues, Sessions said President  Barack Obama  isn’t responding forcefully enough to the violence
in  Libya , where government forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
mounted a full-scale attack on rebels who took control of the
eastern half of the country.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who has called for a no-
fly zone over Libya, has been “more aggressive and has a
clearer message than President Obama,” the senator said.  ‘No Plan’  Obama “has supported the ouster of Qaddafi, but seems to
have no plan to help the freedom fighters or the rebels to be
successful,” said Sessions, who stopped short of calling for a
no-fly zone.  On another matter, when asked whether labor unions or
businesses have more political and economic power in the U.S.
today, Sessions said unions have an edge because of the labor
movement’s ability to have a more unified agenda and message.  The business community, he said, splinters often on
policy.  “Businesses have often conflicting agendas as to what
they favor,” Sessions said. “But there are some things that
they unite on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at  
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  