-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Increase Most in Four Months on Improving Job Market

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-11T21:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/retail-sales-in-u-s-climb-most-in-four-months-on-car-clothing-purchases.html
U.S. retail sales increased in
February by the most in four months as Americans took advantage
of more seasonable weather to buy cars, clothes and electronics.  Purchases climbed 1 percent after a revised 0.7 percent
rise in January that was more than double the previous estimate,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . February
sales matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Job growth and lower taxes are helping Americans keep up
spending after the biggest quarterly increase in four years. A
separate report showed consumer sentiment fell to a five-month
low in March, indicating surging gasoline prices may restrain
the household demand that makes up 70 percent of the economy.  “Consumers are not yet showing any ill effects from rising
food and energy prices,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist
for  North America  at BNP Paribas in New York, who correctly
forecast the gain in sales. “The numbers are consistent with
consumers spending at a slower pace than the fourth quarter but
still a solid pace.”  The projected gain in retail sales was based on the median
forecast of 82 economists in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates
ranged from gains of 0.4 percent to 1.9 percent after an
initially reported 0.3 percent rise in January.  Consumer Sentiment  Separately, the Reuters/University of Michigan gauge of
consumer sentiment dropped to 68.2 from a final February reading
of 77.5. The gauge was forecast to decline to 76.3, according
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to
1,304.28 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York . The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note climbed to 3.39 percent from 3.36 percent
late yesterday.  “Consumers are reacting to the run-up in gas prices, which
accelerated in the middle of February,” said Ryan Wang, an
economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in New York. “It’s taking
up a bigger portion of their wallet.”  The 9.3-point slump in sentiment was the biggest since
October 2008, the last time average gasoline prices topped $3.50
a gallon.  Today’s report mirrors the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index, which dropped to minus 44.5 in the week to March 6, from
the prior week’s minus 39.7.  Ten of 13 major categories in the retail sales report
showed an increase last month, including gains at department
stores and electronics retailers, the Commerce Department’s
figures showed.  Gas Stations  Service-station sales rose 1.4 percent in February,
reflecting higher fuel prices. The data, which aren’t adjusted
for inflation, got a boost from fuel costs.  The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline reached
$3.18 last month, 8 cents more than in January, according to
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization. It rose to
$3.54 yesterday.  Sales climbed 2.3 percent at automobile dealers, consistent
with industry figures that showed car purchases climbed last
month to a 13.38 million unit annual pace that was the best
since the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009.  “Growing consumer confidence combined with pent-up demand
will continue to have a positive influence on industry sales
going forward,” Donald R. Johnson, vice president for North
American sales at Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM) , said in a
March 1 teleconference. “We continue to believe that we’re
going to see this slow-but-steady growth throughout the year.”  Sales excluding autos increased 0.7 percent, matching the
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey, today’s report showed.  Demand rebounded 0.6 percent at building-material stores
after slumping 1.3 percent in January during bad weather.  Figures for GDP  Purchases excluding autos, gasoline and building materials,
which are the figures used to calculate gross domestic product,
increased 0.6 percent for a second month in February.  Department store sales increased 1 percent after a 0.4
percent decrease in January. Purchases at stores selling
electronics and appliances rose 0.9 percent. Sales at
restaurants climbed the most in a year.  February purchases at stores open at least a year increased
6.4 percent at Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney Co., and 5.8
percent at Cincinnati-based  Macy’s Inc. (M) , company data showed
last week.  While February sales improved from a month earlier, the
retail figures aren’t adjusted for changes in prices, in
contrast to the consumer spending numbers in the Commerce
Department’s report on gross domestic product.  First-quarter household purchases may still be hard-pressed
to match the 4.1 percent pace in the previous three months that
was the fastest since 2006.  Labor Market  An improving labor market is boosting spending. Employers
added 192,000 jobs in February, the most since last May, and the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.9 percent, the lowest since April
2009, Labor Department figures showed last week.  The  Federal Reserve  last week said the labor market
improved throughout the country early this year, driven by
increasing retail sales and “solid growth” in manufacturing.  “Retail spending strengthened compared with a year ago
across all Districts except Richmond and Atlanta,” the Fed’s  Beige Book  of regional economies said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  