-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose Most in Four Months as Employment Grew

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-most-in-four-months-as-employment-grew.html
U.S. retail sales probably climbed
in February by the most in four months, spurred by job growth
and more seasonable temperatures, economists said before a
report today.  The projected 1 percent gain would follow a 0.3 percent
January increase, according to the median forecast of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other data may show
business inventories rose and consumer sentiment declined.  J.C. Penney Co. and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  were among retailers that
topped analysts’ sales estimates, a sign household spending
regained momentum after a weather-restrained January. While
higher fuel costs may be concerning Americans, bigger paychecks
thanks to the tax compromise reached by President  Barack Obama 
and congressional Republicans are probably preventing demand
from slipping for now.  “Consumers have better  job security  and there is pent-up
demand for goods and services,” said  John Herrmann , a senior
fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “For consumers to be buying like that in the face of
rising gasoline prices is pretty noteworthy.”  The Commerce Department’s sales figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a gain of
0.4 percent to a rise of 1.9 percent.  Retail sales excluding automobiles and gas stations rose
0.5 percent in February, more than twice the January gain,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  Car Sales  Americans filed into dealer showrooms in February to take
advantage of incentives. Auto sales rose to a 13.38 million
annual rate, the highest level since August 2009 when the
government’s cash-for-clunkers program boosted purchases,
according to industry data.  “Growing consumer confidence combined with pent-up demand
will continue to have a positive influence on industry sales
going forward,” Donald R. Johnson, vice president for North
American sales at Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM) , said in a
March 1 teleconference. “We continue to believe that we’re
going to see this slow-but-steady growth throughout the year.”  While February sales improved from a month earlier, the
retail figures aren’t adjusted for changes in prices, in
contrast to the consumer spending numbers in the Commerce
Department’s report on gross domestic product. Combined with
January, the February retail sales figures indicate first-
quarter household purchases will cool from a 4.1 percent pace in
the previous three months that was the fastest since 2006.  Higher Gasoline Prices  The retail sales data may reflect higher gasoline prices.
Regular gas in February averaged $3.18 a gallon, 8 cents more
than in January, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
organization.  Higher prices at the pump may have damped Americans’
sentiment. The Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary March
index of  consumer confidence  eased to 76.3 from 77.5 at the end
of February, according to economists’ forecasts. The figures are
due at 9:55 a.m.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 44.5
in the week ended March 6 from the prior period’s 39.7. Gasoline
costs through March 9 had increased every day expect one since
mid-February.  Sales at stores open at least a year at the more than 30
chains tracked by Retail Metrics climbed 4.3 percent in February
from a year earlier, an 18th straight gain, surpassing analysts’
estimates for a 3.8 percent increase. Purchases at stores open
at least a year climbed 6.4 percent at Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney, and 5.8 percent at New York-based Macy’s, company data
showed last week.  Retailer Shares  Investors have driven up retailer shares as spending
increased. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index,
which includes Macy’s and Gap Inc., has gained 17 percent in the
12 months through yesterday, compared with a 13 percent advance
for the broader  S&P 500 .  An improving labor market is boosting spending. Employers
added 192,000 jobs in February, the most since last May, and the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.9 percent, the lowest since April
2009, Labor Department figures showed last week.  The  Federal Reserve  last week said the labor market
improved throughout the country early this year, driven by
increasing retail sales and “solid growth” in manufacturing.  “Retail spending strengthened compared with a year ago
across all Districts except Richmond and Atlanta,” the Fed’s  Beige Book  of regional economies said.  Another report from the Commerce Department at 10 a.m. may
show business inventories climbed 0.8 percent in January for a
second month, according to economists’ forecasts.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  