-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Rise Most in Four Months, Spurred by Employment Gains

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-11T15:12:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/retail-sales-in-u-s-rose-1-in-february-most-in-four-months-on-job-gains.html
U.S. retail sales climbed in
February by the most in four months, spurred by job gains and
more seasonable temperatures.  The 1 percent increase in purchases followed a revised 0.7
percent rise in January that was more than double the previous
estimate, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
February sales, boosted by a jump in auto purchases and more
expensive gasoline, matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  J.C. Penney Co. and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  were among retailers that
topped analysts’ same-store sales estimates, a sign household
spending is holding up after the strongest quarterly gain in four
years. While higher fuel costs are a headwind for American
consumers, bigger paychecks stemming from a tax compromise
reached by President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans
may help support demand in coming months.  “Consumers are not yet showing any ill effects from rising
food and energy prices,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist
for  North America  at BNP Paribas in New York. “The numbers are
consistent with consumers spending at a slower pace than the
fourth quarter but still a solid pace of spending.”  The projected gain in retail sales was based on the median
forecast of 82 economists in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates
ranged from a gain of 0.4 percent to an increase of 1.9 percent
after an initially reported 0.3 percent rise in January.  Consumer Sentiment  Consumer sentiment fell in March to the lowest level in five
months, a Reuters/University of Michigan gauge showed today. The
index dropped to 68.2 from a final February reading of 77.5 as
gasoline prices surged.  Stocks and Treasuries declined after the reports. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,293.02 at 10:09
a.m. in  New York . The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose to
3.38 percent from 3.36 percent late yesterday.  Ten of 13 major categories showed an increase in demand last
month, which included gains at department stores and electronics
retailers.  Service station sales rose 1.4 percent in February,
reflecting higher fuel prices. The data, which aren’t adjusted
for inflation, got a boost from rising. Regular-fuel prices in
February reached an average $3.18 a gallon, or 8 cents more than
January, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
organization.  Sales climbed 2.3 percent at automobile dealers, consistent
with industry figures that showed car purchases climbed last
month to a 13.38 million unit annual pace that was the best since
the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009.  Slow, Steady  “Growing consumer confidence combined with pent-up demand
will continue to have a positive influence on industry sales
going forward,” Donald R. Johnson, vice president for North
American sales at Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM) , said in a
March 1 teleconference. “We continue to believe that we’re going
to see this slow-but-steady growth throughout the year.”  Sales excluding autos increased 0.7 percent, matching the
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey, today’s report showed.  Demand rebounded 0.6 percent at building-material stores
after slumping 1.3 percent in January during bad weather.  Purchases excluding autos, gasoline and building materials,
which are the figures used to calculate gross domestic product,
increased 0.6 percent for a second month in January.  Department Stores  Department store sales increased 1 percent after a 0.4
percent decrease in January. Purchases at stores selling
electronics and appliances rose 0.9 percent after a 0.2 percent
drop. Sales at restaurants climbed 1.2 percent, the most in a
year.  Sales at stores open at least a year at the more than 30
chains tracked by Retail Metrics climbed 4.3 percent in February
from a year earlier, an 18th straight gain, surpassing analysts’
estimates for a 3.8 percent increase. Purchases at stores open at
least a year climbed 6.4 percent at Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney, and 5.8 percent at New York-based Macy’s, company data
showed last week.  While February sales improved from a month earlier, the
retail figures aren’t adjusted for changes in prices, in contrast
to the consumer spending numbers in the Commerce Department’s
report on gross domestic product.  Even with the February gain and the improved revision to
January, first-quarter household purchases may be hard-pressed to
match the 4.1 percent pace in the previous three months that was
the fastest since 2006.  Labor Market  An improving labor market is boosting spending. Employers
added 192,000 jobs in February, the most since last May, and the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.9 percent, the lowest since April
2009, Labor Department figures showed last week.  The  Federal Reserve  last week said the labor market improved
throughout the country early this year, driven by increasing
retail sales and “solid growth” in manufacturing.  “Retail spending strengthened compared with a year ago
across all Districts except Richmond and Atlanta,” the Fed’s  Beige Book  of regional economies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  