-- 
Trichet Bypasses Growth Mandate as ECB Responds to Inflation

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-11T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/trichet-bypasses-unsung-growth-mandate-as-ecb-reacts-to-hints-of-inflation.html
  Jean-Claude Trichet  is bypassing
the  European Central Bank ’s little-known secondary mandate as
inflation propels policy makers toward the first interest-rate
increase in three years.  While the ECB president signaled on March 3 that he may
have no choice other than to tighten monetary policy, the bank’s
statutes hand officials leeway to pursue policies supporting
economic growth. The  Maastricht Treaty  says the central bank can
keep rates low if policy makers judge that  price stability  is
guaranteed. The ECB itself forecasts inflation will slow below
its 2 percent ceiling next year.  “The markets didn’t expect such a shift to the primary
mandate so soon,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior European
economist at Nomura International Plc in  London . “The  ECB ’s
balancing act is especially tricky, with inflation risks
crystallizing and the flare-up in the sovereign debt crisis.”  With inflation currently at 2.4 percent, unemployment at
9.9 percent and yields on Irish, Greek and Portuguese bonds
close to records, Trichet last week had a choice: Keep his
inflation fight limited to rhetoric or declare it was time to
raise rates.  Trichet opted to say that the ECB will probably raise its
benchmark from 1 percent in April, saying “strong vigilance”
is needed. Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  on March 8 said the
move may be the first in a series of increases.  ECB Flexibility  “Everybody underappreciated how significant the rise in
inflation expectations was for the ECB,” said  Julian Callow ,
chief European economist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “It’s
surprising all around that they did move in this way.”  The ECB’s primary inflation mandate, which it interprets as
keeping inflation just below 2 percent in the ``medium term,'' 
is enshrined in 1991’s Maastricht accord. Once this is achieved,
the rulebook also allows it to “support the general economic
policies” aimed at delivering high growth, social protection
and economic convergence. The ECB doesn't give a precise time
horizon for its inflation objective.   That’s a contrast to the U.S. Federal Reserve, whose
officials are mandated to balance low inflation with high
employment. The ECB’s preferences for monitoring inflation are a
throwback to the era when the Bundesbank set monetary policy for
Germany, the euro-area’s largest economy.  “The market tends to underestimate the determination of
the ECB on inflation, period,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief
economist at Joh Berenberg Gossler &Co. in London. “By history
and mandate it is much more focused on inflation” than other
central banks such as the Fed, he said.  Inflation Mandate  Trichet told reporters last week that price stability is
the bank’s “primary” mandate. That follows 10 months buying  government bonds  to shore up the region’s most indebted
countries and repeatedly delaying the withdrawal of unlimited
liquidity for banks.  As of a week ago, just four of 38 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News anticipated the ECB would raise its benchmark in
the first half of this year. The majority mistook the ECB’s
priorities, said Natascha Gewaltig, director of European
economics at Action Economics in London and one of the four in
the minority.  “People get into a mindset that’s difficult to get out of,
but if you’ve actually been listening to the ECB it’s been
getting clearer that they were nearing a rate hike,” said
Gewaltig. “Overall euro-zone inflation and growth rates just
don’t justify a 1 percent rate.”  ECB Concern  The ECB’s concern is that above-target inflation will
generate a push from workers and companies for higher wages and
prices, leading to faster so-called  core inflation  which tends
to be more long-lasting than that driven by fuel or food price
shocks. While the ECB’s forecasts show that officials expect
inflation of just 1.7 percent in 2012, that’s still up from a
previous estimate of around 1.5 percent.    Germany ’s economy is also keeping up momentum after growing
last year at the fastest pace in two decades. Unemployment
plunged in February by three times as much as economists
forecast and retail sales rose for a second month in January,
data showed last week. The country accounts for about a third of
the euro area’s gross domestic product.  Another reason for tighter credit is to “increase
pressure” on governments to tackle the debt crisis amid concern
that their failure to cut budget deficits and toughen fiscal
policy rules threaten to fan inflation pressures, said  Juergen Michels , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.  Trichet Boast  While Trichet often boasts that inflation has averaged
about 1.9 percent since the euro began trading, the ECB has
sometimes been willing to turn a blind eye to short-term
breaches of its price target to help growth. Officials waited 10
months before responding to an overshoot of their goal with a
rate increase in December 2005.  The ECB’s latest shift is not without risks.  Geoffrey Yu , a
foreign exchange strategist at UBS AG, says investors are
drawing parallels with July 2008, when officials raised the key
rate to a record high of 4.25 percent to tame the fastest
inflation in 16 years. Subsequent data showed the economy was
shrinking at the time and the ECB reversed the move three months
later following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Tightening was too early and widely perceived as policy
error,” said Yu of 2008. Trichet disagrees, arguing that by
acting it enforced the ECB’s inflation-fighting credibility and
gave it more room to fight the credit crisis.  Risk of Error  The risk of policy error may make the ECB cautious about
how far it goes beyond April. Trichet says any increase may not
be the start of a series. Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Nomura and Morgan Stanley all predict the ECB will end the year
with its benchmark at 1.75 percent.  Trichet could also take a last-minute decision not to
follow the demands of the primary mandate if EU leaders this
month fail to staunch renewed concerns about the euro region’s
debt crisis. Heads of government meet in Brussels today for the
first of two summits this month aimed at ending the crisis and
creating a new rulebook for the region.  “In practice, the ECB will only really be in a position to
consider raising rates in April or May if conditions to some
degree normalize after the March 24-25 meeting,” said  David Owen , chief European economist at Jefferies International Ltd.
“By their actions, the ECB has certainly put more pressure on
the politicians to come up with a big bang solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  