-- 
Rise in Inflation Expectations Recalls Hurricane Katrina: Chart of the Day

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-03-11T18:23:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/rise-in-inflation-expectations-recalls-hurricane-katrina-chart-of-the-day.html
A jump in inflation expectations
probably won’t concern Federal Reserve officials meeting next
week because it reflects a surge in gasoline prices rather than
the outlook for broader costs, economists said.  Expectations for the inflation rate in one year rose to 4.6
percent in March from 3.4 percent in February, according to the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey
released today.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that one-year expectations
closely track gasoline prices, as they did when  Hurricane
Katrina  disrupted oil supplies in August 2005. The average price
of a gallon of gasoline in the U.S. was $3.54 yesterday, the
highest since October 2008, as Middle East turmoil drives up
crude costs.  “We doubt this pickup alone would be enough to get the Fed
too worried,” said  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S. economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto, in an e-mail. “Officials
will be watching these expectations gauges like a hawk to make
sure that expectations remain anchored.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets March 15 in  Washington  and is forecast to maintain its $600 billion bond-
buying program to boost the economic recovery. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on March 1 that the rise in
commodities is likely to lead to a “temporary and relatively
modest increase” in overall prices.  Expectations for inflation in five years rose to 3.2
percent from 2.9 percent, according to the sentiment survey.
Richard Curtin, the  University of Michigan  professor who directs
the survey, said in a statement that “this same modest rise in
long-term rates was recorded in 2008, indicating that consumers
expect the sharp increases to be temporary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  