-- 
Robin Williams, Punchdrunk, Lucinda’s ‘Blessed’: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-03-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/robin-williams-punchdrunk-lucinda-s-blessed-crazy-czar-n-y-weekend.html
Uday Hussein wanders onstage with
his brother Qusay’s head in a bag.  He’s one of the ghosts haunting Americans and Iraqis in
Rajiv Joseph’s “Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo.”  Robin Williams makes his dramatic Broadway debut in the
title role.  Set in the first days of the U.S. invasion, the play
invokes the violence, brutality and ignorance of combat with
mordant wit.  As the smart, surly big cat, Williams gets to comment on
the hopeless mess in front of him.  In previews at the Richard Rodgers Theatre, 226 W. 46th
St., opening March 31. Information: +1-877-250-2929;
 http://www.bengaltigeronbroadway.com .  Saturday  After 9/11, Maira Kalman created a cartoon map for the
cover of the  New Yorker  dividing the city into such warring
districts as Irate, Pashmina and Fattushis.  “New Yorkistan” is part of the Jewish Museum’s
retrospective of the artist’s witty work, with paintings,
drawings, photographs, textiles and embroidery from a career
spanning 30 years.  There’s even a glass case enclosing her onion ring
collection.  “Maira Kalman: Various Illuminations (of a Crazy World)”
runs through July 31 at the Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Ave. at
92nd Street. Information: +1-212-423-3200;
 http://www.thejewishmuseum.org .  Stroll over to  Café D’Alsace  for homemade boudin blanc with
sauerkraut and tangy mustard.  Ask the beer sommelier to pick the perfect brew.  1695 2nd Ave. Information: +1-212-722-5133.  Saturday Afternoon  Spend the afternoon in old  Russia  with a crazy czar. That
would be Boris Godunov, who rose to the top by killing the
rightful heir.  Rene Pape is magnificent as he rages, suffers and finally
breaks down in a mighty death scene. Pape is simply one of the
best basses on any stage right now.  All along, hordes of peasants, pilgrims, priests, police,
and an occasional aristocrat crowd the stage, bringing
Mussorgsky’s opera to vivid life.  At Lincoln Center until March 17. Information: +1-212-362-
6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  Saturday Night  Dusky-voiced folk singer-performer extraordinaire Lucinda Williams plays the second of two nights at Webster Hall in
support of her new album “Blessed.”  A veteran of more than 30 years, she can sing the
heartbreak off a note.  Williams has toured with  Bob Dylan , and invites guests like
Emmylou Harris, Yo La Tengo and Steve Earle to perform one-off
shows with her, so expect a few surprises.  125 E. 11th St. Information: +1-212-353-1600;
 http://event.websterhall.com .  Late Saturday Night  You enter through an unmarked door and make your way down a
totally dark corridor. (Luckily, the risk-averse patron ahead of
me lit the way with his iPhone.)  You are handed a white, bird-beaked mask, instructed to be
silent and then told to roam at will around the immersive
theatrical experience “Sleep No More.”  A riff on “Macbeth” produced by British group Punchdrunk,
and set to music largely from Hitchcock films, the action takes
place in various parts of the derelict hotel.  I saw Banquo’s ghost freak out the feasters, a bloody
bathtub, Duncan in bed, and Birnam Wood mysteriously moving.  Every experience of the installation is unique. You can
stay for three hours, and then meet your friends in the bar to
compare notes.  There are late-night performances on Fridays and Saturdays
between 11-12 p.m.  The McKittrick Hotel, 530 W. 27th St. Information:
 http://www.sleepnomorenyc.com .  Sunday Matinee  If you think growing up is over-rated, there’s “Peter and
the Starcatcher,” a speedy joyride with lost boys, pirates,
ticking crocs and zany cannibals.  A dozen talented actors take on 50 roles, including an
amusing transvestite mermaid chorus. Standouts are Adam Chanler-
Berat as Peter, Celia Keenan-Bolger as the sole female, Molly,
and Christian Borle, whose villainous Black Stache recalls the
young Eric Idle.  Rick Elice, co-writer of “Jersey Boys” and “The  Addams
Family ,” based his Peter Pan prequel on a novel by Dave Barry
and Ridley Pearson.  You don’t need a kid to go and see this good-natured romp.  At New York Theatre Workshop, 79 E. 4th St. through April
3. Information: +1-212-460-5475;  http://www.nytw.org .  Sunday Afternoon  For some masterful Schubert, head to Alice Tully Hall to
hear baritone Simon Keenlyside and Emanuel Ax.  The pianist will perform Schubert’s Sonata in A-minor, but
the majority of the program will be devoted of the great art
songs, among them “Death and the Maiden,” “Song of Orpheus”
and “On the Danube.”  It’s part of the first Tully Scope Festival, featuring an
eclectic range of music from around the world.    Lincoln Center , 1941 Broadway at 65th St. Information: +1-
212-671-4050;  http://new.lincolncenter.org/live .  (With assistance from Lili Rosboch. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 