-- 
Roubini Says Earthquake Is `Worst Thing' at Worst Time for Japan Economy

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 
2011-03-11T10:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/roubini-says-earthquake-is-worst-thing-at-worst-time-for-japan-economy.html
  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who
predicted the global financial crisis, said the earthquake in
Japan comes at the “worst time” as the country struggles to
lower its  budget deficit .  “This is certainly the worst thing that can happen in
Japan at the worst time,” Roubini told Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” in London today. “There
will be fiscal stimulus to reconstruct but Japan already has a
budget deficit of close to 10 percent of” gross domestic
product and an aging population.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  pledged to ensure financial stability
after the magnitude 8.9 earthquake struck off the coast of
Sendai, sparking a tsunami. Japanese stocks declined in Tokyo
today. The central bank, which keeps its benchmark rate at zero,
had last month said the world’s third-largest economy is set to
recover from a fourth-quarter contraction.  “In the short term, when you have a shock like this” it
tends to produce “a weakening of economic activity,” Roubini
said. “You have a slowdown in output in the same quarter but
over time, if there is a massive amount of fiscal stimulus,
there could be an economic recovery over the near term.”  Japan’s Ministry of Finance said it’s too soon to gauge the
economic impact of the earthquake that caused damage across the
country’s east coast. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped as
much as 1.8 percent today.  “Certainly it is a negative for their stock market given
that it is a destruction of wealth,” said Roubini, who is also
co-founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC. “Also the effects
on confidence are going to be significant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net  