-- 
Rupiah Drops on Concerns of Budget Deficit, Japan Earthquake

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-03-11T09:16:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/rupiah-drops-on-concern-indonesia-s-budget-deficit-will-widen.html
Indonesia’s rupiah dropped for a
second day on concern higher fuel prices will slow Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy, widening the government’s budget deficit,
and after an 8.9 magnitude earthquake hit the coast of Japan.  All major currencies in Asia dropped as the earthquake sent
waves crashing through coastal towns. Crude oil traded above
$100 a barrel in New York this week. Higher crude prices may
mean Indonesia’s budget deficit this year could be as much as
2.7 percent of gross domestic product, compared with a targeted
1.8 percent, according to Gundy Cahyadi, an economist at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.  “There is concern high oil prices will put a strain on the
fiscal-deficit position and at some point the government will
decide it needs to hike the fuel prices,” Singapore-based
Cahyadi said.  The rupiah dropped 0.1 percent to 8,790 per dollar as of
3:15 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency was little changed from a week ago and slid to
8,808 earlier, the weakest in a week.  “The currency appeared stable before the knee-jerk
reaction to the earthquake,” said Bambang Eko Joewono, head of
the global-markets division at PT Bank UOB Buana in Jakarta.
“We don’t know the extent of damage caused by the earthquake
yet.  Indonesia  will be cautious on possible tsunami.”    Government bonds  dropped, with the yield on the 8.25
percent note due July 2021 climbing two basis points to 8.39
percent today, according to midday prices from the Inter-Dealer
Market Association. The rate fell 11 basis points this week.  Overseas funds increased their holdings of Indonesian
government debt to 203 trillion rupiah ($23 billion) as of March
9, from 196 trillion rupiah at the end of last year, according
to the  finance ministry .    Bank Indonesia  will allow the rupiah to appreciate
“moderately” to help manage imported inflation, Governor
Darmin Nasution said in Bali today. Capital inflows to Indonesia
may be “slightly lower” this year because the  U.S. economy  is
improving, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 