-- 
Sahara Hotel Casino, Oldest on Las Vegas Strip, to Close May 16

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-03-11T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/sahara-hotel-casino-oldest-on-las-vegas-strip-will-close-amid-downturn.html
The Sahara Hotel & Casino, the
oldest remaining  Las Vegas  Strip resort, will close May 16 after
owners SBE Entertainment Group and Stockbridge Real Estate Funds
postponed its redevelopment amid a record citywide slump.  “We are working with our partners to assess a variety of
options for the property, including a complete renovation and
repositioning,” SBE Chief Executive Officer Sam Nazarian said
in an e-mailed statement. “The continued operation of the aging
Sahara was no longer economically viable.”  Built in 1952, the Moroccan-themed Sahara is the
northernmost casino on the Strip and was featured in the 1960
film “Ocean’s Eleven.” Nazarian’s Los Angeles-based
hospitality and entertainment group and Stockbridge, based in  San Francisco , bought the property in 2007. They announced plans
to redevelop and “reinvigorate” Sahara, before the financial
crisis triggered record gambling, convention and housing
declines in Las Vegas, stalling most development.  Sahara joins six other casino resort projects halted at the
north end of the Strip, considered a development hot spot before
the crisis.  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD)  mothballed the Echelon Resort, and
Fontainebleau Las Vegas, 70 percent completed, was bought out of
bankruptcy by investor  Carl Icahn . Four others, including one by  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and Kerzner International Ltd., owner
of the Atlantis resorts in the Bahamas and Dubai, remain empty
lots.  “We see the northern end of the Strip as the future of Las
Vegas,” Nazarian said in the statement. “With Las Vegas
showing early signs of recovery, we are confident that we
ultimately will find a creative and comprehensive new
solution.”  Sahara said it is working with MGM Resorts to accommodate
its reservations after closing and try to find jobs for its
employees at MGM’s 10 properties on the Strip.  Nazarian’s SBE manages Sahara’s hotel, restaurants and
bars, while Larry Woolf’s Navegante Group ran the casino,
according to a March 2, 2007, statement announcing the
acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  