-- 
Saudi King Counters Dissent With $36 Billion as Clerics Scold Protesters

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-11T15:20:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/saudi-king-counters-protests-with-36-billion-as-tension-mounts.html
As unrest escalated across the
Middle East, activists in  Saudi Arabia  demanded a political
voice as well. Rather than promises of democracy, they got a $36
billion handout and a slap down from Islamic clerics.  Saudi academics, writers and representatives of the
minority Shiite Muslim population called on King Abdullah, the
sixth monarch in the Arab world’s largest economy, to move the
country toward a constitutional monarchy. While demonstrators
advocated a  “Day of Rage”  today, police in anti-riot vehicles
patrolled in central Riyadh, the capital, with checkpoints set
up around the Al-Rajhi mosque to keep people away.  “Demands for political reform will inevitably increase in
the kingdom as democracy takes root in the region,” said  Thomas
Hegghammer , a senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defense
Research Establishment in Oslo and author of “Jihad in Saudi
Arabia.” “If the regime does nothing, tension will grow
between conservative and progressive factions.”  More than two months of protests have rocked the Middle
East and North Africa as citizens demand civil rights, higher  living standards  and the ouster of entrenched autocratic
regimes. In Bahrain, a Saudi neighbor and home to the U.S.
Navy’s Fifth Fleet, mainly Shiite protesters are pressing their
demands for free elections and a constitutional monarchy.  ‘Urgent Matter’  The Saudi Tadawul stock index has dropped 9 percent since
Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted by a popular
movement and fled to Saudi Arabia on Jan. 14. The benchmark had
been down as much as 21 percent since that date when it slumped
close to a two-year low on March 2. Crude oil has advanced 19
percent since turmoil in  Libya  started on Feb. 17.  “The monarchy is trying hard to absorb demands for
political change and cast them as economic demands,”  Madawi Al-
Rasheed , a professor of Anthropology of Religion at King’s
College  London , said in response to e-mailed questions.
“Political reform is an urgent matter.”  Saudi Arabia has so far tried to calm oil markets and avoid
the political upheaval with a package of new jobless benefits,
education and housing subsidies and debt write-offs. There was
also a warning from the Council of Senior Islamic Scholars that
public protests won’t be tolerated.  Supplying Oil  To allay concerns about disruptions to global supplies, Oil
Minister Ali Ibrahim Al-Naimi, said on March 8 that the kingdom
can meet any increase in demand, the official  Saudi Press Agency 
reported. OPEC’s biggest producer has raised crude storage in  Egypt , the Netherlands and Japan, Al-Naimi said, adding that the
kingdom has 3.5 million barrels of excess capacity.  “If the news flow deteriorates further, and Saudi Arabia
can’t prove that it can move more oil into the market, prices
will continue to rise,” said Juerg Kiener, chief investment
officer at Swiss Asia Capital Ltd. in  Singapore .  Saudi Arabia has seen protests in the kingdom’s Eastern
Province this month, though nothing approaching the size
witnessed in Bahrain and Egypt.  Shiite Muslims held two demonstrations on March 3 to call
for the release of prisoners. About 100 people staged the first
protest in the Shiite Muslim village of Awwamiya in the Eastern
Province, while a similar number of people later demonstrated in
the neighboring city of Qatif.  Protests  Security forces broke up another protest yesterday in
Qatif. Police fired above the crowd of 120-150 people to end the
rally after a policeman taking video to document the event was
attacked, Major General Mansour al-Turki, an Interior Ministry
spokesman, said in an interview. Three people were injured, two
protesters and one policeman, he said.  Some people are trying to “instigate chaos,” he said in a
telephone interview.  In Riyadh today, Saudi police set up multiple checkpoints
in a show of force today. They were searching cars and checking
identification papers. There were no protesters on the streets.  Saudi Arabia’s Interior Ministry said March 5 that
demonstrations, marches and sit-ins are “strictly” prohibited
under the kingdom’s laws, according to the Saudi Press Agency. A
day later, the Council of Senior Islamic Scholars warned reforms
cannot be realized through protests and “means that cause
division,” the news service said.    King Abdullah , 87 this year, returned to the kingdom on
Feb. 23 after three months of medical treatment. He promptly
announced his spending package and then, five days later, made
temporary state employees permanent and ordered government
organizations to advertise jobs.  Delayed Elections  Although Saudi Arabia held its first municipal elections in
February 2005, they were delayed in May 2009 for two years. The
150-member  Majlis al-Shoura  council, the country’s assembly, is
appointed by the king and plays only an advisory role.  King Abdullah has prevented broader political openness
should raise the possibility of “introducing an elected
component to the Shoura, which could still be done,” Jane
Kinninmont, a senior research fellow on the Middle East and  Africa , at London-based  Chatham House , said in response to e-
mailed questions.  “Quick-fix measures such as new economic handouts won’t
address the root causes of the problem,”  Kinninmont  said.
“Holding the promised municipal elections is really the minimum
step they could take.”  The government announced in August a $385 billion, five-
year spending plan to help tackle joblessness and stop young men
from turning to more radical Islam. King Abdullah also battled
with clerics by blocking unauthorized religious edicts, or
fatwas, and allowing supermarkets to employ females.  Bloody Standoff  Saudi Arabia needs to create 5 million jobs for nationals
of the kingdom by 2030, Labor Minister Adel Faqih said in  Riyadh 
on Jan. 25. The  unemployment rate  is as high as 43 percent for
Saudis between the ages of 20 and 24.  The Saudi monarchy has experienced violent opposition to
its rule in the past from militants calling for a more Islamic
state, not greater political openness.  A group led by Juhayman al-Utaibi took over the Grand
Mosque in Mecca during November 1979 in a  bloody standoff  that
lasted eight days. Al-Utaibi denounced the Saudi ruling family
as un-Islamic and called for Saudi Arabia to stop selling oil to
western nations. Saudi security forces also put down a Shiite
uprising the same month in 1979, the year of the  Islamic
Revolution  in  Iran  across the  Persian Gulf .  In the 1990s, the kingdom experienced a rise of Islamic
fundamentalism led by Sunni clerics, who criticized the ruling
family for not applying Islamic law. A terrorist attack in al-
Khobar killed U.S. military personal in 1996 as militants sought
to harm the U.S.-Saudi relations.  “I don’t think the regime needs to make major concessions
at this point,” said  Hegghammer  in  Norway . “But in the long
term, substantial political reform will be necessary. The danger
of not reforming isn’t so much a revolution as a very turbulent
succession process and perhaps a palace coup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 