-- 
Saudi Activists Fail to Gather in Capital as Police Are Deployed in Force

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-11T17:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/saudi-activists-fail-to-gather-in-capital-as-police-are-deployed-in-force.html
Protesters in Saudi Arabia stayed
away from a so-called Day of Rage after police were deployed in
force to deter political activists.  In  Riyadh , police manned checkpoints today around the Al-
Rajhi mosque. Olaya, a main street in the center of the capital,
was quiet and police were positioned on every block.  Saudi Arabia has tried to calm oil markets and avoid
political upheaval with $36 billion of jobless benefits,
education and housing subsidies and debt write-offs. The Council
of Senior Islamic Scholars also warned that public protests
won’t be tolerated.  “There was prevalence of security everywhere,” John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi, said in a
telephone interview from Riyadh. “You will have people that say
they are unhappy about the economy, but this doesn’t constitute
a spark for people to go out on the streets.”  More than two months of unrest have rocked the Middle East
and North Africa as people demand civil rights, higher  living
standards  and the ouster of autocratic regimes. The tumult
spread to the Gulf on Feb. 14, when protests began in Bahrain.
The unrest has deterred investors and sent the Bloomberg GCC 200
Index of Gulf shares down 6.6 percent so far this year.  In Bahrain today, security forces backed by pro-government
mobs fired rubber bullets and tear gas to disperse protesters
near the royal palace, the  Associated Press  reported. The number
of injured wasn’t immediately clear, it said.  Shiite Prisoners  Saudi academics, writers and representatives of the
minority Shiite Muslim population have called on  King Abdullah ,
the sixth monarch in the Arab world’s largest economy, to move
the country toward a constitutional monarchy.  A rally took place after midday prayers today in  Saudi
Arabia ’s eastern city of Al-Hofuf, with several hundred people
calling for Shiite Muslim prisoners to be released, said two
activists who declined to be identified for security reasons.  Protesters marched through the Shiite village of Awwamiya
in the Eastern Province, according to a witness. The village was
the scene of the first protests in Saudi when, on March 3, about
100 people called for the release of prisoners.  The demonstrations that were meant to be staged in both
Riyadh and Jeddah today were organized by Saudi opposition
figures and weren’t coordinated with the Shiite activists in the
east, according to the  Eurasia Group .  “The majority of Saudi opposition figures want reform
within the existing system,” Eurasia said in a report, adding
that unrest will only threaten the regime if security forces
overreact.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 