-- 
Sberbank Buys Troika Dialog for at Least $1 Billion to Add Investment Bank

-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-03-11T16:08:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/sberbank-to-acquire-troika-for-1-billion-in-push-into-investment-banking.html
OAO Sberbank, the state lender that
holds roughly half of Russians’ savings, agreed to buy Troika
Dialog to move into investment banking as Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government embarks upon its biggest asset-sale
program since the 1990s.  State-run Sberbank agreed to pay $1 billion for 100 percent
of Troika, including the 63.6 percent held by Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Ruben Vardanian and his partners and 36.4
percent held by Johannesburg-based lender Standard Bank Group
Ltd., Sberbank Chief Executive Officer  German Gref  told
reporters in Moscow today. The lender will also offer an earn-
out, or payment tied to performance, to shareholders after three
years, he said.  “The united business will immediately have leading
positions on several fronts,” Gref said. The purchase is a
“landmark, logical” deal that will make Troika  Russia ’s “No.
1 or No. 2” for  investment banking  services, including mergers
and acquisitions, share and bond sales, he added.  The acquisition of Russia’s oldest investment bank moves
Gref closer to achieving his goal of turning 170-year-old
Sberbank into a full-service financial company offering products
from  stock trading  to bond underwriting that can compete
internationally. Gref stepped down as economy minister to run
the former Soviet savings bank in 2007.  ‘Expand and Develop’  “It’s an example of a widening state presence in our
financial markets,” Ovanes Oganisian, a strategist at
Renaissance Capital in Moscow, said by phone. “It’s hard to
compete sometimes with state banks especially if they take
advantage of their links to the government and the regulators.”  Sberbank’s shares advanced as much as 0.5 percent after the
announcement, and closed down 0.9 percent at 98.74 rubles at
6:45 p.m. in Moscow.  Standard Bank  jumped for the first day in
four, adding 1.3 percent to 97.33 rand at the close of trading
in Johannesburg.  Vardanian will stay on as Troika’s Chief Executive at least
through 2013 and Gref will head the company’s supervisory board
as the state-owned bank consolidates its holdings, Sberbank CEO
said.  Sberbank will “expand and develop” Troika’s existing
offices in London and  New York  as part of its drive to offer
investment banking services internationally, Gref said.  Citigroup Inc. yesterday said it hired four former Troika
Dialog bankers, including  Kingsmill Bond , its chief strategist
who was rated top  Europe , Middle East and Africa analyst for the
past two years by Institutional Investor magazine. Citigroup
also hired Andrey Kuznetsov,a Russian equity strategist, Kirill Kazanli, an infrastructure analyst, and Will Hammond, who was
previously head of equity sales, according to an e-mailed
statement from Citigroup in  London .  ‘Reluctant Sellers’    Andrei Kostin , head of Sberbank’s smaller rival VTB Group,
started an investment bank from scratch in 2008 that has since
become the biggest arranger of debt for Russian companies,
eclipsing foreign competitors such as Deutsche Bank AG.  Standard Bank executives were “reluctant sellers” of
their stake in Troika, Jacko Maree, the Johannesburg bank’s
chief executive officer, said in statement. Standard Bank, which
acquired Troika shares in 2009, may start a small Russian office
“from scratch” to maintain a presence in the country, Maree
told reporters on a conference call today.  The “representative” office would probably have up to 10
people working Russian-African deals, particularly in the  mining
industry , according to Simon Ridley, Standard Bank’s finance
director.  Additional Payments  The additional payout to shareholders will be 50 percent of
average annual net income over the next three years, multiplied
by 13.5, minus the $1 billion Sberbank paid today for the
acquisition, Gref said. Troika’s average annual profit in 2011
to 2013 is expected to be around $200 million, he added.  Sberbank and Troika are among 23 domestic and foreign banks
that Putin’s government selected last year to help raise at
least 1 trillion rubles ($34 billion) selling assets over the
next three years, including shares in Sberbank. The government
raised $3.3 billion on Feb. 14 selling a 10 percent stake in
VTB.  Troika’s Russian competitor,  Renaissance Capital , was
forced to sell 50 percent of its shares to billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  for $500 million in September 2008, amid a record rout
in Russian stocks. That was 18 months after Renaissance rejected
a $4 billion offer from VTB, the Vedomosti newspaper reported at
the time.  “This is a good fit,” Oganisian said. “Troika is the
Sberbank of the Russian investment banking scene and has
branches in the regions. This deal with will bring brokerage
services to the babushkas and the wider population.”  -- With assistance from Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg.
Editors:  Brad Cook , John Kohut, Ana Monteiro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  