-- 
Scene Last Night: Geoffrey Rush, Hugh Jackman, James Cramer, Claire Danes

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/scene-last-night-geoffrey-rush-hugh-jackman-james-cramer-claire-danes.html
Just after midnight, the theater-
reviewing deejay duo Andrew Andrew mingled, their iPads in hand.
Music selections included “Everywhere” by  Fleetwood Mac 
“because we’ve been stalking Geoffrey.”  That would be Geoffrey as in  Geoffrey Rush , the star of
“Diary of A Madman” at the  Brooklyn Academy of Music , who was
on the other side of the BAM Cafe. The occasion: A cast party
and fund-raiser honoring the production. The Thursday night
event drew 500 guests and raised $750,000, said BAM spokesman
Joe Guttridge.  The evening started with dinner that included a quail egg
and attracted actors Hugh Jackman and David Hyde Pierce; Merrill
Tisch,  New York State Board of Regents  Chancellor; Jeffrey H.
Barker, New York City market president at Bank of America and
Therese Esperdy, head of global debt capital markets at
JPMorgan.  Then it was off to the show, where Maggie Gyllenhaal and
Peter Saarsgard and Claire Danes and Hugh Dancy awaited Rush,
who spends the wild evening preening, sipping soup and fancying
himself the King of Spain.  As part of his antics, Rush, nearly naked, ran up a side of
the theater, right in front of James Wolfensohn, former
president of the  World Bank .  Red Tuft  Costumed with a wayward tuft of bright orange hair and
blue-green eye makeup, Rush made an impression on two red-heads
in the audience: Croc-wearing chef  Mario Batali  and James Cramer, host of  CNBC ’s “Mad Money.”  Rush’s “stream of non sequiturs reminded me of me,” said
Cramer.  By the time the coffee urns had come out for the cast
party, the crowd included Federico Ysart, chief operating
officer of the Santander Central Hispano investment section, who
danced, and Erich Mauff, managing director of capital market
treasury solutions at Deutsche Bank.  In deference to the Australian origins of the production,
bartenders kept busy serving Coopers beer and shiraz and
chardonnay from  Robert Oatley  vineyards.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is BAM’s 2011
spring season sponsor.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 