-- 
Serbian Prices Surge at Fastest Pace in 31 Months as Rates Rise

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-11T15:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/serbian-prices-surge-at-fastest-pace-in-31-months-as-rates-rise.html
Serbian inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in almost 3 years in February as the central
bank struggles to contain price growth with higher  interest
rates .  The inflation rate rose to 12.6 percent, the highest since
July 2008, from 11.2 percent in the previous month, the
statistics office said today on its website. On the month,
consumer prices increased 1.5 percent. The Belgrade-based
Narodna Banka Srbije increased its two-week repurchase rate
yesterday to 12.25 percent, the seventh rise since August.  “Despite yesterday’s hike in the key rate to 12.25
percent, annual inflation remains above the key rate” and “it
will be a real challenge, if not impossible, for monetary policy
officials to curb pressures in the second half to 6 percent
until the year end,” analysts at Raiffeisenbank in Belgrade
said today in a note to investors.  Central banks around the world are struggling to contain
inflation as food prices advance and the price of oil rises amid
turmoil in the Middle East. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last week an increase in the ECB’s rate
from a record low 1 percent is “possible.”  The February inflation rate compares with the National Bank
of  Serbia ’s target of 5.8 percent plus or minus 1.9 percentage
points for the month, the bank said on its website, adding price
growth should peak in the second quarter. The bank seeks to
bring inflation close to its target range of 3 percent to 6
percent in 2011, and 2.5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2012.  Prices in February were led higher by food and beverages,  health services  and transportation costs, the statistics office
said. Inflation is expected to accelerate further this month as
the government raised electricity prices an average 13.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  