-- 
Solar Stocks Fall as Analysts Predict Oversupply, Falling Prices

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-03-11T20:02:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/solar-stocks-fall-as-analysts-predict-oversupply-falling-prices.html
Solar energy stocks fell today as
analysts said that cuts to incentive programs in  Europe  may
drive down prices and demand for panels that convert sunlight
into electricity.    Energy Conversion Devices Inc. (ENER)  fell as much as 29 percent,
the most in almost two years, in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company announced yesterday
that it would cut production to 25 megawatts in the current
quarter following changes to incentive programs in France and  Italy . The company received more than half of its sales in
Europe in the fiscal year that ended in June.  JA Solar Holdings Co., a Shanghai-based solar panel maker,
fell 28 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $6.30 at 2:36 p.m. Xinyu,
China-based LDK Solar Co. dropped 35 cents, or 3.2 percent, to
$10.60, and Wuxi, China-based Suntech Power Holdings Co.
declined 5 percent to $8.05.  Christopher Blansett, an analyst in  San Francisco  with JP
Morgan Securities LLC, said in a research note today that Energy
Conversion’s announcement is “likely to become a recurring
theme for solar stocks.” He maintained his “underweight”
recommendation on the company’s shares.  Blansett downgraded  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR)  to “underweight”
from “neutral.” The Marlboro, Massachusetts-based solar
company is moving its manufacturing to  China , and he said it
won’t “be able to reach a sufficient level of profitability
before depleting its current cash position,” in part because
the photovoltaic solar market will be “significantly
oversupplied” in 2011.  Evergreen fell as much as 11 percent today to $1.65, its
largest intraday decline since Jan. 3.  More Preannouncements  Satya Kumar, an analyst with Credit Suisse Holdings USA
Inc., said in a research note today that the reasons behind
Energy Conversion’s cutbacks “make us believe the incident is
not isolated, and there could well be more negative
preannouncements to come from other companies.”  Kumar said solar supplies are “growing sharply” and
“2011 will see significant panel price declines.”  Gabelli & Co. fund manager John Segrich said he shorted JA
Solar and  Power-One Inc. (PWER) , anticipating that the changing
incentives in Europe will lead to a glut of solar panels.  Camarillo, California-based Power One makes inverters for
solar systems. It fell 7.8 percent to $7.20.  Sanjay Shrestha, an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets,
downgraded both JA Solar and LDK Solar to “hold” from “buy”
today, and said that solar panel prices will fall this year.  JA Solar announced yesterday plans to build a factory that
will have annual production capacity of 3 gigawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  