-- 
Star Scientific Patents in Reynolds Case Ruled Valid by U.S.

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-03-11T22:41:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/star-scientific-patents-in-reynolds-case-ruled-valid-by-u-s-1-.html
  Star Scientific Inc. (CIGX) , the tobacco
company appealing the loss of an intellectual-property lawsuit
brought against  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , said a U.S. government
reexamination has affirmed two patents central to the case.  Star’s so-called ’649 and ’401 patents for reducing
carcinogens in cigarettes are valid, according to documents from
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The determination
conflicts with a 2009 verdict by a federal jury in Baltimore,
which rejected Star’s efforts to seek hundreds of millions of
dollars from Reynolds for infringing the patents.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington , which heard arguments on the appeal in January, has
not ruled on Star’s challenge to that verdict. The patent office
reexamination, which had been requested by Winston-Salem, North
Carolina-based Reynolds, rejects the prior-art challenges of the
“StarCured” curing process and can’t be appealed, Glen Allen,
Virginia-based Star said in a statement.  “We have believed from the beginning in what the StarCured
process achieves, and in its potential to significantly reduce
tobacco users’ exposure to tobacco toxins,” Jonnie Williams,
Star’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Star, which plunged 73 percent the day after the 2009
ruling, rose 58 cents today, or 24 percent, to $2.95 at 5:20
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The patents cover a curing process that prevents
“bacterial activity” in the tobacco leaf, according to Star.
The technology results in the lowest levels of tobacco-specific
nitrosamines, the company said.  Reynolds, maker of Camel and Pall Mall cigarettes, is the
second-largest U.S. tobacco company, trailing  Altria Group Inc. (MO) 
in sales.  The case is Star Scientific v. RJ Reynolds, 2010-1183, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 