-- 
Stem Cells, Rolls-Royce, Nestle: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-03-11T12:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/stem-cells-rolls-royce-nestle-bmi-intellectual-property.html
Patent protection for stem-cell
research methods that involve cells from human embryos breaches
European Union law, an adviser to the region’s highest court
said in a non-binding opinion yesterday.  Inventions based on certain  stem cells  “can be patentable
only if they are not obtained to the detriment of an embryo”
resulting in its destruction or modification, Yves Bot, advocate
general of the  European Court  of Justice, said. The Luxembourg-
based EU court follows such advice in a majority of cases.  Under an EU law from 1998, research methods that involve
human embryos for industrial or commercial purposes can’t be
patented. A German court handling the dispute at the center of
yesterday’s case sought the EU tribunal’s view on how to
interpret this phrase and the term “human embryo.”  The case was triggered when Greenpeace challenged a German
patent awarded to Oliver Bruestle, a professor and specialist in
stem-cell research. Greenpeace, which said it sued for “ethical
reasons,” argued the patent for a stem-cell research process
developed by Bruestle to treat neural diseases is invalid
because it covers cells derived from human embryos. The Federal
Court of Justice,  Germany ’s highest civil court, last year asked
for guidance on the case.  The advocate general said so-called pluripotent embryonic
stem cells, such as those Bruestle used, don’t fall under the
definition of embryo because “they are no longer capable of
developing into a complete human being.” Still, it isn’t
possible to ignore the origin of these stem cells, he said.  A technical process which requires “either the destruction
of human embryos, or their use as base material,” can’t be
patented, Bot said.  Bruestle called the outcome “unexpected, surprising and
very restrictive,” in an interview at the court yesterday.
“Should this be followed by the court, it would have very
serious disadvantages for medical stem-cell research in  Europe .”  Greenpeace said the outcome was an important guideline for
the future.  “Our aim with this case was to clarify the scope of
protection of human embryos,” Christoph Then, an adviser to
Greenpeace, told Bloomberg. “This goes in the right direction
and we have to wait for the court’s final decision now.”  The case is C-34/10, Bruestle v. Greenpeace.  EU Nations Approve Plans for Europe-Wide Patent System  European Union nations, except for Italy and  Spain ,
yesterday backed plans to create the first region-wide patent
system with the possibility for the two opponents to join at a
later stage.  Ministers from 25 of the 27 EU nations adopted the proposal
at a meeting in Brussels, allowing regulators to press ahead and
draft laws to set up the new system. Both Italy and Spain are
considering appealing the decision to the EU courts, ministers
for the two countries said yesterday.  “This is not rushing ahead and we haven’t improvised,”
Michel Barnier, EU internal markets commissioner, told ministers
at the meeting. “Work has been done for more than 20 years on
this.” He said, “unanimity would be ideal, but in the meantime
we will have to go forward” with the plan.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, proposed
the compromise deal after governments last year failed to break
a deadlock on what languages should be legally binding. Under
the current system, companies can end up paying 18,000 euros
($25,000), including 10,000 euros for translating a patent valid
in only 13 countries, the Brussels-based commission has said.  The closest thing to an EU-wide patent is for companies to
file an application with the  European Patent Office , which isn’t
part of the EU and has 38 member countries. The patent then
breaks up into a bundle of patents which companies must defend
in each individual country.  Spanish EU Affairs Minister Diego Lopez Garrido urged EU
ministers yesterday to work more on the patent process before
adopting such a “weak” plan. The system being pushed through
is based on “improvisation” and is “discriminatory.”  “If you have a European patent which doesn’t involve all
member countries, you cannot go ahead with it,” he said.  Attempts to reach an agreement on a region-wide EU patent
since 2000 have faltered over the language issues. The EU has 23
official languages and numerous compromise proposals have failed
to satisfy political demands or risked increasing translation
costs for companies.  Pratt, Rolls-Royce Extend Venture to 2045 Amid Patent Fight  International Aero Engines, the venture led by  Pratt &
Whitney  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , said its members renewed
their alliance agreement through 2045 even as the two lead
partners wrestle over patent litigation.  IAE will continue to “to develop and apply our
technology,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Aitken said yesterday
in a statement, signaling that the group has the ability to work
on new products and not just service existing engines.  Formed in 1983 , IAE makes the V2500 line of engines for
Airbus SAS’s A320 narrow-body jet family. Airbus said Dec. 1 it
was offering Pratt & Whitney’s new PurePower geared turbofan as
an option on its upgraded A320neo after Rolls-Royce and Pratt &
Whitney reached an impasse on marketing the engine via IAE.  Rolls-Royce sued Pratt & Whitney in May, claiming the fan
made by the  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  unit for a larger engine
infringed a Rolls-Royce design, later amending the suit to
include the geared turbofan engine. The fight escalated with
Pratt & Whitney filing its own suit as well as a complaint with
the U.S. International Trade Commission.  IAE’s V2500 competes with models from the larger CFM
International, a venture of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF) 
of  France . CFM is the sole engine provider for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 737,
the world’s most widely flown airliner and an A320 rival. CFM’s
Leap-X also is an option on the A320neo.  Yesterday’s accord extends IAE’s existing ownership of 32.5
percent for London-based Rolls-Royce, 32.5 percent for Pratt &
Whitney, 22 percent for Japanese Aero Engines and 12 percent for
Germany’s  MTU Aero Engines Holding AG. (MTX)   The case before the trade commission is In the Matter of
Certain Turbomachinery Blades and Engines, 2769, U.S.
International Trade Commission   Washington ).  The May patent case is Rolls-Royce Plc v. United
Technologies Corp., 1:10-cv-00457-LMB-JFA, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  The September suit by United Technologies is United
Technologies Corp. v. Rolls-Royce, 3:10-cv-1523-SRU, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut   New Haven ).  Nespresso Is Probed Over Ethical Coffee’s Patent Allegations    Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Nespresso unit said French authorities visited
its boutique on the Champs-Elysees and its Paris offices to seek
evidence after Ethical Coffee Co. alleged the brand infringed
its patents.  Nespresso rejects any claims that it violated its rival’s
patents, the company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
Nestle has sued Ethical Coffee in a separate lawsuit in France
alleging that the competitor is infringing Nespresso patents.  Ethical Coffee said in a statement yesterday that it asked
French authorities to investigate possible patent infringements.
Some Nespresso machines may violate the company’s patents,
Ethical Coffee Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Gaillard said
in a telephone interview.  Ethical Coffee and  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  last year started selling
their own versions of coffee for Nespresso machines, offering
consumers alternative pre-filled capsules for the first time.  Denner AB, a Swiss retailer, last week said it will resume
offering Nespresso-compatible coffeemaker capsules after a court
in  St. Gallen ,  Switzerland , lifted an injunction against their
sale.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark    Kentucky  Motorcycle Rally to Continue Without ‘Sturgis’ Name  A motorcycle rally will take place in Sturgis, Kentucky, in
this year even after South Dakota’s Sturgis Area Chamber of
Commerce filed a trademark-infringement lawsuit, the Rapid City
Journal  reported .  The chamber objected to the name of Kentucky’s Little
Sturgis Rally & Races for Charity Inc. and sued in federal court
in South Dakota in March 2008. The Kentucky organizers have
asked the court to dismiss the case.  The Rapid City newspaper reported that the owner of a
motorcycle shop in Kentucky is leading efforts to avoid the
trademark issue by holding the rally under a different name July
14-17.  The  Little Sturgis Rally website  says no rally is scheduled
and it isn’t connected to the group planning an alternative
event.  The 71st annual Sturgis Motorcycle Rally in South Dakota
will be held Aug. 8-14. Last year, the event had an estimated
attendance of 467,000 and generated $11.4 million in sales to
temporary vendors,  according to the official rally website .  The trademark infringement case is Sturgis Motorcycle Rally
Inc., v. Little Sturgis Rally & Races for Charity Inc., 5:08-cv-
05024-JLV, U.S. District Court, District of South Dakota.  U.K. Brand Owner Group’s Report Condemns ‘Parasitic Packaging’  British Brands Group , a U.K. group of brand owners, asked
that nation’s government to develop measures to eliminate what
it calls “parasitic” packaging.  The London-based group gathered together  examples  of
products in packaging similar to that used by brand owners,
including lookalike versions of  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s Head &
Shoulders anti-dandruff shampoo, the energy drink made by
Austria’s Red Bull GmbH, Unilever Plc’s I can’t Believe it’s not
Butter and  L’Oreal SA (OR) ’s Revitalift anti-wrinkle cream.  According to the group, the more a package looks like a
familiar brand, the more likely shoppers are to buy products by
mistake and to think they come from the same manufacturer.
Shoppers have expressed “a definite preference” for packaging
that doesn’t mislead them, the group said.  The brand group surveyed almost 3,000 shoppers in 2009 and
found that one third of them admitted buying the wrong package
by mistake because they were confused by the packaging. Similar
packaging colors led the reasons for shopper confusion, the
survey found.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  BMI Website Attacked by Operation Payback in Copyright Protest  Broadcast Music Inc., which collects licensing fees on
behalf of songwriters, composers and music publishers, was the
target of a Internet attack by a group of anonymous opponents of
copyright protection.  The group, which operates “Operation Payback,” has
managed to keep BMI’s  bmi.com  website offline since March 8.  According to  a posting  on the AnonNews.org website,
Operation Payback “will not rest until our demands are met.”  Previously, Operation Payback targeted the U.S. Copyright
Office and the  Motional Picture Association of America .  Anonymous also has attacked sites belonging to the Westboro
Baptist Church and companies that denied service to the
WikiLeaks public-information operation.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Howrey, Once an IP Powerhouse, Will Dissolve March 15  Howrey LLP, the 55-year-old Washington-based law firm, will
cease operations effective March 15, Chief Executive Officer
Robert Ruyak said.  When Howrey merged with Houston’s Arnold White & Durkee in
2000, it had the world’s largest  intellectual-property  practice.
Many of Howrey’s marquee names in IP departed in recent months,
including William C. Rooklidge, who headed the practice. He
joined Washington’s  Jones Day .  Other notable departures include David C. Clough, who
joined Philadelphia’s Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP; Robert Galvin,
who left to join Washington’s Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale &
Dorr LLP; and Henry Bunsow, who left Howrey’s Silicon Valley
office to join New York-based Dewey & Leboeuf LLP. Marjan Noor
joined London-based Simmons & Simmons and Michael Padden is now
at Levenfeld Pearlstein LLC of  Chicago .  Another Howrey alumnus is Q. Todd Dickinson, who served as
deputy commissioner of patents and trademarks during the Clinton
administration. Dickinson is now executive director of the
American Intellectual Property Law Association.  Ruyak said an orderly wind-down of the firm was the only
“practical alternative” after a disappointing financial
performance during the past two years and the resignation of a
number of partners. The firm sent layoff notices to employees
March 9.  “This is a very difficult time for our firm, for our
attorneys and for our staff,” Ruyak said in a statement. “Many
of us have spent our entire legal careers at Howrey and remain
proud of what we built.”  More than 140 partners have left Howrey since April, the
American Lawyer, a trade publication, reported.  Greenberg Traurig Hires Two to Expand Washington IP Practice  Greenberg Traurig LLP hired two IP specialists for its
Washington office, the New York-based firm said in a  statement .  The two new partners are Charanjit “Charan” Brahma and
Heidi Salow.  Brahma , who joined from Chicago’s Kirkland & Ellis LLP, is
a patent litigator who has represented clients in the
pharmaceutical, medical device, agricultural, Internet and
telecommunications industries. He also has done patent
acquisition work.  Before he was a lawyer, he worked as a guidance and control
systems engineer for Texas Instrument Inc.’s defense systems
group.  Brahma has an undergraduate degree in mechanical
engineering from the University of  California  at Berkeley, a
master’s degree in mechanical engineering from the University of
Michigan, and a law degree from  University of California 
Hastings College of the law.  Salow , who joins from Chicago’s DLA Piper LLP, does
intellectual-property, privacy and data-security work.  She
previously was senior director and senior counsel for  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)   Salow has an undergraduate degree from McGill University
and a law degree from the University of Baltimore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 