-- 
Oil Tumbles, Yen Rallies on Japan Quake; Stocks in U.S. Rise

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-03-11T20:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/stocks-slide-as-insurers-fall-after-japan-earthquake-bunds-gain-on-talks.html
Oil fell, helping reverse a slide
in global stocks, as crude demand weakened after  Japan ’s worst
earthquake on record forced refineries to close. The yen gained
as investors bought the domestic currency as a haven.  Oil slumped 1.5 percent to $101.16 a barrel at 3:09 p.m. in
New York and earlier fell 3.6 percent for its biggest drop since
November. The MSCI World Index erased a loss of as much as 0.5
percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.9 percent
to 1,306.49 as higher-than-estimated profit forecasts from Steel
Dynamics Inc. and Pall Corp. lifted commodity and industrial
shares. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 1.7 percent. The
yen rose 1.3 percent versus the dollar, the most since August.  The  Bank of Japan  pledged to ensure financial stability
after as hundreds of people were killed in the 8.9-magnitude
quake that triggered a tsunami that engulfed towns on the
northern coast. Losses in oil and the rebound in stocks also
came as protesters in  Saudi Arabia  stayed away from a so-called
Day of Rage as police were deployed in force to deter activists.  “Investors continue to grapple with the bigger issue of
the price of oil and how the movement of revolutions across the
Middle East and northern  Africa  will unfold,” said  David Goerz ,
the San Francisco-based chief investment officer at Highmark
Capital Management Inc., which oversees $17 billion. “It’s a
volatile period, but we’re buying on the dips and continue to
stay long in equities, the economic expansion looks resilient
and sustainable.”  Refineries Shut    Brent crude  for April settlement fell 1.1 percent to
$114.12 a barrel in London, capping its first weekly loss in
seven. The earthquake and aftershocks set a 220,000 barrel-a-day
Cosmo Oil Co. refinery on fire near  Tokyo . JX Nippon Oil &
Energy Corp. closed refineries in Sendai, Kashima and Negishi.
JX Nippon’s three plants that shut have a combined processing
capacity of about 600,000 barrels a day.  President  Barack Obama  said he’s prepared to tap the
nation’s strategic oil reserve if necessary to deal with any
disruptions in the  energy supply  and said the  Justice Department 
will be on the watch for any evidence of price gouging.  “In an economy that relies on oil, gas prices affect
everybody,” Obama said at a White House news conference. Obama
refused to say what level prices would have to hit for the U.S.
to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  The  S&P 500  rebounded after slumping 1.9 percent yesterday
to its lowest level since January. Today’s advance trimmed the
gauge’s weekly loss to 1.3 percent. The benchmark index for U.S.
stocks has fallen almost 3 percent from a 32-month high last
week amid concern surging energy costs will stifle growth. It’s
still up 93 percent from its bear-market low two years ago amid
improving corporate profits and government stimulus efforts.  Valero, Steel Dynamics Jump    Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  surged 5.9 percent after the largest
U.S. oil refiner agreed to buy Chevron Corp.’s U.K. refinery and
1,000 retail stores. Steel Dynamics climbed 3.7 percent after
forecasting more profit than analysts estimated. Pall drove
industrial stocks higher after boosting its earnings forecast.
National Semiconductor Corp. rose 3.7 percent after the
chipmaker reported earnings that beat analysts’ projections.  The iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund, a U.S. exchange-traded
fund that tracks the Japanese market, slid 1.7 percent to
$10.81, its lowest price of the year.  ‘Human Tragedy’  “The market is digesting the earthquake in Japan, which is
a human tragedy but probably won’t have a big financial
impact,” said  Uri Landesman , who helps oversee about $900
million as managing general partner of New York-based hedge fund
Platinum Partners LLP. “The global economy is recovering on
balance, but it’s very fragile as we see this week and the
market is more event-driven right now.”  S&P 500 futures briefly erased losses before exchanges
opened in  New York  after Commerce Department data showed retail
sales excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which
are the figures used to calculate gross domestic product,
increased 0.6 percent for a second month in January. That topped
the median economist forecast for a 0.5 percent increase,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Total sales increased 1
percent, matching estimates.  U.S. stocks fell to their lows of the session after the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment fell to 68.2 in March from 77.5 in February.
The gauge was projected to decline to 76.3, according to the
median estimate of 68 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Estimates ranged from 74 to 80. The index averaged 89 in the
five years leading up the recession that began in December 2007
and ended in June 2009.  European Shares  Five stocks dropped for every one that gained in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, as all 19 industry groups declined.  Munich Re 
and Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s biggest reinsurers, lost
more than 3.5 percent. K+S AG, Europe’s largest potash
manufacturer, dropped 4.7 percent.  The Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index tumbled 2.4
percent for its biggest loss since June.  The cost of insuring insurance company bonds rose, with
credit-default swaps protecting the senior debt of Swiss Re
climbing 9.7 basis points to 125.2 according to CMA. Contracts
on Munich Re increased 8.4 basis points to 76.4.  The  Nikkei 225  fell to the lowest since January and the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.8 percent. The yen appreciated
against 15 of 16 of its most-traded counterparts, climbing 0.8
percent versus the euro. The Markit iTraxx Japan index of
default swaps tied to the nation’s government and corporate
bonds rose 5.2 basis points to 102.15, according to Markit Group
Ltd.  ‘Another Uncertainty’  “The Japan earthquakes added another uncertainty to
markets that were already plagued with turmoil in the Middle
East and European debt concerns,” said Kang Shin Woo, chief
investment officer at Seoul-based Korea Investment Management
Co., which manages $17 billion. “This could raise concern for
the Japanese economy that has showed some signs of recovery.”    Portugal ’s 10-year benchmark bond dropped for the fifth
day, with the yield 10 basis points higher at 7.60 percent. The
extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold the debt
instead of bunds rose 14 basis points to 439 basis points, while
the Greek 10-year spread over German debt widened 9.5 basis
points to 960 basis points.  The yield on the 30-year U.S. Treasury bond rose four basis
points to 4.54 percent. The yield slid by the most this year
yesterday as demand at a $13 billion auction of the securities
rose to the highest level since 2000.  Metal Prices  Copper for delivery in May reversed earlier losses, gaining
0.6 percent to $4.2225 a pound in New York. Aluminum, lead and
zinc declined in  London . Gold for immediate delivery rose 0.6
percent to $1,420.50 an ounce.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks in developing
nations dropped 0.6 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index
declined 0.8 percent after People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said the government will use  interest rates  to control
inflation, which rose at a faster-than-forecast 4.9 percent in
February.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
lost 0.8 percent after factory output grew more than analysts
expected, giving the central bank scope to raise interest rates
next week to quell inflation. Russia’s Micex index slid 0.7
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  