-- 
South Africa Stocks Erase Biggest 2-Day Drop Since May; BHP Billiton Rises

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-03-11T15:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/stocks-in-south-africa-pare-biggest-two-day-drop-since-may-on-japan-pledge.html
South African stocks erased the
biggest two-day drop since May, led by MTN Group Ltd., Naspers
Ltd. and  BHP Billiton Plc. (BIL)   The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index closed 0.9 percent up
at 31,173.86 by 5 p.m. in Johannesburg after falling as much as
1.3 percent. This trimmed its loss in the week to 3.6 percent,
the biggest since the five days through May 21.  BHP Billiton ,
the world’s biggest mining company that led earlier declines,
erased a drop of as much as 2.1 percent to close 0.7 percent
higher at 257 rand. Copper, a bellwether for global growth,
pared an earlier loss of as much as 2.2 percent.  Japan’s central bank pledged to ensure financial stability
after an earthquake, the world’s biggest in six years, struck
the country. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  mobilized Japan’s Self-
Defense Forces and set up an emergency task force after a
magnitude 8.9 earthquake struck off the coast of Sendai, a city
of 1 million, causing damage across the east coast of Japan. The
central bank, which has already cut its benchmark rate to zero
in an effort to end deflation, had last month said the economy
was poised to recover from a contraction in the fourth quarter.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. jumped for the first day in four,
adding 1.3 percent to 97.33 rand. The bank will sell its stake
in  Russia ’s Troika Dialog to OAO Sberbank, the country’s largest
lender, for $372 million. Africa’s largest bank may return
capital to shareholders and “buy commercial banks in  Africa ”
following the sale, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  