-- 
Latin America Closes Oil Facilities, Ports on Tsunami Alert

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s ,   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-03-11T20:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/tsunami-alert-issued-across-south-america-in-aftermath-of-japan-earthquake.html
Latin American governments from  Mexico  to Chile closed Pacific coast ports, oil pipelines, roads
and schools on tsunami alerts after Japan was hit by its
strongest earthquake on record.  Chile will close its northern ports of Iquique and
Antofagasta tonight, while Mexico shut three ports and Ecuador’s
state oil company PetroEcuador suspended crude oil shipments
from its Esmeraldas refinery after the 8.9-magnitude quake
triggered a warning from the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center.  Peru , the world’s largest fishmeal producer, suspended fishing
in the southern port of Pisco and closed a coastal road in its
capital.  “This is a preventative alert,” Chile’s President
Sebastian Pinera told reporters today. “If there are any
consequences from the earthquake and tsunamis that hit Japan,
they would occur in the last hours of the day.”  Earthquakes in Chile in 2010 and Peru in 2007 spurred
flooding, killing hundreds of people and causing tens of
billions of dollars in damage. Port closures in Chile, the
world’s largest copper producer, may delay shipments by Codelco
and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the companies said.  Two-meter high waves hit  California , damaging boats,
according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration . Ecuador President  Rafael Correa  invoked
emergency powers, giving the police and military control over
the Andean country’s coast.  Coastal areas of Chile’s Easter Island are being evacuated
and people on the Galapagos Islands were ordered to take higher
ground as tour ships moved toward deeper water.  Colombia ’s
biggest port, Buenaventura, is on alert.  Galapagos Visitors  Waves generated by the quake may reach the Chilean coast,
after 9 p.m., Onemi, Chile’s emergency service, said on its
website. Waves may reach Peru’s coast about 6 p.m. New York
time, President  Alan Garcia  told reporters in Lima.  Galapagos tour operator  Lindblad Expeditions  keeps two
ships in the islands year-round and has ordered them to stay
away from the coast with their guests aboard, spokeswoman Patty
Disken-Cahill said via e-mail.  The Chilean port of Valparaiso is asking ships to abandon
its terminals in anticipation of the waves, the port authority,
Empresa Portuaria Valparaiso, said in an e-mailed statement.
Nearby San Antonio port also is telling ships to leave by 6 p.m.
New York time, Operations Director Edmundo Silva said by phone.    Ecuador  Shuts Oil Pipeline  Easter Island suspended school classes and is preparing to
evacuate people living near the coast, island Governor Carmen
Cardinali told state television station TVN. Schools and
government offices on the Chilean mainland will remain open,
Pinera said this morning. The Galapagos Islands aren’t under an
evacuation order, Luis Alvarez, a press officer at the Heritage
Coordination Ministry, said in a phone interview from  Quito .  Ecuador’s heavy crude oil pipeline operator,  Oleoductos de
Crudos Pesados Ecuador SA , known as OCP, said in a statement it
suspended oil shipments today because of the tsunami.  Codelco, Chile’s state-run copper company, said all ports
it uses to ship copper will close today. Empresa Nacional del
Petroleo,  Chile ’s state oil refiner known as Enap, has
contingency plans for a possible tsunami, said a company
official briefed on the matter. Enap’s refineries in central and
southern Chile are operating normally, the official, who
declined to be named, said by telephone today.  Lima’s port of Callao and low-lying, heavily populated
areas such as La Punta may be evacuated tonight, according to
the head of Civil Defense, General Luis Palomino. Schools were
closed in areas along Peru’s northern and central coast.  Today’s temblor shook buildings across Tokyo and unleashed
a tsunami as high as seven meters, engulfing towns along the
northern coast. At least 300 people were killed by the 23-foot
wave and many are missing, according to Japanese police. State
broadcaster NHK Television showed footage of flood waters
sweeping away buildings and vehicles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;  Alex Emery  in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  