-- 
Tsunami Reaches U.S. West Coast; One Missing, Boats Crushed

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-11T23:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/tsunami-waves-begin-reaching-west-coast-of-u-s-after-8-9-quake-hits-japan.html
The U.S. Coast Guard said it was
searching for a person swept out to sea in northern  California 
as tsunami waves reached the western U.S., prompting coastal
evacuations and sinking or damaging scores of vessels.  Communities from southern Oregon to Los Angeles were warned
to brace for swells after an 8.9-magnitude earthquake in Japan
unleashed waves as high as 23 feet that killed hundreds.  Three people watching the waves were swept away near the
Klamath River in far northwest California, Coast Guard spokesman
Todd Vorenkamp said. Two made it back to shore and one was
missing, he said. Dozens of vessels were damaged at nearby
Crescent City, while south of San Francisco, county officials
said as many as 20 boats sank in Santa Cruz harbor.  “Our harbor has been destroyed,” said Scott Feller, a
harbor commissioner in Crescent City, a fishing town of about
7,600. “We have 35 boats that have been crushed or stacked up
on each other that didn’t leave the harbor. Our dock has been
destroyed.”  California Governor  Jerry Brown  declared a state of
emergency in four coastal counties, directing emergency
management personnel to aid local governments there.  Crescent City was the site of a 1964 tsunami that killed 11
people and has often been struck by giant waves.  “We had a tsunami in 2006 that destroyed half the harbor
and this one took out the rest of it,” Feller said.  The peak surge was 8.1 feet (2.5 meters) this morning and
“we’re expecting waves all the way through 9 p.m.,” Feller
said.  Downtown Deserted  Crescent City’s downtown was deserted and the banks, stores
and schools were closed, said Richard Enea, a member of the city
council, in a telephone interview from his home a block from the
ocean.  A siren sounded at 4 a.m. to warn residents to move to
higher ground, and police cars drove through the streets
instructing people to evacuate, Enea said.  “We practice this all the time,” Enea said. “It’s not a
shock.”  South of San Francisco, waves caused $2 million to $3
million in damage to docks and vessels in  Santa Cruz ’s small-
boats harbor, according to Enrique Sahagun, the county
information officer.  “Up to 20 boats might have sunk or have sunk, close to 100
have suffered some kind of damage,” Sahagun said. “On the
docks, there’s been significant damage.”  About 6,600 residents received “reverse 911 calls at 6:40
a.m., telling them to evacuate,” he said.  No Escape  In Brookings, Oregon, just north of the California state
line, City Manager Gary Milliman said he thought his town had
escaped the tsunami after an early surge in the harbor only
loosened some boats from their moorings.  Then, about 10:40 a.m., a larger wave rolled through,
destroying about 75 percent of the wood-and-metal docks in the
commercial port alone and damaging a harbor for recreational
boats, Milliman said.  “We were surprised,” he said. “We thought it had passed
us by."  Four people were swept away by waves near the Pistol River
State Scenic Viewpoint, a  state park , Milliman said. They were
rescued and one was being treated for hypothermia.  Private Insurance    Craig Fugate , administrator of the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency , said private insurance would have to pick up
the tab for boats that were destroyed.  ‘‘A lot of what you’ll see is damage to private property,’’
he said at a news conference.  The Coast Guard temporarily halted oil and hazardous-liquid
shipments to the ports of  San Francisco , Oakland and  Los Angeles 
and Oakland after the tsunami warning.  The tsunami’s effect in the U.S. was blunted as it hit at
the lowest tides of the day, the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration  said in a statement. It had earlier
predicted waves of between 2 to 3 feet high around San Francisco
and as much as 5 feet near Santa Cruz.  ‘‘What we’re telling people is, it depends on the locality,
it depends on the ocean floor and the first wave is not always
the largest,” said Donna Franklin, a spokeswoman for NOAA in  Washington .  Tsunami Alert  The West Coast and Alaska Tsunami Warning Center  raised an
alert for the West Coast of the U.S. after the strongest
earthquake on record for Japan unleashed waves that killed
hundreds of people and submerged towns on the Asian nation’s
northern coast.  Sirens warning of tsunami waves went off at 5 a.m. in
Seaside,  Oregon , said Jason Wallis, manager of Cleanline Surf
Shop.  “People started making their way up the hill early,”
Wallis said. “I grabbed my dad’s ashes, my dog’s ashes, my
photos and my favorite guitar and got out.”  In California, the coastal communities of Pacifica and Half
Moon Bay closed schools today as a precaution. Five of the
schools were designated evacuation centers.  Hawaii was hit by a 4.6-foot wave, according to scientists
at the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center, which was anticipating
scattered damage, not major destruction.  Damage in Hawaii  The Coast Guard reported “significant damages” to about
200 vessels in Keehi Lagoon on Oahu. La Mariana Sailing Club
sustained at least $500,000 in damages when three docks mooring
100 boats were torn away.  A foot of water entered the lobby of the King Kamehameha
Hotel on the Kailua-Kona coast of the Big Island. Waves also
damaged some Maui businesses near the Kahului Harbor and flooded
low-lying areas, said Maui Mayor Alan Arakawa.  Tsunamis are giant waves caused by earthquakes or volcanic
eruptions under the sea. They typically hit the shore as a
series of waves over a period of 10 to 12 hours.  A December 2004 temblor in  Indonesia  left about 220,000
people dead or missing in 12 countries around the  Indian Ocean .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  