-- 
U.K. House Prices Rise 0.3% as Pent-Up Demand Offsets Mortgage Restraints

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-11T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/u-k-house-prices-rise-0-3-on-pent-up-demand-acadametrics-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rose in February
as “pent-up demand” supported values and countered mortgage-
lending constraints, research company Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL
Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in England and  Wales  rose 0.3
percent from January to 222,456 pounds ($357,300), the groups
said in a report in London today. From a year earlier, values
fell 0.5 percent, the first annual decline since October 2009.  Banks approved 45,723 mortgages in January, about half the
average over the last decade.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax
unit reported that house prices fell last month and said that
economic uncertainty “is likely to weigh” on demand. The  Bank
of England  yesterday maintained emergency stimulus to nurse the
economy through the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II.  “There is little in the wider environment from which to
take comfort in terms of the future direction of prices,” Peter Williams, chairman of Acadametrics, said in the report. “We
anticipate that the annual rate in the change in house prices
will fluctuate around zero for at least the next few months.”  The number of transactions rose about 5 percent to 41,200
in February, Acadametrics said. That’s the second-weakest
February since 1995, when Land Registry data began, and is about
61 percent of the average monthly sales transactions over the
last 16 years.  Acadametrics combines initial housing transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures to
produce an estimate for the most recent month. That number is
then revised in following months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  