-- 
U.K. Lawyer Pleads Guilty in U.S. to KBR Bribery Scheme

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-03-11T17:37:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/u-k-lawyer-pleads-guilty-in-kbr-scheme-to-bribe-nigerians-over-contracts.html
A British lawyer pleaded guilty to
U.S. charges he conspired to bribe Nigerian government officials
to help  KBR Inc. (KBR)  win contracts for a $6 billion natural gas
project.  Jeffrey Tesler, 62, stopped fighting his extradition from
the U.K. last month, after the London Court of Appeals ruled he
should face charges in the U.S. He entered his plea today in
federal court in Houston before U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison.  “You seem like such an unlikely person to be here,”
Ellison said to Tesler. “Was it just that everyone was doing
this?”  “I think that’s a fair comment,” Tesler replied.  Ellison previously accepted guilty pleas from KBR, former
KBR Chief Executive Officer Albert Jack Stanley and a consultant
with KBR’s London unit over charges they violated the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the Nigerian project.  Tesler, who was indicted in Houston in February 2009 on 11
counts related to the U.S. anti-bribery law, pleaded guilty to
one count of conspiracy and one count of violation of FCPA. He
agreed to forfeit $148,964,568.  He will be released on $50,000 cash bond and required to
live in the Houston area until he is sentenced on June 22. He
faces up to 10 years in prison.  Natural Gas Project  Tesler admitted helping a KBR joint venture negotiate and
pay $180 million in bribes to Nigerian government officials so
the venture partners could win contracts to build the Bonny
Island liquefied natural gas project between 1994 and 2004.  The conspirators used a Gibraltar-based company controlled
by Tesler to funnel more than $130 million of the bribery
payments to Nigerians, William Stuckwisch, assistant chief of
the  Justice Department ’s fraud section, told Ellison today.  KBR pleaded guilty two years ago and agreed to pay $579
million to resolve criminal and regulatory charges over its role
in the scheme. Stanley also pleaded guilty and is awaiting
sentencing. He faces at least seven years in prison and will
forfeit $10.5 million.  Two of KBR’s three partners in the venture have made deals
to avoid U.S. prosecution. Snamprogetti Netherlands BV, a Dutch
engineering firm, agreed in July to pay $365 million with the
help of former parent company  Eni SpA (ENI)  to settle criminal and
civil charges.  Nigerian Scheme    Technip SA (TEC) ,  Europe ’s second-largest oilfield-services
provider, agreed in June to pay $338 million to resolve all
allegations it faced over the Nigerian scheme.  Wojciech Chodan, a British lawyer who was a consultant for
KBR’s London unit, was extradited to Houston from the U.K. in
December. He pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to
violate the FCPA and awaits sentencing. He faces up to five
years in prison and agreed to pay $726,885 in restitution.  The case is U.S. v. Tesler, 4:09-cr-00098, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella in New Yorkt . 