-- 
U.K.’s Business-Friendly Zones May Restrict Growth, Property Lobby Says

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-03-11T07:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/u-k-government-planning-goals-contradictory-harmful-property-lobby-says.html
The U.K. government’s efforts to
give local councils more power over planning contradict its
intention to create business-friendly zones and will jeopardize
development, the head of British Property Federation said.  “The two don’t strike me as entirely compatible,” BPF
Chief Executive Officer Liz Peace said in an interview in
Cannes,  France . “You have a local community that’s supposed to
be able to determine what it wants, but you create an enterprise
zone where business could do what it likes.”  Local authorities were given greater say in approving new
developments after the coalition government scrapped regional
homebuilding targets last year. A proposal made last week will
allow businesses in so-called “enterprise zones” to sidestep
local planning controls, helping them expand.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is encouraging businesses to
boost hiring as his government of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats cuts thousands of state jobs to slash the country’s
record budget deficit. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will unveil the plan for enterprise zones when he
presents the budget on March 23.  “They will be centers for new businesses and new jobs
where taxes will be even lower and more restrictions on growth
removed,” Osborne said in a March 5 speech.  Peace says she doesn’t oppose the idea of more local
decision-making as long as there’s a proper system in place that
people involved can understand.  “My worry is that it will take time to implement and so
the next few years might be quite slow in development terms,”
Peace said.  Councils, which are facing budget cuts of 4.4 percent on
average, are being offered incentives to approve more housing
plans. They include the New Home Bonus which will match council-
tax payments for new homes in their districts for six years.
Though almost 1 billion pounds ($1.61 billion) has been
allocated for the bonus, it may hinder development, Peace said.  “I suspect the Treasury is actually quite nervous and that
they are deeply worried that this localism agenda, despite all
the incentives, will actually lead to no growth, or less
growth,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Chris Spillane} in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 