-- 
U.S. 10-Year Treasury Yield Reaches Month Low After Earthquake Hits Japan

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-11T12:05:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/u-s-10-year-treasury-yield-reaches-month-low-after-earthquake-hits-japan.html
Treasury 10-year yields declined to
the lowest since January after an 8.9-magnitude  earthquake  and
tsunami struck Japan, bolstering demand for the relative safety
of  U.S. government debt .  Five- and 10-year Treasuries fluctuated between gains and
losses as investors assessed the extent of the damage cause by
the temblor. Asian and European stocks declined. Thirty-year
bonds were little changed before a U.S. report forecast to
show retail sales rose in February by the most in four months.  “When people are unsure they grab safe assets and
traditionally the safest assets are the very liquid shorter-
dated government bonds,” said  Steven Major , global head of
fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “No one
really knows what the implications are” of the earthquake.  Ten-year yields declined one basis point to 3.35 percent as
of 7:04 a.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 rose
3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 102 9/32. The yield
earlier slid as much as three basis points to 3.33 percent, the
least since Jan. 31.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  mobilized Japan’s Self-Defense
Forces and the central bank pledged to ensure financial
stability after the earthquake struck off the coast of northern
Japan, shaking buildings in Tokyo. The  Philippines ,  Indonesia ,  Taiwan  and  Papua New Guinea  were bracing for possible tsunamis
as waves that may be traveling as fast as 800 kilometers an hour
radiated from the epicentre.  ‘Knocked Back’  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell as much as 1.4
percent, putting the regional benchmark index on course for its
biggest weekly drop since May. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
declined 0.8 percent.  U.S. retail sales rose in February by 1 percent, the most
in four months, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the data’s release.  “The market may get knocked back a little bit,” said
Colin Embree, Singapore-based head of fixed-income trading and
sales at Bank of Nova Scotia Asia Ltd., a unit of  Canada ’s
third-largest lender. “We’ll be reminded today that the economy
is improving.”  Separate reports in the U.S. today will show business
inventories rose and consumer sentiment declined, according to
economist estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  The spread between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, rose to 2.49
percentage points.  At an auction of 30-year bonds held yesterday, the
securities yielded 4.569 percent, compared with an average
forecast of 4.610 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven
primary dealers.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.02, the
highest since the auction on Aug. 10, 2000.  Treasuries have gained this month, returning 0.2 percent,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The MSCI World Index of
stocks dropped 2.1 percent in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  