-- 
U.S. Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index Falls More Than Estimated to 68.2

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-11T16:23:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-falls-more-than-estimated-to-68-2.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
fell more than forecast in March as a surge in fuel prices
threatened to squeeze household budgets.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment fell to 68.2, the lowest in five
months, from 77.5 in February. The gauge was projected to
decline to 76.3, according to the median estimate of 68
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The index of expectations
plunged to the lowest level since March 2009.  The nine-point drop in sentiment this month was the biggest
since October 2008, the last time average gasoline prices topped
$3.50 a gallon. A report earlier today showed retail sales rose
by the most in four months in February, suggesting fuel costs
have yet to restrain the  consumer spending  that makes up 70
percent of the economy.  “Consumers are reacting to the run-up in gas prices, which
accelerated in the middle of February,” said Ryan Wang, an
economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in  New York . “It’s taking
up a bigger portion of their wallet. If fuel prices rise even
further, it could be a threat to consumer spending.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,295.20 at 11:22 a.m. in New York.  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 74 to 80,
according to the Bloomberg survey. While the index averaged 89
in the five years leading up to the recession that began
December 2007, it hasn’t reached that level since the recovery
started in June 2009.  Current Conditions  The survey’s gauge of current conditions, which reflects
Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and whether
it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars, fell to
83.6 from 86.9 the prior month.  Crude oil has surged amid unrest in  Libya  and the Middle
East, pushing up costs of gasoline. The average price of regular
gasoline at the pump climbed to $3.54 a gallon yesterday,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
dropped to 58.3 from 71.6. The 13-point decline was the most
since September 2005, in the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina .  Recent stock-price declines may have also damped sentiment.
The  S&P 500  fell in five of eight trading days this month
through yesterday, when it reached the lowest level since
January.  Consumer Comfort Index  Today’s report mirrors other consumer gauges. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 44.5 in the week to
March 6, from the prior week’s minus 39.7, which was close to
the highest in almost three years. Sentiment suffered the most
among respondents who lacked a full-time job or any employment
and those earning less than $50,000 a year.    Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. grocery-store chain, is among
companies concerned about the rising cost of food and fuel,
which “will affect customer shopping behaviors,” according to
a March 9 presentation by Michael Schlotman, chief financial
officer of the Cincinnati-based retailer. It could “limit the
customer’s ability to spend in other areas,” he said.  Terry Lundgren, chief executive officer of Cincinnati-based  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
echoed the concern in a presentation the same day, adding higher
fuel expenses “will certainly affect some more than others.”  Labor Market  Recent reports show the job market is starting to improve.
The  unemployment rate  fell in February to 8.9 percent, the
lowest since April 2009 and the third straight monthly decline,
while the economy added 192,000 workers to payrolls, the most
since May. First-time claims for  unemployment benefits  rose last
week from an almost three-year low, the Labor Department
reported yesterday.  Consumers in the Michigan confidence survey said they
expect an inflation rate of 4.6 percent over the next 12 months,
the highest level since August 2008, compared with 3.4 percent
in the February report.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expected a 3.2 percent rate of
inflation, compared with 2.9 percent the prior month.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in his semiannual testimony
before Congress last week, said sustained rises in the prices of
oil or other commodities “would represent a threat both to
economic growth and to overall  price stability .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  