-- 
U.S. Job Openings Fell in January as Firms Were Wary of Hiring

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-11T16:06:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/u-s-job-openings-fell-in-january-as-firms-were-wary-of-hiring.html
Job openings in the U.S. decreased
in January to the lowest level in four months, a sign companies
were cautious about hiring as the new year began.  The number of positions waiting to be filled dropped by
161,000 to 2.76 million after revisions of previous months’
numbers, the Labor Department said today in a statement posted
on its website. The number of people hired fell as did the
number of workers fired.  The unemployment rate is forecast to average 9.1 percent
this year, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg last
month, even as the rate fell to 8.9 percent in February
and job growth was the fastest in nine months. Hiring must
accelerate faster, particularly among small companies, to help
restore the more than 8.75 million jobs lost during the
recession.  “Job openings are low and hiring has been weak,”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan & Co. Inc. in  New York ,
said before the report. “There is still cautiousness on the
part of firms about hiring new people.”  Job openings decreased 5.5 percent in January from a
revised 2.92 million in the prior month, the Labor Department
report showed.  The decline in openings was led by 115,000 drop in openings
at professional and business services, which include
accountants, computer systems experts and temporary-help
agencies. Government also had 115,000 fewer openings in January.  Construction showed an 18,000 increase in job openings,
while trade, transportation and utilities had a 26,000 increase,
and manufacturing went up 13,000, according to the data released
today.  Vying for Openings  Compared with the 13.9 million Americans who were
unemployed in January, today’s figures indicate there were 5
people vying for every opening, up from about 1.8 when the
recession began in December 2007. The number of jobless fell to
13.7 million last month, pushing the  unemployment rate  down, the
Labor Department reported March 4.  Today’s report helps shed light on the dynamics behind the
monthly employment figures. Private payrolls rose by 222,000
workers in February after a 68,000 gain the prior month, the
Labor Department figures showed last week.  Employers took on 3.71 million workers in January, 193,000
fewer than the previous month, according to today’s report.
Total firings, which exclude retirements and those who left
their jobs voluntarily, decreased to 1.52 million from 1.68
million a month before.  Voluntarily Leaving  A decrease in the number of people voluntarily leaving jobs
may be one sign Americans feel less confident about finding
other work. About 1.66 million people quit their jobs in
January, representing 47 percent of all separations. That was
down from 1.84 million, or 48 percent, in December 2010.  In the 12 months ended in January, the economy created a
net 1 million jobs, representing about 47.3 million hires
compared with about 46.3 million separations, today’s report
showed.  Central bank policy makers will likely keep  interest rates 
near zero and maintain plans to buy $600 billion in  Treasury
securities  by June to boost growth as they await signs of
sustained  job creation . Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said employment data are encouraging.  “We do see some grounds for optimism about the job market
over the next few quarters,” Bernanke said March 1 during
testimony before lawmakers. Still, the labor market “has
improved only slowly,” and it may take “several years” for
the unemployment rate to reach a “more normal level,” he said.  While higher fuel costs may be of concern for consumers,
bigger paychecks thanks to the tax compromise reached by
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans in December
are probably preventing demand from slipping for now.  Companies taking on staff include Atlanta-based Home Depot.
The world’s largest home improvement retailer in February said
it is hiring more than 60,000 temporary workers in the U.S., and
adding permanent employees for the second year in a row.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  