-- 
UBS Says Madoff Trustee Disclosure May Endanger Employees

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-03-11T18:44:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/ubs-says-madoff-trustee-disclosure-in-lawsuits-might-endanger-employees.html
  UBS AG (UBSN) , sued for $2.6 billion by
the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s defunct firm, said
publicly identifying employees who aren’t central to the
lawsuits might put them in danger.  Trustee Irving H. Picard, who has filed 1,000 lawsuits
seeking $100 billion for investors in the  Ponzi scheme ,
responded to media demands for disclosure first by unsealing
complaints and then moving to reveal blanked-out names. Six
current and former UBS employees who mostly “happened to”
write e-mails or internal documents would probably be
“tarnished, or worse” in news coverage, the Zurich-based bank
said in a filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  “The Madoff fraud has thrown a blanket of stigma upon
anyone associated with the scandal,” UBS said. “The revelation
of the Madoff fraud has already been connected to the suicide of
two individuals reportedly involved in dealings with  Bernard
Madoff ,” it said, citing Mark Madoff, the conman’s son, and
Thierry Magon de la Villehuchet, chief executive officer of
Access International Advisors.  UBS was responding to a March 4 court order to “show
cause” why Picard shouldn’t publish unredacted complaints. The
instruction followed a judge’s conference with lawyers for WNBC-
TV, NBC News, CNBC and  New York  Times Co. where “concerns were
raised” about the redactions, according to the order signed by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland .  Public ‘Curiosity’  If named, the currently anonymous UBS employees’ phone
numbers and addresses may be located, they may be threatened or
harmed, and their careers may suffer, said UBS,  Switzerland ’s
biggest bank.  While the public has a right to monitor the courts,
“curiosity as to the role of innocent bystanders referenced in
litigation is not reason enough to favor a presumption of
access,” the bank said.  Picard sued UBS twice, claiming it aided the Madoff fraud
partly by setting up feeder funds that invested in the Ponzi
scheme and agreeing “to look the other way” at irregularities.
UBS said the claims were “unfounded and without merit.”    Citigroup Inc. (C) , sued by the trustee for $425 million, said
Picard’s move toward total disclosure would affect 12 current
and former employees not involved in the case, who couldn’t
defend themselves.  ‘No Interest’  “None of these individuals is a public figure, none is
named as a defendant, and none is alleged to have known of
Madoff’s scheme,” the New York-based bank said in a court
filing yesterday. “That identifying information is of no
relevance and of no public interest, and disclosure would
violate the legitimate privacy interests of these non-party
employees.”  Citigroup said Picard’s claims that it assisted in the
fraud, based on transactions with two trading partners entered
into at their request, were “completely false.”  The UBS case is Picard v. UBS AG, 10-ap-4285,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 