-- 
Tullett Prebon, Tradition Combination Talks Are Said to Stall Over Price

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-03-11T16:18:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/tullett-prebon-tradition-combination-talks-are-said-to-stall-over-price.html
  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  and Compagnie
Financiere Tradition SA, two European-based inter-dealer
brokers, held talks about a combination in recent months that
have since stalled over price, said two people with knowledge of
the matter.  Tullett, a London-based brokerage valued at about 858
million pounds ($1.4 billion), didn’t want to agree to pay a
premium to Tradition’s market value as a starting point for
serious negotiations, one of the people said. Talks could still
be revived, the person said. Tradition’s closing share price
yesterday valued the Lausanne-based company at about 667 million
Swiss francs ($715 million), or 20 times earnings.  A combination of two of the industry’s biggest players
would bridge the gap with  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks. Companies such as ICAP, Tullett,
BGC Partners Inc. and GFI Group Inc. allow banks to trade
securities and credit-default, interest-rate and other swaps
among themselves electronically or by phone. Regulators are
writing rules governing how swaps trade, which will require more
efficient electronic systems.  “Consolidation definitely needs to happen” in the inter-
dealer brokerage industry, said Justin Bates, an equity analyst
at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  London . “The economies of scale
just make sense. Consolidation is likely to be amongst the more
pure voice brokers rather,” such as Tullet and Tradition, he
said, rather than those such as ICAP that have “substantial
electronic platforms.”    Asia  Business  Tullett shares fell 2.7 percent to 387.7 pence at 2:32 p.m.
in London trading. Tradition shares declined 0.6 percent to
108.1 francs.  Tullett, led by Chief Executive Officer  Terry Smith , would
get a bigger business in Asia and Latin America by acquiring
Tradition. Tullett generated 12.5 percent of revenue from Asia
Pacific, the fastest-growing region in which it operates, with
growth of 30 percent in 2010. Tradition got almost 25 percent of
its revenue from the region last year.  Tradition, controlled by Chairman Patrick Combes, would get
an electronic platform as the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. seeks
to push most trading in the $583 trillion privately negotiated
global  derivatives market  onto regulated trading systems or
exchanges where regulators can monitor activity.  A spokeswoman for Tullett declined to comment, and a
spokeswoman for Tradition didn’t return a phone call seeking
comment.  Tullett earlier this week reported a 2.1 percent decline in
2010 net income to 108.5 million pounds. Revenue dropped 4.1
percent to 908.5 million pounds because of broker defections in  North America . Tradition reported a 7.6 percent drop in 2010
revenue on a constant currency basis after a slump in volume at
a Japanese unit, Gaitame.com.  Tradition had an operating margin of 5.6 percent in the 12
months through June 2010, compared with a 2010 operating margin
of 16.8 percent for Tullett Prebon, according to figures
published this week by the U.K. company. Tullett trades at about
8 times earnings.  Telephone Trades  Whereas most derivatives trading has always been conducted
over the phone, with dealers sending quotes to customers through
e-mail, regulators are seeking to push more of the business onto
electronic platforms where multiple participants can make or
accept bids and offers.  Tradition has said a main area of focus is expanding
electronic capabilities. Tullett, which split off from U.K.
stockbroker  Collins Stewart Plc (CLST)  in 2006, said last year that it
is partnering with technology provider MillenniumIT to develop
its electronic broking capabilities. The company is planning to
start a system this year for trading interest-rate swaps --which
made up 22.5 percent of Tullett’s revenue in 2010 -- that will
allow clients to trade electronically or over the phone,
according to Tullett’s  website .  Electronic Platforms  The  U.S. Congress  last year mandated that most over-the-
counter derivatives trade on exchanges or so-called swap-
execution facilities, also known as SEFs, after a 100-fold surge
over seven years in credit-default swaps trading complicated
regulators’ ability to monitor risks being amassed in the
financial system.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , once the
world’s largest insurer, needed a $182.5 billion government
bailout because of credit swaps it sold that guaranteed payment
of subprime mortgages.  Leaders from the Group of 20 nations in 2009 vowed to
implement reforms that included moving the most actively traded
derivatives onto exchanges or electronic platforms “where
appropriate” by the end of 2012.  The new rules will force consolidation among derivatives
brokers and “once all is flushed out and done, you’ll have some
people completely disappear and others will merge,” said Kevin McPartland, a senior analyst with Tabb Group in  New York .  Banks often use the inter-dealer swaps market to lay off the
risk of a transaction they have done with a customer, using
brokers to enter the opposite trade with another bank. The
largest dealers make a collective $30 billion a year by
executing fixed-income swaps, such as for interest rate and
credit risk, with their customers, Robert Urtheil, a partner at
consulting firm  Oliver Wyman  who co-wrote a report with  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  on the future of the capital markets structure, said in
an interview last month.  For interdealer brokers, “even if it turns out that their
existing technology works well under certain parts of the new
rules, they’re still going to have to do the due diligence to
make sure that’s true,” said Tabb Group’s McPartland. “One way
or the other, they’re going to have to invest a lot of money to
make sure, because this hits at the core of their business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ; 