-- 
UN Requests Funds to Bolster African Peacekeepers in Somalia

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-11T11:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/un-requests-funds-to-bolster-african-peacekeepers-in-somalia.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
urged the international community to fund troops, helicopters
and logistical support for the  African Union peacekeeping force 
in Somalia to consolidate recent gains against Islamic rebels.  The council made the request yesterday during a debate on
the Horn of Africa nation, according to a  UN statement . Forces
loyal to the transitional government and African Union
peacekeepers recently expanded their control of territory in the
capital, Mogadishu, and in the southeast of the country.  The government led by Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed is
fighting insurgents including the al-Shabaab movement, which the
U.S. accuses of having links to al-Qaeda. Somalia has been
without a functioning central administration since 1991, when
ruler Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted.  “If we reinforce the military gains, provide humanitarian
relief and achieve political progress, we can set Somalia on
course for greater stability and peace,” UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon said in a speech at the start of the debate.  The UN authorized an increase in the number of African
Union peacekeepers from Uganda and Burundi to 12,000 from 8,000
in December. Extra funds are needed bolster the force, the
statement said. The 53-member African bloc wants the four-year-
old operation to expand to 20,000 peacekeepers.  The UN criticized the “unilateral actions” of Somalia’s
transitional parliament that Feb. 3 extended its mandate for
three years beyond August without enacting a constitution or
scheduling elections.  Extra humanitarian aid is also required, according to the
UN. The international community has contributed only a quarter
of the $529 million needed to support 2.4 million civilians
threatened by drought, the UN said.  “If we fail, we risk a growing humanitarian crisis, a
deteriorating security situation, and a worsening threat to
regional peace and stability,” Ban said, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 