-- 
Munich Re, Swiss Re Tumble as Earthquake, Tsunami Hit Japan's North Coast

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y ,   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-03-11T12:21:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/munich-re-swiss-re-slide-as-japan-earthquake-drives-insurance-shares-down.html
European reinsurers including  Munich Re  and Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s biggest,
tumbled after an 8.9 magnitude earthquake struck the coast of
Japan unleashing a tsunami that engulfed towns north of Tokyo.  The quake, the world’s strongest in more than six years,
struck offshore 373 kilometers northeast of Tokyo, and the
subsequent 10 meter-high tsunami swept across buildings and
farmland as far as 1.5 kilometers inland. At least 26 people
were killed and many more are missing, according to state
broadcaster NHK Television.  The  insurance industry  may have to pay out about $10
billion in claims, according to James Shuck, a London-based
insurance analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. That would
make the disaster the second-most costly temblor on record,
after the $15.3 billion quake that struck Northridge in the U.S.
in 1994, according to data compiled by Swiss Re.  “This looks like an expensive incident, but with that in
mind, both architects and the insurance industry plan for major
events in the region,” said Christian Muschick, a Frankfurt-
based analyst with Silvia Quandt & Cie. AG “Tokyo seems not to
be severely hit.”  The disaster caused the Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance
Index to fall 2.3 percent to 101.82 points, the largest drop
since August.  Scor SE (SCR) , Swiss Re,  Amlin Plc (AML)  and Munich Re, led
the declines. The four reinsurers, which provide cover to
primary insurers, said it’s too early to provide loss estimates
for themselves or the industry.  Buildings Swept Away  The earthquake and tsunami caused damage across “broad
areas” of northern Japan, according to  Newark , California-based
 Risk Management Solutions Inc.  State broadcaster NHK Television
showed footage of waves sweeping away buildings and vehicles.
Airports were closed and bullet train services suspended.
More than 4 million homes are without power, Tokyo Electric
Power Co. said.  A Japanese earthquake is one of catastrophe insurers’
four “peak zones” along with a San Francisco earthquake, U.S.
hurricanes and Gulf of Mexico hurricanes, so costs will probably
be spread equally among the biggest reinsurers, according Joy
Ferneyhough, a London-based insurance analyst at Banco Espirito
Santo de Investimento SA.  “My initial sense is this isn’t going to be a huge
industry loss,” she said. “This will be something smaller and
manageable, which will impact 2011 earnings, but not ‘the big
one’ that we’ve been waiting for to turn pricing.”  Lloyd’s Insurers  Lloyd’s of London insurers appear to have more at risk than
European reinsurers, based on “realistic disaster scenarios,”
according to Ben Cohen, a London-based analyst at  Collins
Stewart .  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL)  has the highest exposure, followed by
Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Ltd. and  Lancashire Holdings Ltd. (LRE) , he
wrote in a note to clients today.  The cost of protecting insurance companies’ bonds rose,
with credit-default swaps protecting the senior debt of Swiss Re
climbing 9 basis points to 125, the highest since Jan. 14, and
contracts on Munich Re increasing 9 basis points to 77,
according to CMA. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of default swaps tied to
the nation’s government and corporate bonds rose 4 basis points
to 102, the biggest jump since November, according to Markit
Group Ltd.  Reinsurance Swaps  Swaps linked to Hannover Re’s senior debt rose 10.5 basis
points to 126, the highest since June, and its junior swaps
increased 14 basis points to 165. Contracts on the lower-ranking
debt of ING Groep NV’s insurance holding company, ING
Verzekeringen, jumped 17 basis points to 285 and Swiss Re’s
increased 14 basis points to 154.  Reinsurers are already facing losses from the flooding in
Queensland,  Australia  at the end of last year and the New
Zealand earthquake that struck Christchurch on Feb. 22. Claims
from the New Zealand temblor may be between $6 billion and $12
billion, according to Swiss Re. The company’s own claims burden
is likely to be $800 million, it said.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, yesterday said
its full-year profit target of about 2.4 billion euros ($3.3
billion) “will only remain achievable, if random losses in the
further course of the year remain below expectations.”  The most costly earthquake to hit Japan struck Kobe, Osaka
and Kyoto in 1995, costing insurers about $3 billion, not taking
inflation into account. The quake caused $100 billion in total
economic losses, much higher than the sum covered by insurers as
infrastructure such as motorways and bridges were rarely insured
due to the high cost of insurance in an earthquake-prone area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net 
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net 
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  