-- 
Tunisian Revolt Bloggers Win Google-Sponsored Web Freedom Prize

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-11T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/tunisian-revolt-bloggers-win-google-sponsored-web-freedom-prize.html
A Tunisian blogging collective that
compiled WikiLeaks revelations on the country’s now-deposed
government won Reporters Without Borders’ annual prize for
promoting freedom of expression on the Internet, highlighting
the role of online media in this year’s Middle East uprisings.  Nawaat.org , a Tunisian site offering news, commentary, and
advice on circumventing censorship will be presented with the
Netizen Prize in Paris today, Reporters Without Borders said in
an e-mailed statement. Nawaat beat finalists from countries
including Bahrain, Thailand and China for the award, which is
sponsored by search-engine owner  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Social media and other online information sources have
taken center stage in uprisings in Tunisia,  Egypt , Bahrain, and  Libya , with participants using Twitter, YouTube, and Facebook to
spread news and co-ordinate protests. In Libya, where rebels are
fighting forces loyal to Muammar Qaddafi,  Internet access  has
been periodically blocked in much of the country since early
March, sending traffic  plunging  below normal levels.  “These movements have demonstrated how the Internet has
become a genuine tool of mobilization,” Reporters Without
Borders Secretary-General Jean-Francois Julliard said by phone
yesterday. “The revolutions took place in the street, but they
clearly used social media and other technologies as tools.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  this year announced
the creation of a State Department office dedicated to online
issues, and criticized efforts to block Internet access in
countries such as Egypt.  Google, owner of the world’s most-used search engine, last
year suspended its Chinese operations after declining to censor
search results in line with government requests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ; 