-- 
United Technologies CEO Says Obama Makes Business-Friendly Shift

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/united-technologies-ceo-says-obama-makes-business-friendly-shift.html
  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  Chief
Executive Officer Louis Chenevert said President Barack Obama
has become more “business-friendly,” a step that will spur
investment and help the recovery.  Obama’s administration is showing a willingness to consider
tax policies such as permanent credits for research and
development, and “to look at deficit reduction,” Chenevert
said yesterday in an interview in New York.  “I’m encouraged, actually, to see the renewed focus to
support large businesses like ours,” he told reporters, noting
that Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies has more
than 75,000 employees in the U.S.  The White House has sought to forge closer ties with CEOs
in recent months after attacks from business groups such as the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The president named  General Electric
Co. (GE)  CEO  Jeffrey Immelt , a self-described Republican, to lead his
outside panel of economic advisers in January.  Chenevert, 53, who like Immelt accompanied Obama on a trip
to  India  in November, said he sees a “recent shift in the
administration that is more business-friendly.” That will
encourage CEOs “from an investment perspective” and nurture
economic growth, he said.  “Predictability is always a good thing for companies,”
Chenevert said. “Uncertainty is your enemy.”  While some CEOs such as  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s
David Cote have said the president got too little credit for
helping the U.S. avoid a depression in 2009, others have
assailed his approach to business. 3M Co.’s  George Buckley  told
the Financial Times last month that Obama was “hostile” and
“Robin Hood-esque.”  ‘Amazed’ Daley  Buckley’s assertion prompted a rebuttal in the newspaper
from an “amazed” White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley, who
wrote in an op-ed article that the stakes in the economy were
“too high to give credence to the kind of comments Mr. Buckley
made this week.”  The U.S. Chamber spent more than $30 million on the 2010
elections, mostly to back Republicans, and accused Obama of
being anti-business. Obama signed an executive order in January
calling for a government-wide review to remove or revise
regulations that stifle growth without helping consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in  New York  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  