-- 
U.S. Carriers Cancel Tokyo Flights, Waive Fees After Earthquake

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-03-11T21:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/united-says-no-tokyo-departures-for-at-least-today.html
  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  American Airlines  canceled dozens of
flights between the U.S. and Tokyo after Japan’s strongest
earthquake on record clogged two major airports.  Cancellations at Narita International, Japan’s main
overseas gateway, stranded almost 14,000 people before partial
operations resumed with the rescheduling of nine departures.
Tokyo’s Haneda airport,  Asia ’s second-busiest by passengers,
also resumed flights.  Delta reported the most scrubbed flights among U.S.
airlines on March 11, dropping 29 trips to and from Narita and
Haneda, about half of the daily total.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
canceled four U.S.-bound flights, United scrapped 10 flights and
its Continental unit grounded one.  “Narita airport’s runway is not damaged,” United
Continental CEO Jeff Smisek said in an interview in Houston.
“The problem is the railway lines aren’t functioning so our
employees and the passengers can’t get to the airport.”  United, Delta and American, the largest U.S. airlines by
traffic, waived fees for rebooking Japan travel at least through
March 14.  The 8.9-magnitude temblor shook buildings across Tokyo on
March 11, unleashing a tsunami that killed hundreds as it
engulfed towns on the northern coast. Hawaiian Airlines canceled
14 flights within Hawaii hours later as the state was put on a
tsunami watch.  A Honolulu-bound flight from Haneda was delayed because of
“ground transportation challenges” in Japan, according to
Hawaiian Airlines, a unit of  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. (HA)   ‘Have to Happen’  Before American Airlines can resume normal operations in
Japan, “there are some things that have to happen,” said Ed Martelle, a spokesman. “Narita has to re-open, we have to have
the crews and we have to have the airplanes in place.  Air Canada canceled four flights to Japan, Angela Mah, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Craig Harvey, an executive with NVision Solutions Inc., an
emergency management logistics company in  Mississippi , was among
passengers on a Delta flight held overnight at Haneda. They
remained on the aircraft rather than joining crowds inside the
terminal, he said.  “I could be agitated and upset, but then I’d just be all
agitated and upset, and still in the airplane another five
hours,” he said in a telephone interview. “We’ll get off this
plane at some point. There’s a lot of people in a lot worse
shape than us.”  Rebooking Waivers  United, based in  Chicago , and Atlanta-based Delta both
offered waivers to rebook flights to Japan scheduled through
March 15, while American won’t charge fees for trips through
March 14. Hawaiian Airlines, based in Honolulu, is offering
waivers through March 18.  While flights began departing from Narita, no planes were
to land there, Shohei Kagawa, a spokesman, said by telephone.
The U.S. cancellations were among dozens of flights scrubbed by
carriers around the world.  Japan Airlines Corp. and All Nippon Airways Co. grounded
flights nationwide, affecting more than 60,000 travelers.  China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s largest carrier,
canceled four Tokyo flights for March 12 and halted ticket sales
for services on March 13, it said in an e-mailed statement.  British Airways canceled its Narita and Haneda flights on
March 11 and the return legs on March 12, Cathy West, a
spokeswoman, said by phone. Air France-KLM Group diverted a
flight to Osaka and delayed takeoff for another in Paris by four
and half hours, it said by e-mail.    Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s Jetstar budget unit diverted two
Tokyo-bound flights to Guam and  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) 
sent one to Taipei.  “It is likely that flights to Japan may continue to be
affected in the coming days,” Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement. The carrier advised
passengers to check its website before traveling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  