-- 
Walker Signs Into Law Bill Curbing Unions, Rescinds His Warning of Firing

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-11T17:08:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/walker-signs-into-law-bill-curbing-unions-rescinds-his-warning-of-firing.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker 
signed into law a measure curbing most collective-bargaining
rights for public employees.  Walker, 43, a first-term Republican, acted today less than
24 hours after the state Assembly gave final approval, capping
three weeks of protests at the Capitol. He also rescinded a
warning to unions that he would fire 1,500 state workers,
according to a news release. The governor said the bill’s
passage ended the need to cut the workforce.  The measure, which exempts police and firefighters,
requires annual recertification votes for union representation
and makes the payment of dues voluntary. State workers will
contribute 5.8 percent of their salary toward pensions and pay
12.6 percent of their health-insurance costs.  “We heard from the public they wanted it passed and moved
forward and get refocused on creating jobs,” Walker said today
on CNBC. “It protects middle-class jobs and protects middle-
class taxpayers, and ultimately makes the government work
better.”  Democrats and organized labor called the bill an attack on
workers. Groups of protesters marched around the Capitol and
chanted inside hours before Walker was to hold a formal bill-
signing in his office this afternoon.  Almost two-thirds of Americans said public employees should
have the right to bargain collectively for wages, a Bloomberg
National Poll said this week. Americans reject Republican
efforts to scale back benefits for government workers, 49
percent to 46 percent, the poll said.  The March 4-7 telephone survey of 1,001 U.S. adults had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  When the measure passed the Assembly yesterday 53-42, the
spectators’ gallery erupted with people shaking their fists and
chanting, “Shame, shame, shame.”  Demonstrations continued today inside and outside the
Capitol.  Editors: Stephen Merelman, Mark Schoifet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Madison at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  