-- 
Water Supply Disrupted in Fukushima, East Coast of Japan After Earthquake

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-03-11T14:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/water-supply-disrupted-in-some-parts-of-tokyo-after-quake-1-.html
Water supply was disrupted in areas
of Japan’s east coast after the country was hit by an 8.9-
magnitude earthquake, its strongest on record.  The  Japan Water Works Association  is gathering information
from prefectures across the country on water supply condition
and may release the results through the Ministry of Health,
Labour and Welfare within two days, said Takumi Kato, a
spokesman at the Tokyo-based  association . The number of
households affected has yet to be confirmed, he said.  Some residents on northeastern coastal areas of Japan’s
main island were evacuated after the coast was hit by a tsunami
that engulfed houses, roads and cars. The supply of water is
critical in the aftermath of a disaster because of risk of
epidemics as displaced people gather in shelters, the  World
Health Organization   said  on its website.  “Early in the life of emergency settlements, when
displaced people continue to arrive, often in large numbers and
in a poor state of health, water supplies may be totally
inadequate, and emergency systems need to be set up rapidly to
reduce the risk of epidemics,” the WHO report said.  Some 30,000 people in the northern city of Sendai and more
than 15,000 in Aomori Prefecture were evacuated, according to
state broadcaster NHK Television.  Ibaraki, Fukushima  About 20,000 homes in Kita-Ibaraki City, northeast of
Tokyo, had no water supply, Hiroshi Numata, a spokesman at the
city hall, said in a telephone interview. An unknown number of
households in Fukushima Prefecture, north of Ibaraki, had their
water supply cut, Akinori Watanabe, a spokesman at the Fukushima
Water Supply Authority, said by telephone.  Water supply in some parts of Tokyo, which accounts for 10
percent of Japan’s population, has also stopped, the
metropolitan government’s  Bureau of Waterworks  said in a faxed
statement.  Two-thirds of the water supply was cut in Inagi city, west
of Tokyo, while service was disrupted in the Tama and Machida
areas of western Tokyo because of an electricity outage, the
statement said. The bureau couldn’t confirm if the water supply
was cut in eastern areas of Tokyo, where it found 45 leaks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  