-- 
Billionaire's Wife Wendi Murdoch Tells Audience She Is Not a `Tiger Mom'

-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-03-11T21:22:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/wendi-murdoch-isn-t-really-a-tiger-mom-she-tells-amy-chua.html
Chinese parents are increasingly
mixing Western-style education with traditional, rigid parenting
methods, said Wendi Deng Murdoch and “Battle Hymn of the Tiger
Mother” author Amy Chua at a conference today.  “My mother was really strict, worse than the book,
actually,’’ said Murdoch, who grew up in  China  and has two
children with her husband, News Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Murdoch. She described how if she got 95 percent on a
test, her parents told her she had brought shame on the family.
“I’m much more open in parenting. We don’t push them as hard.
We also want to encourage them.’’  Chua’s “Battle Hymn” book, which tells the story of her
focus on raising super-achiever daughters by banning things like
play dates and sleepovers, is on the  New York  Times’  best seller
list .  At the Women in the World conference today in New York,
Chua said the book, which triggered thousands of letters and
news articles, is being marketed in China as a book about
Western-style parenting and the title has been translated into
“Parenting by a Yale Law Professor.’’  “All of the things that were controversial in the U.S.,
that’s just accepted, that’s just the norm,’’ she said. “For
them the book is a book about, ‘we can improve our culture, and
our education, by learning from the West.’’’  Progressive Chinese Moms  “The more progressive Chinese moms want to have some
Western education in their kids’ backgrounds, so some of them
actively seek to send their kids overseas or to send them to
international schools in China, to help them learn English,
learn something Western.” said Melinda Liu, Beijing bureau
chief for  Newsweek  and The Daily Beast, another panelist.  Chua is a professor at  Yale Law School  in  New Haven . She is
also the author of “Day of Empire: How Hyperpowers Rise to
Global Dominance--and Why They Fall” and “World on Fire: How
Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global
Instability.”  Deng Murdoch is co-chief executive officer of Big Feet
Productions. Big Feet is producing the film Snow Flower and the
Secret Fan, about the lives of two 19th century Chinese women
and their descendants in modern-day  Shanghai .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 