-- 
Weyerhaeuser, West Fraser, Canfor May Gain if Japanese Rebuild With Wood

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-03-11T21:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/weyerhaeuser-west-fraser-canfor-may-gain-if-japanese-rebuild-with-wood.html
  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , West Fraser
Timber Co. and other North American lumber producers may benefit
as Japan recovers from a tsunami and its strongest earthquake on
record, according to Dundee Securities.  “With wood construction significantly more earthquake-
resistant than concrete, we expect that the majority of the
rebuilding to be done using wood as a construction material,”
Richard Kelertas, a Montreal-based analyst, said today in a note
to clients. “This should have positive impact on most of our
North American timber, lumber and building materials stocks.”  Kelertas upgraded  International Forest Products Ltd. (IFP/A)  and  Canfor Corp. (CFP) , both based in Vancouver, to “buy” from
“neutral” and expects increased demand for wood products to
last six to 12 months as rebuilding accelerates.  Hundreds were reported missing after waves as high as 7
meters (23 feet) swept ashore in Japan, according to state
broadcaster NHK, which showed footage of flood waters sweeping
away buildings and vehicles. Airports were closed and an
emergency evacuation order was issued for a nuclear power plant
north of Tokyo.  Weyerhaeuser, based in Federal Way,  Washington , rose $1.43,
or 6.2 percent, to $24.38 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. Vancouver-based West Fraser Timber
Co., North America’s largest maker of lumber for building
construction, climbed C$3.17, or 6.7 percent, to C$50.83 on the
Toronto Stock Exchange.  International Forest Products surged 80 cents, or 15
percent, to C$6 in Toronto, the biggest gain since December
2008, while Canfor advanced 88 cents, or 7.2 percent to C$13.07.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in New York at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 