-- 
WikiLeaks Backers Lose Bid to Keep Twitter Data From U.S. in Assange Probe

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-11T23:55:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/wikileaks-backers-lose-bid-to-keep-twitter-data-from-u-s-in-assange-probe.html
Three WikiLeaks backers lost a bid
to block U.S. prosecutors from reviewing their Twitter account
data in a criminal probe of leaks of classified information.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Theresa Buchanan in Alexandria,  Virginia , today upheld her earlier order requiring Twitter to
give investigators data on subscribers “associated with
WikiLeaks,” including the group’s leader, Julian Assange, and
on Bradley Manning, a U.S. soldier charged with leaking
classified information.  “Petitioners in this case voluntarily conveyed their IP
addresses to the Twitter website, thus exposing the information
to a third party administrator, and thereby relinquishing any
reasonable expectation of privacy,” Buchanan said in a 20-page
ruling.  The litigation over the Twitter data is the first public
skirmish in the government’s criminal investigation of Assange
and others who may have helped leak diplomatic cables and
classified military documents through the WikiLeaks website.  Buchanan on Dec. 14 ordered Twitter to give the government
records and information related to the accounts of several
identified individuals and anyone else linked to Assange.
Prosecutors asked for subscriber names, contact information,
billing records, user activity, Internet Protocol addresses and
source and destination e-mail addresses.  Invasion of Privacy  Buchanan, whose ruling can be appealed to a district court
judge, said the three backers didn’t have standing to challenge
her previous order because the government wasn’t seeking the
contents of any communications they made using Twitter.  Buchanan rejected arguments from the WikiLeaks backers that
the government’s request requires a search warrant and if
approved would allow an unconstitutional invasion of privacy.  She also denied the backers’ request to unseal all records
in the court file related to prosecutors’ efforts to get
information from Twitter and any other companies. Buchanan said
the documents include “the identity of targets and witnesses in
an ongoing criminal investigation.”  She did allow some of the court documents filed in the
Twitter dispute to be made public on court’s online docketing
system.  Three subscribers whose records are being sought are Jacob
Appelbaum, a computer security researcher, who represented
WikiLeaks at a 2010 hacker’s conference in  New York ; Birgitta
Jonsdottir, a member of the Icelandic parliament, elected to a
four-year term in 2009; and Rop Gonggrijp, described in court
papers as a Dutch activist and businessman who helped found the
first public  Internet service provider  in the Netherlands.  ‘Private Information’  “We’re obviously disappointed this decision permits the
government to secretly obtain private information about
individuals’ Internet communications,” said Aden Fine, a lawyer
with the  American Civil Liberties Union  who represents
Jonsdottir. Fine said his client will appeal.  Cindy Cohn, the legal director of the San Francisco-based
Electronic Frontier Foundation, said the ruling was
“troubling” and will make it easier for the government to
access information people must give to companies in order to use
online products such as Facebook and Twitter.  “The judge downplayed what can be learned from non-content
information that we give to third-parties all the time,” said
Cohn, who also is representing Jonsdottir.  Peter Carr, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride ,
declined to comment.  Disclosure Barred  The judge initially barred the San Francisco-based social
networking company from disclosing the government’s demand,
which came as part of a federal grand jury investigation in
Virginia. She unsealed the order on Jan. 5, saying it was in the
“best interest of the investigation” and allowed Twitter to
disclose the order to its users. Buchanan held a public hearing
on the dispute on Feb. 15.  During the Feb. 15 hearing, John Keker, a San Francisco-
based lawyer representing one of the WikiLeaks backers, argued
that the government was seeking material from that differed from
phone or banks records.  The Twitter account data could be used to chill free speech
online by allowing the government to create a map of people tied
to WikiLeaks, Keker told Buchanan.  “It is incredibly powerful to know who the opposition is
and who they’re working with,” Keker said in court.  Keker said that turning over the information would violate
Fourth Amendment protections against warrantless searches and
seizures by the government.  Routine Request  John Davis, an assistant U.S. attorney in Alexandria, said
in court that the government’s request was routine.  “This is a standard -- as this court knows well --
investigative measure used in criminal investigations every day
of the year all over the country,” Davis said.  Prosecutors told Buchanan that public release of filings in
the case would damage a probe that’s still in its early stages.  The three WikiLeaks backers claim the initial order
supporting the government’s request was overly broad and didn’t
explain how the information is “relevant and material” to the
criminal probe.  Twitter negotiated with the government to restrict the time
frame of the order to activity from Nov. 15, 2009, to June 1,
2010, and limit the scope of the information being sought,
according to court papers.  Search Warrant  The three asked Buchanan to force investigators to seek a
warrant for the information. A search warrant would mean the
government has shown probable cause, a higher hurdle than the
“relevant” and “material” standard for information requests
under the Stored Communications Act, on which Buchanan based her
December order.  U.S. investigators sought similar information from  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and EBay Inc.’s Skype unit,  Mark Stephens , a
lawyer for Assange, said in an interview last month. Stephens
regularly represents media organizations, including Bloomberg
News.  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said Nov. 29 that the  Justice Department  is investigating the posting by WikiLeaks of
thousands of classified U.S. diplomatic communications and
military documents.  Assange, an Australian who was arrested in December in  London  and is free on bail, is facing extradition to  Sweden  to
face unrelated allegations of sexual misconduct against two
women. Stephens has said the case in Sweden is politically
motivated and related to WikiLeaks.  The case is In re Application of the U.S. For an Order
Pursuant to 18 USC 2703(d), 11-dm-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  