-- 
Wisconsin Union-Busting Drive Feeds Off Towns That Are Shrinking

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-03-11T06:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/wisconsin-union-busting-drive-feeds-off-towns-that-are-shrinking.html
The loss of people and power in
rural and small-town  Wisconsin  is helping fuel the state’s
showdown over public-sector union rights and benefits.  Rural Wisconsin counties are losing residents, according to
U.S. Census Bureau data released yesterday, as a lack of jobs
pushes young people to Madison, the state capital, and its
suburbs. Twenty of the state’s 72 counties lost population
between 2000 and 2010, the census found.  Resentment in those areas helps explain support for
Republican Governor  Scott Walker ’s push to restrict the
collective bargaining rights of some unions, said Katherine
Cramer Walsh of the University of Wisconsin-Madison. She noticed
the bitterness while doing research in 27 communities, where
many residents work multiple jobs without benefits while local
government employees have health coverage and pensions.  “I heard a lot of comments and conversations about the
rural-urban divide in our state,” said Walsh, an associate
professor of political science. “I was very struck by how
resentful people in so-called outstate Wisconsin are of Madison
and  Milwaukee .”  The number of residents in Dane County, which includes
Madison, rose 14.4 percent to 488,073 in 2010 from 426,526 in
2000, while Milwaukee fell 0.4 percent to 594,833, according to
census data. Wisconsin’s population increased 6 percent to
5,686,986 during the decade, compared with 9.7 percent
nationwide.  Latino Surge  Latinos gained 74.2 percent to reach 5.9 percent of the
state’s population, while the number of non-Hispanic blacks rose
16.9 percent to 6.2 percent, the census found.  Wisconsin’s shifting  demographics  were the backdrop of
interviews Walsh did beginning in 2007, talking with people at
diners and gas stations to determine their views on politics and
other issues. She summarized what she heard in a recent blog
 posting  titled “What in the hell is going on in Madison?”  “All of our taxpayer dollars get sucked in by Madison,
diverted to Milwaukee, and we never see them again,” she wrote,
paraphrasing her conversations with people who live outside the
state’s two biggest cities.  Wisconsin’s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 7.4
percent in January was less than the February national rate of
8.9 percent, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .
Government employed 415,200 people statewide in January, up from
403,700 in December 2000, according to the data. The  Madison 
area had 84,200 government workers in January and 252,800 in the
private sector, unadjusted numbers show.  Job Losses    Polaris Industries Inc. (PII) , the Medina, Minnesota-based maker
of snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles, this month begins
closing its plant in Osceola, a village of 2,568 in northwestern
Wisconsin. About 480 jobs will be cut, according to state labor
records. NewPage Corp., a closely held paper maker based in
Miamisburg,  Ohio , said in December it will cut 360 jobs with the
closing of its paper mill in Whiting, home of 1,724 people in
central Wisconsin.  Those closings are fueling the resentment that Walker and
his allies in the state Legislature have cited in their three-
week-old clash with Senate Democrats. Wisconsin’s Assembly
yesterday passed the bill curbing collective bargaining for most
unionized government workers as Democrats condemned its passage
and labor leaders planned more protests.  Recession’s Brunt  “If you look at who’s shared the brunt of this recession
in Wisconsin, it’s been the private sector,” not government
employees, said Matt Seaholm, 27, the Madison-based director of
Americans for Prosperity’s Wisconsin chapter. The Tea Party-
aligned group is supported by billionaires Charles and  David Koch , the brothers who control Wichita, Kansas-based Koch
Industries Inc. “It’s time that they pay their fair share.”  Republicans and Democrats calculating public sentiment on
the confrontation over unions can both find support for their
arguments in a Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 4-7.
Forty-three percent of Americans said public employees receive
better compensation than private workers, compared with 21
percent who said it is worse and 27 percent who said it’s about
the same.  Sixty-four percent said public employees should have the
right to collectively bargain, compared with 32 percent who said
they shouldn’t. The poll of 1,001 U.S. adults has a margin of
error of 3.1 percentage points.  ‘Fighting Bob’  Wisconsin has a rich history of divided political opinion.
It elected  Robert “Fighting Bob” La Follette  governor and U.S.
senator. The Progressive Party’s 1924 presidential nominee, La
Follette fought government corruption and corporate monopolies.
The state also sent Joseph McCarthy to the Senate, where his
anti-communist campaign in the 1950s ended the careers of some
Americans accused of having links to the Communist Party.  The state’s tradition of supporting such an array of
politicians has meant Wisconsin can swing from one party to
another in consecutive elections.  Walker  won  the governor’s election last year with 52
percent of the vote versus 46.5 percent for Democrat Tom
Barrett. Incumbent Democrat  Russ Feingold  lost his U.S. Senate
seat to Republican  Ron Johnson , 52 percent to 47 percent.  Yet  Barack Obama  easily  won  the state, 56 percent to 42
percent, over Republican  John McCain  in the 2008 presidential
race, and Jim Doyle, a Democrat, won  re-election  to the
governor’s mansion in 2006.  “You couldn’t imagine two governors who are more different
from each other,” Jerald Podair, an associate professor of
history at Lawrence University in Appleton, said of Doyle and
Walker.  Outstate Decline  The 2010 census figures documented another stark
difference: growth in Madison and decline in communities outside
the major cities. The majority of counties that lost population
were in the northern part of the state, the census found.  “It’s not going to come as a surprise to anybody in
outstate Wisconsin,” Walsh said. “They feel on a pretty gut
level that their communities are dying.”  While residents leave rural counties, population has
increased in  Dane County  and other areas surrounding Madison, in
south-central Wisconsin, and Milwaukee, in the southeast. Around
Dane County, Jefferson County’s population rose 13.1 percent and
near Milwaukee, Washington County’s population gained 12.3
percent and Waukesha County’s population added 8.1 percent.  Southeast Wisconsin and the Madison area may see an
increase in representation in state government with the latest
census figures as their populations grow. That may mean more
government money for roads and other programs flowing to those
regions and less money for other areas of the state.  Wisconsin has always been divided politically and
culturally between the cities of Milwaukee and Madison on one
side and the rest of the state, said  Podair , the Lawrence
University history professor.  “There are two Wisconsins arrayed against each other,” he
said. “The two Wisconsins are evenly matched.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  