-- 
Wisconsin’s Walker Says Bargaining Limits to Help Middle Class

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-11T23:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/wisconsin-s-walker-says-bargaining-limits-to-help-middle-class.html
Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker
defended a new law curbing most collective-bargaining rights for
public employees as “good for the middle class” against a
backdrop of boos and chants of “shame” from protesters.  Walker, a 43-year-old Republican, said today he hopes to
“inspire others to stand up and make the tough decisions” to
control  government spending .  He spoke during a ceremonial bill-signing at the Capitol in
Madison. Several hours earlier he approved the law that requires
annual recertification votes for public-sector union
representation and makes dues voluntary. State workers will
contribute 5.8 percent of their salary toward pensions and pay
12.6 percent of their health-insurance costs. The law exempts
police and firefighters.  The measure incited protests across the U.S. and sparked
debate about public-worker concessions as states face combined
deficits of more than $100 billion next fiscal year.  Walker, elected with 52 percent of the vote in November,
said he hasn’t been fazed by weeks of demonstrations, saying
“they have every right to be heard.”  “The countless numbers of taxpayers and millions and
millions of people who live in this state, the middle-class
taxpayers of this state, also have a right to be heard,” Walker
said in a news conference. “They’re the ones who have had to
pay the higher taxes and the higher burden of excessive
government.”  Hundreds of protesters gathered inside the Capitol, filling
stairways, hallways and bridges leading to the governor’s
gallery, booing and chanting “Recall Walker.”  Walker signed the bill less than 24 hours after the state
Assembly gave final approval, capping three weeks of protests at
the Capitol. He also rescinded a warning to unions that he would
fire 1,500 state workers, according to a news release. The
governor said the bill’s passage ended the need to cut the
workforce.  Democrats and organized labor called the bill an attack on
workers and plan a rally outside the Capitol tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Madison at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  