-- 
WTO Reverses Ruling on U.S. Steel Duties, Backing China

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-03-11T18:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/wto-reverses-ruling-on-u-s-steel-duties-backing-china.html
World Trade Organization  appeals
judges reversed key parts of a ruling that largely backed the
U.S. following a Chinese complaint about duties on imports of
steel pipes, some off-road tires and woven sacks.  The U.S. announced levies in July 2008 on $200 million of
steel-pipe shipments from China,  South Korea  and  Mexico . Chinese
exporters of the light, rectangular piping face countervailing
duties, used to offset subsidies, of as much as 200 percent of
the product’s price. They also face anti-dumping duties, which
compensate for goods sold overseas at prices below those at
home, of as much as 265 percent.  In October, WTO judges in Geneva upheld the right of the
U.S. to impose both sets of tariffs on the Chinese products. It
was the second time the U.S. had imposed duties on Chinese
imports to compensate for subsidies, after a similar case in
June 2008 involving a different type of steel pipe.  Today, appeals judges determined that “in the four sets of
anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations, the U.S.
acted inconsistently” with global trade rules.    China  welcomed the reversal, saying the WTO has
“conclusively established that the U.S. acts unlawfully in the
methods by which it calculates and imposes countervailing duties
on imports from China.”  ‘Strikes at Heart’  “Today’s decision strikes at the heart of how the U.S. has
applied countervailing duties to Chinese products, not only in
the four investigations at issue in this dispute, but in the
many investigations that have come since,” China’s mission in
Geneva said in a statement today.  The U.S. criticized the decision.  “I am deeply troubled by this report,” U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk said in an e-mailed statement. “It
appears to be a clear case of overreaching by the Appellate
Body. We are reviewing the findings closely in order to
understand fully their implications.”  The initial panel backed the right of an importer to set
duties on goods from countries that aren’t market economies to
compensate for unfair pricing and subsidies. China had
challenged the way the U.S. calculated the levies and the fact
that it suffered both anti-dumping tariffs for unfairly priced
goods and countervailing duties for subsidized products.  “The imposition of double remedies is inconsistent” with
global trade rules, the Appellate Body said in its 228-page
 report  on the WTO’s website.  Judges agreed with China, the world’s biggest steel
producer, that the duties themselves weren’t compliant with WTO
rules and called on the U.S. to bring these measures into line
with global trade law.  While WTO rules allow countries to impose anti-dumping
duties on imports that are dumped, it’s not clear what a fair
domestic price is in a non-market economy or how far it has been
undercut. That means the normal rules don’t apply and importers
have some discretion in calculating the duties for goods from
these nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  