-- 
TMX Group Should Be `Diner' Not `Dinner' in LSE Deal, GMP's Fricker Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-11T17:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/tmx-group-should-be-diner-not-dinner-in-lse-deal-gmp-s-fricker-says.html
  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)  Chief Executive
Officer Harris Fricker says the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
has more to gain than  TMX Group Inc. (X)  in their proposed C$3.2
billion ($3.29 billion) combination.  “If you ask me why  London  wants to do the deal, it’s a no-
brainer,” said Fricker, whose Toronto-based brokerage is the
second-biggest block trader on Canada’s main stock exchange. The
LSE’s junior market, AIM, “is broken and London is not a major
participant in the global resource game.”  Fricker said he’s surprised that TMX wasn’t the acquirer in
the combination, in which the London Stock Exchange owner will
hold 55 percent of the merged company.  “No one’s commenting on the biggest fact of this deal, and
that is: Why a highly viable exchange is dinner versus diner,”
Fricker said in a phone interview today. “Why aren’t these guys
buying the London Stock Exchange?”  GMP,  Canada ’s second-biggest independent brokerage, was
among the firms that declined to sign a letter this week from
some of Canada’s biggest banks opposing LSE’s takeover of the
Toronto Stock Exchange owner. GMP hasn’t decided to endorse or
reject the deal.  “We totally understand the merits of the deal,” Fricker
said. “We are struggling with the concept of it deepening
capital formation or availability to the small and mid-cap
portion of the market, which is really the heart and soul of the
TMX.”  Banks Opposed  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Toronto-Dominion Bank
and  National Bank of Canada  are among the detractors of the
transaction, concerned about job cuts and loss of regulatory
control. Supporters, including Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of
Montreal, say the takeover offers companies on the exchange a
broader pool of investors.  “We don’t buy the argument that there’s going to be some
big regulatory morass that’s going to arise and that London’s
suddenly going to become the center of the decision-making
universe,” said Fricker, who took over as CEO at GMP in
October.  The Toronto Stock Exchange and  TSX Venture exchange  had 208
new mining listings and 2,413 new mining financings last year,
according to TMX statistics.  TMX has 56 percent of the global mining listings, with
1,531 companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and TSX
Venture Exchange, according to a company presentation. In
comparison, London Stock Exchange has 203 mining listings, or 7
percent of the mining listings worldwide.  “The TMX over the last decade has become highly viable as
a small to mid-cap resource-based exchange,” he said. “Let’s
be very concise and guarded in anything that might upset that
apple cart.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; Nick
Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  