-- 
Yen Gains Most Since August Versus Dollar as Earthquake Spurs Haven Demand

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-11T22:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/yen-gains-against-the-dollar-after-deadly-earthquake-boosts-haven-demand.html
The yen gained the most since
August against the dollar after the worst earthquake in at least
a century struck  Japan , spurring domestic investors to buy the
currency as a haven.  The Japanese currency strengthened against all of its major
counterparts after the 8.9-magnitude temblor and as a tsunami of
10 meters (33 feet) engulfed towns along the northern coast,
increasing speculation insurance companies and investors will
buy back yen to pay for damages. The euro pared a weekly drop
versus the dollar as leaders of the 17 euro nations backed a
plan to tighten economic cooperation. The Brazilian real fell as
a government official said the nation is considering more
measures to stem gains in its currency.  “The rebuilding process in general is perceived as
positive for the yen,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-
of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.
“The market’s focus has been on the prospects for repatriation
of funds,”  The yen appreciated 1.4 percent to 81.84 per dollar at 5
p.m. in New York. Japan’s currency strengthened 0.6 percent to
113.76 per euro. The 17-nation common currency rose 0.8 percent
to $1.3903, after falling as much as 0.3 percent.  Currency Slide  The Japanese currency slid immediately following temblor,
weakening as much as 0.4 percent against the dollar and
depreciating versus all major peers.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government set up an earthquake
response team as buildings  shook  violently in Tokyo. The quake
struck at 2:46 p.m. local time at 130 kilometers (81 miles) off
the coast of Sendai, north of  Tokyo , at a depth of 24
kilometers, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said.  The yen strengthened about 20 percent versus the dollar in
three months after the 6.9 magnitude Kobe earthquake in January
1995, which claimed more than 6,000 lives. The Japanese currency
is trading within 2 yen of 80.22 yen per dollar reached Nov. 1,
the lowest since April 1995.  Today’s earthquake may not have the same affect on the
currency and growth as the Kobe earthquake did, according to
Mamoru Arai, a senior currency trader at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York.  Trade Differences  “At that time, the yen went higher to a historical level,
but we had a very strong trade war between the U.S. and Japan,”
Arai said. “There is no economic disturbance between the U.S.
and Japan, so I doubt this will lead to severe appreciation in
the yen.”  Japan’s monthly global  trade surplus  plunged after the Kobe
earthquake prevented exports from being shipped from the city’s
damaged port in January 1995. The trade surplus recovered amid
continued threats from the Clinton administration that U.S.
officials were considering trade sanctions if talks regarding
the  auto industry  broke down.  The euro fell 0.6 percent this week against the greenback,
after rising for three straight weeks.  Euro-area leaders reached an agreement “in principle on
the pact for the euro,” European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a statement issued as the officials met in
Brussels today. The leaders are “still discussing the other
elements of the package.”  The action cleared German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
condition for completing a comprehensive package to counter the
debt crisis.  Merkel Stance  “Merkel is showing some willingness to cooperate on the
expansion of the European Financial Stability Facility
program,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  The blueprint, intended to boost competitiveness by curbing
deficits and reducing labor costs, sets goals rather than
binding targets, helping to overcome objections to the version
proposed last month. The leaders scheduled to meet in Brussels
have set a March 25 deadline to approve a comprehensive package.  The Brazilian government is considering measures, including
setting time requirements for foreigners’ stock investments to
stay in the country, to halt gains that have led the currency to
appreciate 29 percent in the past three years, said a government
official briefed on the plans.  The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.6649 per  U.S. dollar ,
erasing earlier gains of as much as 0.1 percent.  Taxing Time  The government tripled a tax on foreign investors’ fixed-
income purchases to 6 percent in October as part of the effort
to stem gains in the real. The central bank has bought $18.8
billion dollars in the  spot market , or 45 percent of the record
amount it purchased last year. It also set  reserve requirements 
on short dollar positions held by local banks in January and
bought dollars in the futures market for the first time in 21
months.  The U.S. currency remained lower versus the Japanese
currency after a report showed U.S. retail sales gained the most
in four months in February. U.S. retail sales rose 1 percent,
following a revised 0.7 percent increase in January, figures
from the Commerce Department showed. Economists forecast a 1
percent gain, according to 82 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Canada’s employers added a net 15,100 jobs after a gain of
69,200 in January,  Statistics Canada  said.  The Canadian currency rose 0.3 percent to 97.32 cents per
U.S. dollar, after reaching 98.03 cents, the weakest level since
Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  