-- 
Yen Advances as Earthquake, Tsunami Prompt Japanese to Repatriate Currency

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-03-11T12:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-11/yen-rebounds-after-earthquake-on-speculation-japanese-repatriating-funds.html
The yen surged against all 16 of
its most-traded counterparts after the worst earthquake in at
least a century struck Japan, spurring domestic investors to buy
the currency as a haven.  The Japanese currency slid immediately following the 8.9-
magnitude temblor, weakening as much as 0.4 percent against the
dollar and depreciating versus all major peers as a tsunami of
10 meters (33 feet) engulfed towns along the northern coast. The
euro fell versus the dollar for the fourth day this week amid
concern  Portugal  may be moving closer to seeking financial aid.
The pound declined as insurers led U.K. stocks lower.  “The yen may be strengthening on some domestic
repatriation of the currency,” said Jane Foley, a senior
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “The yen
generally benefits in times of uncertainty created by natural
disasters. The yen hasn’t fully given up its safe-haven status,
despite the fact that Japan has been hit by this crisis.”  The yen appreciated 0.7 percent to 82.37 per dollar at 7:29
a.m. in  New York , and jumped as much as 1.2 percent, the most
since Dec. 28. It earlier fell as much as 0.4 percent to 83.30,
its weakest level since Feb. 22. Japan’s currency strengthened
0.8 percent to 113.57 per euro. The 17-nation common currency
was less than 0.1 percent lower at $1.393, after rising as much
as 0.3 percent.  Repatriation Effect  “Japanese investors are cutting back overseas risk,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “Overseas assets are being sold
and the proceeds converted back into yen. Repatriation’s the key
and is behind the stronger yen.”  The yen strengthened about 20 percent versus the dollar in
three months after the 6.9 magnitude Kobe earthquake in January
1995, which claimed more than 6,000 lives. The Japanese currency
advanced to 79.75 yen on April 19, 1995, from 99.11 yen per
dollar on Jan. 17.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s government set up an earthquake
response team as buildings  shook  violently in Tokyo. The quake
struck at 2:46 p.m. local time at 130 kilometers (81 miles) off
the coast of Sendai, north of Tokyo, at a depth of 24
kilometers, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said.  “Natural disasters can have an inflationary impact,”
Foley said. “As the rebuilding effort commences, growth may
rebound significantly. Authorities have tried to create
inflation in Japan for a couple of decades. If we did have
inflation then this could set  Bank of Japan  policy back on a
more normal route,” boosting the currency, she said.  ECB Speeches  The euro is headed for its biggest weekly drop against the
dollar since January on speculation European policy makers
meeting today will struggle to agree on measures to combat the
region’s debt crisis. The leaders scheduled to meet in Brussels
have set a March 25 deadline to approve a comprehensive package.  The European Union should set up a new agency to sell bonds
on behalf of member countries and eventually issue European-wide
debt, European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said today in Lucca,  Italy . ECB Governing Council member
Mario Draghi speaks in Milan today.  The German inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized EU
method, increased to 2.2 percent in February from 2 percent a
month earlier, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden,  Germany  said today, confirming a Feb. 25 estimate. That’s the
highest since October 2008.  Tsunami warnings were issued for countries including
Taiwan, the Philippines,  Indonesia  and  Papua New Guinea . The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average tumbled 1.7 percent and the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index of shares fell 0.4 percent.  “The market remains nervous,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in an interview from
Sydney. “The  U.S. dollar  was bid across the board and equity
markets and futures sold off sharply.”  The pound dropped 0.3 percent to $1.6010 as the FTSE 100
Index declined 0.4 percent. It weakened 0.2 percent to 86.11
pence per euro after a report showed U.K. producer-price
inflation slowed in February from a month earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  