-- M&A Droops as Stocks Rally Fails to Ignite 2013 Comeback
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-07-01T11:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/m-a-droops-as-stocks-rally-fails-to-ignite-2013-comeback.html
A healthy stock market and cheap debt
have traditionally been two ingredients that helped fueled booms
in mergers and acquisitions. The recipe isn’t quite working this
year.  Instead, the ingredients may paradoxically be prolonging a
lull in transactions, say investment bankers and lawyers, many
of whom had predicted a dealmaking comeback in 2013.  Higher
stock prices , coupled with a shaky recovery, have made some
executives wary of overpaying for acquisitions, or selling too
cheaply. And some potential targets have tapped cheap credit to
win a lifeline and stay independent.  “If I go through my checklist of what needs to be in place
to enable M&A to happen, I can put a tick in many of the key
boxes,” said Mark Warham, head of mergers and acquisitions for
 Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  at Barclays Plc. “Yet so far
we haven’t seen a real intensity of deals this year.”  While transactions worldwide reached about $490 billion in
the second quarter, up 3 percent from the previous three months,
they were down about 10 percent compared with the same period in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dealmaking in the quarter was dominated by a handful of
large transactions, such as  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s sweetened offer to
take control of U.S. telecommunications provider  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , which has a market value of $21 billion. In Europe
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)   agreed  to pay about $13.5 billion for German
cable provider  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)   Bigger Deals  The volume of transactions is “being supported by fewer,
larger deals, rather than a steady flow of smaller transactions,
and I expect that will continue,” said Hernan Cristerna, co-head of global M&A at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London .  In  North America , the $208 billion of announced second-quarter takeovers was down 3 percent from the same period a year
ago, while dealmaking fell 7.8 percent in Europe to $127 billion
and 9.8 percent in  Asia  to $120 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Investment banking fees have followed, falling 20 percent
in the quarter to $4.5 billion from a year ago, according to
Freeman & Co., a New York-based consulting company.  Bankers were optimistic for deals at the start of the year,
buoyed by 2012’s 13 percent increase in the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index. Rising stock markets have traditionally been followed
by upticks in takeovers as CEOs grow more confident about growth
prospects, said Jeff Raich, a co-founder of advisory firm Moelis
& Co.  Correlation Weakens  “The equity markets and the deal environment usually
correlate more closely than they are right now,” Raich said.  As the S&P 500  doubled  during the  bull market  of October
2002 to October 2007, global M&A almost quadrupled to $4.3
trillion in the final year of the rally from $1.1 trillion in
the first, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on completed
transactions.  Deals have failed to keep pace during the current advance,
which has propelled the S&P 500 to a 137 percent gain since
March 2009. Takeovers totaled about $1.8 trillion in the first
year of this bull market and have risen to $2.2 trillion during
the past year, only a 23 percent increase, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Some companies have calculated there’s no reason to sell
while the market rises, said Barclays’ Warham.  “Shareholders seem to be standing by boards, saying,
‘Don’t sell too cheap,’” he said.  Last month, Borealis Infrastructure Management Inc.
abandoned a 5.3 billion pound ($8.1 billion) bid for  Severn
Trent Plc (SVT)  after the U.K. water utility said the price didn’t
reflect its true value. Severn Trent’s stock is rallying for a
fourth straight year even after plunging 20 percent from 2013’s
peak in May.  ‘More Challenging’  “The sustained run-up in stock market prices has made it
more challenging in many situations for cash buyers like
private-equity firms to put together deals that make financial
sense,” said Lee Meyerson, head of the M&A group at law firm
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP.  At the same time, the buoyant market also pushed some
private-equity firms to take their portfolio companies public to
get a better valuation than in a sale, said John Eydenberg, co-head of America’s investment banking and head of financial
sponsors for Deutsche Bank AG.  Blackstone Group LP took  SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. (SEAS)  public
in April after rejecting takeover bids for the theme-park
operator, said a person familiar with the matter. The buyout
firm expects the $702 million offering to yield better returns
over time than a sale, the person said.  Bernanke’s Signal  “The robust  capital markets  have created an alternative to
M&A for big and small companies,” said Eydenberg.  For target companies wanting to stay independent, low
borrowing costs and high demand for corporate bonds means debt
is easily available to patch over problems. Sales of
speculative-grade bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s, have soared 37
percent from the first half of 2012 to $205.5 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While borrowing costs have jumped since Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  began signaling in May that policy
makers could pare bond purchases if the economy shows sustained
improvement, yields on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Index ended June at 7 percent, compared with a 2012
average of 7.5 percent.  With plenty of liquidity, corporations are appeasing
investors in ways other than mergers, said Herald Ritch, chief
executive officer of Sagent Advisors LLC, a  New York  advisory
firm. U.S. companies had about $1.7 trillion of cash and
marketable securities, a record, in the first quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg in May on about 2,300 publicly
traded stocks.  More Volatility  “You buy your stock,” Ritch said. “You pay big special
dividends. You pay off debt. Or you go out and borrow even more
so you give your shareholders even more liquidity.”  The recent jumpiness in stock prices isn’t helping create
an environment for deals, said Jack MacDonald, co-head of
Americas M&A and global head of technology M&A for Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  About $4.2 trillion has been erased from the value of
global equities since Bernanke’s May 22 remarks while volatility
has risen. The average daily price move for the  S&P 500 
increased to 0.73 percent in the second quarter from 0.48
percent in the first three months of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Significant moves in the equity markets are generally not
conducive to a strong M&A market,” he said.  Telecom’s Hope  Still, there are signs of large deals to come in the
telecommunications industry, where Verizon Communications Inc.
is weighing a buyout of Vodafone’s stake in its Verizon Wireless
unit for more than $100 billion, people familiar with the matter
have said.  There are also indications that investors are ready to
welcome at least some dealmaking. “The market reaction on
acquirers’ stock has been quite positive after transactions,
which may offer a little bit of encouragement,” said Jonathan Rowley, who heads M&A in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa for
UBS AG.  Shares in Nokia Oyj jumped as much as 10 percent in
Helsinki today after the smartphone manufacturer agreed to buy
Siemens AG’s stake in their networking-gear joint venture for
about $2.2 billion. The rise was Nokia’s steepest since January.  That said, a more rapid pace of deals won’t return until
confidence returns among corporate executives, said Gregg Lemkau, the global co-head of mergers and acquisitions at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The biggest thing in my mind continues to be a general
sentiment of  risk aversion  at the CEO level and in boardrooms,”
said Lemkau, who’s based in London. “People are just anxious
about the perceived execution risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  