-- Achillion Hepatitis C Drug Trial on Hold on Liver Concern
-- B y   M a r y   C a m i l l e   I z l a r   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-07-02T20:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/achillion-hepatitis-c-drug-trial-on-hold-on-liver-concern.html
Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN)  fell
the most in six years after a trial of one of its experimental
hepatitis C drugs was delayed because of abnormal liver results.  Achillion  declined  25 percent to $6.26 at the close in New
York, its biggest one-day loss since February 2007.  U.S. regulators put the hepatitis C drug trial on hold
after some patients experienced elevated liver enzymes,
Achillion said in a statement yesterday. The elevations were
observed in healthy patients when Achillion’s sovaprevir was
combined with two medicines used to treat HIV infections in
order to test for possible drug interactions. The combination
may have resulted in a drug interaction that produced higher-than-expected blood levels of the therapies, Achillion said.  “Achillion voluntarily stopped further dosing” and
“promptly notified” the  Food and Drug Administration  of the
finding in the early-stage trial involving sovaprevir, the  New
Haven , Connecticut-based company said. The hold doesn’t affect a
current second-stage study of the drug in hepatitis C patients.  Achillion has three drugs in clinical testing for hepatitis
C, a liver disease that affects 170 million people worldwide.
The company said April 23 that one of the treatments, ACH-3102,
appeared effective in five out of eight patients, reducing the
amount of the liver-destroying virus in their bloodstream to
undetectable levels after 12 weeks of treatment.  Achillion is competing with drugmakers including  AbbVie
Inc. (ABBV)  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  to develop new treatments for the
disease, a market analysts’ estimate may be $20 billion.  To resolve the hold, the regulatory agency has asked for
data from two drug interaction studies as well as a safety
analysis of continuing sovaprevir studies, which the company
said it plans to provide in about six weeks.  Achillion shares had gained 35 percent in the past 12
months through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Camille Izlar in  New York  at 
 mizlar@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  