-- Afghans Hitting U.S. Contractors With Questionable Fees
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-01T13:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/afghans-hitting-u-s-contractors-with-questionable-fees.html
U.S. government contractors in
 Afghanistan  are being hit with millions of dollars in “mostly
improper” fees and penalties on top of nearly $1 billion in
improper tax assessments, according to a U.S. watchdog agency.  The additional payments levied by the Afghan government
against U.S. and foreign contractors delivering supplies and
performing reconstruction work include customs processing fees,
fines for delayed customs documentation and fees for visas, work
permits and business licenses, John Sopko, the special inspector
general for Afghanistan reconstruction, wrote in a  report 
released today.  The payments are coming from the $93 billion in
reconstruction and other non-combat related aid Congress has
appropriated since 2002 for Afghan security forces as they take
over security, for improving civil governance and for fostering
economic development as the U.S. military involvement winds down
after 2014.  “A substantial portion of these funds are being spent not
to achieve these important goals but, rather, to pay the cost of
doing business in Afghanistan,” Sopko said in the report.
“These costs deserve the immediate attention of Congress.”  Sopko stopped short of saying the payments represented
outright corruption.  Still, the Afghan government, on top of questionable tax
levies, “is assessing hundreds of millions of dollars in
additional fines, fees and penalties, some of which are also
improper, on many of these same companies,” Sopko wrote.  Sopko in May reported that U.S. government contractors
supporting Afghan operations have been hit with almost $1
billion in taxes and penalties from the Afghan Ministry of
Finance since 2008.  Afghan government collection efforts, some on fees as small
as $1,138 per employee on annual visas and work permits, “delay
the delivery of cargo to support U.S. troops and cost U.S.
taxpayers millions in undue burden,” Sopko wrote in a report
addressed to congressional leaders on defense and foreign
relations committees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  