-- Alstom Leads Bond Issuance as Credit Risk Declines in Europe
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-07-01T11:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/alstom-leads-bond-issuance-as-credit-risk-declines-in-europe.html
Alstom SA (ALO)  is selling bonds for the
first time since October as the cost of insuring European
corporate debt against losses fell to the lowest in almost two
weeks.  The world’s third-largest power-equipment maker is raising
500 million euros ($652 million) from six-year securities that
will be priced to yield 165 basis points more than the mid-swap
rate, according to a person familiar with the transaction. That
compares with an average 140 basis-point spread for similarly-rated BBB securities, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  Credit risk is easing as investors digest the  Federal
Reserve ’s plan to reduce stimulus measures. It surged to a
seven-month high in June after the central bank’s Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said policy makers may begin slowing their bond
purchases this year and end them in mid-2014.  “Fed officials have expressed their surprise at the extent
of the market move, and have softened their tone on the possible
exit strategy,” said Andrea Cicione, a strategist at Lombard
Street Research Ltd. in  London .  Isabelle Tourancheau, a spokeswoman for Alstom based in the
Paris suburb of Levallois-Perret, wasn’t immediately available
to comment on the bond sale.  The Markit iTraxx  Europe  Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell three basis
points to 117 basis points at 12:15 p.m. in London, the lowest
since June 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  GDF Suez  Also in the new issue market today, German utility Vier Gas
Transport GmbH is selling 10-year euro bonds that will be priced
to yield 113 basis points more than swaps. The borrower is rated
A- by  Standard & Poor’s , four levels above junk.  “In terms of issuance, investors want to see a bit of
stabilization,” said Cicione. “It’s easier for investment-grade companies to issue than high-yield or emerging market
borrowers.”  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , Europe’s biggest utility by market value, is
holding calls with investors for a potential sale of hybrid
bonds, securities that combine elements of debt with equity, in
euros and pounds. Companies issued a record 13 billion euros of
hybrid debt this year, according to Bloomberg data, as they look
to bolster  capital ratios  without diluting shareholders.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of contracts on 50 high-yield companies dropped 10 basis points to 467, also the lowest
since June 19. A decrease signals improvement in perceptions of
 credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers fell one basis point to 168, while the
subordinated index dipped one basis point to 250.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  