-- Mandela Remains in Hospital as Family Feud Over Graves
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-07-01T15:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/mandela-remains-in-hospital-as-grandson-contests-court-action.html
South Africa ’s former President
 Nelson Mandela  remains in a critical condition in the hospital
as a family feud over his burial site intensifies and the ruling
party defends itself against claims it exploited him.  Mandela’s grandson, Mandla, said in a statement yesterday
he will contest a court application brought against him by some
family members, without disclosing details of the case. The
Johannesburg-based  City Press  reported yesterday that the
application relates to the re-burial of three of Mandela’s
children in his home village of Qunu in Eastern Cape province.
About two years ago, Mandla had the remains moved to Mvezo
village, where he is the tribal chief, the newspaper said.
Mandela had told his staff he wanted to be buried in Qunu, City
Press said.  The 94-year-old former leader has been in a Pretoria
hospital since June 8 to receive treatment for a recurring lung
infection. Doctors downgraded his condition to critical on June
23. He remains “critical but stable,” President  Jacob Zuma ’s
office said in a statement on its website today.  Mandela, who turns 95 this month, took office as head of
 Africa ’s largest economy after the  African National Congress  won
the country’s first multiracial elections in 1994. He had spent
27 years in jail for opposing white-minority rule and won the
Nobel Peace Prize in 1993.  Mandela has three surviving children: Makaziwe, whom he had
with his first wife, Evelyn, and two daughters, Zindzi and
Zenani, from his second wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Mandla
is the child of Mandela’s son, Makgatho, who died in 2005 from
an AIDS-related illness.  ‘Our Icon’  The ANC has come under attack from Madikizela-Mandela for
publishing a photo of the elderly former leader in April after a
visit by party officials, including Zuma. It was “insensitive”
and “compromised the family’s dignity,” she told London-based
ITV News in an interview broadcast yesterday.  Madikizela-Mandela’s concerns weren’t raised with the ANC
and her comments are “regrettable,” the party said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The ANC wants to continue supporting
Mandela and his family and “we have to demonstrate active
interest in the life of President Mandela, who remains our
leader and our icon,” it said.  ANC officials will hold a prayer service for Mandela at the
party’s headquarters in Johannesburg tomorrow, the organization
said in a statement today.  Obama’s Visit  Hundreds of  South Africans , many of them children, have
been flocking to the hospital, leaving cards, balloons, flowers
and messages of support for the country’s first black president.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , who was on his first official
visit to South Africa, yesterday urged African leaders to follow
Mandela’s example as a path to international respect and
economic growth. Obama didn’t visit Mandela in the hospital,
though met with some family members in Johannesburg and spoke
with Mandela’s wife, Graca Machel, over the phone.  Obama yesterday toured Mandela’s prison cell on Robben
Island, where the anti-apartheid activist was held for 18 years.
Obama and his wife, Michelle, left a message in the guest book
that said “the world is grateful for the heroes of Robben
Island, who remind us that no shackles or cells can match the
strength of the human spirit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  