-- Apple Gives Orders Processing Chips to TSMC, WSJ Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-07-01T07:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/apple-gives-orders-processing-chips-to-tsmc-wsj-says.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330)  got orders from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for processing chips used in its
iPhones and iPads, the Wall Street Journal  reported , citing an
unidentified company official.  The move is part of Apple’s shift away from relying on
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  for components with the new chips to be
made from next year, the newspaper reported. Elizabeth Sun, a
spokeswoman for Hsinchu, Taiwan-based TSMC, declined to comment
on the report. A call to Takashi Takebayashi, a Tokyo-based
spokesman for Apple, wasn’t immediately returned.  Apple has expanded its list of suppliers and reduced its
dependence on Samsung as the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers each score court victories in patent disputes spread over
four continents. The companies are competing for dominance of a
global mobile-device market estimated by researcher Yankee Group
at $346 billion in 2012.  TSMC, the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips,
in April forecast record quarterly sales and raised its spending
plan amid rising smartphone demand. Chairman Morris Chang, whose
company gets $7 for every smartphone sold worldwide, raised his
capital expenditure plan by as much as 10 percent as TSMC seeks
to buy more equipment to meet demand for newer manufacturing
technology.  Cupertino, California-based Apple will outsource as much as
50 percent of its application processor wafers to TSMC in the
next two years, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by Donald Lu wrote in a report on May 6.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, which also supplies
screens for Apple devices, accounts for about 1.9 percent of
supplies to Apple, according  to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  The company will remain the primary supplier of chips to
Apple until next year, the newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  