-- Ardagh Buy of Saint-Gobain Containers Challenged by FTC
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-07-01T20:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ardagh-buy-of-saint-gobain-containers-challenged-by-ftc.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
challenged Ardagh Group SA’s proposed $1.7 billion acquisition
of Saint-Gobain Containers Inc., saying the deal would reduce
competition in the U.S. market for beer and liquor bottles.  The FTC filed an administrative complaint today and said it
would seek court orders to block the transaction, according to a
statement on the agency’s website.  “If Ardagh is allowed to acquire Saint-Gobain, it would
eliminate beneficial competition that has led to lower prices
for beer and spirits bottles,” Norman Armstrong, Jr., deputy
director of the FTC’s Bureau of Competition, said in the
statement. “Ultimately, this transaction will result in higher
prices for consumers.”  The deal had been described as a “milestone” by Pierre-Andre de Chalendar, chief executive officer of Saint Gobain’s
parent company,  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA , as he exits packaging
to focus  Europe ’s biggest supplier of building materials on its
other businesses. Saint-Gobain, based in Courbevoie,  France ,
near Paris, planned to pursue targets in  Asia  and other  emerging
markets  and strengthen its balance sheet, de Chalendar said in
January.  Ardagh, a European glass and metal company that has clients
such as brewer Heineken NV and cosmetics maker L’Oreal SA,
entered the U.S. glass container market in 2012 by acquiring
Anchor Glass Container Corp., the industry’s No. 3 at the time,
and Leone Industries, a small, single-plant glassmaker.  The FTC said the proposed deal would leave the merged firm
and its only significant competitor,  Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI) , with
control of more than 75 percent of the U.S. market for glass
liquor and beer containers. Americans use more than 18 billion
of the bottles annually, the FTC said.  The acquisition would be Luxembourg-based Ardagh’s third
purchase of a U.S. glassmaker in little more than a year and
would marry the second- and third-largest U.S. glass container
producers, the FTC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 