-- Margalit Fox Revives Eccentric Who Untangled Crete Puzzle
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-07-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/margalit-fox-revives-eccentric-who-untangled-crete-puzzle.html
Users of the Bloomberg terminal can
blithely type JPMCC CDS USD SR 5Y <GO> to bring up an attractive
3D graphic of the JPMorgan credit-default-swaps curve.  There’s a lot of strange language around, but IMHO it’s
hard to top Linear B, the unknown writing of an unknown language
that took more than five pre-computer decades to unravel after
it was found etched into clay tablets on Crete.  In “ The Riddle of the Labyrinth ,”  Margalit Fox  presents
compact biographies of the three main people who worked on what
she calls “one of the most formidable puzzles of all time.” An
obituary writer at the  New York Times , Fox in particular gives
one overlooked decoder her due, revealing the key contributions
of a college professor and philologist named Alice Kober.  “The stories obit writers love best are those of history’s
backstage players,” Fox wrote in a Times article recently. She
reckons Kober is “the greatest backstage player I have ever
written about.”  The story begins with some productive digging by British
archaeologist Arthur Evans, who unearthed the Palace of Minos,
“a building larger than  Buckingham Palace ,” in 1900 at
Knossos, Crete. His crew also found clay tablets that, dating
from around 1400 B.C., bore  Europe ’s earliest written records.  Evans spent 40 years off and on trying to crack Linear B,
but his preference for conjecture over systematic analysis
brought only frustration.  Kober, an outstanding classics student, “declared she
would make the Minoan scripts her lifework” in 1928 upon
graduating from  Manhattan ’s  Hunter College . Such was the allure
of these clay scratchings in some circles.  Paper Shortage  It was a Herculean task in many senses. As a teacher, Kober
had little excess money or leisure. For a good part of the work,
the war made paper scarce and Kober kept her meticulous records
on homemade cards cut from anything with a blank side (she
ultimately created 180,000 cards). She filed these in the empty
cartons of the cigarettes she incessantly, lethally smoked.  Along with her linguistic baseline in Greek, Latin, French,
German and Anglo-Saxon, she added Hittite, Old Irish, Akkadian,
Tocharian, Sumerian, Old Persian, Basque and Chinese (I’m tired
just typing all that). She was from the outset hamstrung because
Evans refused to release more than a small sample of Linear B,
about 200 inscriptions.  Fox is an excellent guide through Kober’s efforts to unlock
writing that varies in appearance from Chinese characters to
doodles and her crucial eureka moments. The author assumes the
reader will possess a basic knowledge of how languages work and
brings in conceptual aids where possible.  Dancing Men  One is a system of writing called Blissymbolics that is as
amusing as it is illuminating. Another is the  Dancing Men  code
in the Sherlock Holmes adventure of the same name, which happily
calls to mind  Keith Haring ’s hieroglyphics. The book stretches
the mind in unusual and delightful ways.  The tablets in fact were “administrative records” that
revealed the daily workings of the palace. Fox writes: “They
would open a wide portal onto the daily life of a refined,
wealthy and literate society that had thrived in Greek lands a
full millennium before the glory of Classical Athens.”  The laurels for deciphering Linear B went to a brilliant
British amateur with an uncommon gift for languages named
Michael Ventris. His childhood interest in the inscriptions
first bore fruit in a 15,000-word paper published by the
American Journal of Archaeology in 1940, when he was 18.  Thrilling Leaps  He cracked it just before his 30th birthday. If you stick
with Fox into the Ventris section, his intuitive leaps are just
plain thrilling.  He couldn’t have done it without Kober’s spadework. That
her contribution was largely overlooked for years stems in part
from the fact that she died a few eurekas short of the goal.  In addition, Kober’s private writings, correspondence,
analysis, Fox writes, “thousands of pages of documents in all,
became available only recently.”  It’s fortunate that a writer as versatile and sympathetic
as Fox came upon them.  “The Riddle of the Labyrinth: The Quest to Crack an
Ancient Code” is published by Ecco in the U.S. and will be
published by Profile in the U.K. on July 11 (363 pages, $27.99,
14.99 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 