-- Arizona Hotshots Die Fighting Fire Called State’s Worst
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d ,   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-07-02T05:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/arizona-blaze-kills-19-firefighters-as-homes-evacuated-ap-says.html
It was a last-ditch effort,  Arizona 
firefighters say, the thing you do to save your life.  As ragged flames swept toward them, 19 wildfire specialists
known as hotshots sent word that they were taking refuge in
portable shelters -- burrowing under  aluminum  foil shrouds
designed to withstand heat and preserve a pocket of breathable
air near the ground.  Then silence marked the worst loss of U.S. emergency
workers since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  “We do not know what caused this,” said Wade Ward, a
spokesman for the Prescott Fire Department, the home of the crew
known as the Granite Mountain Hotshots. “It had to be a
situation where everything that could possibly go wrong, did go
wrong. It happened very suddenly.”  The blaze in the rugged juniper chaparral west of Yarnell,
Arizona, covered about 2,000 acres on June 30. It was modest as
wildfires go, especially for the hotshots, who are trained to
outsmart the flames and robust enough to hike for miles packing
chainsaws and heavy gear, day after day, to create firebreaks.
Their average age was 27.  “It’s a young man’s game,” said Dan Fraijo, Prescott’s
fire chief. “They were dedicated, hard-working people who took
their jobs very seriously.”  Shifting Winds  They were caught as storm winds rose and shifted, driving a
blaze that grew to more than 8,300 acres yesterday. Flames
consumed an estimated 200 homes in Yarnell, whose approximately
700 people live some 85 miles (140 kilometers) northwest of
Phoenix. Governor  Jan Brewer , a Republican, declared a state of
emergency for what she called the deadliest conflagration in
Arizona history.  “We can never fully repay the sacrifice made by your loved
ones,” Brewer said at a news briefing in Prescott, about 34
miles northeast of Yarnell.  Hundreds of people gathered in the gymnasium of Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University’s Prescott campus late yesterday.
Some embraced the dozens of firefighters who were applauded as
they went to their bleacher seats. Outside, 19 small American
flags on poles had been poked into the grass along a walkway.  So many people came that at least 500 were turned away to
comply with fire codes, said Max Sandoval, a school spokesman.  “We’re gathered here today because we’re overwhelmed with
grief and we don’t know what to do except to come together,”
said U.S. Representative Ann Kirkpatrick, a northern Arizona
Democrat. She described herself as “a cousin by marriage” of
one of the fallen firefighters.  Tearful Memorial  Don Devendorff, a Prescott fire official, brought many in
the crowd to tears when he talked about the young men who had
died. He’d met their families at a picnic about a month ago, and
been reunited with them by tragedy.  “Those families lost,” he said. “The Prescott Fire
Department lost. The city of Prescott lost. The state of Arizona
lost. These were the best.”  Prescott, bounded entirely by forests, was the first U.S.
city with a hotshot crew, Fraijo said. The hotshot crew,
assembled in 2002, is trained to penetrate wildfires by
helicopter or on the ground and thin trees, build barriers and
spread water or chemical suppressants to block advancing flames.  “If there’s a fire in the forest, it’ll end up in the
city,” Ward said in an interview. “If we have a fire in the
city, it will end up in the forest.”  Lightning Blamed  The so-called Yarnell Hill fire started from a lightning
strike June 28, Fraijo said. He said the circumstances of the
deaths were under investigation. One member of the crew, who had
been on an assignment apart from the others, survived.  Ken Bennett, the Arizona secretary of state and formerly of
Prescott, said his family attended services June 30 at a Mormon
congregation with the wife of one of the hotshot crew.  “She was telling my family he was out at the Yarnell
fire,” Bennett said by telephone. “She said she was worried
but he always came home. Eight hours later we learned this time,
he didn’t. We are just heartbroken.”  About 55 displaced Yarnell residents spent the night at Red
Cross shelters at Wickenburg High School, about 25 miles south
of town, and Yavapai College in Prescott, Trudy Thompson Rice, a
Red Cross spokeswoman, said in an interview. Most Yarnell
residents had chosen to stay with friends or family, she said.  Debra Denison, 61, wasn’t sure if her residence of six
years, a blue-and-white mobile home surrounded by wooden decks,
had survived. She had spotted the fire glowing red in the
mountains on June 28 and saw it retreat the next day, only to
return two days later. She was among seven people who crammed
their belongings into two small cars and fled that afternoon.  ‘Solid Black’  “It was a wall of solid black,” she said, recalling the
scene from the rearview mirror of her Ford Escort. She spent the
night on a green cot at the high school.  “The hardest part is knowing that all those boys died
while trying to protect our homes,” Denison said as she dabbed
her eyes with a tissue. “And the not knowing. We don’t know if
we have a place to go back to.”  The Prescott crew in 2012 logged 108 days fighting
wildfires across the U.S., according to the city’s budget.
Members had been working in  New Mexico  and returned to Arizona
to fight a fire in the Granite Mountain Recreation Area.  The dead represented 20 percent of Prescott’s fire-fighting
force, said Pete Wertheim, a city spokesman.  Historic Loss  It was the third-deadliest loss of U.S. emergency personnel
in a wildfire, according to the Quincy, Massachusetts-based
National Fire Protection Association, a nonprofit education and
research group.  About 100 years ago, 86 firefighters died in the Devil’s
Broom wildfire in Silverton,  Idaho , in 1910. Two decades later,
29 perished in Griffith Park,  California , in 1933.  The U.S. suffered its greatest loss of firefighter lives in
the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, when 340 died responding to the
World Trade Center in  Lower Manhattan .  Federal authorities are assisting and will remain in
contact with state and local counterparts to provide the support
they need, President  Barack Obama  said yesterday in a statement.  “They were heroes -- highly skilled professionals who,
like so many across our country do every day, selflessly put
themselves in harm’s way to protect the lives and property of
fellow citizens they would never meet,” Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Prescott at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Wickenburg at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  