-- HSBC Tops Underwriter Rankings in Asia’s Record Dollar Bond Run
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-07-01T06:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
HSBC Holdings Plc captured the top
share of the record $82.6 billion in U.S. dollar-denominated
bonds that borrowers in  Asia  outside Japan raised in the first
half to help pay for acquisitions.  Europe ’s largest lender, which dominated the rankings in
the past three years, underwrote 11.5 percent of the deals in
the region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup
Inc. remained second with an 8.9 percent share, while JPMorgan
Chase & Co. jumped from fifth place in the previous six-month
period to third with 8.7 percent.  Dollar bond sales by Asian companies soared at the start of
the year after the  average yield  on the notes fell to near a
record low at 4.51 percent in January, according to an index
compiled by JPMorgan. Korea Gas Corp. was the region’s only
issuer in the currency in the past three weeks as the  Federal
Reserve  signaling it could reduce its asset purchases froze debt
offerings. Global investors pulled out a record $23.3 billion
from debt funds last week.  “There was a huge issuance at the start of the year when
sentiment and demand for yields was pretty strong, so it was not
only smart for bankers but also for companies to raise funds,”
said Ashley Perrott, head of pan-Asia fixed-income in Singapore
at UBS Global Asset Management Holding Ltd. “I don’t think we
will have a multi-month freeze as all-in funding costs are still
relatively low. It’s challenging to do too much in relation to
new issues when there are outflows from funds.”  Borrowing Costs  HSBC and UBS AG managed the $1 billion  bond issue  by Hong
Kong-based Citic Pacific Ltd. in May and had a share of Bharti
Airtel Ltd.’s $1 billion offering in March. Citigroup helped
underwrite the $4 billion bond issue by Chinese oil explorer
Cnooc Ltd. in May, this year’s biggest deal.  The average yield borrowers in the region pay to sell
dollar debt was at 5.71 percent last week, JPMorgan index data
showed. The rate climbed to the highest since February 2012 at
5.84 percent on June 24, after the Fed hinted it could end its
monthly bond purchases by mid-2014.  Asian companies outside Japan, including Shuanghui
International Holdings Ltd. and Apollo Tyres Ltd. in  India , have
announced $77.8 billion of acquisitions in May and June, the
busiest two-month period since the one ended Dec. 31, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bond Pipeline  No company in Asia outside  Japan  is marketing dollar bonds
after Korea Gas raised $100 million of five-year floating rate
notes on June 26. It was the region’s first offering in the
currency since China Huaneng Group Corp. sold $400 million of
2018 notes on June 4, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  PT Berau Coal plans to sell dollar notes this year to
refinance debt, the Jakarta Post reported today, citing finance
director Scott Merrillees. The Jakarta-based coal producer has
$450 million of July 2015 bonds that are callable on July 31.
The 12.5 percent notes were sold in June 2010 and yielded 9
percent last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere, the cost of insuring corporate and sovereign
bonds in the Asia-Pacific region from non-payment rose,
according to credit-default swap traders.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index climbed 3 basis points to
139 basis points as of 10:31 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. The index snapped a six-week streak of
increases last week, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose 2 basis points to 152 as of 8:33
a.m. in Singapore, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The gauge reached 178 on June 24, the highest close in a year,
CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 2 basis points to 112
as of 9:33 a.m. in  Tokyo ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  prices show. The index
is set to snap a four-day decline, which began after it reached
a 16-week high on June 24, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  