-- Asian Stocks Outside Japan Decline on China Manufacturing
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-07-01T13:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/asia-stocks-gain-as-yen-weakens-on-tankan-gauge.html
Asian  stocks  outside  Japan  fell, with
a regional index heading for its first decline in four days,
after an official gauge of manufacturing activity in  China 
expanded at the slowest pace in four months.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,  Australia ’s third-largest
iron-ore producer which counts China as its biggest market,
dropped 3 percent.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  dropped 2.3 percent, pacing
losses among  Singapore ’s homebuilders after the city’s central
bank tightened lending rules to curb rising property prices.
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s No. 1 carmaker, gained 1.2
percent as the yen weakened against the dollar.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  slid 0.5
percent to 430.07 at 10:02 p.m. in  Tokyo , as nine of the 10
industry groups on the measure fell. The gauge last week posted
its first quarterly slump in a year amid signs of an economic
slowdown in China and after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said last month policy makers may start dialing down
stimulus if the  U.S. economy  shows sustained improvement.  “China seems to be the biggest risk for markets now,”
Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages more than $130
billion, said in a telephone interview. “If growth slows too
much, unemployment will rise and this will lead to social
unrest. We don’t know how far authorities will tolerate slower
growth. The Japanese market appears to be building a base for
the next leg of the rally. We may see further earnings upgrades
as the benefits of Japan’s monetary stimulus begins to show.”  Regional Gauges  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 1.9 percent.  New
Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.5 percent as trading resumed
following a technical fault.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index slid 0.4
percent, Singapore’s Straits Times Index and  Taiwan ’s Taiex
index retreated 0.3 percent. Markets in  Hong Kong  and  Thailand 
are closed for holidays.  Japan’s Topix gained 1.5 percent, with volume on Japan’s
broadest equity benchmark gauge 37 percent below the 30-day
average. The yen weakened 0.5 percent to 99.63 per dollar.  Toyota gained 1.2 percent to 6,060 yen and Mazda Motor
Corp., an automaker that gets 73 percent of sales abroad, rose
4.9 percent to 410 yen. A weaker yen boosts earnings for
Japanese firms when repatriated from abroad.  Tankan Survey  Big Japanese manufacturers became optimistic for the first
time since September 2011, indicating confidence in Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflationary policies even amid stock
market volatility. The quarterly  Tankan index  for large
manufacturers rose to plus four in June, beating the plus three
forecast by 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, and up from
minus eight in March. A positive figure shows optimists
outnumber pessimists.  “Recovery in Japan is going to be very crucial to the
Asia-Pacific outlook at a time when Chinese growth is showing
slowing momentum,” Rajiv Biswas, chief Asia economist at IHS
Global Insight, told Bloomberg TV from Singapore. “In the near-term, the outlook is good and we’re going to see some positive
data. I wouldn’t be overly concerned about the declines we’ve
seen in the recent past.”  China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.8 percent, having
swung between gains and losses at least five times. The nation’s
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in four months in
June as a cash squeeze in the banking system reduced the flow of
credit to companies. The Shanghai measure slumped 14 percent
last month, capping the biggest monthly loss since August 2009.  China PMI  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 50.1, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today in Beijing. That matched the median
forecast of 33 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey and was down
from May’s 50.8. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  Growth in China has held below 8 percent for the past four
quarters, the first time that has happened in at least 20 years.
The  World Bank  lowered its 2013 expansion forecast for the
nation last month to 7.7 percent from 8.4 percent previously.  Chinese President Xi Jinping said on June 29 officials
shouldn’t be judged solely on their record in boosting gross
domestic product, the latest signal that policy makers are
prepared to tolerate slower economic expansion.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes Japan, rose 0.2
percent today. It retreated 9.6 percent through the end of June
from the closing level on May 20, which was the highest since
June 2008. That left the gauge trading at 12.8 times average
estimated earnings compared with 14.6 for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  and 12.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.5
percent, indicating the U.S. benchmark will add to last week’s
gains as economic data topped estimates and comments by Federal
Reserve officials eased concerns over plans to reduce stimulus.  Companies that do business with China fell. BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, lost 1.4 percent to
A$30.94 and Rio Tinto Group, the second biggest, slid 1.2
percent to A$51.73. Fortescue dropped 3 percent to A$2.95.  Singapore developers declined after the central bank told
banks to assess borrower’s debts that are not related to
property before granting mortgage approvals. Home loans should
not exceed a total debt-servicing ratio of 60 percent and those
that do will be considered “imprudent,” it said.  CapitaLand, Southeast Asia’s biggest real-estate company,
dropped 2.3 percent to S$3.01. City Developments Ltd.,
Singapore’s second-largest developer, slipped 1.6 percent to
S$10.53.  UOL Group Ltd. decreased 2.7 percent to S$6.54.  Among stocks that gained,  Hisamitsu Pharmaceutical Co. (4530)  rose
6.4 percent to 5,360 yen in Tokyo. The  Food and Drug
Administration  said on June 28 that it cleared unit Noven’s
drug, to be called Brisdelle, as the first non-hormonal
alternative approved to help women avoid sweating and feverish
feelings linked to menopause.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  