-- ECB’s Asmussen Is Where Money and German Politics Meet
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/asmussen-balances-ecb-and-politics-with-door-open-to-german-post.html
In the afternoon, Joerg Asmussen is
by his boss  Mario Draghi ’s side. In the evening, he’s among old
party comrades.  As a day in the life of the  European Central Bank ’s German
board member, June 25 wasn’t atypical. After attending a speech
with ECB President Draghi in a Berlin hotel, he went on to a
summer party thrown by the Social Democrats, the 46-year-old
former deputy finance minister’s political home.  Since the global financial upheaval began in 2007, Asmussen
has been wherever German politics and money meet. When the U.S.
subprime crisis spilled into  Europe ’s biggest economy, Asmussen
was there. When  Greece  needed a rescue, Asmussen helped cut the
deal to keep the euro intact. When Draghi pushed through a bond-buying plan to calm markets in 2012 over Bundesbank objections,
Asmussen backed him up.  Now, as  Germany  enters the final months of an election
campaign, Asmussen is being touted as a potential finance
minister if Christian Democratic Chancellor Angela Merkel is
forced to share power with the SPD after the Sept. 22 vote.  “If the Social Democrats were to gain the  finance ministry 
in a grand coalition, Asmussen has the best chance of taking
that job,” said Juergen Falter, professor of political science
at the University of Mainz. “Asmussen is the only candidate for
that position that I can see far and wide.”  His insider’s knowledge of markets, finance and politics
makes Asmussen unique among Germany’s two biggest parties, says
former finance minister Hans Eichel. That would position him
well in the event of a bipartisan coalition that polls give a
better-than-even chance of happening.  ‘Indispensable’  There are “not enough people who, like Asmussen,
understand the financial markets. Those few then become
indispensable,” said Eichel, a  Social Democrat  who was finance
minister between 1999 to 2005. “That’s especially true for
Asmussen.”  Still, Asmussen’s rise from a finance ministry officer
responsible for international economic and monetary affairs in
1996 to the board of the world’s second-most important central
bank hasn’t been without blemishes.  While he helped design a rescue for German banks in 2008,
Asmussen had previously sat on the supervisory board of
Dusseldorf-based  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB) , the first to be
bailed out after the U.S. mortgage-bond collapse.  Asmussen created opponents in the SPD’s rank and file by
his advocacy of liberalization in the financial industry -- for
example through his support during Merkel’s first term of a new
German body to promote asset-backed securities.  ‘Tactically Oriented’  “Asmussen is tactically oriented -- he positions himself
in whatever direction the wind is blowing,” says Michael Mueller, a former Social Democrat deputy environment minister,
who knows Asmussen from internal government meetings.  In March, the banking  crisis in Cyprus  pushed European
policy makers including Asmussen into a corner. At a late-night
press conference on March 16, Asmussen backed a deal to tax all
Cypriot bank-account holders to help pay for a bailout. After
the country’s parliament rejected it and markets protested, the
deal was revised just over a week later.  Asmussen declined to be interviewed for this article.  On April 9, Asmussen, a native of Flensburg near the Danish
border, was at the microphone before a half-empty nave in the
former Church of the Cross in Nuertingen, a town of about 40,000
near Stuttgart.  Standing in front of a stained-glass window depicting the
crucified Christ, Asmussen explained the ECB’s economic outlook
to guests invited by the local CDU lawmaker. He then gave a
synopsis of the euro-area’s policy debates. The event, one among
many, helps explain his part of growing profile.  Provincial Visits  Since being appointed to the ECB’s board in January 2012,
the University of Bonn-trained economist has criss-crossed
Germany explaining what the central bank can and can’t do to
ease the debt crisis. This year, he’s addressed audiences in
provincial cities from Kiel to Schwaebisch Gmuend and Magdeburg
to Ingolstadt, seeking support for the central bank and for pro-European Union policies.  In a country where both the euro area’s bailout fund and
the ECB’s bond-buying plan are the subject of cases at the
 Constitutional Court , that can be a tough sell.  In that time, about half of Asmussen’s 19 official speaking
engagements in Germany have been in Berlin, where he lives with
this family. That’s where he’s esteemed the most -- among the
political elite of both Germany’s major parties.  Both Merkel and Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble “value
him highly,” even though they’re from the opposite side of the
political divide, Eichel says.  Growing Closer  As a regular participant in meetings of European finance
ministers, Asmussen has shown how close the independent ECB has
grown to political decision makers.  On June 20, in a dark gray slim-fit suit, skinny tie and
metal-framed spectacles, Asmussen arrived for a meeting of
finance ministers in  Luxembourg  alongside Schaeuble and his
staff. He chatted with his successor as deputy finance minister,
Thomas Steffen, before speaking to the cameras.  “With Asmussen, it was quite clear that the Germans wanted
their guy to represent their interests at the ECB,” said
 Christian Schulz , senior economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“To have such a pragmatist back in the finance ministry would
be a definite plus for the  euro zone . That may not make him
popular with the German public though.”  A grand coalition, reprising the SPD-CDU government under
Merkel that ruled from 2005 to 2009, has about a 60 percent
chance of becoming reality, if Merkel’s current coalition
partners, the Free Democrats, suffer a slump in their vote,
according to Falter, the political scientist.  Come September 23, the day after the federal election, if
the SPD is positioned to join a government, Asmussen’s phone
could be ringing.  “Asmussen has proven in the past that he can lead,” says
SPD lawmaker Johannes Kahrs, when asked if Asmussen could be in
the running for office on that day. “He’s a man with ability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  