-- At Wimbledon, China’s Tennis Rebel Holds Serve
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-07-01T17:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/at-wimbledon-china-s-tennis-rebel-holds-serve.html
Today,  China ’s  Li Na  dominated her
way into  the Wimbledon quarterfinals . This probably comes as a
surprise to her patriotic, sports-loving countrymen. Since
becoming China’s first -- and so far only -- Grand Slam tennis
title winner when she took the French Open in 2011, Li has
largely underwhelmed. Occasional lapses in concentration and
 seeming indifference  have characterized her playing in recent
tournaments -- and over the last week at Wimbledon -- and so,
there was good reason to believe that as the competition
stiffened in  London , her luck would run out.  Although the steelier Li hasn’t been seen much on the court
lately, she’s certainly been heard after the matches. This is
the Li who, in 2008, became one of a  handful of Chinese athletes 
to leave behind the country’s state-run national athletics
system and go independent. Once outside the system that had
chosen and cultivated her, she found near immediate success,
including her French Open victory.  Li’s willingness to scoff at what she left behind -- a
system and fans that co-opt victories for their own ( often
political ) ends -- is almost unbridled. In 2012, when asked if
she could explain to fans why she failed to defend her French
Open title, she  snapped  back: “Do I need to get on my knees and
kowtow to them? Apologize to them?”  On Saturday, when questioned about whether she felt
pressure from the Chinese state to win Wimbledon, she responded:
“Why should I carry an entire country? I’m just a tennis player
playing tennis as best as I can. This is my job.”  Outside China, these quotes may read like nothing more than
the rant of a spoiled athlete in it for herself. The U.S. has
plenty. But within China, the self-centered athlete is something
unique, modern and even subversive.  The comparison is especially stark when compared with how
athletes in the state-run system are expected to behave. In
2010, Zhou Yang, a gold-medal-winning Olympic speed skater, gave
a post-victory interview in which she publicly thanked her
parents but -- critically --  not her country . Not long after, a
deputy director of China’s National Sports Bureau publicly
criticized her for the oversight. Zhou was compelled to offer up
a  second expression of gratitude  that emphasized country over
family. It’s hard to imagine Li would have done the same, even
if she were still in the state-run system.  Li’s sharp tongue and unwillingness to play by the rules
that have always governed Chinese sports have certainly
alienated more conservative and patriotic fans. But nothing
earns forgiveness from a sports fan quite like victory. In the
unlikely event that Li advances to the Wimbledon final, much
less wins it, this salty rebel will certainly find herself
embraced by the patriotic Chinese sporting public.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 