-- Australia’s Gerrans Wins Tour de France Stage in Photo Finish
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-01T15:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/australia-s-gerrans-wins-tour-de-france-stage-in-photo-finish.html
Australia ’s Simon Gerrans beat Peter
Sagan in a photo finish on day three of the Tour de  France  to
give the Orica-GreenEdge team its first stage win at cycling’s
elite race.  Gerrans sprinted away near the end of a hilly 90-mile stage
on winding coastal roads in Corsica and did just enough to hold
off Sagan, a Slovak with the Cannondale team.  “I was able to hold off one of the quickest guys around,”
Gerrans said in a televised interview. “It must have been close
as neither of us knew who had won.”  It’s the second season at the Tour de France for Orica-GreenEdge, an Australian squad.  Jan Bakelants, a Belgian with the RadioShack team, kept the
race-leading yellow jersey after the ride between Ajaccio and
Calvi. He won yesterday’s 97-mile stage by one second with a
late charge to the line on his own.  Gerrans, who also won a stage in 2008, is among about 70
riders including Chris Froome and Alberto Contador who are a
second behind Bakelants.  Froome, a Kenya-born Briton who was second last year, is
the favorite to win the 100th edition of the race, according to
seven bookmakers’ odds on  oddschecker.com .  Two-time champion Contador of Team Saxo Bank is second
favorite with the seven bookmakers. The 2012 champion Bradley
Wiggins is absent because of injury.  Earlier today, Gerrans’s teammate Simon Clarke took the
lead on the final climb but was caught by Pierre Rolland, a
French rider with Europcar who retains the polka-dot jersey for
leading mountain climber.  After the opening three days on Corsica, the race resumes
tomorrow with a 15.5-mile team time trial in Nice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  