-- Austria Faces Capital Needs Caused by New Hypo Alpe Plan
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-07-01T11:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/austria-faces-capital-needs-caused-by-new-hypo-alpe-plan.html
Austria  filed a new proposal to gain
European Union approval for about 2.2 billion euros ($2.9
billion) in state aid for Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG
by accelerating disposals and halting some new business.  The nationalized lender will complete the sale of its
Austrian unit, won’t do any new business in  Italy  and will sell
its biggest division, a network of banks in the former
 Yugoslavia , in the next two years, the  Finance Ministry  said in
a statement today. Hypo Alpe said in a separate statement the
measures, which need European Commission approval, may lead to
writedowns in its first-half and require new capital, which it
is evaluating.  “The Republic of Austria expresses its hope that the new
restructuring plan will find the commission’s approval,” the
Finance Ministry said in the statement.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s top antitrust official, told
Austria in March its restructuring plan for Hypo Alpe wasn’t
enough to justify retaining the aid the lender has received
since 2008, and he may order Hypo Alpe to repay it. Austria
installed a  task force  led by former central bank governor Klaus Liebscher to satisfy Almunia by drafting the plan.  The bank may need as much as 2 billion euros in extra
capital due to the concessions, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be identified
because talks with the EU are confidential.  IMF Advice  The amount may be lower if a unit to wind down the bank’s
bad assets is set up, the people said. Austria has set aside 700
million euros of capital for Hypo Alpe in this year’s budget.  The  International Monetary Fund , which presented an
assessment of Austria’s financial sector today, said Austria was
facing more expenses to shut down Hypo Alpe. It should take them
and move on, the fund’s mission chief, Enrica Detragiache, told
journalists in Vienna.  “The strategy to wait and hope for a quick turnaround
doesn’t seem to pay off,” he said. “The experience in other
countries is that the value tends to erode over time and hence
we recommend to be more proactive and downsize the various
operations even if it means realizing some losses.”  Hypo Alpe previously planned to sell its network of banks
in  Croatia , Serbia,  Slovenia , Montenegro and  Bosnia and
Herzegovina  by 2016. The shorter deadline means the unit has to
be categorized as for sale under international accounting rules,
creating the need for a writedown.  The ministry didn’t say what will happen with the bank’s
unit containing assets to be wound down, which may grow to as
much as 16 billion euros under the new EU plan, according to the
people with knowledge of the situation. Hypo Alpe is seeking
advisers for how to structure that part of the bank in a way
that limits the need for taxpayer funds, they said.  If the unit is spun off and operates without a banking
license, it may free capital and therefore require less funding,
the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  