-- Bachelet Wins Landslide Victory in Chilean Opposition Primary
-- B y   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s
-- 2013-07-01T01:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/bachelet-wins-landslide-victory-in-chilean-opposition-primary.html
Former President Michelle Bachelet
won a landslide victory in primary elections for Chile’s
opposition today, lining her up as the favorite for presidential
elections in November as the ruling coalition split almost 50-50
between its two candidates.  Bachelet, who led Chile from 2006 to 2010, had 73.8 percent
of the vote with 93 percent of the ballots counted, while Andres
Velasco, her closest rival and a former finance minister, had
12.5 percent, according to the Electoral Service. In the ruling
coalition, Pablo Longueira edged ahead of Andres Allamand with
51.1 percent of the vote to 48.9 percent.  “It’s a shoe-in for Bachelet” in the November election,
said Patricio Navia, a political science professor at  New York 
University. With five people voting in the opposition alliance
for every two voting for the ruling coalition “this weakens the
right wing and it weakens the president.”  The administration of President Sebastian Pinera has been
undermined by two years of student protests in support of
improved education, even as the economy expanded more than 5
percent in each of the past three years. Bachelet has promised
increased spending on education, paid for by a 5 percentage
point increase in the corporate tax levy and a cut in the amount
of money companies can put aside for future investment without
paying tax. The candidates for the ruling coalition have
promised to cut levies on gasoline.  Pinera “was a lame-duck president before this vote, but
this puts all the nails in the coffin,” Navia said by phone
from Santiago.  Longueira Surprise  Longueira’s victory for the ruling coalition makes a
Bachelet win in November even more likely, Navia said. The
Independent Democratic Union, Longueira’s party, was created in
the 1980s by people who worked for the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet.  A poll by Central University on June 17 and 18 had showed
65 percent of people expected Allamand to beat Longueira. The
survey of 300 people didn’t ask for voter preferences and had a
margin of error of 5.65 percentage points. A MORI poll also
concluded that Allamand would win, without giving percentages.  Bachelet, constitutionally banned from running for a second
consecutive term, had taken a break from politics to lead UN
Women, a gender-equality agency created in 2010, the same year
she left office.  Her success in November’s election would return her center-left coalition to power after a four-year hiatus. The bloc, that
includes Bachelet’s Socialist party and Christian Democrats, had
ruled  Chile  since 1990, when the Pinochet left office.  Torture and Exile  As a 23-year-old medical student, Bachelet was detained and
tortured by officers of the dictatorship in 1975. The year
before, Bachelet’s father, Air Force General Alberto Bachelet,
died in jail of a heart attack after being tortured on suspicion
he opposed the coup that toppled Socialist President Salvador Allende.  Bachelet completed her studies in East Germany after being
exiled to  Australia . An agnostic and divorced mother of three in
a Catholic country, she defied social norms on her return to
Chile and rise to power.  Chile’s ruling coalition was thrown into turmoil earlier
this year when its leading presidential candidate,  Laurence Golborne , was forced to back out from the primaries when it was
revealed he has money in an offshore account registered in the
British Virgin Islands. He hadn’t registered the savings when
declaring his assets to Congress.  As mining minister, Golborne had led the rescue of the 33
miners trapped underground in northern Chile. The rescue is
being turned into a film with Antonio Banderas and Jennifer Lopez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Sanders in Santiago at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  