-- Banks Accepting More Foreign Equipment for Japan Solar Projects
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-07-01T05:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/banks-accepting-more-foreign-equipment-for-japan-solar-projects.html
Banks are becoming more open to
financing domestic solar projects that use foreign equipment as
the country’s year-old incentive program for clean energy spurs
investment in renewable sources.  Chinese panels with reinsurance and inverter makers such as
 ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  of Switzerland and  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92)  of  Germany 
are being accepted, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in a June
28 report. Reinsurance helps ease lender concerns about using
equipment from makers that could go bankrupt because the insurer
agrees to honor the warranty, it said.  “Japanese banks have relaxed bankability requirements as
they become more familiar with financing solar projects for the
domestic market as well as reinsurance, especially for Chinese
manufacturers,” Travis Woodward, a BNEF solar analyst said
today by e-mail.  “The high tariff gave banks the financial flexibility
initially to be low risk and use Japanese modules and
inverters,” Woodward said. Solar tariffs in Japan are currently
37.8 yen (38 cents) per kilowatt hour for 20 years, after a 10
percent cut in April. Inverters convert power from solar panels
for use on the grid.  Japan ’s incentive program, which pays above-market rates
for clean energy, has boosted solar capacity more than any other
renewable source. Solar is faster to build than other types such
as geothermal or wind, both of which must be assessed for their
environmental impact.  Japan’s solar market will add 6.9 gigawatts to 9.4
gigawatts of capacity this year to the base of 7.4 gigawatts,
BNEF forecasts. The country added about 1.6 gigawatts in solar
capacity from April 2012 through the end of February, according
to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  