-- Basel Seen Defying Logic in Denmark as Rule Hits Mortgages
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-07-02T12:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/basel-seen-defying-logic-in-denmark-as-rule-clash-hits-mortgages.html
Denmark is warning that the world’s
biggest mortgage market per capita is again under threat from a
proposal by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  A plan to limit single counterparty  exposures  to 25 percent
of a lender’s tier 1 capital isn’t feasible in a market
dominated by four mortgage banks, according to the Danish
Financial Supervisory Authority and industry groups. Complying
with the requirement would introduce currency risks and erode
the very liquidity that Basel has told banks to build, they say.  “One reason we have a functioning market with good
liquidity is because we have few issuers,” Karsten Beltoft, the
head of the Danish Mortgage Bankers’ Federation, said in an
interview. “They issue a huge amount of bonds. If there were 10
issuers, there would be fewer bonds from each.”  Denmark has been fighting the Basel committee since the
group in 2010 unveiled liquidity rules that the government in
Copenhagen says betrayed a misunderstanding of how covered bonds
work. After persuading European regulators to adjust Basel’s
requirements to boost the status of its mortgage-backed bonds,
 Denmark  is now readying itself for the next round in its battle
to defend its $480 billion home-loan market.  “Once again we can see that on the Basel Committee there
is no real understanding of European covered bonds,”  Peter
Jayaswal , a deputy director at the Association of Danish
Mortgage Banks, said in an interview. “We can see that every
time they don’t really acknowledge that some covered bonds are
very safe and very liquid instruments.”  Bank Failures  Basel is proposing tightening its large exposure rule to
ensure banks aren’t put at risk if a single counterparty fails.
The committee previously targeted a 25 percent limit of total
capital, a guideline national regulators had some scope to
sidestep.  In its March proposal, Basel warned that adding more
capital won’t protect banks against the risk of large customers
defaulting. Basel’s own recommendations for calculating minimum
capital buffers don’t address concentration risk while local
regulators’ efforts are inconsistent, Basel said in March.  Loan concentrations were in part to blame for more than a
dozen bank failures in Denmark after the nation’s property
bubble  burst  in 2008. The $320 billion economy contracted 0.6
percent in the final three months of 2012 and stalled in the
first quarter as depressed house prices and record private debt
loads sap demand.  Yet Denmark’s mortgage bond market has managed to  withstand 
the nation’s housing slump and recession, thanks to rules
limiting loan-to-value levels and requirements on lenders to
provide extra collateral when loan sizes exceed legal
thresholds.  Beating Treasuries  The industry has pledged 299 billion kroner ($52 billion)
in additional collateral, or 145 billion kroner more than
legally required, to maintain credit ratings, the central bank
said last month. The buffers are enough for the industry to
withstand a 13 percent drop in property prices, it said.  The most-traded Danish mortgage bonds in the Nykredit
Realkredit A/S index have returned 35 percent since September
2008, the month Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failed. U.S.
Treasuries with maturities longer than a year delivered
investors 22 percent in the period. The figures include re-invested interest.  Basel’s single exposure rule “would have severe
consequences for the  liquidity  and well-functioning of the
Danish financial market,” the Mortgage Bankers’ Federation, the
Association of Danish Mortgage Banks and the Danish Bankers
Association said June 28 in a draft of a response to the Basel
proposal. The concerns were  echoed  last week by the European
Mortgage Federation and the European Covered Bond Council.  Pimco Purchases  Denmark’s mortgage bond market is four times the size of
its outstanding government debt, and the country’s banks meet
liquidity needs by holding about five times as much in mortgage
securities as they do in government bonds.  The majority of Denmark’s mortgage bonds are sold by its
four biggest lenders: Nykredit, Europe’s largest issuer of
mortgage-backed covered bonds; Realkredit Danmark A/S, the
mortgage unit of  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ; Nordea Kredit, the Danish
mortgage arm of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ; and BRFKredit A/S.  The depth and safety of Denmark’s AAA rated mortgage bond
market has drawn investors including Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s biggest bond fund. That’s held
mortgage rates at record lows and eased the pain of the housing
slump.  Currency Risks  A limit on single exposures would drive up interest rates
and introduce currency risks as banks seek out other assets to
meet their liquidity needs, the bankers groups said. They’re
urging Basel to “consider the possibility for full or partial
exemptions” in cases where there’s no history of default and
“where the exposures in question play an essential role in the
liquidity and well-functioning of the financial market,”
according to the June 28 draft response.  Investor demand for the mostly AAA bonds has driven rates
to record lows, easing the effect of a housing slump now in its
fifth year. Interest payments fell 12 percent in May to 3.9
billion kroner, a record low, the Association of Danish Mortgage
Banks said June 28.  The Danish mortgage bond market hasn’t suffered any
defaults in its more than 200-year history. “That should be
taken into account,” Jayaswal said. Basel should “allow for
the possibility of full or partial exemptions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  