-- BBC $38 Million Payoffs to Managers Were Excessive, Auditor Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-01T13:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/bbc-38-million-payoffs-to-managers-were-excessive-auditor-says.html
The British Broadcasting Corp., the
U.K.’s publicly funded television and radio service, broke rules
on severance payments in spending 25 million pounds ($38
million) over three years to cut top jobs, according to the
government’s spending watchdog.  The  BBC  paid some managers more than they were entitled to
let the broadcaster keep consulting them afterward or ensure
they left quickly, the National Audit Office said in a  report 
published in  London  today. The BBC handed out 150 severance
packages in three years through December 2012.  The BBC’s severance policies face increased scrutiny after
former Director General George Entwistle received 450,000
pounds, more than twice his contracted entitlement, when he quit
less than three months into the job. Entwistle resigned in
November after the broadcaster’s “Newsnight” program canceled
an investigation into sex-abuse claims against entertainer Jimmy Savile then falsely linked former Conservative Party Treasurer
Robert McAlpine to allegations of pedophilia.  “The BBC has breached its own policies on severance too
often without good reason, resulting in payments that have not
served the best interests of license fee payers,” the Audit
Office said. “Weak governance arrangements have led to payments
that exceeded contractual entitlements and put public trust at
risk.”  While the cuts ultimately saved 35 million pounds over the
three-year period, more than they cost, the payoffs “provided
poor value for money for license fee payers,” the auditor said.  Severance payment, salary, legal costs and other benefits
brought Entwistle’s remuneration to 802,000 pounds last year,
the BBC said.  “The level of some of these payments was wrong,” current
BBC Director General Tony Hall said in a  statement  today. “The
BBC lost its way on payments in recent years.”  Entwistle’s severance package was less expensive than
fighting an unfair dismissal suit,  Chris Patten , chairman of the
broadcaster’s governing body the BBC Trust, said at the time.
Still, the BBC has said it will cap severance payments at
150,000 pounds in the future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  