-- BC Partners Said to Choose Banks for Review of Migros
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-07-01T15:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/bc-partners-said-to-choose-banks-for-review-of-migros.html
BC Partners  Ltd. hired  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp.  to review options such as a sale
of its stake in Turkish retailer  Migros Ticaret AS (MGROS) , said two
people with knowledge of the matter. The stock jumped.  The Turkish supermarket operator has drawn interest from
international retailers and private-equity companies, said the
people, asking not to be identified because the deliberations
are private. An option to sell shares on the market has been
discussed internally, although an equity offering is unlikely
due to political unrest in Turkey, the people said. No decision
has been made yet, they said.  The consortium owning Migros is set to consider a sale even
as protests against Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and his
government have roiled Turkey’s markets, with the  stock index 
down 2.8 percent since the start of the year.  Emlak Konut
Gayrimenkul Yatirim Ortakligi AS (EKGYO) , a state-owned property
developer, slumped the most on record on June 10 after the
company delayed a share sale, citing stock market turmoil
triggered by the anti-government protests in Turkey.  Migros surged as much as 11 percent to 21.9 liras in
Istanbul, the most since 2011, and closed up 7.1 percent at
21.15 liras.  “BC Partners’ potential exit story is the main trigger,”
Basak Dinckoc, an analyst at Is Investment, said in an emailed
note today. Is Investment has a buy rating on the retailer.  Potential Bidder  Last year, publicly traded Migros was the object of
takeover speculation after the Financial Times reported that
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the U.S. retailer, was seeking a
controlling stake in the retailer. The transaction would have
valued Migros at more than $4 billion including debt. The
Turkish company has a market value of almost $2 billion today.  CarrefourSA Carrefour Sabanci Ticaret Merkezi AS (CARFA) , a joint
venture of French retailer  Carrefour SA (CA)  and  Haci Omer Sabanci
Holding AS (SAHOL) , may also consider acquiring Migros, Haluk Dincer,
head of the retail and insurance businesses at Sabanci Holding,
said in May.  A representative of BC Partners declined to comment. Ozgur Tort, chief executive officer of Migros, declined to comment in
an e-mail. Spokeswomen at Bank of America and JPMorgan declined
to comment.  BC Partners, based in London, in 2008 acquired control of
Migros, Turkey’s largest supermarket chain, for about $3.3
billion from  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL)  in what was then the country’s
biggest takeover by a leveraged-buyout firm, giving the private-equity firm access to close to 1,000 stores in Turkey and
neighboring countries at the time. The acquisition was financed
by the buyout firm’s 5.9 billion-euro  VIII fund .  Controlling Group  The strategic review is unlikely to produce an outcome
before the fourth quarter, one of the people said.  BC Partners owns Migros with investors including TurkVen, a
Turkish buyout firm, and DeA Capital. The consortium controls
Migros through holding vehicle that owns about 80 percent of the
Turkish retailer. BC Parters has about 80 percent of the
vehicle, while DeA Capital has about 17 percent and TurkVen owns
the rest. Paolo Ceretti, CEO of  DeA Capital (DEA) , said in April that
DeA was “totally aligned” with BC Partners and that its Migros
stake “is not on sale separately” from BC Partners’ interest.  Migros has 962 stores in total, including 32 in Kazakhstan
and Macedonia. The company’s enterprise value, its market value
plus debt, was 13 times earnings before interest, tax,
amortization and depreciation, or EBITDA, in 2012, according to
company filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  