-- Belgium to Close Corporate-Tax Loophole to Meet EU Deficit Goal
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-07-01T11:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/belgium-to-close-corporate-tax-loophole-to-meet-eu-deficit-goal.html
The Belgian government agreed to
close a loophole that allows some companies that pay dividends
to avoid corporate tax as part of efforts to meet a European
Union demand to trim its  deficit .  Companies that have avoided paying corporate income taxes
will face a 5 percent levy on the dividends they distribute to
shareholders, Finance Minister Koen Geens told reporters in
Brussels today. The measure should bring in as much as 210
million euros ($274 million) annually and about a quarter of the
proceeds will be used to reduce labor taxes for small and
medium-sized enterprises.  The government of Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo will also
increase excises on tobacco and alcoholic beverages and apply
value-added tax to legal counseling.  Additional tax revenue and spending cuts in health care,
defense and development cooperation will trim the federal
government’s budget deficit by 750 million euros this year and
by 2.37 billion euros next year, Budget Minister Olivier Chastel
said. Tax increases will account for 264 million euros and 672
million euros of the savings, respectively.  Di Rupo convened a budget meeting for the second time in
three months after the European Commission told  Belgium  on May
29 to narrow its 2013 budget shortfall to 2.7 percent of gross
domestic product or face fines under the excessive-deficit
procedure. The additional measures exceed EU demands for
additional cuts this year by 226 million euros, according to Di
Rupo, and leave the federal government about 400 million euros
short of its target for 2014, which is an election year.  ‘Turning Point’  “The essence is to make sure that everybody contributes
correctly and we’ve also reached a turning point now,” Economy
Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Johan Vande Lanotte said on
Radio 1. “Expenditure by the government’s departments will drop
for the first time in 2014 thanks to structural reforms.”  As of next year, lawyers will lose their exception from the
value-added tax, which was a Belgian anomaly in the EU,
according to Geens. Intermunicipal companies that offer
commercial services such as waste collection will start paying
corporate income taxes, Geens said.  Households using service vouchers to pay for cleaning help
will pay an extra 50 cents an hour as of Jan. 1 and the fiscal
deduction for using the vouchers will be capped at 150 hours per
person on an annual basis, Minister of Social Affairs and Deputy
Prime Minister Laurette Onkelinx said. The vouchers represent an
employment subsidy of 1.6 billion euros to 1.7 billion euros a
year, Vande Lanotte said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  