-- Belgian Holders of Argentine Debt Lose Court Order Bid
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-01T18:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/belgian-holders-of-argentine-debt-lose-court-order-bid.html
Belgian holders of Argentine debt
lost a bid for an emergency order from a Brussels court seeking
to secure payments they later received on schedule on June 30, a
lawyer told a U.S. court.  Christopher Clark, a lawyer representing holders of Euro-denominated Argentine bonds told the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 New York  that the Brussels Commercial Court on June 28 rejected
a request by the Belgian bondholders for an emergency ruling
requiring Belgian intermediaries to go forward with the June 30
payments, which they claimed were threatened by U.S. court
orders that are currently being appealed. The payments went
forward on schedule, without the Belgian court order, Clark
said.  The Euro bondholders group is made up of Knighthead Capital
Management LLC, Redwood Capital Management LLC and Perry Capital
LLC. They hold bonds issued by  Argentina  in two debt
restructurings, in 2005 and 2010, that are subject to U.K. law
and paid through non-U.S. intermediaries, they said in court
papers filed in the U.S.  The appellate court is considering an appeal of a lower
court’s ruling that Argentina must pay holders of defaulted
bonds when it makes scheduled payments on the restructured debt.
A ruling in the case could come at any time.  Clark didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment
on his letter.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Elliott Management
Corp., whose NML Capital unit is the lead holder of defaulted
Argentine bonds in the U.S. case, declined to comment on Clark’s
letter.  The appeal case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  