-- Best Start to India Monsoon Since 2001 Seen Boosting Crop Sowing
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-07-01T07:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/best-start-to-india-monsoon-since-2001-seen-boosting-crop-sowing.html
The best start to the monsoon in at
least 12 years in  India , the world’s second-biggest producer of
rice, cotton and sugar cane, may spur plantings and curb
consumer inflation in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  The country received 216.3 millimeters (8.5 inches) of rain
last month, the  India Meteorological Department  said on its
website. That’s 32 percent more than a 50-year average
considered normal for the period and the highest since 2001,
according to department data.  A bumper harvest may help India curb  food prices  and revive
 economic growth  from the lowest level in a decade. Agriculture
accounts for about a fifth of the economy, while 55 percent of
the farm land does not have access to irrigation. Widespread
rainfall has helped ease a drinking water shortage and relieved
crops threatened by the worst drought in four decades in India’s
western region.  “The better-than normal monsoon rainfall is obviously
positive and favorable for the crops,” Shashanka Bhide, an
economist at the New Delhi-based National Council of Applied
Economic Research, said by phone. “The country should be
getting closer to the record output level, and based on this,
the price scenario will be moderate compared with last year.”  Farmers have planted crops including rice, oilseeds and
cotton in 25.1 million hectares (62 million acres) so far this
year, 85 percent more than the same period a year earlier, the
 Agriculture Ministry  said June 28. More than 235 million farmers
depend on rain for irrigating crops.  Monetary Policy  A strong start to monsoon should help boost agricultural
output and hydro-electricity production, Barclays Plc said in a
report last week. The monsoon will be a crucial variable in
calibrating  monetary policy  with implications for both inflation
and growth.  While inflation has “come off the peak,” consumer-price
growth still remains “quite high,”  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said June 7. The success of monsoon
will be important in determining monetary policy in the next
three months, said Subbarao, who lowered borrowing costs in
January, March and May by 25 basis points at each meeting to
boost investment in an economy that expanded a decade-low 5
percent last year. He held rates at the last meeting on June 17.  Consumer inflation  climbed 9.31 percent in May from a year
earlier, while the wholesale-price index increased 4.7 percent,
a 43-month low, according to official data.  Northwest India, the main wheat, rice and sugar cane region
got 120 percent more than normal rain in June, while the central
region, the biggest soybean grower, received 67 percent more
than the average, the bureau said.  Rice Planting  “The start is good and what needs to be watched is July
rainfall,”  Dharmakirti Joshi , chief economist at Crisil Ltd.,
the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s , said by phone from Mumbai
today. “If rainfall is well behaved in July and August, then we
can have a good harvest this year.”  Rice has been planted across 3.9 million hectares as of
June 28, up 31 percent from a year earlier, according to the
Agriculture Ministry. Oilseeds were sown in 6.07 million
hectares, up more than fivefold from a year earlier, it said.
Sugar cane was planted in 4.74 million hectares and cotton in
5.58 million hectares, it said.  Unprecedented floods and landslides in northern India on
June 16, washed away vehicles, homes and roads and more than
1,000 people may have died, according to Vijay Bahuguna, chief
minister of Uttarakhand state.  Rainfall will be 98 percent of the 50-year average of 89
centimeters in the four months through September, the weather
bureau said on June 14. It defines normal precipitation as 96
percent to 104 percent of the average received between 1951 and
2000. Showers in July, the  wettest month  of the season, will be
101 percent of the average and more than the 87 percent last
year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  