-- Brazil Caps Confederations Cup Marked by Protests With Title
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-01T03:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/brazil-caps-confederations-cup-marked-by-protests-with-title.html
Brazil  beat  Spain  3-0 to win its
third straight Confederations Cup, closing a tournament that
will be remembered as much for events off the field as Neymar’s
emergence as potential match-winner at next year’s World Cup.  Fred scored at the start of each half in yesterday’s final,
either side of Neymar’s fourth goal of the soccer competition,
as Brazil ended Spain’s world record 29-game unbeaten run in
competitive matches. Outside  Rio de Janeiro ’s Maracana Stadium,
police and demonstrators clashed as the tournament continued to
provide a backdrop for Brazil’s biggest protests in two decades.  “It’s a bit difficult to talk about the fights taking
place,” the 21-year-old Neymar, who was named as the player of
the tournament, told reporters last night. “This is something
bad, many people can get hurt and injured. The celebrations were
for the people inside the stadium.”  President  Dilma Rousseff  was jeered at the opening game on
June 15 and since then Brazilians have taken to the streets in
record numbers to protest poor public services and political
corruption in a movement that started as a revolt against bus
fare prices. Some of the protesters have complained about the 30
billion reais ($13.4 billion) the country is spending on hosting
the 2014 World Cup, and related projects.  Armed police on horseback and motorcycles along with more
than a dozen truckloads of soldiers were present yesterday as
Brazilian authorities sought to ensure there was no threat to
the final. Tear gas and rubber bullets had been used against
protesters in all six venues for the Confederations Cup, an
eight-team test event for the global championship.  ‘Demonstrations Cup’  The 11,000-person security detail for yesterday’s game,
which included military police and the armed forces, couldn’t
prevent two demonstrators from emerging from soccer ball-shaped
umbrellas to unfurl a banner demanding the privatization of the
Maracana be scrapped. Outside the 78,838-seat stadium, police
dispersed about 1,000 demonstrators using tear gas, the odor of
which wafted through the stadium early in the first half.  Rousseff, whose approval rating fell 27 percent to 30
percent since the protests began three weeks ago, skipped the
game, leaving sports minister Aldo Rebelo to represent the
government at the presentation ceremony. Protesters have dubbed
the competition the “Demonstrations Cup.”  While the Brazilian leader’s popularity has tanked, the
national soccer team’s stocks have risen. The record five-time
world champion entered the event with a ranking of 22, its
lowest since governing body FIFA started grading national teams
in 1992.  ‘Emphatic Result’  Led by Neymar, who completed a $75 million move to
Barcelona in May, Brazil’s win over world and European Spain
capped a run of five straight victories at the tournament. It
also extended the team’s unbeaten home record in competitive
games stretching back to 1975.  “Nobody expected such an emphatic result, not against the
world champions,” Brazil coach Luiz Felipe Scolari said in a
news conference. “This is more than a title because we’ve shown
that we’re on the right path and that we can now take a little
more confidence with us as we travel down it.”  Buoyed by an ear-piercing rendition of the Brazilian
national anthem, the home team was ahead within two minutes.
Fred prodded past  Iker Casillas  while lying on his back after
Spain failed to clear when Neymar sent the ball into the box.  “The Champion is Back,” chanted the crowd as play
resumed.  Neymar and Fred, assisted by Oscar, continually stretched
their opponents. The home team was incensed when referee Bjorn
Kuipers showed Alvaro Arbeloa only a yellow card when Neymar
looked like going clear on goal after 15 minutes. That followed
a miss from Oscar after Fred’s flick gave him a shot at goal,
while Fred was denied by Casillas’s block with his left foot.  Luiz’s Intervention  Spain nearly tied it five minutes before half time, when
 David Luiz  slid to clear  Pedro Rodriguez ’s shot as it went
toward goal. Moments later, Neymar scored with a powerful shot
into the roof of the net after collecting Oscar’s pass.  “The moment of our victory was when he saved that goal,”
Scolari said of Luiz’s intervention.  Fred added Brazil’s third in the 47th minute with a first-time shot from the corner of the penalty area, which took his
tally to a  tournament-leading  five goals alongside Spain’s
 Fernando Torres .  Sergio Ramos  missed a penalty for Spain eight minutes later
and the Spaniards went a man down with 22 minutes left when
 Gerard Pique  was shown a red card for fouling his new Barcelona
teammate Neymar.  Defeat Hurts  “Obviously this defeat hurts, but I think deep down that
we’ve had a good Confederations Cup,” said Spain coach Vicente Del Bosque. “We have a good team, good players and a good
system of playing. We are not going to change everything because
of one defeat.”  Brazil’s players danced following their win, repeating
their celebrations after the 2009 Confederations Cup final in
 South Africa . They failed to convert that triumph into a  World
Cup  title 12 months later.  A victory on home soil in next year’s World Cup final would
make Brazil the first Confederations Cup holder to win soccer’s
biggest prize.  “I can’t feel any better than how I feel,” Scolari added.
“The players are motivated because they receive from these
supporters this drive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Maracana Stadium in Rio de Janeiro at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at  celser@bloomberg.net  