-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Borrowing-Cost Forecast; Real Gains
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-07-01T14:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-borrowing-cost-forecast-real-gains.html
Brazil ’s swap rates increased after
economists raised their forecasts for the amount policy makers
will boost borrowing costs to tame surging inflation.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 9.93 percent at 11:20
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real appreciated 0.1 percent to 2.2290
per dollar after losing 9.4 percent in the second quarter, the
worst performance among major emerging-market currencies.  Policy makers will raise the benchmark Selic rate to 9.25
percent this year and hold it at that level through 2014, up
from the previous week’s forecast of 9 percent, according to a
June 28 central bank survey of about 100 economists and analysts
published today. Central bankers have increased the rate twice
this year, lifting it to 8 percent from a record-low 7.25
percent.  “The Selic forecast is higher for this year and for next
year,” Marco Antonio Caruso, an economist at Banco Pine SA,
said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “This helps marginally to push
the curve up more.”  Brazilian consumer prices rose 6.67 in the 12 months
through mid-June, above the upper limit of the central bank’s
target range. Economists increased their 2013 inflation forecast
to 5.87 percent from 5.86 percent a week ago, according to the
central bank survey.  Swap rates also rose after Brazil changed rules to
facilitate the state development bank’s payment of dividends to
the Treasury, undermining investor confidence the government
will use spending cuts to help cool inflation, Caruso said.  ‘Political Noise’  “These accounting moves are bad, the signals they send are
bad,” he said. “The political noise obligates the market to
charge a higher premium.”  Economic and social discontent in  Latin America ’s largest
economy has prompted the biggest street protests in decades, as
more than a million demonstrators have taken to the streets in
the past month to demonstrate against inflation, government
corruption and the quality of public services.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s approval rating fell to 30
percent, according to a Datafolha poll published over the
weekend, from 57 percent in the first week of June and a high of
65 percent in March.  Brazil’s budget deficit almost doubled to 14.5 billion
reais in May from 7.7 billion reais in the prior month, the
central bank reported June 28. Rousseff pledged 50 billion reais
to improve urban public transportation when she met with protest
leaders June 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  