-- Buy Signal Seen in Worst Losses Since Whitney Panic: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   E m i l y   F r e e m a n
-- 2013-07-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/buy-signal-seen-in-worst-losses-since-whitney-panic-muni-credit.html
The biggest losses in municipal bonds
since 2010 are signaling to investors at Cumberland Advisors and
 Wells Capital  Management that tax-exempt debt is set to rebound.  The asset managers are betting that the worst is over after
the $3.7 trillion market lost 3.4 percent last quarter, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show. It was the steepest drop since
the final three months of 2010, when banking analyst Meredith Whitney predicted “hundreds of billions of dollars” of muni
defaults, helping propel 29 straight weeks of fund outflows.  There is a precedent for wagering on gains after mid-year.
Munis have advanced in July in 21 of the past 24 years, and in
August for 17 years in that period, Bank of America data show.  “July should be technically strong for munis,” said
 Robert Miller , a senior portfolio manager at Wells Capital in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin .  Miller, whose firm oversees about $34 billion in munis,
said he’s been buying because “the market pulled back too far,
too fast.”  Demand from individual investors, who own about 70 percent
of local debt, has collapsed as a growing economy fuels
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will slow its bond buying.
Investors pulled $4.5 billion from muni mutual funds last week,
the most since at least 1992, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Rally’s End  The latest  selloff  helped end a nine-quarter rally in
munis, the longest stretch of gains since 1993.  The winning streak began at the start of 2011, as demand
recovered following the comments by Whitney, chief executive
officer of  Meredith Whitney  Advisory Group in  New York , in an
interview on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes.” The default forecast
proved incorrect.  In a June 7 Bloomberg Radio interview, Whitney, 43, said
she “expected a lot of derision from elected officials” from
her statements. “But I didn’t expect it from the municipal-bond
community.”  Yields on 10-year AAA munis reached 2.96 percent last week,
the highest since April 2011, as institutional bondholders such
as mutual funds offered as much as $1.96 billion for sale, the
most in at least 17 years.  Rebound Sign  Local debt has already begun to rebound, gaining the last
three trading days in June and pushing the benchmark 10-year
yield down to 2.78 percent.  The market for state and city debt usually gains this month
because the amount of bond sales from local governments is
dwarfed by the money investors get back from coupon and
principal payments.  This year is no different -- the cash wave to bondholders
this month is set to exceed new issuance by $22 billion, the
most since July 2012, according to Citigroup Inc.  “The muni asset class seems oversold and undervalued,”
 John Dillon , chief muni strategist at Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management, wrote in a June 27 report. “The recent spike in
yields represents a better time to buy bonds.”  Muni investors saw an opportunity in  Illinois , the lowest-rated U.S. state, which received $9 billion of orders for $1.3
billion of general obligations issued on June 26. The biggest
portion of the sale was $260 million of uninsured bonds maturing
in July 2038. The debt was priced at a yield of 5.65 percent,
equivalent to a 9.4 percent taxable yield for buyers in the top
federal income-tax bracket.  Loading Up  Those levels were attractive enough for Cumberland, which
bought the state’s general obligations after not owning any for
more than a year, according to John Mousseau, director of fixed
income at the Sarasota, Florida-based company.  “We are taking advantage of this very opportunistic
time,”  David Kotok , chief investment officer at Cumberland,
which oversees about $2.2 billion of munis, said in an e-mail.
“We are on the buy side of tax-free bonds. They are cheap. It
is time to back up the truck and own them.”  The pattern of July gains could be jeopardized by continued
outflows from mutual funds, said Chris Mauro, head of muni
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. Even with $45
billion in redemption and coupon payments in June, tax-exempt
debt still declined, he said.  Delayed Sales  July returns may also be suppressed by issuers coming to
market after canceling or delaying sales as interest rates
soared, Dillon said. About $3.1 billion of borrowings were
listed as day-to-day or week-to-week last week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Localities are set to sell $2.9 billion this week, the
least since January. The market is closed July 4 for the U.S.
Independence Day holiday.  Interest rates  on municipal debt still exceed those on
Treasuries, for which the 10-year yield is about 2.5 percent.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, rose to
112 percent last week, close to the highest since August. The
average since 2001 is about 92 percent. The bigger the figure,
the cheaper local debt is relative to federal securities, and
the more attractive munis are to taxable investors.  “Ratios around 110, 115 percent of Treasuries is a
historical anomaly -- there’s no justification for that,” said
Vikram Rai, a fixed-income strategist at Citigroup in New York.
“I’m bullish on munis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Freeman in New York at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  