-- Camby Weighs His NBA Future After Trade to Raptors for Bargnani
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-01T17:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/camby-weighs-his-nba-future-after-trade-to-raptors-for-bargnani.html
Marcus Camby said he will evaluate
his future after the New York Knicks reached an agreement to
trade the 17-year National Basketball Association veteran and
Steve Novak to the Toronto Raptors.  The Knicks agreed to trade Camby, Novak and a 2016 first-round draft choice to the Raptors in exchange for the 27-year-old Andrea Bargnani, a 7-foot forward from  Italy  who was the
league’s top pick in 2006, according to the New York Times. The
deal won’t be official until July 10, when the league’s
moratorium on trades and signings is lifted.  Camby, 39, said in a statement that he was disappointed
that he wasn’t given a “meaningful opportunity” to contribute
to the Knicks last year, playing three total minutes in the
team’s 12-game playoff run. He said that his goal is to win a
championship, and he will evaluate his options before joining
the Raptors, a team that has not advanced out of the first round
of the playoffs since 2001.  “I’ve enjoyed a great career and under the right
circumstances I hope to continue making an impact in the
league,” Camby said in the statement through his agent, Rick
Kaplan.  Camby was drafted by the Raptors in 1996 and spent the
first two years of his career in Toronto. He’s averaged 9.5
points and 9.8 rebounds for his career. Camby is owed $8.6
million over the next two seasons.  Camby and Novak posted yesterday on their Twitter accounts
thanking Knicks executives, fans, coaches and teammates for
their support. Novak, 30, shot a team-best 43 percent from
three-point range last season, his second in New York.  “Once a Knick, Always a Knick,” Novak said. “Next stop…
Toronto!”  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  