-- Cameron Wins Kazakh Leaders’ Vote After Rights Criticism
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-01T09:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/cameron-wins-kazakh-leaders-vote-after-rights-criticism.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
criticized by human-rights activists for visiting Kazakhstan,
was endorsed for re-election by the leader of the Central Asian
nation, who’s been in power since before the fall of the  Soviet
Union .  “Personally, I would vote for him,” Kazakh President
 Nursultan Nazarbayev  told reporters in the country’s capital,
Astana, today when asked if he had any advice for the U.K.
premier, who’s trailing in opinion polls, on gaining a majority
in Parliament in the next election in 2015.  “That’s one,” Cameron replied at a joint news conference.
“I’ve just got about another 20 million and I am in business.
Thank you, Mr. President.”  Cameron led a British business delegation to  Kazakhstan  in
a visit that sparked criticism he was prioritizing trade over
rights after  Human Rights Watch  asked him to raise alleged
government abuses. Nazarbayev won re-election with 95.5 percent
of the vote in April 2011 in a ballot criticized by
international observers.  Cameron, who was in Kazakhstan, the former Soviet Union’s
second-biggest energy producer, on the final leg of a three-day
trip that included visits to Afghanistan and Pakistan, won the
2010 election with 36.1 percent of vote for his  Conservative
Party , and recent polls show the Tories’ trailing the opposition
 Labour Party .  ‘Full Range’  “In the relationship that Britain has with Kazakhstan, the
relationship I have with President Nazarbayev, nothing is off
the agenda,” Cameron said. “We talk about the full range of
subjects and that includes human rights -- issues that we
discussed at some length last night.”  Cameron said the discussions included the concerns raised
by  Human Rights Watch .  “We are very concerned about the serious and
deteriorating human-rights situation there in recent years,
including credible allegations of torture, the imprisonment of
government critics, tight controls over the media and freedom of
expression and association, limits on religious freedom, and
continuing violations of workers’ rights,” the group’s U.K.
director, David Mephan, said in a letter published on June 28.  When asked about the allegations against his government,
Nazarbayev said that “nobody has a right to instruct us how to
live.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svennja O’Donnell in Astana, Kazakhstan, at
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  