-- Carney Must Boost Credit to Ensure Recovery, BCC Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/carney-must-boost-credit-to-ensure-recovery-bcc-says.html
Bank of England Governor Mark Carney
must focus on boosting lending to help maintain Britain’s
recovery, according to the British Chambers of Commerce.  The BCC said in a survey in  London  today its measures of
sales at manufacturers and service companies rose in the second
quarter. Still, the report also showed declines in some
investment gauges and “weak cashflow.”  “They are a warning that economic growth could be slow,
and a reminder that a sustained upturn cannot be taken for
granted,” BCC Director General John Longworth said in a
statement. “For these reasons, business access to finance, and
working capital in particular, must be assured.”  The report comes a day after Carney began his governorship
of the BOE. The BCC published an open letter yesterday calling
on him to boost lending by expanding the Funding for Lending
Scheme and widening the central bank’s  quantitative-easing
program  to include securitized debt from smaller companies.  Carney will lead his first meeting of the Monetary Policy
Committee this week, and all 44 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey forecast that QE will be kept at 375 billion pounds ($571
billion). Goldman Sachs Group Inc., among those predicting no
change, said it is “more likely than not” the MPC will issue a
statement after the meeting, something it typically doesn’t do.  In its report, the BCC said its index of manufacturers’
domestic sales rose to 16 from 12 in the first quarter, while
export sales increased to 23 from 19. For services companies,
the domestic gauge jumped to 20 from 12, while the export
measure rose to 36 from 33.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  