-- Chelsea Bids $65 Million for Cavani, Wants Bruma: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-01T07:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/chelsea-bids-65-million-for-cavani-wants-bruma-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Chelsea’s Cavani Offer  Chelsea offered Napoli 42.7 million pounds ($65 million)
for striker Edinson Cavani and is also trying to beat  Manchester
City  to the signing of Sporting Lisbon winger Bruma, the  Daily
Mail reported .  Napoli is demanding that Cavani’s buy-out clause of 53.9
million pounds is met, the newspaper said.  The 18-year-old Bruma, whose full name is Armindo Tue Na
Bangna, has been pursued by City for some time and Chelsea
manager  Jose Mourinho  has endorsed a move for the Portuguese
forward, the Mail added.  Defensive Clearance  Manchester United  is clear to sign Argentine defender
Ezequiel Garay from Benfica after the Portuguese club lined up a
replacement for the center-back, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Garay has been on United’s radar since February and would
cost about 17 million pounds, the newspaper said. A second
Premier League club is said to be interested in the player and
may make a move once his transfer fee is set, the Mirror added.  Neymar’s Rooney Dream  Brazilian striker Neymar urged Manchester United’s  Wayne Rooney  to join him at his new club Barcelona, saying that it
“would be a dream” to play alongside the English forward, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  Although Rooney remains open to a move away from the Red
Devils, he’ll listen to what United manager  David Moyes  has to
say about his role next season before making a final decision,
the newspaper added.  Spurs Signings  Tottenham Hotspur beat London rivals Chelsea and Arsenal to
the signings of Dinamo Zagreb teenagers Alen Halilovic and Tin
Jedvaj, the  Sun reported .  Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas is close to agreeing on a
17 million-pound deal for the pair of 17-year-olds and Dinamo
president Mirko Barisic confirmed last night that negotiations
were nearly concluded, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  