-- Chile’s Central Bank Cuts Growth Forecast and Signals Rate Cuts
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-07-01T14:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/chile-s-central-bank-cuts-growth-forecast-and-signals-rate-cuts.html
Chile’s central bank cut its growth
and inflation forecasts for this year and said it will probably
lower its benchmark  interest rate  after the economy slowed
faster than expected in recent months.  The economy will expand 4 percent to 5 percent this year,
the central bank said in its quarterly monetary policy report
released today, down from its previous estimate of between 4.5
and 5.5 percent. Prices will probably rise 2.6 percent in 2013,
slower than the 2.8 percent it estimated three months ago.  Policy makers may cut the 5 percent benchmark interest rate
in line with market expectations, which see the rate at 4.5
percent to 4.6 percent by the end of the year, the bank said.
The key rate has remained unchanged since February 2012. In its
previous monetary policy report the bank had indicated it was
preparing to raise rates after increasing its growth forecast.  “The signals in the past few months indicate that the
external and internal conditions have started to normalize,”
the bank said. “The Chilean economy is on a good footing to
face the changes.”  Chile ’s economy expanded 4.1 percent in the first quarter
form the year earlier, the slowest pace in three years.
Available data suggests that the slowdown continued in the
second quarter, the bank said today.  While consumer demand remains strong with near-record low
unemployment and bank loans to consumers rising 10 percent year-on-year in the first half, investment is weakening, the bank
said.  Chile’s real exchange rate, an inflation-adjusted measure
of the peso’s strength relative to its peers, is within a range
coherent with economic fundamentals, the bank said.  Economists polled by the central bank on June 10 said they
expected the bank to reduce rates to 4.75 percent by July and to
4.5 percent by December. Traders and investors surveyed on June
26, after the June 19 Federal Reserve meeting, said they
expected the bank to hold the rate at 5 percent in July and cut
to 4.75 percent by the end of this year.  Manufacturing in Chile unexpectedly contracted in the 12
months through May, falling 4.2 percent, while retail sales
expanded faster than analysts expected, growing 13.2 percent
from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 