-- China Stocks Fall After Manufacturing Data Show Slower Expansion
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-01T01:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/china-stocks-fall-after-manufacturing-data-show-slower-expansion.html
China’s stocks  fell, led by material
and financial companies, after an official gauge of
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in four months in
June.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.1, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said. That was down from May’s 50.8 reading and
matched the median forecast of 33 analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.8 percent to 1,963.04
at 9:33 a.m. local time, extending last week’s 4.5 percent
slump, the biggest loss since the five days ended Feb. 22. The
index’s 14-day relative strength measure, measuring how rapidly
prices have advanced or dropped during a specified time period,
was at 23.2. Readings below 30 indicate it may be poised to
rise.  The CSI 300 Index declined 0.6 percent to 2,187.88. The
Bloomberg China-US 55 Index, the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, rose 0.8 percent on June 28.  The Shanghai measure slumped 14 percent last month, capping
the biggest monthly loss since August 2009, amid concern higher
costs for capital will curb economic growth as money-market
rates jumped to records.  Trading volumes in the  Shanghai  Composite were 0.5 percent
higher than the 30-day average today, while the 30-day
 volatility  was at 23.1, the highest level since April 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing Data  A reading from HSBC and Markit’s Purchasing Managers Index
later today may be 48.3 based on economists’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg, below the 50 level that divides expansion and
contraction.  Weaker gains in manufacturing add to odds that Li
Keqiang will become the first premier to miss an annual growth
target since the Asian financial crisis in 1998.  President Xi Jinping said officials shouldn’t be judged
solely on their record in boosting ross domestic product, the
latest signal that policy makers are prepared to tolerate slower
economic expansion.  The Communist Party should instead place more importance on
achievements in improving people’s livelihood, social
development and environmental quality when evaluating the
performance of officials, the Xinhua News Agency reported June
29, citing Xi at a meeting on personnel management on the eve of
the 92nd anniversary of the party’s founding.  China’s banking regulator, in his first public comments
since the country’s worst cash crunch in at least a decade, said
June 29 the operations of its lenders won’t be disrupted because
they’ve built up sufficient cash reserves.  Credit Crunch  Banks had about 1.5 trillion  yuan  ($244.4 billion) of cash
reserves as of June 28 that could be used for payment and
settlement needs, more than double what is usually required,
Shang Fulin, chairman of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, said in a speech in Shanghai.  The credit crunch has increased chances that the government
will miss its 7.5 percent annual target for economic growth this
year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Xi’s comments
“reinforce our view” that there is a 30 percent chance growth
may slump below 7 percent in the third or fourth quarter, said
Zhang Zhiwei, Nomura Holdings Inc.’s chief China economist in
Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  