-- China Opens Anti-Dumping Investigation of EU Wine Imports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-01T16:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/china-starts-anti-dumping-probe-of-european-union-wine-imports.html
China  said it started anti-dumping
and anti-subsidy probes on wines imported from the European
Union following a request from domestic producers.  The probe, which started yesterday, will include
investigations of subsidies for EU wines given in 2012 and the
impact on China’s wine industry between January 2009 and the end
of last year, the  Ministry of Commerce  said in a  statement  on
its website. The checks are in response to a May 15 request from
the China Alcoholic Drinks Association on behalf of the domestic
wine industry, according to the statement.  The wine probe comes as a dispute over solar equipment has
ratcheted up trade tensions between China and the EU. China
first said it planned to pursue an investigation of EU wines a
day after the 28-nation bloc announced tariffs as high as 67.9
percent on Chinese solar panels.  China’s wine imports rose 8.9 percent to 430 million liters
in 2012, according to data from China’s customs agency. The
imports were valued at about $2.57 billion, it said. The EU
accounted for more than two-thirds of the shipments, with  France 
being the biggest source, it said.  The European Commission “is disappointed to learn of this
action by China,” spokesman  John Clancy  said in an e-mailed
statement. “The commission will examine in detail whether the
Chinese case is consistent” with World Trade Organization
rules.  The Chinese commerce ministry informed EU representatives
in China of a possible investigation into wines on June 5, and
invited feedback, according to yesterday’s statement. On June
21, the commission submitted its comments regarding the probe to
China, the ministry said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  