-- China’s SouFun June New Home Prices Jump on Increasing Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-01T07:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/china-s-june-home-prices-jump-on-increasing-sales-soufun-says.html
China ’s new home prices jumped in
June by the most since they reversed declines in December,
defying the government’s tightened property curbs as increased
sales supported developers’ efforts to avoid price cuts.  Prices surged 7.4 percent last month from a year earlier to
10,258 yuan ($1,671) per square meter (10.76 square feet),
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real estate website
owner, said in a statement after a survey of 100 cities. Last
month’s increase was the biggest since December, when prices
climbed 0.03 percent, reversing a 0.46 percent fall in November.  The Chinese government is facing a dilemma to cool the
property market while sustaining  growth  in the world’s second-largest economy, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. The country
stepped up a three-year campaign to cool home prices in March,
while only the capital city of Beijing among 35 provincial-level
cities issued the toughest measures, according to Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., China’s biggest real estate agency.  “Sales have been stable, but supplies didn’t increase;
prices naturally will trend upwards,” said Dai Fang, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Zheshang Securities Co., citing the
current demand to own or upgrade first homes after speculators
were driven out by government curbs. “The central government
will probably still wait and see, as the current price increases
are a result of market mechanisms.”  ‘Remains Strong’  A  gauge  tracking property shares rose 1.1 percent at the
close of trading in Shanghai, while the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index added 0.8 percent.  The value of home sales rose 1.7 percent in May from the
previous month to 503 billion  yuan , the National Bureau of
Statistics reported June 9.  “Both new and existing-home transactions gradually
stabilized recently in many cities, indicating that home buying
demand remains strong,” SouFun said in the statement today.
“Driven by the multiple factors including demand and a heated
land market, the pressure for home-price increases is still
relatively large” for the second-half of this year.  China’s economy grew 7.7 percent in the first quarter, less
than the 8 percent median forecast in a survey of 41 economists.  Home prices rose 0.77 percent last month from May,
narrowing by 4 basis points from the previous month on a month-on-month basis as some banks tightened mortgage policy amid a
cash crunch, according to the SouFun statement.  Changshu, Beijing  The city of Changshu in eastern Jiangsu province had the
biggest gain last month from May, with prices increasing 3.6
percent, SouFun said. Home values in the capital Beijing jumped
1.6 percent from the previous month, while those in  Shanghai ,
the country’s financial center, added 0.6 percent.  China’s property industry was raised to outperform to
market perform by Toni Ho, Hong Kong-based analyst at BOCOM
International Securities Ltd. last week, because the
government’s property policies are “stabilizing measures”
rather than radical ones to create a turning point.  Sentiment also improved in the land market. Land sales in
Beijing as of June 27 hit 66 billion yuan, exceeding the total
value of the city last year, China Securities Journal reported
on June 28, without citing anyone.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  