-- China Claims Foreign Terrorists Are Linked to Xinjiang Violence
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-01T16:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/china-orders-armed-patrols-in-xinjiang-after-violence-killed-35.html
China ’s foreign minister linked
outside terrorists to recent violence in western Xinjiang
region, as the country ordered around-the-clock paramilitary
patrols to deter further unrest.  “This is a deliberately violent terrorist incident linked
up with overseas terrorist forces that has brought serious harm
to local peoples,” Wang Yi said of recent violence as he met
with his Turkish counterpart yesterday in Brunei. Unrest on July
26 in Lukqun township killed at least 35 people.  China ordered paramilitary troops to patrol around the
clock in Xinjiang before the fourth anniversary of clashes
between Uighurs and Han Chinese in the regional capital Urumqi
that killed 200 people. Yu Zhengsheng, the member of the
Politburo Standing Committee in charge of Tibet and Xinjiang,
vowed during a June 29 meeting in Urumqi to “strike hard”
against attacks, the official Xinhua News Agency said.  Wang said there had been “cases of a minority of criminals
planning violent terrorist attacks.”  China has previously linked violence to religious
extremists whose ringleaders were trained in  Pakistan  at camps
run by the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a group it says
seeks independence for Xinjiang. Citing anti-terrorism officials
it didn’t identity, the state-run Global Times newspaper
 reported yesterday  that some members of the East Turkestan
movement had gone to  Syria , where they fought with the
opposition.  40 Percent  While about 90 percent of China is ethnic Han, more than 40
percent of Xinjiang’s 22 million people are Uighurs. Dilxat
Raxit, a spokesman for the Munich-based World Uyghur Congress,
said the recent violence has nothing to do with terrorism.  “The alleged purpose is to seek a political pretext for
the repression of the Uighur people,” he said in an e-mailed
statement. “The reasons for Uighurs protesting is very clear.
They want the right to political decision-making and to control
the economy.”  Nineteen people in Xinjiang have been detained for
spreading rumors online and via their mobile phones about the
recent violence, according to Tianshan Net, the official news
website of Xinjiang’s local government.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  