-- Lew Says China Needs Market Policies and Stop Spying
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-07-01T12:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/china-needs-market-shifts-while-ending-company-spying-lew-says.html
(Corrects ‘all industries’ to ‘old industries’ in third
paragraph.)  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
called on  China  to adopt more market-oriented policies and drew
a distinction between industrial espionage and the cyber warfare
and spying that governments undertake.  China’s transformation and the U.S. recovery will be the
focus of talks between the world’s two largest economic engines
scheduled in Washington the week of July 8. Chinese theft of
 trade secrets  from American companies will also be high on the
agenda, Lew said at a conference in Aspen,  Colorado , yesterday.  “There are always going to be challenges between the U.S.
and China,” Lew said in response to questions from a moderator.
The Chinese “fundamentally have to move from a place where they
have a very rigid, structured support for old industries, and go
to more market-determined  interest rates , market-determined
investment policies, opening their markets more to international
investment,” he said.  The talks hosted by Lew and Secretary of State  John Kerry 
with their Chinese counterparts will occur after the U.S. last
month charged  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558) , a Chinese wind-turbine
company, with stealing trade secrets from its former U.S.
supplier. Earlier in June, Edward Snowden, an American accused
of revealing secret U.S. surveillance programs, was allowed to
depart  Hong Kong  for Moscow.  Snowden, a former worker for government contractor  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , disclosed top-secret U.S. National
Security Agency programs that collect phone and Internet data.
He fled to Hong Kong and then Moscow as the Obama administration
called for his extradition.  ‘Different’  “The theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, state-owned enterprises that have relationships that benefit from
those activities -- this is different than other kinds of issues
in the cyber area,” Lew said yesterday.  China is also facing an economic slowdown. China’s
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in four months as a
cash squeeze in the banking system reduced the flow of credit to
companies. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 50.1, the
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said today in Beijing.  China International Capital Corp. on June 24 cut its
forecast for expansion in Asia’s biggest economy this year to
7.4 percent from 7.7 percent, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
lowered its projection to 7.4 percent from 7.8 percent. Growth
held below 8 percent for each of the past four quarters, the
first time that has happened in at least 20 years, official data
show.  U.S. Expansion  Describing the  U.S. economy , Lew said it’s shown resilience
and strength, and while it won’t grow as fast as the pace it
reached in the 1990s, it can accelerate more than in 2013. This
year’s expansion has been limited by tax increases and federal
spending cuts, he said.  “Next year we’re not going to have that kind of, you know,
headwind, coming from federal fiscal policy,” Lew said. “So we
could do a lot better.”  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a revised 1.8
percent annualized rate from January through March, down from a
prior estimate of 2.4 percent, figures from the Commerce
Department showed June 26.  Given the fiscal restraints, growth will average 1.9
percent in 2013, and accelerate to 2.7 percent in 2014,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  