-- Chinese Manufacturing Gauges Fall as Slowdown Persists
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-01T09:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/china-s-manufacturing-expands-at-slower-pace-amid-credit-crunch.html
Two gauges of  China ’s manufacturing
fell in June, underscoring a sustained slowdown in the nation’s
economy as policy makers seek to rein in financial speculation
and real-estate prices.  An official Purchasing Managers’ Index dropped to 50.1, the
lowest level in four months, from 50.8, the National  Bureau of
Statistics  and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
today in Beijing. A private PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics was 48.2, the weakest since September. Readings
above 50 signal  expansion. (CNGDPYOY)   Weaker gains in manufacturing and a cash squeeze in the
banking system add to odds that Li Keqiang will become the first
premier to miss an annual growth target since the Asian
financial crisis in 1998. In the latest signal that policy
makers will tolerate slower expansion, President  Xi Jinping  said
local officials shouldn’t be judged solely on their record in
boosting gross domestic product.  “Although new leaders have no intention to achieve a
higher GDP growth, the current growth rate is quite close to the
floor that new leaders have indicated to tolerate,” Lu Ting,
head of Greater China economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong
Kong, said in a note today. The lower official PMI “could
worsen concerns that the liquidity squeeze in June will hit
economic growth,” Lu wrote.  Expansion probably slowed for a second straight quarter,
based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg News analyst survey,
after export growth collapsed and Li reined in record credit
expansion to contain shadow-banking risks.  Japan Optimism  Markit factory gauges in the euro region and  India  showed
gains for June while one for  Germany  declined and  South Korea ’s
slipped to the lowest level since November. In  Japan , where the
central bank is rolling out unprecedented stimulus, the
quarterly Tankan survey showed big manufacturers turned
optimistic in June for the first time since September 2011.  In China, domestic debt sales dropped 48 percent in June
from the previous month to 190.6 billion  yuan  ($31 billion),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.8 percent at the close,
the first two-day gain in a month. It fell 14 percent in June,
the most since August 2009, on the cash squeeze.  The official PMI matched the median forecast of 33 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey and compared with estimates ranging
from 49.7 to 50.6. The median estimate of 18 analysts was for
48.3 in the HSBC  index (SHCOMP) , the same as a preliminary reading given
June 20. That gauge was down from May’s 49.2.  Gauges Decline  Today’s official PMI report showed declines in sub-categories including output, new orders, input prices and
employment.  It omitted figures for five indexes including  export orders ,
imports and inventories of finished goods, without any
explanation for the gaps. The statistics bureau didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed questions asking for comment.  The numbers were published by sources including the Fung
Business Intelligence Center, which showed the export orders
sub-index at 47.7, which would be the lowest reading since
February. The sub-indexes for exports, imports and inventories
became available after the initial release in a separate data
feed from the China Economic Information Service, said Ding Shuang, senior China economist at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong .  “The export and import sub-indexes are very important for
economists to read the trade and economic situation,” Ding said.
“They need to be a bit more consistent in releasing the data.”  Improve Livelihood  The Communist Party should place more importance on
achievements in improving people’s livelihood, social
development and environmental quality, the official Xinhua News
Agency said in the June 29 report on Xi’s remarks.  CSSC Jiangnan Heavy Industry Co., a Shanghai-listed maker
of steel structures for buildings and ships, said June 24 that
it may report a first-half loss on falling orders and prices.  The logistics federation increased the number of companies
in its manufacturing survey to 3,000 from 820 starting with
January’s reading. The HSBC report is based on responses from
 purchasing managers  at more than 420 businesses, and is weighted
more toward smaller private companies.  The biggest squeeze on interbank credit in at least a
decade came at a time when China’s economic slowdown has been
deepening, as industrial production and exports trailed
estimates in May.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. China International Capital Corp.
Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc last month pared their growth
projections this year to 7.4 percent, below the government’s 7.5
percent goal set at a March conference where Li became premier.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and
Penny Peng in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  