-- Citigroup Will Pay Fannie Mae $968 Mln for Fauly Loans
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-07-01T20:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/citigroup-to-pay-968-million-to-fannie-mae-on-faulty-mortgages.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank by assets, will pay  Fannie Mae  $968 million to
compensate the taxpayer-backed mortgage buyer for more than a
decade of claims tied to faulty home loans.  The agreement includes 3.7 million mortgages originated
from 2000 to 2012 and sold to Fannie Mae, New York-based
Citigroup said today in a statement. While payments are covered
by existing reserves, the lender set aside an additional $245
million in the second quarter.  The biggest U.S. banks face pressure to resolve demands
they buy back flawed mortgages sold to Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac , the U.S.-owned firms that took a $187.5 billion bailout
after the financial crisis. While Citigroup and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  paid lump sums to settle repurchase claims, others such as
 Wells Fargo & Co . haven’t announced deals with the firms.  “To see another party finalize a settlement with Fannie
Mae is a step in a positive direction,” said Kevin Barker, an
analyst at Washington-based Compass Point Research & Trading
LLC. “There may be other settlements that Fannie and Freddie
may be willing to finalize with other banks.”  The accord resolves “substantially all potential future
repurchase claims” with Fannie Mae, Jane Fraser, head of
Citigroup’s mortgage unit, said in the statement. The bank will
focus on producing “high-quality  mortgage loans ,” said Fraser,
named by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat , 53, to run the
operation in May.  Stock Advances  Citigroup rose 0.6 percent to $48.25 in  New York , trailing
the 0.9 percent advance for the 24-company KBW Bank Index.  The deal doesn’t release Citigroup from liability tied to
servicing the loans. The agreement also excludes a group of
fewer than 12,000 loans made from 2000 to 2012, the bank said.
These loans were sold with “certain characteristics” such as
performance guarantees or under special credit enhancement
programs, the company said.  Citigroup had set aside $1.42 billion at the end of March
to cover  demands  to buy back bad mortgages, according to an
April 15  presentation . The bank didn’t say how much of those
were tied to Fannie Mae. Litigation and repurchases tied to
defective mortgages have cost Citigroup more than $4 billion
since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private Claims  The bank sold $231.3 billion of mortgages to Fannie Mae
between 2005 and 2009, according to data provided by Compass.
The settlement doesn’t resolve any claims from Freddie Mac,
which purchased $62.4 billion of mortgages from Citigroup during
the same period, the data show.  Citigroup still faces demands for refunds from private
investors. The bank had unresolved private claims tied to $2.4
billion of mortgages at the end of March, according to the April
 presentation .  “That could be an even larger piece of the pie for Citi,”
Barker said.  Regulators seized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2008 after
their purchases of  risky loans  pushed them to the brink of
collapse. The firms bought about $2.2 trillion of mortgages from
the 15 biggest banks and  Ally Financial  Inc. between 2006 and
2009, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade journal.  “Today’s agreement resolves legacy repurchase issues,
compensates taxpayers for losses, and allows Fannie Mae and Citi
to move forward and strengthen our business relationship,”
Bradley Lerman, Fannie Mae’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed statement.  Bigger Profits  Investors have renewed their interest in Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac as the firms post bigger profits amid a housing-market rebound. Fannie Mae had a record year in 2012, reporting
net income of $17.2 billion for 2012, spurring speculation that
the companies might repay their debt to taxpayers and exit
government control.  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets,
agreed to an $11.7 billion settlement with Fannie Mae in
January. Wells Fargo, the nation’s biggest mortgage lender,
hasn’t announced a settlement that would cap its liability to
Fannie Mae.  “The settlement is definitely a positive step” for banks
facing such claims, Barker said. Lenders need to lower costs,
and the more these claims are put to rest, “the less overhang
there’ll be on the stocks,” he said.  ‘Lion’s Share’  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, has said his
firm has paid the “lion’s share” of its costs tied to
defective mortgages. He has spent $19.1 billion to resolve
repurchase demands, signing deals with Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, private investors and bond insurers, and set aside an
additional $14.1 billion in reserves as of March 31.  About 80 percent of the Bank of America’s $17.1 billion in
remaining claims are tied to private investors who weren’t
included in an $8.5 billion deal awaiting court approval.  JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon , 57, told analysts in January 2011
that the bank reached a deal the year before on some of Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac’s claims on loans the bank acquired with its
2008 purchase of Washington Mutual Inc. JPMorgan hasn’t
disclosed what it paid to resolve the claims or the outstanding
principal on those loans, or whether it agreed to clear up
repurchase demands on its other mortgage holdings.  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  Corbat, who replaced  Vikram Pandit  as Citigroup CEO in
October, also is grappling with the costs of the bank’s soured
mortgage investments. The lender has sold about $10.6 billion of
overdue residential first mortgages since the beginning of 2010
and has about $90 billion of home loans tagged for sale in the
Citi Holdings division, according to a regulatory filing.  Ally Financial, the auto lender whose mortgage unit filed
for bankruptcy, agreed to pay about $462 million to Fannie Mae
in December 2010 to resolve most claims tied to faulty
mortgages, according to a statement. The accord released the
Detroit-based company from liability linked to $84 billion in
outstanding mortgage principal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  