-- Colorado Sells Debt to Boost Allure of Prisons: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/colorado-sells-debt-to-boost-allure-of-prisons-muni-deals.html
Colorado’s Corrections Department is
selling $112 million in bonds backed by rent on a prison it
hopes to lease as similar debt is beating top-rated securities
in the $3.7 trillion municipal market for a fifth-straight year.  This week’s taxable offering of the certificates of
participation will retire tax-exempt debt sold in 2006 and 2010,
according to deal documents. The issue is backed by revenue
appropriated annually by lawmakers from rental of the East Canon
City Prison Complex in Canon City, a two-hour drive south of the
capital, Denver.  The 948-bed high-security institution, which opened in
2010, operated at one-third of capacity until it was shuttered
by the state in November. Colorado wants to turn it over to
others temporarily and the current tax-exempt debt precluded a
lease to federal agencies, said Alison Morgan, assistant
director of finance and administration for the state’s prisons.  “By going to a taxable structure, it allows us to expand
our marketing ability to potential vendors who would be
interested in this facility,” said Morgan, who is based in
 Colorado Springs .  Government agencies such as the  Federal Bureau  of Prisons
and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement might find the
complex useful, she said.  “We have a state-of-the art facility to manage the
difficult segment of the prison population,” she said.  Fewer Prisoners  Colorado’s inmate population has dropped 11 percent since
2009 because of decreased crime, changes in sentencing, reduced
use of solitary confinement and efforts to prevent the return of
parolees, according to deal documents.  Leasing and rental municipal securities year to date are
earning 0.67 percent compared with a loss of 0.12 percent for
triple-A debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. They
have posted higher returns than the top-rated bonds since 2009.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the issue Aa2, third-highest, saying the state has an “established track record”
paying similar debts. The legislature has always made lease
payments on the prison, according to deal documents.  A 2006 certificate of participation insured by Ambac
Assurance Corp. and due in 2015 traded June 17 at an average
yield of 0.70 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Benchmark bonds of the same maturity  yielded  0.48 percent that
day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  