-- Construction Spending in U.S. Rises, Led by Residential Projects
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-01T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-rises-led-by-residential-projects.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
climbed in May, led by the strongest expenditures on residential
projects in more than four years.  Outlays (CNSTTMOM)  grew by 0.5 percent to an $874.9 billion
annualized rate, the Commerce Department reported today in
Washington. The median forecast of 53 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.6 percent rise. Spending on housing
climbed to the highest level since October 2008.  A pickup in residential real estate is helping to offset
weakness in non-residential construction, giving economic growth
a lift. Public works also picked up in May, led by gains at the
state and local level that indicate improving municipal budgets
are making up with weakness at the federal level created by
across-the-board budget cuts known as sequestration that began
in March.  “You’re going to see a stronger trend as homebuilding
continues to pick up,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “If
we get much better job growth, it would help to support a
longer-term trend of growth in construction.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 0.1
percent to a 1.8 percent gain. April’s reading was revised to a
0.1 percent advance from the initial estimate of a 0.4 percent
gain.  Today’s report contained revisions back to January 2011.
The combined effects was to lift the level of spending in April
from an $860.8 billion annual pace to $870.3 billion, or a 1.1
percent increase.  12-Month Gain  Construction spending increased 6.2 percent in the 12
months ended in May before adjusting for seasonal variations.  Housing outlays climbed 1.2 percent to a $322.3 billion
annualized pace. Private non-residential projects dropped by 1.4
percent to the lowest level since February 2012.  Gauges of housing growth have been positive. Sales of  new
properties  advanced in May to a 476,000 home annualized pace,
the highest level in almost five years, the Commerce Department
reported.  Improvements in spending driven by housing would help
companies including  3M Co. (MMM)  The  St. Paul , Minnesota-based maker
of  Scotch tape  also sells home and construction products and is
expected a pickup in business as homeowners become more active.  “We also have a very good  construction , home improvement
business which clearly will benefit and is benefiting from
things when people are renovating their home,” David Meline,
the company’s chief financial officer, said in a June 12
presentation. “Consumer business looks quite good for us.”  More broad-based gains in construction will help foster
economic growth. Gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter, with homebuilding
accounting for 0.34 percentage point of the increase, figures
from the Commerce Department showed last week. Business
investment on structures, such as factories and office
buildings, dropped, subtracting 0.26 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  