-- Copper Rises Most in Two Months on Signs U.S. Demand May Climb
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-01T17:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/copper-rises-most-in-two-months-on-signs-u-s-demand-may-climb.html
Copper capped the biggest gain in
almost two months after a report showed manufacturing rebounded
in the U.S., the world’s biggest metals consumer after  China .  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing  index 
increased to 50.9 in June from 49 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said today. A reading of 50 is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction. Sustained demand for
automobiles and housing materials helped underpin orders and
factory production. The average U.S. home uses about 439 pounds
(199 kilograms) of the metal, while there are about 50 pounds in
a car, according to the Copper Development Association.  “The U.S. numbers are bullish for copper,”  Michael Smith ,
the president of T&K Futures & Options in  Port St. Lucie ,
 Florida , said in a telephone interview. “Data out of the U.S.
is helping allay some concern in the market that is plagued with
worries about China.”  Copper futures for September delivery jumped 3.3 percent to
settle at $3.157 a pound at 1:21 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the largest advance for a most-active contract since May 3.  Prices slid 10 percent in the second quarter, the most
since September 2011, amid concern that a slowdown in China will
crimp demand. Two gauges of the Asian nation’s manufacturing
fell in June.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 3.4 percent to $6,979 a metric ton ($3.17 a pound).  Stockpiles monitored by the LME fell 0.5 percent to 662,275
tons today.  Also in  London , aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel and tin rose.  Aluminum  inventories  and  orders  to remove the metal from
warehouses climbed to records.  The LME, which has about 700 approved warehouses, said
today it began a three-month consultation on a proposal to
reduce waiting times to withdraw metal at sites with the longest
delays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  