-- DAX’s Creator Recalls ‘Quantum Leap’ on 25th Anniversary
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-07-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/dax-s-creator-recalls-quantum-leap-on-25th-anniversary.html
Before Artur Fischer oversaw the
development of  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , which began
operations 25 years ago today, he says investors had little
insight into the performance of the nation’s shares.  “The formation of the DAX was a quantum leap,” Fischer,
who is now joint chief executive officer of Boerse Berlin, said
in a telephone interview last week. “I was responsible for the
innovation to calculate a real-time index, providing a moving
picture of what German stocks were doing. Before, the index was
just calculated once a day.”  Deutsche Boerse AG, the Consortium of German  Stock
Exchanges  and the Boersen-Zeitung newspaper developed the DAX to
attract global investors. The gauge was created with a
theoretical base value of 1,000, calculated from the end of
1987, and began trading at 1,163 points on July 1, 1988, a year
before the  Berlin Wall  fell.  Fischer was the project manager responsible for creating
the DAX when he worked at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The
index has become the underlying measure for two of the three
largest exchange-traded funds in  Europe , according to  ETFGI ,
which advises institutional investors about ETFs.  The DAX’s level was first calculated every 60 seconds, then
every 15 seconds, and as of January 2006 every second, according
to Deutsche Boerse.  “I suggested on the basis of the technical implementation
that I had provided that the index should start at 1,000 rather
than 100, as this would make the second-by-second changes more
visible,” Fischer said.  Performance Index  The DAX is one of the few national benchmarks to add
reinvested  dividend payments  to the share-price performance when
calculating the index level, thereby fully reflecting an
investor’s returns. That was also Fischer’s idea, he says.  Membership of the 30-company DAX is based upon two
criteria: free-float market value and liquidity. A stock can
enter the gauge if it ranks number 30 or above in terms of
market capitalization and trading volume, provided an existing
member ranks worse than 35 in one of criteria, according to
 Deutsche Boerse , operator of the Frankfurt exchange.  The DAX has advanced 4.6 percent to 7,959.22 this year,
compared with an 1.9 percent gain for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stoxx Ltd., the index provider owned by Deutsche Boerse
and SIX Group AG, currently oversees the German gauge.  “The DAX is the single most successful product the
exchange has ever developed,” Fischer said. “It has become a
global benchmark for the trading of German stocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  