-- Dollar Reaches Month High on Fed Tapering Bets; Aussie Weakens
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-07-02T08:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/dollar-near-month-high-as-economic-gains-boost-fed-tapering-bets.html
The dollar climbed to the highest in
almost a month against the yen as signs of improvement in the
 U.S. economy  buoyed speculation the  Federal Reserve  will start
scaling back asset purchases this year.  The greenback approached the strongest level in almost a
month versus the euro before a report economists said will show
factory orders gained by the most in three months. Data this
week is forecast to indicate a drop in the  unemployment rate  as
companies in the world’s biggest economy continued to add jobs.
Australia’s dollar weakened as the  Reserve Bank  flagged declines
in the currency after keeping borrowing costs unchanged at a
meeting today.  “The dollar is likely to stay underpinned if data
continues to improve,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency
strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan. “We see scope for the Fed
to be able to start tapering the policy accommodation this year
before Fed Chairman Bernanke departs early next year.”  The dollar was little changed at 99.67 yen as of 9:07 a.m.
in London after reaching 99.91 yen, the most since June 5. The
U.S. currency was at $1.3058 per euro. It touched $1.2985 on
June 26, the strongest level since June 3. Europe’s shared
currency was little changed at 130.17 yen after climbing to
130.64, the highest since June 11. The Australian dollar dropped
0.5 percent to 91.92 U.S. cents.  The U.S. Commerce Department will say  orders  placed with
factories climbed 2 percent in May following a 1 percent gain in
the previous month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . If confirmed, that would
be the biggest advance since February.  Job Gains  Companies in the U.S. added 160,000 workers last month
after increasing positions by 135,000 in May, analysts in a
separate poll predicted before a report tomorrow by the
Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute.  Labor Department figures due July 5 will show the nation
added 165,000 jobs in June after boosting payrolls by 175,000 in
the prior period, according to economist forecasts in another
Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate is predicted to have declined
to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent in May.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley is scheduled to
speak on the economy later today in  Stamford , Connecticut.  “We have made significant progress in increasing the
stability of the world’s financial system, but the task of
reforming the system remains incomplete and uneven,” Dudley
wrote in a  letter  posted yesterday on the  New York  Fed’s website
as part of its annual report. “Much more must be done to ensure
that the financial system is robust enough to absorb shocks and
still provide the credit needed for economic growth and  job
creation .”  European Output  London-based Markit Economics will confirm tomorrow that a
 gauge  of euro-area manufacturing and services output climbed in
June to the highest in 15 months, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. European Central Bank officials meeting
the following day will keep the 17-nation region’s borrowing
costs at a record-low 0.5 percent,  analyst predictions  in a
separate Bloomberg survey showed.  “The most recent data supports the notion that the ECB
will refrain from additional policy action as soon as this
week,”  Manuel Oliveri , a London-based foreign-exchange
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, wrote
in an e-mailed note to clients. “Still, there is little scope
for the ECB to sound more hawkish.”  The euro should be sold when it rallies against its U.S.
counterpart, Oliveri wrote.  The dollar has climbed 6.2 percent this year, the best
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro was the second-biggest gainer, rising 5 percent.  The yen dropped 9 percent in the same period, the largest
decline on the gauge. The Aussie dollar was the second-worst
performer, falling 7.2 percent.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board kept the nation’s
benchmark interest rate at 2.75 percent at a meeting today, as
forecast by 25 of 28 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “It is possible that the  exchange rate  will depreciate
further over time, which would help to foster a rebalancing of
growth in the economy,” Stevens said in a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  