-- Dudley Says Regulatory ’Reform’ Remains Incomplete
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-07-01T22:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/dudley-says-regulatory-reform-remains-incomplete.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said the Fed’s efforts at
overhauling regulation remain unfinished, with money market
funds still posing a risk to the financial system and the
largest banks perceived as “too big to fail.”  “We have made significant progress in increasing the
stability of the world’s financial system, but the task of
reforming the system remains incomplete and uneven,” Dudley
said in a  letter  posted today on the New York Fed’s website as
part of its  annual report . “Much more must be done to ensure
that the financial system is robust enough to absorb shocks and
still provide the credit needed for economic growth and job
creation.”  Policy makers at the Fed and other banking agencies are
still working to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, the
most sweeping overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since the
Great Depression, three years after President  Barack Obama 
signed it into law.  The central bank has “much work still to do to reduce the
cost to society of the failure of large, complex financial
institutions,” Dudley said. He didn’t comment on the economy or
monetary policy.  Fed officials and U.S. lawmakers are considering new ways
to limit the risk that the failure of a large bank will lead to
a taxpayer-funded rescue. The central bank is discussing ways to
limit the safety net and curtail  balance-sheet  expansion at the
largest banks, while senators from both parties are discussing
legislation that would tighten capital standards.  ‘Reform’ Crucial  Dudley cited money market funds as a risk, saying “the
size of the money market fund sector and its interconnectedness
with the rest of the financial system make reform of these
vulnerabilities crucial.”  He also identified as “key” the Fed’s efforts to make the
largest banks write “living wills” that detail how the firms
could be wound down.  “No matter how much capital or liquidity a financial
institution has, there is always some risk that it will fail,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  