-- The Petty Source of Lincoln’s Greatness
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D .   S a m e t
-- 2013-07-01T22:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/the-petty-source-of-lincoln-s-greatness.html
This year’s celebration of the Fourth
of July is amplified by the sesquicentennial of the Union
victory at Gettysburg on July 3, 1863. The holiday will no doubt
serve up the requisite dose of patriotic feeling, sentimentality
and togetherness to convince us that we have exercised some
civic virtue. But the vacation time spent with family and
friends will mostly serve to remind us that we are exhausted.  Exhaustion is the national refrain. When everyone from a
basketball coach to a Cabinet member retires from view, we are
told how exhausted each is and discover a public echo of our own
private feeling.  One of the most recent -- and certainly among the most
speculated about -- confessions of this kind came from  Hillary Clinton , who told the  New York  Times, “I would like to see
whether I can get untired.” I have no doubt that Clinton --
fabled for her work ethic and ambition to enact change -- is
tired. How could she not be? But Clinton’s claim that she craves
the “ordinary” after two decades of the extraordinary emphasizes
something beyond the energy required to live a public life
today.  The routines of public figures at the loftiest ranks are,
in no uncertain terms, unordinary: They are moved from one event
to the next by schedulers, aides and personal security
detachments. They travel by cavalcade and personal plane, for if
they traveled like the rest of us, they would, like the rest of
us, never get anywhere on time. Yet they always appear to be
running late and to have no time. At appropriate moments someone
whispers in their ear that the car is waiting or knocks on the
door to inform them the meeting must end.  This is simply the insulation that comes with the job. But
what are we saving our public figures for?  Looking Back  There was far less insulation in 1863, which opened with
President  Abraham Lincoln ’s issuing of the Emancipation
Proclamation. During the next several months, he oversaw two
campaigns:  Ulysses S. Grant ’s Vicksburg Campaign in the West and
the fitful, largely ineffectual movements of first Ambrose
Burnside and then Joseph Hooker in the East. By July 4,
Vicksburg had fallen and Gettysburg had been won. In November,
Lincoln would deliver the Gettysburg Address, which the
historian Garry Wills has called “the words that remade
America.”  The toll the presidency took on Lincoln, vividly measured
in contemporary photographs, is such a commonplace I need not
dwell on it here. What is worth examining is the proximity of
the man not only to the extraordinary demands of the country’s
highest public office but also to the defiantly ordinary stuff
of life -- from the citizens lining the corridors of the White
House, a phenomenon  Steven Spielberg ’s film documents quite
effectively, to the correspondence streaming in.  Examining a week or even a day in Lincoln’s epistolary
life, an activity that the Abraham Lincoln Association  website 
hosted by the  University of Michigan  makes easy, reveals how
little of the ordinary the president seems to have been spared
during this momentous period. Lincoln operated always on many
different levels simultaneously, managing panoramic strategic
initiatives even as he addressed the everyday concerns of
private citizens.  Over the course of his days, he endorsed job applicants for
even minor political offices; arranged for the mustering out of
drummer boys; reviewed the petitions of paymasters accused of
theft; pardoned soldiers for various offenses; facilitated a
mother’s search for her wounded son; recommended candidates for
admission to  West Point ; addressed a Mrs. Green’s complaint that
her husband had not been promoted in timely fashion;
communicated to his wife the death of Tad’s pet goat; and on a
daily basis scolded, cajoled, inspired and nursed the wounded
egos of fractious, jealous generals on whom his hopes depended.  Great Patience  “I have no more time for Mr. Capen,” Lincoln wrote on April
26, 1863, after being importuned once too often by a quack
meteorologist whose forecast for sun had just been belied by 10
hours of rain. It took a great deal, however, to wear down
Lincoln’s patience. He had secretaries, of course, but the
personal energy he devoted to individual requests, petitions,
and complaints would be considered beneath the importance of any
modern president, who could not afford such investment.  When we think of Lincoln’s political vision and rhetorical
capacity, perhaps we imagine that he managed it despite all the
distractions. Yet what if it was his very proximity to the
mundane that made those triumphs of intellect possible? Policy
makers and political visionaries rarely have such constant
exposure to the motivations of real people, such intimacy with
their pettiness as well as their extraordinary capacity for
endurance.  To see the juxtaposition of large and small in Lincoln’s
daily life is to consider whether an understanding of the
momentous, global and strategic is truly possible without the
shaping force of the quotidian. Perhaps we have moved beyond the
point where the people chosen to solve our problems can dwell in
the real. Yet when we consider that being steeped in the real
can yield a Gettysburg Address, this year on the Fourth of July
we might well wonder what we have lost.  (Elizabeth D. Samet is a professor of English at the U.S.
Military Academy and the author of “Soldier’s Heart: Reading
Literature Through Peace and War at West Point.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Elizabeth D. Samet at  eliz.samet@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 