-- LME Seeks to Shorten 100-Day Withdrawal Times at Warehouses
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-01T16:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/lme-seeks-to-reduce-lines-at-warehouses-where-wait-is-100-days.html
The  London  Metal Exchange, the
world’s biggest metals marketplace, is seeking to speed up
withdrawals from stockpiles in warehouses where waiting times
exceed 100 calendar days.  Those warehouses would have to deliver out more metal than
they take in, based on a formula, the LME  said  in a statement
today. Market participants are being consulted until Sept. 30,
the exchange said. Its board is expected to review the plan in
October, and the proposal would take effect April 1 if approved,
the statement showed.  LME users have said long waits for withdrawals helped to
lift premiums for metals from aluminum to copper. The Beer
Institute, representing members including MillerCoors LLC, last
month urged the exchange to act to reduce waiting times. Sites
with lengthy waits include Johor in  Malaysia , the biggest LME
copper repository, according to Societe Generale SA.  “If enacted, it will help address the issue, though it
will be a gradual process,” said  Leon Westgate , an analyst at
Standard Bank Plc in London. “The main thing is it looks like
it may improve competition in terms of other warehouse locations
outside Antwerp, Vlissingen, Johor, New Orleans and Detroit.”  The LME has a network of 765 warehouses in 36 locations
worldwide, the exchange’s website shows. There are only five
sites where consumers must wait for withdrawals, according to
Charles Li, chief executive officer of Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd., which owns the LME.  Detroit, Antwerp  “We have undertaken this consultation because it’s
important we listen to market participants when concerns
arise,” Li said on his blog today.  Detroit, New Orleans, the Belgian city of Antwerp and
Vlissingen in the Netherlands are the other locations with long
waits for metal, according to Societe Generale.  The LME delisted 83 warehouses and other storage facilities
this year as more metal was being drawn to fewer locations.
Vlissingen and  Detroit  account for 64 percent of aluminum
inventories tracked by the exchange, and copper stocks in Johor,
New Orleans and Antwerp come to 89 percent of the global total,
figures compiled by Bloomberg show.  Under the proposal, all metals loaded into warehouses would
be measured over three months. For waits of more than 100 days,
daily deliveries out of warehouses that are now mandated at
3,000 metric tons would have to exceed inbound shipments by at
least 1,500 tons. Sites with queues below 100 calendar days
would be unaffected, Matthew Chamberlain, the LME’s head of
strategy and implementation, said at a press conference in
London today.  ‘Strategic Threat’  “Why 100 days?” he said. “Because in our view and in the
board’s view, it is the point at which queues move from being an
operational challenge to a strategic threat and when they start
to have a strong impact on price discovery, on the LME’s role as
the market, the warehouses’ role as the market of last resort,
and also on the competitive dynamic between warehouses with
queues and warehouses without queues.”  Deliveries from warehouses would be linked to inbound
shipments, according to Chamberlain. Storage companies lacking
capacity to load out more metal as required by the proposal
would be unable to take in new inventory, he said.  “The more metal you load in as warehouse operator, the
more you have to load out,” Chamberlain said.  The LME, where investors buy and sell more than 80 percent
of industrial-metals futures, last year doubled the so-called
minimum load-out rate for warehouse companies storing more than
900,000 tons at a single site. This year it introduced an extra
delivery requirement for storage companies where bookings exceed
30,000 tons of a single metal, as well as separate minimum daily
deliveries of tin and nickel.  No Resolution  “While these initiatives have increased access to lower-volume metals, it is clear from stock data that they have failed
to resolve the persistently long waiting times for certain
metals in particular locations,” the LME said today.  Buyers can still get metal from warehouses and there is no
“fundamental problem” with the market, Li said on his blog,
adding that there’s no need for a “bazooka” to tackle the
issue. The LME board has yet to form a view on whether
warehousing rules need to be changed, he said.  Higher rents charged by warehouse operators will become “a
reality if such a policy change is implemented, thus increasing
the disconnect between LME storage and other forms of storage
costs,” the exchange said. It has no control over rents and
charges for deliveries from warehouses, Diarmuid O’Hegarty, the
LME’s chief operating officer, said at the press conference.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Metro International Trade
Services LLC operates the most warehouses in Detroit, while
Pacorini Metals, owned by  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , dominates in
Vlissingen, according to the LME website. Pacorini also has the
most warehouses in Johor and New Orleans, while Trafigura Beheer
BV’s NEMS controls most sites in Antwerp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  