-- EasyJet Founder to Oppose $13 Billion Airbus A320 Deal at Vote
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-01T09:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/easyjet-founder-to-oppose-13-billion-airbus-a320-deal-at-vote.html
  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  founder and No. 1
shareholder Stelios Haji-Ioannou said he will vote against a
management plan to buy 135 Airbus SAS jets valued at $13.2
billion, citing a lack of transparency to the transaction.  “It is my firm opinion that this is a good deal for Airbus
and a bad deal for EasyJet shareholders,” Stelios, who is known
by his first name, said in a letter to fellow investors in
 Europe ’s second-largest discount carrier.  Shareholders will vote on the transaction July 11, which
Stelios said he expects to be approved. The airline’s founder
owns just under 37 percent in the company.  EasyJet on June 18 agreed to buy 135 A320 single-aisle
planes, with an option for 100 more as it goes head-to-head with
network carriers such as  British Airways (IAG)  by targeting a bigger
share of Europe’s lucrative business-travel market. Some 85 of
the 135 aircraft will replace old jets, with the remainder
helping to boost seat capacity by between 3 and 5 percent
annually, the carrier said last month.  “I am not against replacing aircraft that have reached the
end of their economic life,” Stelios said. “However, I am
against buying aircraft that are three times more expensive than
the ones I bought with my own money in the early 2000s.”  EasyJet had no immediate comment.  Stelios, who has previously battled with the airline’s
management over expansion plans, said he was “disappointed”
that Chairman John Barton, who joined this year, approved a
large transaction so quickly. He also expressed concern
shareholders were being asked to approve a deal without clear
price information for the new planes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  