-- Edward Snowden Loses Patriot Games to Putin
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-07-01T22:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/edward-snowden-loses-patriot-games-to-putin.html
A week in Moscow was enough for Edward Snowden to change his plans completely. No one has seen the
National Security Agency leaker since he landed at Sheremetyevo
Terminal E on June 23, intending to go on to  Ecuador , where he
had requested political asylum. Now he isn’t going there: On
July 1, the Russian consul at Sheremetyevo reported that the
night before, Snowden asked for asylum in  Russia .  Dithering by the Ecuadorean authorities and, apparently,
some prompting from the Russian special services have
transformed the former NSA contractor full of romantic notions
about Internet privacy and information freedom into a modern-day
 Kim Philby , destined to live out his life in a country waging a
cold war against his homeland.  Russia seemed to be a safe stopover for Snowden, wanted in
the U.S. for exposing the NSA’s top secret efforts to monitor e-mails and chats using the infrastructure of American Internet
giants such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Moscow has no extradition treaty with  Washington .
From Russia he could fly to  Havana  and then on to the Ecuadorean
capital,  Quito , where the authorities seemed sympathetic to his
plight. Ecuador has, after all, harbored WikiLeaks founder
Julian Assange in its  London  embassy.  As soon as it emerged that Snowden had a booking on the
Aeroflot flight to Havana, several dozen journalists rushed to
get on the same plane, jockeying to be next to 17A, his supposed
seat. But as the plane took off, it remained vacant.  Where was he then? In the Sheremetyevo transit area, said
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  on June 25. “He came as a
transit passenger, he does not need a visa or any other
documents,” Putin said, adding: “He has the right to buy a
ticket and fly wherever he wants.”  Putin denied that the Russian special services were
debriefing Snowden. “I would prefer not to deal with such
matters because it’s like shearing a piglet -- there’s a lot of
squealing and not much wool,” Putin said.  Yet Snowden wasn’t going anywhere. There were unofficial
reports that he couldn’t buy a ticket because his U.S. passport
had been annulled. Reporters looked for him in the transit area
pub, in the duty-free shops, in the capsule hotel. They waited
for him at the  Burger King (BKW) , which became the Snowden-spotters’
unofficial headquarters. They bought cheap tickets to Kiev or
Minsk to get into the transit area, and they stayed there. A
document check on June 27 showed there were more than 20
passengers camping between passport control and the departure
gates with overdue boarding passes.  No luck. As the reporters found out, Sheremetyevo had plenty
of doors that wouldn’t open to them for love or money: Behind
them lay the domain of the border guards, who are part of the
FSB, Russia’s counterintelligence service.  Russians found it hard to believe that the annulled U.S.
passport was indeed hindering Snowden’s departure. They also
laughed at Putin’s suggestion that he wasn’t really in Russia
because he hadn’t gone through passport control. “Aeroflot can,
if it wishes, put any transit passenger on any plane,”  wrote 
Pavel Felgenhauer in the weekly  Novaya Gazeta . “Also, according
to international law, the Sheremetyevo transit area is the
sovereign territory of Russia with all its laws, rules and law
enforcement agencies.”  The columnist pointed out that if Snowden were indeed “all
squealing and no wool” to the Russian special services, it would
have been easy to send him back to  Hong Kong  as an undesirable
foreigner. “Yet Snowden remained in Sheremetyevo like a suitcase
with a broken-off handle: a pain to carry and a shame to throw
away,” Felgenhauer wrote. “As a means of anti-American
propaganda Snowden could be used anywhere, even in Ecuador, but
it was only here that he could be used as a source of
intelligence.”  Ecuador, where Snowden had requested political asylum, has
sent out mixed signals. The Ecuadorean consul in London issued
the American a safe passage document, but then the government in
Quito  canceled it .  The Ecuadorean official stance seesawed from  renouncing  U.S.
trade benefits in support of Snowden to saying the asylum
proceedings  could take months . On June 30,  Rafael Correa ,
Ecuador’s leftist president, stated the obvious: “It’s up to the
Russian authorities if he can leave the Moscow airport for an
Ecuadorean embassy.”  Correa’s words fell in nicely with the common belief that
Russian counterintelligence wouldn’t let Snowden go until it was
satisfied that the “piglet” had no more “wool.” Whatever was
happening behind those closed doors at Sheremetyevo -- or
wherever the leaker really is -- Snowden’s reputation as a
truth-seeker was becoming irretrievably marred.  “Snowden only had one chance to stress his independence on
arrival to Moscow,” investigative journalist Andrei Soldatov
 wrote  on Forbes.ru. “That was to wait for his next flight
surrounded by journalists. Snowden did the opposite, putting
himself, his WikiLeaks supporting team and even the Kremlin in
an awkward position.”  Putin, however, wasn’t feeling awkward at all. As a former
intelligence officer, he is completely at home in situations
like this. On July 1, apparently already informed of Snowden’s
asylum request, he  told  journalists at an international
conference that if Snowden “wants to stay here, he must desist
in his work aimed at doing damage to our American partners, even
if this does sound strange coming from me.”  Putin also reaffirmed his decision not to turn over the
leaker to the U.S. “We are not going to hand anyone over, and no
one has ever turned anyone over to us. All we’ve ever done was
exchange our intelligence officers for those arrested and
sentenced by Russian courts.”  Putin’s professional skill at putting up smoke screens has
turned the Snowden situation into a traditional Cold War-style
spy scandal, complete with denials that the Russian special
services have even talked to him. Yet indications are that
Putin’s propaganda machine will still try to use Snowden as a
rights champion. Pro-Putin parliament deputy Alexander Sidyakin
has even  suggested  that Snowden be nominated for the Nobel Peace
Prize.  Putin has turned out to be quite an efficient piglet-shearer: Snowden’s every bristle will be used for the yarn the
Kremlin is already beginning to spin.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View.  Follow  him on Twitter.)
 