-- El Nino Was Unusually Active in Possible Link to Climate Change
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-01T08:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/el-nino-was-unusually-active-in-possible-link-to-climate-change.html
The El Nino weather pattern that can
bring drought to  Australia  and rain to South America was
“unusually active” at the end of the 20th century, possibly
due to climate change, a University of Hawaii study found.  Researchers studied 2,222 tree-ring records as proxies for
temperature and rainfall over the past 700 years, the university
wrote in an online  statement  dated yesterday. The records
indicate the El Nino-Southern Oscillation weather phenomenon has
been increasingly active in recent decades relative to the past
seven centuries.  The drought associated with El Nino’s warm phase can cause
smaller rice crops in Asia and cut wheat production in
Australia, while the rains can cause flooding in South America
and weaker cold ocean currents reduce anchovy catches off  Peru .
Accurately forecasting El Nino is challenging because it varies
naturally over decades and centuries, the university said.  “If this trend of increasing ENSO activity continues, we
expect to see more weather extremes such as floods and
droughts,” Shang-Ping Xie, a meteorology professor at the
University of Hawaii’s International Pacific Research Center and
study co-author, was cited as saying in the statement.  The study found that in the year after a large tropical
volcanic eruption, the east-central tropical Pacific is
“unusually cool,” followed by warming a year later, the
university wrote. Volcanic aerosols, like greenhouse gases,
disturb the Earth’s radiation balance, it said.  “This supports the idea that the unusually high ENSO
activity in the late 20th century is a footprint of global
warming,” study lead author Jinbao Li was cited as saying.  The results from the study may help improve the accuracy of
climate models and predictions for future El Nino activity,
according to Li.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  