-- Merck Fails to Win U.S. Approval for Higher Doses of Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-01T20:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/merck-fails-to-win-u-s-approval-for-higher-doses-of-drug.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) , the second-largest U.S.
drugmaker, failed to win approval for two higher doses of an
experimental therapy for insomnia.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said safety data didn’t
support approval of the sleeping pill known as suvorexant in
doses of 30 milligrams and 40 milligrams, Whitehouse Station,
New Jersey-based Merck said today in a statement. A dosage of 10
milligrams may be approved once available, Merck said.  “It’s very good news that no additional clinical studies
are required,”  Roger Perlmutter , who became Merck’s new head of
research and development in April, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a clear path to approval.”  The sleeping pill may generate $516 million in sales in
2017, according to the average of seven  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg before today’s announcement. The treatment
is designed to turn off wakefulness rather than subdue the brain
into slumber like branded and generic versions of Sanofi’s
Ambien and  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma (4506)  Co.’s Lunesta.  It’s not known how long an approval will take, Perlmutter
said.  Rejecting the two higher doses will hurt the sales
potential of the drug, said  Timothy Anderson , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Needs Replacements  “Forcing Merck to go with lower doses, and simultaneously
turning down the two higher doses because of safety issues,
leaves suvorexant with even more mixed commercial prospects,”
Anderson said in a note to clients today. It “will make
suvorexant a tougher sell in a market where there is plenty of
choice and generic availability already.”  Merck needs to make up for sales losses from its asthma
medication Singulair, the company’s one-time best-selling
treatment that began facing generic competition last year. Merck
announced in March that it would replace its head of research
with Perlmutter after several setbacks with drugs in testing and
cut its profit forecast in May in anticipation of lower sales.  Merck fell less than 1 percent to $46.32 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The stock has  gained 11 percent  in the past 12 months.  While the company is pursuing therapies in Alzheimer’s and
cancer, Perlmutter said Merck is still interested in drugs that
would be used mostly by primary care physicians.  Breakthrough Therapy  “It is hard to argue with a breakthrough therapy that
addresses an important medical problem using a novel mechanism
that’s the first in its class to do so,” Perlmutter said. “We
need to be opportunistic in taking advantage of the research
that we do.”  According to the letter from the FDA, the agency could
approve the 10-milligram dose and then allow patients to
increase it if it wasn’t effective. Much of the data about the
efficacy of that dose was from sleep lab studies, Perlmutter
said. Merck also conducted studies where patients reported how
well they were sleeping.  “It’s nice to measure data in the sleep lab, but
fundamentally people who are sleeping need to feel like they are
sleeping better,” Perlmutter said. “The agency’s approach is
let’s go with the objective data, and as long as the drug is
tolerated well, then if patients feel like they can take more,
then they can increase the dose.”  Impaired Driving  A panel of advisers to the agency raised concern that
higher doses of the drug may carry too great a risk of next-day
driving while impaired and suicidal thoughts.  People with insomnia have trouble falling asleep and
staying asleep.  The FDA this year required  Sanofi (SAN)  and other makers of
insomnia pills containing the ingredient zolpidem to cut by half
the recommended doses for women after the agency found lingering
effects of the drug in the morning.  “They’re interested in erring on the side of lower
doses,” Perlmutter said. “The attitude of the FDA is that a
new mechanism of action may be associated with new safety
concerns once it gets out in the market and a lot of people are
taking it.”  If the drug is approved, Merck will still have to wait for
the Drug Enforcement Administration to make a designation on the
level of restrictions the drug will face on distribution based
on its potential for abuse. Insomnia drugs have historically
been considered a Schedule IV medication, the second least
restrictive of the DEA’s five classifications.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  