-- ETF Investors Are Caught by Surprise as Prices Diverge
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-07-01T12:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/etf-investors-are-caught-by-surprise-as-prices-diverge.html
David Blain, a financial adviser in
New Bern,  North Carolina , likes exchange-traded funds so much
he’s put all his clients’ money in them. He also thinks
individual investors trading ETFs on their own may be in for
surprises when markets come under stress.  Share prices for dozens of ETFs last month strayed to their
biggest discounts in a year against the published value of their
holdings, or net-asset values, as investors fled stocks and
bonds around the world. The price of the $362 million  iShares
MSCI Philippines Investable Market Index Fund  swung from a 4.7
percent premium to a 6.1 percent discount and back to a 2
percent premium in the space of  nine trading days  through June
25.  “I don’t think most people have any clue that the prices
they’re paying or selling at can veer significantly from NAV,”
Blain, who manages $75 million, said in an interview.  ETFs have become one of the most popular investing vehicles
in the past decade, with U.S. assets surging 12-fold to $1.48
trillion, by combining the diversified  market access  offered by
mutual funds with the tradability of a stock. Some more complex
exchange-traded products, such as derivatives-based funds or
those that use leverage, have recently attracted scrutiny from
regulators.  ‘Buyer Beware’  Blain and other advisers serving small clients said recent
volatility underlines why additional investors should also be
wary of traditional ETFs if they invest in less liquid markets,
especially as fund providers sell them aggressively as cheap and
easy tools for gaining access to exotic asset-classes and
regions.  “I don’t know that the retail investor always comprehends
that the education they’re getting comes from organizations that
are best served by them buying the product,” said Jim Heitman,
an adviser in Alta Loma,  California , who manages $25 million,
with about 90 percent of that in ETFs. “Within our current
regulatory structure, it’s buyer beware.”  ETFs hold baskets of underlying securities and can be
traded throughout the day on an exchange, like a stock. Most of
the funds are designed to track an index, a key element in
keeping down costs, and its underlying assets will largely match
that index. The ETF’s price will typically stray little from its
net-asset value, or NAV. The price of the $134 billion  SPDR S&P
500 ETF Trust (SPY)   hasn’t veered  away from its NAV by more than 0.26
percentage point in the past year.  Investors ‘Seduced’  In less liquid markets, or when the ETF trades at different
hours than the underlying market, that relationship can widen
under stress. The $221 million  SPDR Nuveen S&P High Yield
Municipal Bond ETF (HYMB)  hit a discount of  4.8 percent  to its assets
last month, the highest in more than a year.  Retail investors get “seduced” into thinking ETF prices
will always be close to their underlying asset values, Mercer Bullard, associate professor of law at the  University of
Mississippi  and founder of investor advocacy group Fund
Democracy, said in an interview.  The funds are popular with individuals as well as
institutions such as pension funds and  hedge funds , among the
most sophisticated investors and often the first to buy or sell
if markets change. The top four U.S.-listed holdings of  Ray Dalio ’s $140 billion Bridgewater Associates LP, the world’s
largest hedge-fund firm, were ETFs at the end of the first
quarter.  Right Value  During last month’s market rout, some retail investors
probably sold at a discount and may never know it, said  Mark
Wilson , chief investment officer at Tarbox Group Inc. in  Newport
Beach , California, which manages $300 million.  “They’re getting ripped off because they don’t have all
the information to make good decisions,” he said.  Selling at a discount or buying at a premium doesn’t mean
the investor is getting an unfair price, Matthew Tucker, head of
iShares fixed-income strategy at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the largest ETF
provider, said in an interview. BlackRock is in the midst of a
major advertising campaign for its iShares lineup of ETFs, with
some television ads focused on international and emerging
markets funds.  If a fund’s share price deviates from the last price of its
underlying assets, arbitrage traders will jump in and take
advantage of the difference, Tucker said. Their buying or
selling of ETF shares pushes the share price back in line with
assets.  Discount ‘Illusion’  The mechanism only works when those arbitragers can buy or
sell the underlying securities at their last quoted price. If
the underlying securities aren’t liquid or don’t trade during
the same hours as the ETF’s shares, as in  emerging markets  or
high-yield bonds, they may stop that activity.  In those cases, Tucker said, it’s often the NAV that’s not
reflecting the right value. The clearest example occurs when an
overseas stock exchange is closed. That means a fund’s NAV will
remain frozen even as the ETF shares continue to trade in  New
York , reflecting current investor sentiment.  “What investors need to understand is that for ETFs in
emerging markets or high yield bonds, the ETF does a better job
than the index in telling you where the market is at a given
point in time,” Tucker said. “The discount is an illusion.”  That isn’t always true, Wilson said. Discounted or premium
shares sometimes snap back to the value of underlying assets,
and sometimes asset values will move to catch up with share
price movements.  BlackRock’s Program  “To say the ETF shares are the most accurate is probably
overstated,” said Wilson, who stays out of ETFs that track
illiquid markets. “I’d rather not have to deal with it.”  BlackRock announced June 29 it was planning a “fresh
program for investor education” to help investors understand
how ETFs work.  ETF providers should work together to boost investor
education efforts, Rick Ferri, founder of Portfolio Solutions
LLC in Troy,  Michigan , said in an interview. The firm manages
$1.2 billion.  “There hasn’t been any real attempt by the industry to get
together on this, and there’s been no pressure from the SEC or
Finra to make it happen,” he said, referring to the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, the brokerage industry’s self-funded regulator.  Finra’s Role  Finra in May 2012 fined  Wells Fargo & Co ., Citigroup Inc.,
Morgan Stanley and UBS AG a combined $9.1 million for selling
leveraged and inverse ETFs to clients who didn’t understand them
and lost money. The body first warned brokers and other advisers
about the products in 2009.  “Finra continues to look closely at sales of ETFs and
other complex products to assess whether the sale of these
products to retail customers are suitable,” Brad Bennett, the
group’s chief enforcement officer, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Following Finra warnings to investors and advisers on
leveraged and inverse ETFs in 2009, discount brokers such as
 Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  in  San Francisco  and Boston-based  Fidelity
Investments , which cater to do-it-yourself investors, made it
more difficult for self-directed investors to trade those
products.  ‘Educated Investors’  Users of Fidelity’s online trading platform can’t find
leveraged and inverse ETFs on the default list of products. If
they insist on trading them, they must define themselves as
“very aggressive” investors and acknowledge extra warnings
about the products’ risks. They also are presented with
additional education material.  Customers don’t hit similar hurdles with ETFs focused on
illiquid markets. The platform also doesn’t provide current
premium and discount data when customers look up individual
ETFs. Premiums and discounts listed are from the previous day’s
market close.  The firm makes a significant amount of educational
material, including tutorials on how to trade effectively,
available to clients, Stephen Austin, a spokesman, said in an
interview. He said clients also can always get live assistance
on the phone or online from Fidelity advisers.  “We’re committed to keeping our investors educated and
continuously enhance the research available to them,” Austin
said. “In the coming months they’ll see further enhancements to
research on ETF structure.”  ‘Complex’ Trades  While Schwab doesn’t raise alerts when customers trade, it
has “a robust ETF education offering,” said Erin Montgomery, a
spokeswoman. Schwab’s lineup of commission-free ETFs is designed
to help investors build long-term holdings, she said.  “All of the ETFs are from well-established providers and
we took a close look at AUM, spreads and tracking error when
selecting ETFs for the program,” she said. “In addition,
Schwab’s trading desk supports advisers and investors with
execution of large or more complex ETF trades.”  Cokie Berenyi, whose firm, Red Triangle LLC, in Charleston,
 South Carolina , manages $40 million, said proper education may
be more important than legally mandated fund disclosures, which
typically are unhelpful.  “It’s not in plain English,” she said. “It should be
understandable, instead of being in language that covers the
firm legally.”  State Street Corp. (STT) , the second-biggest ETF provider, works
hard to provide a range of education material to investors
directly and to make sure advisers are properly informed, Scott Ebner, global head of ETF product development, said in an
interview. He said some responsibility also lies with investors.  “There’s a lot of information out there about the risks of
premiums and discounts, and about the risks and opportunities
associated with trading in the second market,” he said. “They
still have to do the work to understand how it works, how it
fits into their portfolio and with their risk preferences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  