-- EU Seeks Settlement by Year End on Libor-Euribor Rigging Probes
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   G a s p a r d   S e b a g
-- 2013-07-01T11:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/eu-seeks-settlement-by-year-end-on-libor-euribor-rigging-probes.html
The European Union’s antitrust chief
said he’s seeking a settlement with banks implicated in the
rigging of Libor and Euribor interbank lending rates.  The EU is seeking to make decisions on its probes into
potential rigging “by around the end of this year” using
formal settlement procedures,  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters
today in Brussels after he announced the escalation of a
separate probe into collusion in the credit derivatives
industry.  Global regulators have fined  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group  Plc about $2.5 billion in the past year
for distorting Libor and similar benchmarks. At least a dozen
firms remain under investigation around the world. Probes into
potential rigging have expanded beyond interbank lending rates
such as Libor to include markets ranging from  oil prices  to
foreign exchange.  The EU is quizzing banks and brokerages in its probe into
manipulation of interbank lending rates that may have helped
them and others generate profits from derivatives trades.  Almunia has said that manipulating benchmarks such as Libor
risks “systemic damage.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. were
among more than a dozen financial institutions accused by the
European Union of colluding to curb competition in the credit
derivatives industry, Almunia said today.  “Some of the banks” involved in the CDS probe are also
part of the investigations into Libor and Euribor manipulation,
Almunia said.  “We are exploring the possibility of settlements in these
cartel investigations,” Almunia’s spokesman, Antoine Colombani,
said in an e-mail. He declined to elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  