-- EU Urges Balkan Leaders to Work for Peace as Croatia Joins Bloc
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-07-01T14:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/eu-urges-balkan-leaders-to-work-for-peace-as-croatia-joins-bloc.html
The European Union began pressing
leaders of Balkan nations that emerged from the violent
disintegration of  Yugoslavia  to make the region more secure and
prosperous hours after Croatia became the bloc’s 28th member.  EU officials in Zagreb and Belgrade discussed political
cooperation, infrastructure projects and support for future
membership bids with local leaders, Croatian President Ivo Josipovic said today. EU-supported meetings will continue, with
plans to invite French President Francois Hollande to the next
gathering, Josipovic said. EU President Herman Van Rompuy met
Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dacic in Belgrade, while Swedish
Foreign Minister Carl Bildt flew to the Serbian capital today.  The EU deepened its presence in the Balkan peninsula today
by admitting Croatia as the second former Yugoslav republic to
join the world’s largest trading bloc after Slovenia. Still in
the wings are Montenegro, Macedonia and  Serbia , which still must
overhaul judicial and economic systems and create a lasting
peace in a region devastated by war in the 1990s.  “A new chapter is being opened in this region of Europe,”
said Van Rompuy after meeting Dacic in Belgrade. “I trust that
other Balkan countries will feel inspired by these momentous
steps, leave aside divisions and concentrate on common
interests, values and goals.”  The EU now has 45 million residents in the Balkans,
including  Romania ,  Bulgaria ,  Greece  and Slovenia, a former
federal partner with Croatia before Yugoslavia fell apart. The
fighting that ensued was the continent’s bloodiest since the end
of World War II.  Infrastructure Modernization  As a result, the development of roads, bridges, utilities
and other infrastructure was hampered, putting the region behind
other post-communist nations that joined the EU in 2004,
including the Czech Republic, Slovakia and  Poland .  The focus is now on Serbia, the largest of the former
Yugoslav states, and its relations with its former province,
Kosovo. Bosnia-Herzegovina, sandwiched between Croatia and
Serbia, also remains under international supervision.  European leaders agreed last week to start entry talks with
Serbia by January and push for closer political and economic
ties with Kosovo after an EU-brokered agreement on April 19 that
laid the groundwork for future reconciliation.  Ultra-nationalists on both sides have condemned the accord,
making the region potentially less stable.  Dacic expects talks with the EU to last four to five years,
though political analysts see the process taking as long as a
decade. Serbian authorities will soon appoint a chief negotiator
and teams for each of the 35 chapters needed to fulfill before
entry is approved, Dacic said.  Immediate progress to securing the start of EU entry talks
hangs on implementing the agreement with  Kosovo , which declared
independence in 2008 and has been recognized by almost 100
countries, including the U.S. and 23 of 28 EU members.  The agreement “paves the way for final reconciliation
between communities that need each other, that share a common
geography and history and puts an end to a period of conflict
that erupted in the heart of Europe two decades ago,” said Van
Rompuy. The EU “itself was born from the ashes of the Second
World War, and now becomes a place of reconciliation and
encounter for the Balkan nations.”  In Zagreb, Montenegrin President Filip Vujanovic said he
hoped his country, which started accession talks last year, will
use improved regional support to make progress and Kosovo
President Atifete Jahjaga said the initiative “will put the
entire region in the direction of the European Union.”  The western Balkans, where the unemployment rate averages
22.8 percent, remains heavily reliant on the euro area for
investment and trade, whose own recession is preventing an
acceleration in the economic recovery of the Balkans, the World
Bank said on June 18. Growth may be driven by energy,
agriculture and exports, it said.  “All the countries in the region are on the road to the
European Union, and as all the decisions regarding enlargement
are made unanimously,  Croatia  will have some very direct
influence in the region,” Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic said in an interview today. “Our plan is to be a good
influence on the region, as we are so intertwined that any
instability affects us all directly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  