-- European Junk-Rated Borrowers Boost Rates as Loan Prices Decline
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-07-01T14:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/european-junk-rated-borrowers-boost-rates-as-loan-prices-decline.html
Armacell International Holding GmbH
and Altice VII SA are among European borrowers increasing rates
on their loans as the price of the floating-rate debt falls to a
more than three-month low.  Armacell. the Munster, Germany-based insulation products
maker being bought by Charterhouse Capital Partners LP, and
Altice, a Luxembourg-based telecommunications investment
company, increased the interest margins offered on their loans
in dollars and euros last week by as much as 125 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are demanding higher prices to buy the debt of
non-investment-grade companies after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  laid out a timetable for stimulus reduction.
Prices of the largest leveraged loans fell 0.26 cent last week
to 92.2 cents, the least since March 14, according to the
Standard & Poor’s European Leveraged Loan Index.  “It’s inevitable that pure European syndicated deals will
also be affected as investors will compare the yield available
in secondary and primary markets,” said David Milward, London-based head of loans at Henderson Global Investors Ltd. “Some of
the European companies tapping the U.S. market may not be well
known to U.S. accounts and in periods of volatility investors
will inevitably be more cautious. It would be ok when liquidity
is there but when it’s not, borrowers and the arranging banks
may need to be flexible to get the deals away.”  Arrangers of a 200 million-euro ($260.5 million) add-on
 term loan  for Intertrust Group Holding SA, a corporate
management company owned by Blackstone Group LP, lowered the
proposed issue price of the deal to 98 percent from 99.5
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This increases
the yield for investors and lowers proceeds for the borrower.  Aramcell Loan  Armacell offered a first-lien term loan in euros at 475
basis points, or 4.75 percentage points, more than benchmark
rates, and a term loan in U.S. dollars at 450 basis points,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. That
compares with margins of 375 to 400 basis points on the euro
portion and 350 to 375 basis points on the dollar piece proposed
earlier.  Altice increased the interest margins of at least $700
million of term loan to 450 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate, compared with a guidance of 375 basis
points to 400 basis points proposed earlier this month. The
euro-denominated portion is now offered at 475 basis points more
than the ruo interbank offered rate. Tenor of the debt was
reduced to six years from seven years and the issue price
lowered to 98 percent from 99.5 percent, Bloomberg data show.  The average yield investors demand to buy corporate high-yield bonds in euros spiked to 5.9 percent from record low of
4.56 percent May 8, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Euro Non-Financial High-Yield Constrained Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  