-- Europe’s Faux Outrage on NSA Spying
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-01T20:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/europe-s-faux-outrage-on-nsa-spying.html
Captain Renault  of the European Union
is apparently shocked, shocked to find out that the U.S. has
been spying on the EU’s official communications. Some EU
officials have called for suspending talks on a trans-Atlantic
trade and investment partnership because, as Elmar Brok,
chairman of the European Parliament’s Foreign Affairs Committee,
put it, “How are you supposed to negotiate when you have to
worry that your negotiating positions were intercepted?”  Welcome to the modern world, Chairman Brok. If U.S.
intelligence agencies weren’t monitoring communications of the
EU and its member governments, they wouldn’t be doing their job
-- just as the intelligence services of France,  Germany ,  Israel 
and other U.S. allies wouldn’t be doing theirs if they didn’t
try to keep tabs on the U.S. There’s a  reason  that staff members
traveling with President  George W. Bush  in 2008 were told on
arriving in France, for instance, to leave their BlackBerrys on
Air Force One with the batteries removed.  Reports  in the German magazine  Der Spiegel , based on
classified documents obtained by former American intelligence
contractor Edward Snowden, started the fuss. They say the U.S.
National Security Agency wiretapped diplomatic missions in
Washington and  New York , infiltrated  computer networks  and
eavesdropped in Brussels.  European Parliament President  Martin Schulz  said that if
the reports were true, “it is a huge scandal.” German Justice
Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger said such
surveillance would be “utterly inappropriate.” As they claim to
see it, the EU and the U.S. are allies and Cold War methods are
unjustified. But the EU and U.S. have different aims in many
areas -- they disagree on everything from genetically modified
organisms to data privacy. The U.S. has an especially strong
interest in compliance with sanctions, bribery by foreign
companies and threats to U.S. intellectual property. In
furthering national interests, electronic spying is a
universally practiced tool of the trade.  International law on the subject is vague and undeveloped.
Just as Snowden’s revelations have prompted debate in the U.S.
on the balance between security and privacy, it may bring
clarity to an opaque legal area. But as  Michael Hayden , the
former NSA and Central Intelligence Agency director, said this
week, “Any European who wants to go out and rend their garments
with regard to international espionage should look first and
find out what their own governments are doing.”  Faux outrage is another universally practiced tool of the
trade, and needn’t cause harm unless governments do dumb things
to show they’re serious. Threatening the U.S.-EU trade talks is
a very dumb thing. The European Commission has  estimated  that
the deal could yield annual economic benefits of more than $150
billion for the EU and almost $130 billion for the U.S. Perhaps
the EU can find a way to be deeply, deeply shocked by what all
governments are up to without putting those enormous mutual
gains at risk.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 