-- Europe Set to Be Cooler Than Average This Month, Forecasters Say
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-07-01T10:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/europe-set-to-be-cooler-than-average-this-month-forecasters-say.html
Most of Western  Europe  will stay
cooler than average in July with temperatures picking up toward
the end of the month, while the Nordic region will be warmer
than usual, according to forecasters polled by Bloomberg.  Below-normal water temperatures in the central North
Atlantic are poised to drive cooler conditions into Europe
beyond the middle of the month, meteorologists at MDA
Information Systems LLC said in an e-mail June 28. Weather
forecasters at WSI Corp. also expects lower-than-usual
temperatures for the region this month.  “Temperatures are expected to be below normal across
central Europe, including  Germany , in July,” Bradley Harvey, an
operational meteorologist at MDA in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said
by e-mail on June 28. “Near-normal temperatures will be found
in the U.K.”  European power and gas prices typically fall in the middle
of the year as increased daylight hours during the summer months
boost  solar  generation and demand for heating drops. Germany’s
plans to get 80 percent of its electricity from renewables by
2050, up from 22 percent last year, have damped prices to their
lowest in eight years.  “Power-price trends continued to show little impetus in
Germany, despite generally colder weather during the winter and
a very late onset of spring,” Paolo Coghe, a Paris-based
analyst at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , said in an e-mailed report.
“This weakness will persist and get worse during the summer
season once solar production picks up.”  Above Normal  German power for next year, a European benchmark, declined
0.3% to 37.49 euros ($48.96) a megawatt-hour as of 11:54 a.m.
Berlin time today, according to ICAP Plc data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contract dropped to 37.20 euros on June 24, the
lowest since March 2008.  The average temperature in Germany will be 17.7 degrees
Celsius (64 degrees Fahrenheit) through July 15, according to a
GFS model supplied by MetraWeather at 6:41 a.m. Berlin time
today. That compares with a seasonal norm of 18.1 degrees for
the coming week.  For the U.K., the average temperature in the same period is
forecast at 15.6 degrees Celsius, compared with a seasonal norm
of 15.9 degrees, the MetraWeather data show.  MetraWeather and MeteoGroup U.K. Ltd. expect warmer-than-usual temperatures for Western Europe in the second half of
July.  Wind, Solar  “Europe is most likely becoming dominated by high pressure
toward and beyond mid-July, so becoming drier and warmer for
much of the continent,” Stephen Davenport, a senior energy
meteorologist at MeteoGroup U.K. in  London , said in an e-mail.
“This would also suggest periods of low wind output for
Germany, but high solar.”  Average  wind  generation in Germany during the past month
was 4,361 megawatts per day, with a peak at 16,632 megawatts on
June 2, according to EEX data on Bloomberg. Solar generation
averaged 6,699 megawatts per day, with the high for the period
at 23,146 megawatts, the data show.  “High pressure is expected to remain dominant across most
parts of Western Europe into the third week of July,” Byron
Drew, a forecaster at MetraWeather in Reading,  England , said by
e-mail June 28. “Temperatures will trend up to 3 degrees
Celsius above normal in the U.K., Western  France  and Iberia.”  While Germany is expected to have near-normal temperatures
in the second half of July, lower-than-usual temperatures will
likely prevail at the beginning of this month, according to
MetraWeather. Europe’s biggest energy market will experience
average temperatures of 25 degrees through July 7, Andreas
Friedrich, a meteorologist at  Deutscher Wetterdienst , said by
phone from Offenbach, Germany. That’s in line with the seasonal
norm, based on readings from 1981 to 2010, he said.  The U.K. and Germany, which in June suffered its worst
flooding in 11 years, will be mostly dry in July, Harvey said,
while the Iberian peninsula and the Balkans will probably have
higher-than-normal rainfall.  Scandinavia will be warmer than usual, apart from southern
Sweden and  Norway , according to WSI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  