-- Leverage, Bond Exemption, Irish Thunderbolt: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/leverage-bond-exemption-irish-thunderbolt-compliance.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
 Europe ’s biggest bank, said it supports a plan by global
regulators to create equal standards for lenders on capital
holdings versus the value of their assets.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision this week
proposed revamping standards for the leverage ratio to ensure
that the rule would be applied consistently worldwide. Unlike
European lenders such as Deutsche Bank, U.S. banks are able to
reduce their total assets by excluding the value of some
derivatives.  Deutsche Bank’s  assets  were 36 times the value of its
equity at the end of March under the International Financial
Reporting Standards, which apply to European banks, and 21 times
under a method similar to the Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles followed by U.S. banks, company filings show.  Under the Basel plan, banks would have to hold Tier 1
capital equivalent to 3 percent of their assets. While the
 leverage ratio  won’t be binding until 2018, lenders would be
obliged to start publishing how well they measure up to it by
the start of 2015, according to the committee.  U.K., U.S. and Swiss regulators are increasingly looking at
leverage, in addition to measures based on risk weightings
assigned to different assets, to gauge banks’ financial
strength.  Compliance Policy  Danish FSA Calls for Covered Bond Exemption in Basel Regulations  The  Danish FSA  called for an exemption for covered bonds in
the Basel Committee’s proposed regulations on large exposures.  The regulator said in statement dated June 28 that the
proposal might harm the functioning of the Danish covered  bond
market  and “possibly covered bond markets in Europe.”  The FSA said new capital directives that will enter into
force Jan. 1 will allow member states to exempt covered bonds
from limits to large exposures.  The regulator said the capital directive exemption is
justified by countries’ “very detailed regulation” of covered
bond markets, and the market’s “very low default record.”  The Basel large exposure rules should include exemption,
the FSA said.  China’s Securities Regulator Says Market Operations Stabilized  China ’s financial-market operations have regained
stability, with the impact of “sudden and temporary factors”
fading, the China Securities Regulatory Commission said.  The nation’s economy is stable, with economic growth still
in a reasonable range, the CSRC said in a statement posted on
its website about a press briefing June 27, after a record cash
squeeze hit the world’s second-largest economy.  Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  June 27 sought to
soothe concerns that the credit crunch will harm economic
expansion, saying the nation will continue to implement a
prudent monetary policy. Financial markets were rattled after
the country’s overnight repurchase rate leaped to 12.85 percent
on June 20, the most in Bloomberg-compiled data going back to
2003. It was at 5.05 percent as of June 28, more than double the
average of 2.32 percent in the past five years.  The CSRC also said it will take action against property
developers that hoard land, engage in speculation and drive up
housing prices by suspending their listing, refinancing and
asset restructuring plans.  The  People’s Bank of China , in a statement on June 25,
called on the nation’s big banks to further their roles as
market stabilizers. The central bank said it would take steps to
safeguard stability in money markets, and that tight liquidity
was set to ease.  Basel Consults on Derivatives-Related Capital Rules  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision   said  it’s
seeking views on draft rules for how banks should measure the
risk of losses on derivatives trades, and consequently how much
capital should be placed behind the transactions.  The group is inviting comments until Sept. 27 on the
proposals, which include capital rules to cover the risk that a
clearinghouse might fail.  Compliance Action  Angola Delays Secondary Bond Market Start to First Quarter 2014  Angola ,  Africa ’s second-largest oil producer, pushed back
the start of its secondary market for bonds to the first quarter
of next year.  Archer Mangueira, the chairman of the country’s Capital
Markets Commission, said in an interview June 28 at the London
Stock Exchange that the start time is estimated, subject to
development of infrastructure and training employees.  The publicly traded market for the Angolan notes had been
planned to start by the end of September, Mangueira said last
month. The market, which will use electronic trading, will add
to Treasury bills already bought and sold among financial
institutions and help develop a so-called yield curve, he said
at the time.  Angola, which is seeking to boost foreign investment after
a 27-year civil war that ended in 2002, forecasts economic
growth of 7.1 percent this year from 7.4 percent in 2012.  Courts  Corzine Defense to Misuse of Customer Cash Is Off Point for CFTC  Jon Corzine , former chief executive of bankrupt futures
brokerage MF Global Holdings Ltd., has said he never ordered any
misuse of customer funds to help his firm stay afloat as it
dealt with margin calls on bad bets.  For the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which said
 June 27  that Corzine “bears responsibility for MF Global’s
unlawful acts,” that defense is irrelevant.  The CFTC sued Corzine June 27 for failing to oversee the
company properly while it spiraled toward failure in 2011 as
$1.6 billion in customer funds went missing. The CFTC alleged he
did nothing about inadequate controls over misuse of customer
funds, that he was aware of the firm’s extreme shortage of cash
and that he didn’t ask any questions about where the money was
coming from to make transfers he ordered.  The CFTC also sued former Assistant Treasurer Edith O’Brien
and reached a settlement with the company’s brokerage unit, MF
Global Inc., which agreed to pay about $1 billion in restitution
to clients and a $100 million penalty. The settlement is subject
to court approval.  Gary DeWaal, who served as general counsel for Newedge
Group SA, one of the largest futures brokerages, for 17 years
before starting his own consulting firm, said, “There was a gas
smell at MF Global, and no one checked the stove.”  In effect, the CFTC claims in its complaint that the one
who truly knew what the gas smell was about was Edith O’Brien,
MF Global’s former assistant treasurer. Her job was to move
client assets between the firm’s accounts as needed.  Unlike O’Brien, who Corzine ordered to move funds to cover
an overdraft to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Corzine didn’t invoke his
Fifth Amendment right to remain silent.  Corzine testified to Congress under subpoena and under oath
that he asked for overdrafts with JPMorgan to be corrected, and
that he never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds. He
also said he didn’t believe anything he said could reasonably
have been interpreted as an instruction to misuse customer
funds.  The agency doesn’t claim O’Brien told Corzine directly that
she used customer money for the brokerage’s business needs, a
violation of the Commodity Exchange Act. Instead, it repeatedly
says Corzine never asked any questions about how she was doing
what he ordered her to do.  “This is an unprecedented lawsuit based on meritless
allegations that Mr. Corzine failed to supervise an experienced
back-office professional who was located in a different city and
who did not report to Mr. Corzine or even to anyone who reported
to Mr. Corzine,” his lawyer, Andrew Levander, said in a
statement, referring to O’Brien, who was based in  Chicago . “No
evidence has been found that contradicts Mr. Corzine’s sworn
testimony before Congress.”  Evan T. Barr, a lawyer for O’Brien, wasn’t available for
comment.  Corzine bears responsibility for MF Global’s unlawful acts,
the CFTC said June 27 in its  complaint .  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. MF
Global Inc., 13-04463, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here and click here.  Interviews  Ireland’s Kenny Says Anglo Irish Bank Tapes Are ‘Thunderbolt’  Recordings of 2008 conversations between senior officials
at the now defunct Anglo Irish Bank Corp. came as a
“thunderbolt” when they were published by the Irish
Independent newspaper, Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said June 28.  The tapes reveal the “contempt and arrogance and insolence
of senior personnel” at the bank, Kenny said in Brussels. The
tapes have “damaged our reputation,” Kenny said, though
everyone understands that “this was a time in the past.”  Kenny told lawmakers June 25 in Dublin that the government
will hold a parliamentary inquiry into wider banking crisis, as
the leaked tapes dominated the Irish media earlier last week.
happen we’re going to hit a wall in the next week.’’  In all, the bank cost the state about 30 billion euros to
save, and is in the process of being liquidated after the state
took it over in 2009.  Hollande Says Banking Union Will Be Ready in Mid-2014  French President  Francois Hollande  spoke at a news
conference in Brussels about banking supervision, euro area debt
and unemployment.  For the video, click here.  EU’s Van Rompuy Sees ‘Steady’ Progress on Banking Union  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  and Irish Prime Minister Enda
Kenny speak at a news conference in Brussels on the outcomes
from a leaders’ summit.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  