-- Ex-Dow Chemical Executive Sued by SEC Over Inside Trading Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-07-01T21:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ex-dow-chemical-executive-sued-by-sec-over-inside-trading-claims.html
A former  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  executive
and two others were accused by U.S. regulators of reaping more
than $1 million from illegal trades ahead of a 2008 announcement
that the company would acquire Rohm & Haas Co.  Mack Murrell, who was vice president of information
services at Dow at the time, obtained confidential details about
the takeover plan from his then-girlfriend, who was an
administrative assistant to Dow’s chief financial officer, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit filed today
in federal court in  Michigan .  Murrell then tipped a friend, David Teekell, who in turn
passed the information to his broker, Charles Adams, according
to the complaint. Teekell and Adams began purchasing common
stock and  call options  in Rohm & Haas the next business day, the
SEC said. Adams purchased call options in his own account and
bought stock in two discretionary customer accounts.  Rohm & Haas’ stock jumped 64 percent when the merger was
announced on July 10, 2008, leaving Teekell with an illicit
profit of $534,526 and Adams and his discretionary clients gains
of $107,043, the SEC said.  Teekell has agreed to pay about $1.1 million in
disgorgement and penalties to resolve the claims without
admitting or denying guilt. SEC claims against Murrell and Adams
haven’t been resolved.  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) , the brokerage where
Adams was registered and held accounts, was listed as a relief
defendant. The  St. Petersburg , Florida-based company wasn’t
accused of wrongdoing.  Phone calls to numbers listed for Murrell and Adams weren’t
immediately returned. A phone call to a number listed for
Teekell wasn’t answered.  Biggest Acquisition  Dow agreed to buy Rohm & Haas for $15.4 billion in cash in
its biggest acquisition ever at the time. Midland, Michigan-based Dow agreed to pay $78 for each Rohm & Haas share, 74
percent more than the previous day’s closing price.  The acquisition was completed in April 2009 after terms
were revised to settle a lawsuit over the terms of the deal.  Dow spokeswoman Nancy Lamb declined to comment on the
insider-trading litigation.  “Dow is not a party to the litigation; however, we fully
cooperated with the SEC investigation,” Lamb said in an e-mailed statement. “Dow takes compliance with insider trading
laws and the company’s securities trading policy very seriously,
and it is a critical component of our company’s code of business
conduct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  