-- Ex-Galleon Trader Zvi Goffer’s 10-Year Sentence Is Upheld
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-07-01T16:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ex-galleon-trader-zvi-goffer-s-10-year-sentence-is-upheld.html
Zvi Goffer, a former Galleon Group
LLC trader, failed to win a reduction of his 10-year prison
sentence for passing illegal tips and recruiting members for an
insider-trading scheme.  The sentences of Goffer and co-conspirator Craig Drimal,
and the conviction of co-conspirator Michael Kimelman were
upheld today by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan . The
court said a $10 million forfeiture order against Goffer should
be reduced based on a change in how such rulings are calculated.  “Defendants’ sentences were reasonable in light of the
magnitude of their theft,” the court said.  Drimal was sentenced to 5 1/2 years in prison after
pleading guilty to five counts of  securities fraud  and
conspiracy to commit those offenses. Kimelman, who was convicted
at trial of two counts of securities fraud and conspiracy, was
sentenced to 30 months.  Goffer, convicted of two conspiracy counts and 12 counts of
securities fraud, was accused of recruiting members of the
scheme and asking participants to use prepaid cellular phones to
communicate their tips.  ‘Corrosive Influence’  “Goffer’s corrosive influence on the integrity of the
financial markets and on the expectation of trust and confidence
between attorney and client required a significant punishment,”
the appeals court said.  At a trial in 2011, prosecutors said Goffer, then working
as a trader at New York-based Schottenfeld Group LLC, used the
tips to impress Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam and land a job
at the firm. Goffer started Incremental Capital LLC after he was
fired from Galleon.  The scheme involved information leaked by two Ropes & Gray
lawyers about companies including 3Com Corp. Prosecutors said he
and others to whom he passed the information earned $10 million.  Alexander Martin Dudelson, a lawyer for Goffer, and Michael
S. Sommer, a lawyer for Kimelman, didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment on the ruling. Arlene Villamia Drimal, who
is Drimal’s wife and attorney, said in a phone interview that
she is “not surprised that they stuck to the letter of the
law.”  “Of course, I’m disappointed as a wife,” she said.
“That’s the way it goes.”  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  