-- Ex-JPMorgan Deal Adviser Fights Fine Over Heritage Tip
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-07-02T11:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ex-jpmorgan-deal-adviser-hannam-fights-fine-over-heritage-tip.html
Ian Hannam, formerly one of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s top merger advisers, was seeking more bidders for
one of his clients,  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL) , when he disclosed to an
investor that another potential acquirer had made an offer.  “I believe that the offer will come in in the current
difficult market conditions at 350 pence ($5.30) and 400 pence
per share,” Hannam wrote to his contact. “I am not trying to
force your hand, just wanted to make you aware of what is
happening.” On the day Hannam sent the e-mail, Heritage stock
closed at 204 pence in London.  The 2008 e-mail is one of two messages that form the basis 
of a proposed 450,000-pound civil market-abuse fine against 
Hannam by the U.K. markets regulator, which considers the 
content insider information. Hannam, formerly JPMorgan’s global 
chairman of  equity capital markets , says the note was in the 
“best interest” of his client and is challenging the Financial
Conduct Authority’s proposed sanction at a court hearing at the
Upper Tribunal in London that started today.  “Heritage is an oil exploration company. Its share price
is almost entirely based on the potential finding of oil,”
Richard Boulton, a lawyer for the FCA, told the court today.
“He acted without pausing to consider whether acting in the
best interest of his client was consistent with his regulatory
obligations.”  Xstrata Support  Hannam, who resigned from the New York-based bank after the
fine, is one of the highest-profile finance workers the
regulator has targeted. Hannam was among the bankers advising
Xstrata Plc before it was acquired by  Glencore International
Plc. (GLEN)   At JPMorgan, which also served as a broker to Xstrata,
Hannam helped the mining company sell shares in 2002, and was
involved in many of its subsequent takeovers, including the
$18.1 billion purchase of the Canadian nickel producer
Falconbridge Ltd. in 2006. Then Xstrata Chief Executive Officer
 Mick Davis  said after the fine was disclosed that Hannam had his
“full support.”  The recipient of the e-mail was a representative of an
organization that had interests in the Kurdistan region of  Iraq ,
where Heritage had exploration projects, the regulator, then
called the Financial Services Authority, said in a  decision 
last year. Nine days after the e-mail was sent, Heritage
disclosed it was in preliminary talks to sell some assets.  Proper Course  Hannam said today that he doesn’t believe that he broke any
rules on the disclosure of inside information. His lawyers said
he had to forgo substantial bonuses in 2008 and 2009 as part of
the arrangements for terminating his employment with JPMorgan.  “I was acting in the proper course of my employment as a
corporate financier, pursuing a transaction on behalf of my
client, Heritage Oil & Gas,” Hannam said in an e-mailed
statement as the trial started. “The case raises questions
about the definition, and treatment of, inside information on
the corporate finance side of the ‘Chinese Wall’ and
clarification by the Upper Tribunal is important for London as a
global financial center.”  No trades were made on the inside information and the
regulator didn’t file criminal charges.  The recipient of Hannam’s e-mail later hired him to set up
a fund for investments in Kurdistan.  Hannam, Heritage CEO Tony Buckingham and Chief Financial
Officer Paul Atherton are scheduled to testify at the trial,
which could last as long as two weeks.  Hannam, a former soldier, graduated from  Imperial College
London  and  London Business School , and trained at  Salomon
Brothers . In 1992, he joined Robert Fleming & Co., which was
bought by Chase Manhattan in 2000. Four years later, he helped
to set up JPMorgan’s joint venture with London-based Cazenove
Group Ltd.  Second E-Mail  In a second e-mail a month after the initial message in
2008, Hannam told his contact and a second man that Buckingham
“has just found oil and it is looking good.” Heritage
announced a find later that month.  The FCA may have a harder case proving the second note
contained inside information, said Harvey Dyson, a regulatory
lawyer at Stephenson Harwood in London, who’s not involved in
the case.  “‘Tony found oil’ -- what kind of oil, where, how deep,
etc.?” Dyson said. “Whether this is, or is not, inside
information isn’t a binary question.”  Boulton said that while the first e-mail was a “paradigm”
example of inside information, the second is more “nuanced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  