-- Ex-Primary Global Consultants Avoid Jail in Tips Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-01T23:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ex-primary-global-consultants-avoid-jail-in-tips-case.html
Two men who worked as consultants for
expert networking firm  Primary Global Research LLC  avoided
prison terms in the U.S. government’s five-year investigation of
 insider trading .  Mark Anthony Longoria, 47, a former  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD)  employee, and Walter Shimoon, 41, an ex- Flextronics
International Ltd. (FLEX)  executive, both received sentences of two
years’ supervised release today by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan . Rakoff cited Longoria’s and Shimoon’s
cooperation with the government in giving them no prison time.  “It is because the very nature of this crime and the very
nature of its discovery is usually dependent on the use of
cooperators,” Rakoff said, explaining his decision. “The cold,
realistic fact is a price has to be paid for that cooperation
and it takes the form of a substantial reward in the form of
reduced jail time.”  Rakoff also sentenced both men to time served -- the day
that each spent in custody after they were arrested. Longoria
must also forfeit $170,000 while Shimoon forfeits $45,500.  Hedge Funds  Longoria and Shimoon both pleaded guilty in 2011. Neither
spoke in their sentencing hearings today.  Longoria pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy, a
count of  securities fraud  and making false statements to U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation agents.  Longoria admitted passing confidential information about
AMD’s gross margins and revenue to hedge fund managers in 2009.
He also said he provided inside information about Western
Digital Corp., a hard-drive maker based in  Irvine ,  California ,
when he worked for that company in 2006.  Longoria moonlighted as a consultant for Primary Global
Research LLC, a  Mountain View , California-based firm that
matched employees of public companies with fund managers for a
fee. He said he passed the information to four hedge funds,
including Barai Capital Management, whose founder Samir Barai,
pleaded guilty to federal charges in 2011.  He testified as a government witness at the trial of James Fleishman, a Primary Global executive who was later convicted at
trial and sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for helping pass
inside information to hedge fund managers.  Sought Leniency  Longoria also helped prosecutors in their case against
Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and former
Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman , Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps said in a letter
seeking leniency for Longoria in sentencing. Longoria may
testify in the November trial of SAC Capital Advisors LP fund
manager Michael Steinberg, Apps said.  Shimoon pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy and one
count of securities fraud. He admitted passing illegal tips
while working as a consultant for Primary Global and for John Kinnucan’s Broadband Research LLC. Shimoon also said he passed
tips about a Flextronics supplier, OmniVision Technologies Inc.,
to one of Primary Global’s hedge fund clients.  Kinnucan, whose Portland, Oregon-based firm provided
research on technology companies to hedge funds and mutual
funds, admitted passing inside tips to clients after publicly
refusing to cooperate with prosecutors. He’s serving a sentence
of four years and three months.  The Shimoon case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan); The
Longoria case is U.S. v. Longoria, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  