-- Ex-UBS Trader’s MST Turns to Wealthy Investors for Hedge Fund
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-01T00:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ex-ubs-trader-s-mst-turns-to-wealthy-investors-for-hedge-fund.html
MST Capital Pty, run by Sydney-based
former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader Gerard Satur, raised A$10 million ($9.1
million) from wealthy investors for a global macro strategy that
will start today.  The strategy, Baruch Global Macro Fund, will shadow the
strategy used for its existing fund that invests in foreign
exchange, equities, credit markets,  interest rates  and
commodities, with a focus on the Asia-Pacific region, said Mark
Levinson, a partner at the  fund manager . MST expects to add as
much as an additional A$10 million from Aug. 1, he said,
declining to name the investors.  MST, which manages A$175 million with most of their clients
being institutional investors, is widening their client base as
Australian investors search for higher-yielding assets with the
central bank lowering its benchmark interest rate to a record-low 2.75 percent and a slowing economy hurting equity
valuations. The company’s existing hedge fund has returned 6.5
percent after fees in the last nine months and targets an annual
return of 10-15 percent, Levinson said.  “The retail landscape is very complicated and people who
do it well, do it with an army of people reaching out to
financial planners,” Levinson said in an interview in Sydney on
June 27. “We don’t have an army. We have chosen to work with
certain high net worth individuals that can reach into their
network and who understand what we are doing.”  Currency Bets  Satur, the former head of macro strategic trading at UBS in
Sydney, left the Zurich-based lender in March 2012 as investment
banks scaled back proprietary trading to comply with new
regulations that curb risk taking in the aftermath of the worst
financial crisis since the 1930s.  MST’s return compares with a 0.19 percent increase for the
HFRI Macro (Total) Index in the nine months through May. The
index measures the performance of funds with a broad range of
strategies based on economic fundamentals.  The hedge-fund manager is positioned for  U.S. dollar 
strength against the British pound, Japanese yen and euro,
Levinson said. It also has short positions in the Australian
dollar and prefers Australian bonds versus U.S. bonds, he said.  The U.S. currency climbed to a more than two-week high
against the yen on June 28. The U.S. dollar was also the best
performer among the currencies of the Group of 10 most developed
nations this year.  MST is waiting for clarity on U.S. monetary stimulus before
taking bigger calls, Levinson said. U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 19 said the Fed may slow the
pace of its bond-buying program later this year and end it
entirely around mid-2014 if the economy gets on a path of
sustainable growth.  Unlike many macro fund managers that screen investments
with computer models, MST relies on the judgment of its
investment team, Levinson said in December. It employs seven
investment professionals, according to the firm’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  