-- Texas Rallies on Abortion Restrictions Draw Thousands
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-01T21:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/texas-debate-on-abortion-restrictions-draws-thousands-to-capitol.html
Texas  lawmakers convened to consider
restrictions that might close most abortion clinics as partisans
in color-coded shirts rallied under the eyes of mounted police.  The Texas House of Representatives plans a hearing
tomorrow, and neither it nor the Senate is planning to vote on
the measure until next week.  Anti-abortion supporters today ringed the second floor
balcony overlooking an atrium, singing “Amazing Grace.”
Outside, Dixie Chicks star Natalie Maines sang the national
anthem to women’s rights advocates as organizers handed out
bottles of water in 90-degree heat.  Last week, lawmakers came close to approving abortion
limits before Democratic Senator Wendy Davis of Fort Worth spoke
against them more than 10 hours to run out the clock on a
special legislative session. When Republicans forced a vote,
they were prevented from meeting their midnight deadline by
jeering protesters. Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, called
another 30-day session this week to reconsider the measure.  “Women in Texas have been angry and discouraged for a long
time,” Davis told reporters after the Senate completed its
session today. “This is the first time that that anger is
giving way to hope.”  The legislation would ban abortions at 20 weeks of
pregnancy and require that they be performed in ambulatory
surgical centers by doctors with admitting privileges at a
hospital within 30 miles (50 kilometers). Most clinics would
have to alter facilities to meet the requirements, which
abortion-rights advocates say they can’t afford. Doctors at
other clinics may struggle to win privileges.  Lawmakers Meet  The Texas House State Affairs Committee will hear testimony
on the bill tomorrow afternoon and ending at midnight local
time, said Representative Byron Cook, a Republican.  “Nobody’s mind will be changed by the testimony at this
point,” he said in an interview. He said he expects hundreds of
people to sign up, with statements limited to three minutes.  The House of Representatives bill must pass before it is
considered by the Senate. Both chambers, which are dominated by
Republicans, will be adjourned until next week except for
committee meetings.  “We will pass the bill,” Perry said today on Dallas radio
station WBAP. “These abortion mills make hundreds of millions
of dollars a year,” he said, adding that if any clinics close
“it becomes very apparent they are only in this for the
money.”  Long Game  Democrats know odds are slim that they can block the bills,
said Senator Kirk Watson of Austin, a Democrat.  “They may win this battle because of timing or votes, but
I believe we will win this war,” he said.  “People outside this building are connecting the dots that
show there is a continuing war on Texas women,” he said, citing
reduced spending for women’s health clinics, Perry’s veto of a
bill aimed at raising pay for women to the same level as men,
and the proposed abortion restrictions.  Not all Texas women are with him.  Karen Davis, 63, drove about 200 miles (322 kilometers)
from Clear Lakes to attend the anti-abortion rally after a call
for action from the Texas Conference of Catholic Bishops.  “The bishops called us to come and pray,” said Davis, a
full-time volunteer. “We have to stand up for what we
believe.”  Prairie Dresses  Mary Anne Whiteley, 42, brought her daughters, ages 8 and
14, to support abortion restrictions. The Whiteleys, who live in
Pflugerville, an Austin suburb, were wearing blue shirts
signaling their anti-abortion stance. Abortion-rights supporters
wore orange shirts.  “Abortion takes away the choice of the unborn baby,”
Whiteley said.  Sandra Seekamp, a retired Austin teacher, attended today’s
rally because she fears fewer Texas women will have access to
abortions if the bill passes.  “I taught for 25 years and I know kids are going to have
sex whether we like it or not,” said Seekamp, 65. “The bill
that would cut the number of clinics is the most ridiculous
thing I’ve ever heard of.”  About a dozen women from the Dallas-Fort Worth area drove
to Austin to show support for Davis, said one of them, Kirsten
Rundberget, an optical-systems engineer. They wore long-sleeved
dresses typical of the 1910s to draw attention to abortion
restrictions in place in the 20th century.  “We’re still fighting the same battles of our mothers and
grandmothers,” Rundberget said. “You can’t be a citizen
without controlling your own body.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  