-- Texas Seeks End to Voting Case After Adopting Court Plan
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-07-01T18:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/texas-seeks-end-to-voting-case-after-adopting-court-plan.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry ’s bid to
end the state’s two-year redistricting fight was rebuffed by a
panel of federal judges who refused to dismiss a lawsuit by
voting-rights activists and said they would consider adding the
state’s latest election maps to the current challenge.  The three-judge panel in San Antonio gave minority-rights
activists until July 12 to formalize a request to add maps
signed into law last week by Perry to the continuing case. The
state opposes the addition.  “On a new map, a new lawsuit needs to be filed,” Texas
Assistant Attorney General David Mattax told the judges. “The
2011 maps don’t exist anymore. They’ve been repealed by the
legislation.”  The state argued that stopgap congressional and state
legislative districts drawn by the panel before the 2012
election should become permanent after the U.S.  Supreme Court 
threw out part of the Voting Rights Act.  Texas lawmakers adopted the voting maps one day before the
Supreme Court’s June 25 ruling removed the requirement for the
state to obtain U.S. Justice Department approval for changes to
its elections.  Temporary Block  The minority-rights groups that won an order temporarily
blocking the election maps drawn by lawmakers in 2011 wanted the
judges today to further change district boundaries. They contend
the maps Perry, a Republican, signed into law were intended only
for last year’s elections and still discriminate against black
and Latino voters, who historically vote more often for
Democrats.  “That intentional discrimination has not been erased,”
Jose Garza, one of the lawyers leading the redistricting
challenge, said in an interview.  The judges today denied  Texas ’s motion to dismiss the case.
The panel gave lawyers three weeks to submit briefs on how
section 3(c) of the Voting Rights Act might allow the court to
order the state to obtain federal approval of all election
changes. Section 3C gives judges such discretion in states that
have recently engaged in discriminatory practices.  U.S. Circuit Judge Jerry Smith asked Garza if triggering
section 3(c) was the activists’ goal in asking the court to find
the legislature’s 2011 maps were created with intentional
discrimination, since those maps have been replaced by the 2013
maps.  ‘Changes Everything’  “It changes everything,” Garza responded, if the court
declared grounds for a section 3(c) redistricting challenge.
“Then the 2013 plan would have to be pre-cleared” before it
could be used in an election, he said.  For states with a history of discriminatory voting
practices, like Texas, he said opponents are looking for a new
judicial weapon with which to fight back.  Texas gained four congressional seats last year after the
state added 4.3 million new residents, according to the 2010
 U.S. Census . More than 65 percent of the new Texans are
Hispanic, potentially increasing Democrats’ political power in a
state that’s been a Republican stronghold for 20 years.  Other lawyers asked the panel today to add the 2013 maps to
the current case. “It’s not going to end with this,” said Luis
Roberto Vera, lead lawyer for the League of United Latin
American Citizens and one of the attorneys who made the request
on the 2013 maps.  New Actions  He said if the court had agreed with the state that this
lawsuit was made irrelevant by the Supreme Court ruling, then
“we’re going to be filing new actions and we’ll be back here
again.”  Texas officials argue that the Republican-controlled
legislature can legally create election districts that
disadvantage political opponents.  Opponents say the judges only had time to adjust the most
egregiously discriminatory boundaries to create interim maps so
that Texas could participate in the 2012 presidential election.
The U.S. Supreme Court had ordered the  San Antonio  judges to
base their adjustments on the legislature’s maps, which were
later found to have been created “with discriminatory intent”
by a different panel of federal judges in  Washington .  On June 25, the Supreme Court struck down the portion of
the Voting Rights Act that determines which states with a
history of discrimination must get federal approval for
redistricting and other election-related changes.  The justices specifically threw out the Washington court’s
finding that Texas’s original 2011 election maps were
discriminatory, a finding that was based on a now voided portion
of the Voting Rights Act.  The case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-0360, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  