-- Texas Filibuster Star Rose From Teen Mom to Harvard Law
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/texas-filibuster-star-rose-from-teen-mom-to-harvard-law.html
Texas  lawmakers return to Austin
today for another attempt to put the state at the forefront of a
Republican-led push to legislate away abortion, resuming a fight
that made Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat, into an
overnight sensation last week.  Davis, who went from teenage single mother to Harvard Law
graduate, shot to fame as she tried to block new abortion limits
with a filibuster. Barred from bathroom breaks, drinking water,
sitting or even leaning on her desk, she held the floor more
than 11 hours as word of her marathon monologue quickly spread
over the Internet.  “Something special is happening in Austin tonight,”
President  Barack Obama  said June 25 in a message on Twitter
Inc.’s website. Katha Pollitt, a feminist writer for the Nation
magazine, crystallized sentiment among abortion-rights
advocates, calling Davis a “superhero.”  Davis, 50, and party colleagues, joined by a raucous crowd
of spectators in the galleries, succeeded in preventing a vote
on the bill that would have shut almost all the state’s abortion
clinics and ban the procedure after 20 weeks. The same measure
tops the agenda in a special session that begins today,
prompting a pledge from thousands to  rally  against it at the
Capitol.  `There's Wendy'  Support from Republicans who control the legislature means
the Democrats’ victory probably will be short-lived. More
important to abortion-rights advocates is what Davis may
represent: a newly awakened voter bloc rebelling over what they
see as government overreach into health-care decisions made by
women in consultation with their families and doctors.  “As a Texan, it’s so easy to get discouraged about our
politics,” Kam Phillips  said  on Twitter. “But then there’s Wendy.”  Davis made her case in appearances on network television
talk shows yesterday. Last week, news outlets said she might be
considering a run for governor.  “What we saw in the capital last week, really, was people
who have grown weary of our politicians trying to boost their
own political careers on the backs of women by bullying them,”
she said on NBC’s Meet the Press. “In Texas, we hold very dear
to intrusions against our personal liberty. We fight very hard
against that. And we will fight as we begin the session again on
Monday.”  Special Equipment  Democrats in Austin turned to Davis, an avid runner, last
month as the abortion bill gained steam. Armed with
determination, a pair of pink sneakers and, according to the
 Fort Worth  Star Telegram, a urinary catheter, Davis began her
filibuster. She was halted by Republican challenges over rules
violations with about 90 minutes left in the session, set to end
at midnight June 25.  As Democrats barraged Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, a
Republican who leads the chamber, with parliamentary questions,
activists in the galleries began cheering and shouting. Time ran
out before a valid vote could be taken.  The clock starts anew today on a 30-day session that gives
Republicans time to avoid the same delaying tactics and move the
measure to a vote. The party holds 19 of 31 senate seats and 95
of 150 in the  House of Representatives , more than enough to
muster the simple majority needed to pass the bill.  Governor's Lesson  Republican Governor Rick Perry, who backs the measure, said
it “will pass overwhelmingly,” in a June 28 interview with
 Laura Ingraham , a radio talk-show host and Fox News contributor.
In a question posed on Twitter, Ingraham asked Davis “which
kids that you see on the playground shouldn’t be here?”  Success for the Republican side on the abortion bill would
mirror the outcome of a filibuster Davis used in 2011 to block
$5.4 billion in school-funding cuts. While she succeeded in
preventing a vote before the regular session ended, Perry
brought lawmakers back for another try. His side won.  Last week, the governor drew on Davis’s life story to make
a point opposing her position on abortion.  “Who are we to say that children born into the worst of
circumstances can’t grow to live successful lives?” he said
June 27 at a National Right to Life convention near  Dallas .  “Even the woman who filibustered the Senate the other day
was born into difficult circumstances, the daughter of a single
mother and a teenage mother herself,” Perry said in his
prepared text. “It’s just unfortunate that she hasn’t learned
from her own example: that every life must be given a chance to
realize its full potential, that every life is precious.”  Cowtown Attitude  Davis quickly shot back.  “ Rick Perry ’s statement is without dignity and tarnishes
the high office he holds,” she said on her website. “They are
small words that reflect a dark and negative point of view.”  Born poor with three siblings, Davis began working at 14 to
help her single mother make ends meet. By 19, she had become a
single mother herself, according to her  website . Starting at a
junior college to become a paralegal, she graduated first in her
class at  Texas Christian University  and went on to Harvard, in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  After serving nine years on the Fort Worth City Council,
she won an upset to take a Senate seat from a Republican
incumbent in 2008. As a lawyer, she works for Cantey Hanger LP
in Fort Worth on matters including litigation, real estate and
regulation, according to the firm’s  website . She spent more than
five years as an executive in a real-estate title business in
the city.  Losing Streak  Admirers have urged Davis to use her newfound fame to
challenge Perry, who has said he’ll announce by the end of the
session whether he’ll seek a fourth term. Rick Svatora, a
spokesman for Davis, said she hasn’t ruled it out.  Running for governor would be hard in a place where no
Democrat has won a statewide election since 1994, the longest
such stretch of any state, according to  Politifact . Davis had
the second-most-liberal voting record during the 2011
legislative session, according to  Mark Jones , who teaches
politics at  Rice University  in Houston.  “People are still living off an emotional high, but once
reality sets in, people will realize that no Democrat is going
to win the governor’s race in 2014,” he said. “Wendy wins the
battle, but loses the war.”  Should she pursue higher office, opponents will be armed
with questions over her law firm’s lobbying for cities, counties
and other public agencies that are affected by legislative
actions. Her 2012 opponent, Republican Mark Shelton, filed
complaints to the Texas Ethics Commission questioning whether
she “used her public office for self-enrichment,” according to
the  Star-Telegram . A Davis aide dismissed it as a “political
stunt.”  Zoo's Nemesis  That year, Davis won a second Senate term, 51 percent to 49
percent, spending $3.8 million on the campaign for a post that
pays $7,200 a year, according to the Ethics Commission.  Davis first  attracted  notice in the 1990s as a Fort Worth
neighborhood activist, according to the Star-Telegram. Her city
council campaign brochures included testimonials from her father
-- though it didn’t identify him as such -- calling her “a
fighter and winner,” the newspaper said.  “Opponents have labeled Wendy Davis ‘the anti-zoo
candidate’ because she was active in her neighborhood’s effort
to prevent unbridled expansion of the city zoo from destroying
green space,” the newspaper said in a 1996 editorial. “But she
has expressed well-defined, detailed positions on issues ranging
from the city’s debt crisis to tax abatements to landscaping
ordinances to the need for property-tax reduction.”  Those Shoes  During her time in the Senate, Davis wrote and won passage
of a bill to expedite the processing of backlogged rape kits,
fought to boost public-school funding and sponsored a law that
requires the State Auditor’s Office to audit the Texas
Enterprise Fund, the governor’s $500 million industry-hunting
fund. Because of redistricting, she’ll be up for election again
in 2014.  Davis’s filibuster helped raise her profile after more than
100,000 viewers watched it online. Now she has more than 115,000
followers on Twitter. The event didn’t just make her a
celebrity. The popularity of the pink Mizuno Women’s Wave Ride
16 running shoes she wore has also blown up, prompting dozens of
politically-minded reviews on Amazon.com Inc.’s website.  “Marathon shoes for marathon filibustering,” according to
one reviewer. “Fits perfectly up a Republican’s rear end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net 
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  