-- Mexico Offers Credit for Homebuilders Battered by Policy Shift
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/mexico-offers-credit-for-homebuilders-battered-by-policy-shift.html
Mexico ’s government promised to help
increase lending to  homebuilders  to sustain construction as the
industry’s biggest companies reduce output and move to
restructure debt.  Deputy Finance Minister Fernando Aportela said development
banks will provide at least 5 billion pesos ($387 million) of
eight-year syndicated credit lines. The lines, issued through
Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal and Nacional Financiera, will
produce about 50,000 homes, he told reporters in Mexico City on
June 28. The government will also offer guarantees for bond
sales of about 5 billion pesos so that issuances can receive
higher credit ratings and attract investors such as pension
funds and insurance companies, he said.  The measures are part of the government’s plan to arrest
urban sprawl without prompting further contraction in the
homebuilding industry or impeding efforts to address a housing
shortage. While the strategy pushes development toward urban
areas, it also provides some concessions to help builders adapt
to a shift in subsidies that’s reduced demand for outlying
communities, where the biggest companies have accumulated land.  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) ,  Corp. Geo SAB (GEOB)  and  Urbi
Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*) , Mexico’s three biggest publicly traded
homebuilders, are scaling back construction and considering
restructuring debt after cash plummeted this year, partly due to
the government’s emphasis on urban development. The policy shift
follows a wave of home abandonment in the subsidized communities
as Mexicans reject multiple-hour commutes to work and return to
city living, even if it means bunking with friends or relatives.  Cash Slump  The cash slump of the industry’s biggest companies has
“reduced the appetite of some financial intermediaries for
financing the sector,” Aportela said. “We’re using the
development-bank products to supplement that appetite.”  The banks plan to start disbursing funds from the
syndicated credit line “over the next few weeks” and the bond-backing program should be ready in about two months, Luis
Madrazo, head of the development-banking unit at the  Finance
Ministry , said June 28 in a separate conference call with
investors. Most of the rest of the government’s housing-strategy
changes will go into effect in January 2014.  Some companies have been left with reserves of rural
terrain, intended for the creation of commuter towns with homes
often worth around $20,000, as the government insists its
subsidies must focus on urban development in areas with pricier
land.  Homex, Geo and Urbi all saw cash balances drop at least 85
percent in the first quarter. All three have been downgraded by
 ratings agencies  after they missed interest payments on bonds.  Increasing Subsidies  The government is also increasing subsidies this year by 26
percent as an additional boost to the industry, said Jorge Carlos Ramirez Marin, minister of urban and agrarian territorial
development, who spoke at the press conference.  While the government mostly maintained its definition of
city limits, it created a path to subsidy eligibility for
outlying neighborhoods already under development, according to
Ramirez Marin. It also tweaked some criteria that the government
said will allow for greater subsidy disbursement per applicant,
while at the same time ensuring higher-quality homes.  “The defining of the rules gives the industry greater
visibility,” Jorge Placido, an analyst with Monterrey, Mexico-based Vector Casa de Bolsa SA, said in an e-mailed report on
June 29. While the largest builders will remain constrained by
cash shortfalls, he said, the announcement allows the industry
“to make the changes and adaptations needed in the coming
months in order to participate in the new model.”  Point System  The subsidy program uses a point system to determine
whether a property can be purchased with federal help. The
0-1,000 grading scale accounts for quality of location,
population density, proximity to jobs and availability of
services.  Mexico’s housing shortage, combined with demographic
growth, means  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy needs
300,000 to 400,000 new homes a year, according to a document
distributed at the press conference. As of 2015, developments’
location and proximity to jobs and services will also determine
whether home buyers can get credit from state-backed mortgage
lenders to buy property, the ministry said, with far-away homes
less likely to qualify for loans.  The government estimates that 68 percent of companies’
registered land reserves will be eligible for subsidies under
the new classification system.  Urbi Shares  Urbi  shares  have plummeted 71 percent this year, the
biggest decline on the benchmark  IPC (MEXBOL)  equity index over the
period. Homex, down 69 percent, and Geo, losing 63 percent, are
the second- and third-worst performers. The Habita index of
homebuilders advanced 3.1 percent on June 28, paring its decline
to 55 percent this year.  Urbi’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2022 have plummeted 72
cents this year to 24 cents on the dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Benchmark dollar bonds from Homex and Geo
have declined 76 cents and 64 cents, respectively.  The government, which had planned to present its housing
plan in May, delayed the announcement after industry
representatives demanded greater input, Alejandro Nieto
Enriquez, deputy minister for urban development and housing,
told reporters May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  