-- Finnair to Tighten British Airways-Japan Airlines Tie-Up
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-01T10:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/finnair-to-join-british-airways-japan-airlines-joint-business.html
Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  said it will seek to join
a British Airways and  Japan Airline Co. (9201)  business arrangement to
coordinate schedules and share revenue on flights to  Japan  as
the carrier expands ties with Oneworld alliance members.  Combining fares will be a main element of the partnership,
Allister Paterson, senior vice president for commercial
operations at Helsinki-based Finnair, said in a phone interview.
Regulatory approval from Japan could come this quarter, with the
business ties operational by the end of the year, he said.  Finnair struck a similar agreement in March to join a
trans-Atlantic venture between British Airways and the U.K.
carrier’s Spanish sister unit Iberia, as well as with  American
Airlines  that effectively lets the carriers operate flights as a
single business. Asian routes are even more central to Finnair’s
network, which has long tried to provide a bridge from Europe
using its location to serve transfer traffic.  “Japan is one of Finnair’s core markets and we look
forward to the benefits this strategic joint business agreement
will bring to our customers and other stakeholders,” Chief
Executive Officer Pekka Vauramo said in a joint statement with
 British Airways (IAG)  and Japan Airlines.  Finnair  rose  as much as 2.6 percent to 2.77 euros and was
trading up 1.9 percent at 1:33 p.m. in Helsinki. The stock has
gained 16 percent this year.  10 Routes  The Finnish carrier, British Airways and JAL currently
operate a combined 10 routes between Europe and Japan, with JAL
providing the most services linking its Tokyo based to London,
Paris, Frankfurt and, as of today, Helsinki. The U.K. and
Japanese companies agreed to the initial ties in October.  “Because we don’t do a lot of overlapping flying with
these airlines, the joint venture will add revenue more than cut
cost,” Paterson said.  The joint venture agreement with London-based British
Airways, Iberia and American will become active tomorrow,
Finnair said in a separate statement. British Airways and
Madrid-based Iberia are units of International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, while American is owned by  Fort Worth , Texas-based  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)   “The trans-Atlantic joint business has been a big win for
European consumers flying to America and vice versa, and now
 Finland  will benefit too,” Vauramo said.  Finnair would consider additional deals, although none are
currently planned, Paterson said.  “Whenever we can tie our fortunes into bigger carriers
that make our product more meaningful, that is always of
interest to us,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  