-- Fukushima Shows Nuclear-Terrorism Risks at UN Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-07-03T16:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/fukushima-shows-nuclear-terrorism-risks-at-un-meeting.html
(Corrects second paragraph of story that first ran July 1
to clarify that the meeting was the first on nuclear security.
Corrects fifth graph to show the plenary session was open.)  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant, whose 2011 meltdowns dislocated 160,000 people, may
provide a new blueprint for terrorists seeking to inflict mass
disruption, security analysts said at a United Nations meeting.  The UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency convened a
weeklong meeting of 1,300 diplomats, scientists and security
analysts today in Vienna to examine ways to boost protection
against nuclear terrorism. It is the IAEA’s first ministerial
conference on nuclear security.  “Fukushima sent a message to terrorists that if you manage
to cause a nuclear power plant to melt down, that really causes
major panic and disruption in a society,” Matthew Bunn, a
Harvard University professor and former White House adviser,
said at a briefing. “All you need to do to do that is cut off
the power for an extended period of time.”  World leaders have pledged to secure the world’s loose
nuclear material by 2014 to reduce the likelihood of an atomic
attack by terrorists. While national nuclear facilities endeavor
to track the millions of pounds of uranium and plutonium that
are unaccounted for, some focus has shifted to the threat posed
by power plants.  Fukushima “has provided a number of findings and lessons
that are also useful for preparations for an incident caused by
human hand, such as a terrorist attack at a nuclear power
station,” said Shunichi Suzuki, Japan’s envoy to the meeting.  ‘Security Problem’  Japan’s Atomic Energy Agency will present steps it’s taken
to boost security against terrorism tomorrow in Vienna. Most of
the IAEA conference is taking place behind closed doors.  “Fukushima is a nuclear security problem as much as it was
a nuclear safety problem,” Kenneth Luongo, who with the U.S.
Department of Energy helped secure atomic material in  Russia 
after the  Soviet Union  disintegrated, said at a briefing.  The IAEA has projected nuclear power is set to expand
worldwide even after the March 11, 2011, earthquake and tsunami
caused meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima plant.  A nuclear-armed terrorist attack on the port in  San Jose ,
 California , would kill 60,000 people and cost as much as $1
trillion in damage and cleanup, according to a 2006 Rand study
commissioned by the U.S Department of  Homeland Security .  Decommissioned Material  Even a low-level radiological or dirty-bomb attack on
 Washington , while causing a limited number of deaths, would lead
to damages of $100 billion, according to Igor Khripunov, the
former Soviet arms-control envoy to the U.S, who’s now at the
 Athens , Georgia-based Center for International Trade and
Security.  Because a terrorist needs only about 25 kilograms (55
pounds) of highly-enriched uranium or 8 kilograms of plutonium
to improvise a bomb, the margin of error for material accounting
is small. There are at least 2 million kilograms of stockpiled
weapons-grade nuclear material left over from decommissioned
bombs and atomic-fuel plants, according to the most recent
estimates by the International Panel on Fissile Materials, a
nonprofit Princeton,  New Jersey , research institute that tracks
nuclear material.  That’s enough to make at least 100,000 new nuclear weapons
on top of the 20,000 bombs already in state stockpiles.  “The threat of nuclear terrorism is real and serious, and
it will endure for the foreseeable future,” U.S. Secretary of
Energy Moniz Ernest said today in prepared remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  