-- Gap, Grange, Hawaiian Holdings: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/gap-grange-hawaiian-holdings-intellectual-property.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  didn’t infringe a  Texas 
company’s patents for prepaid gift cards, a U.S. jury said June
28 in the second case this month in which a retailer fended off
royalty demands from the licensing company.  The jury in Marshall, Texas, rebuffed Alexsam Inc.’s
request for $34.5 million in damages. San Francisco-based Gap,
the largest U.S. specialty apparel retailer, claimed it didn’t
use the technology and the jury agreed.  Closely held Alexsam owns patents that cover systems to
activate and recharge stored-value cards, and has claimed it’s
entitled to royalties on every gift card sold. The retailers
joined together to try to invalidate the patents. A jury sided
with Alexsam in May, setting the stage for a series of trials on
the different non-infringement arguments.  In dispute are patents 6,000,608, issued in December 1999,
and 6,189,787, issued in February, 2001.  Best Buy Co. settled before trial.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  won
a non-infringement ruling from a different Marshall jury on June
7 in which Alexsam sought more than $72 million. Trials against
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , JC Penney Co. and Toys “R” Us Inc. are
scheduled for October, said Alan Fisch of Fisch Hoffman Sigler
in  Washington , who represented Gap and Barnes & Noble at their
trials.  Though it’s reached a number of settlements, Alexsam has
had less luck in courts.  It won a $9 million verdict against  IDT Corp. (IDT)  that
overturned by an appeals court in May. In 2011,  Pier 1 Imports
Inc. (PIR)  won a case in which Alexsam was seeking $26.1 million in
damages. Alexsam’s appeal in that case is pending.  The case is Alexsam Inc. v. The Gap Inc., 2:13-cv-00004-MHS-CMC, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  Teva Sued by UCB Over Generic Copy of Vimpat Epilepsy Drug  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
generic-drug maker, was sued for patent infringement by a U.S.
unit of  UCB SA (UCB)  in a bid to block plans to copy the epilepsy drug
Vimpat.  UCB, based in Brussels, seeks unspecified damages from
Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva, according to a complaint filed
June 28 in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware . At issue is
patent RE 38,551.  Denise Bradley, a Teva spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
message that the company declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is UCB v. Teva, 13-cv-01148, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Fare Grange LLP Says It Doesn’t Infringe Grange Trademarks  An agricultural advocacy group founded in the wake of the
American Civil War in 1867 was sued in a trademark dispute by a
Minneapolis-based public-interest  law firm .  According to the complaint filed June 25 in federal court
in  Minnesota ,  Fare Grange LLP  has asked the court to declare it
isn’t infringing trademarks belonging to the  National Grange of
the Order of Patrons of Husbandry , the Washington-based
organization generally known as the Grange.  The law firm said in its court papers that since it was
formed on March 1, it has been contacted repeatedly by the
Grange, with demands it quit using the word “grange.” The law
firm said the Grange has accused it of trying to suggest,
falsely, that an affiliation exists between the advocacy group
and Fare Grange. According to its website, Fare Grange is
offering legal services for independent farmers and food
businesses.  Fare Grange said its “logo, website, social media presence
and other trade dress” differs significantly from the Grange’s
in terms of language, design, style, color and focus. The law
firm also notes that there are a number of businesses using the
world “grange” in their names or trademarks that have no
affiliation with the Grange, including a winery and a retail
lumber store. The Grange “coexists and has coexisted” with
these companies, according to court papers.  The word “grange” has been in use for hundreds of years,
the law firm said, including at the  Hamilton Grange , a home
built by  Alexander Hamilton  and today operated by the U.S.
National Park Service.  The firm asked the court to declare it doesn’t infringe the
Grange’s trademarks and to cancel the Grange’s trademark
registrations.  Amanda Leigh Brozana, a Grange spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail that her organization had offered to have private
discussions with the law firm over the use of the trademark and
“rather than making any attempt at response, they have taken an
overly aggressive route that includes manipulation of the
press.”  The case is Fare Grange LLP v. The National Grange of the
Order of Patrons of Husbandry, 0:13-cv-01571-JRT-JJG, U.S.
District Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Hawaiian Holdings Sued Over Use of Hanauma Bay Photo at Airport  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. (HA) ’s Hawaiian Airlines unit was sued
for copyright infringement by photographer who is a  Hawaii 
resident.  The suit, filed June 26 in federal court in Hawaii, accuses
the airlines of making use of a photo of the island of  Oahu ’s
 Hanauma Bay  without authorization.  Photographer Vincent Khoury Tylor, said the copyright to
the photo was registered with the U.S. Copyright Office in
December 2009, and that the airline has used the photo for at
least 17 months without a license or consent.  The photo is used in a digital signage software package
that the airline uses at the Honolulu International Airport,
according to the complaint.  Tylor said the photo is not a “work for hire” as defined
by U.S. copyright law, and accuses the provider of its software
of deliberately removing or altering the photo’s copyright
management information.  He is seeking a court order barring further unauthorized
use of his image, together with the impoundment or destruction
of anything containing the photo without permission. He also
asked for awards of money damages, litigation costs and attorney
fees.  Hawaiian Airlines didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Tylor v. Hawaiian Airlines Inc., 1:13-cv-00319-RLP-NONE, U.S. District Court, District of Hawaii (Honolulu).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 