-- Gasparino Blasts Fed Focus on Inside Trades, Not Crash
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-07-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/gasparino-blasts-fed-focus-on-inside-trades-not-crash.html
While the markets were coming undone
in 2008, securities regulators and law-enforcement types were
busy. The problem, says Charles Gasparino, is that they were
investigating the wrong thing.  Instead of digging into the fraud that helped fuel the
crisis, they were on a crusade to clean up an epidemic of
 insider trading .  “ Circle of Friends: The Massive Federal Crackdown on
Insider Trading -- And Why the Markets Always Work Against the
Little Guy ” tells the story of lying, cheating hedge funders
who broke the law so regularly they couldn’t imagine they would
ever get caught.  We get all the elements of the insider-trading genre: the
bundles of cash (stuffed in Doritos bags), the informants wired
by the FBI, the bickering regulators who pout if the media’s
latest puff piece focuses on someone else’s agency.  Since the crackdown began in 2008, the U.S. attorney in
 Manhattan  boasts 73 convictions including jailed Galleon hedge-fund founder  Raj Rajaratnam .  Gasparino, who is ready with an anecdote about each of his
lawbreakers, shares this gem from a Rajaratnam deposition: “I
love what you guys do to protect the integrity of the securities
markets,” the Galleon chief told his interrogators.  The Feds come away looking almost as bad as their prey. At
one point FBI agents arrive outside a Manhattan apartment for an
early-morning arrest, camera crew in tow -- then speed around
the block to stage a screeching halt in front of the target’s
building for the cameras’ benefit. Alas, the errant trader had
moved to a hotel and couldn’t be escorted to a perp walk.  Good Background  The author does a good job of putting his stories in
context. He shows how the growth of the largely unregulated
hedge-fund business was a tinderbox for illegal behavior and
explains the history of legal victories that allowed the
Securities and Exchange Commission to go after ever-broader
categories of insider trading.  While  hedge funds  were proliferating, Gasparino explains,
regulators were gaining the ability to track traders’ funny
business on increasingly sophisticated computers. Further
strengthening the hands of regulators was that the SEC and the
 Justice Department  grudgingly decided it was in their best
interests to work together instead of competing.  But while regulators view insider trading as “the white-collar crime of the century,” according to Gasparino, he argues
that it doesn’t directly harm investors the way Ponzi schemes,
 mortgage fraud  and reckless risk-taking by banks do.  Public Demand  Gasparino offers an explanation for the insider-trading
obsession: Several unnamed career prosecutors told him the
government needed a white-collar scandal to “satisfy the
public’s demand for  Wall Street  scalps” after the crisis. Never
mind that insider trading played no noteworthy role in the
debacle that almost brought the economy down. Most perpetrators
of the financial crisis still roam free.  The book has some lazy writing and sloppy errors -- a last
name spelled three different ways and the date of a court order
to wiretap Rajaratnam’s phone noted as March 7, 2008, in one
place, March 10 in another.  And it leaves out important facts when describing
regulatory flaps, including the time SEC attorney  Gary Aguirre 
was kept from deposing Wall Street executive  John Mack  in a 2006
insider-trading investigation. Gasparino notes that Aguirre was
fired and then sued the SEC for wrongful dismissal. But he never
mentions that Aguirre won $755,000 in a settlement with his
former employer.  Still, “Circle of Friends” is an insightful recap of how
we got to the place where insider trading became the favorite
target of regulators, and is a good guide on where it all goes
from here as investigators continue to pursue SAC Capital
Advisor’s  Steven A. Cohen .  “Circle of Friends” is published by Harper Business (369
pages, $28.99). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Susan Antilla  writes for Bloomberg Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . She is the author of “Tales
From the Boom Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment on
Wall Street. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Susan Antilla in  New York  at  santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 