-- Geico Promotes Roberts as Insurer Takes on Allstate
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-07-01T16:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/geico-promotes-roberts-as-insurer-takes-on-allstate.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  promoted Bill Roberts to president and chief operating
officer of the Geico unit as it competes with Progressive Corp.
and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  for auto insurance customers.  Roberts had been executive vice president of Geico since
2000 with duties including marketing, advertising and the
Internet business unit, the insurer said in a statement today.
Geico, the third-largest U.S. auto insurer, has been signing up
customers through its website to win business from No. 2
Allstate, which traditionally relied more on agents for sales.  “Allstate is trying to make up ground with Geico with
advertising spending on Esurance,” which it bought in 2011 to
expand direct sales,  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in an interview. “It’s an intense business,
and I’d expect the fight for market share to continue.”  Berkshire has been preparing for a new generation of
leaders for the company built by Buffett, 82, and Vice Chairman
Charles Munger, 89. The Omaha, Nebraska-based firm has hired
money managers Ted Weschler, 52, and Todd Combs, 42, after
announcing in 2010 the departure of Lou Simpson, 76, who made
investments for Geico for more than three decades.  “I will continue to be very actively involved in the
overall management of the company, but I could not be more
confident that Bill is ready to tackle these new
responsibilities,” Geico Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Tony Nicely said in the statement.  Advertising Spending  Geico led U.S. property-casualty insurers in advertising
last year, spending about $1.1 billion, according to a  report 
by SNL Financial. Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate ranked
next, after increasing spending 15 percent to $828.8 million.  Allstate last year hired Sanjay Gupta as chief marketing
officer after he led the rebranding of Ally Financial Inc.’s
bank. Policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Co., the largest U.S. auto insurer, cut ad spending in 2012.  Geico is also being challenged by Progressive Corp., which
holds patents on technology that sets pricing by monitoring a
motorist’s driving habits.  “I don’t think their selection method is better than
ours,” Buffett said at his company’s annual meeting in May. “I
may even feel that ours is a little bit better.”  Geico is Berkshire’s largest insurance unit by employees,
with a staff of more than 27,000, according to the company’s
annual report. Underwriting profit at the unit last year climbed
18 percent to  $680 million.   Roberts is a graduate of the State University of  New York 
at Oswego and has master’s degree and doctorate in sociology
from  Temple University  in Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  