-- Germany Asks U.S. to Explain Alleged Surveillance of Europeans
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-01T11:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/germany-asks-u-s-to-explain-alleged-surveillance-of-europeans.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government is asking the U.S. ambassador for explanations after
a magazine reported that the National Security Agency spied on
European diplomats, her chief spokesman said.  “We aren’t in the  Cold War  anymore,” Steffen Seibert, the
spokesman, said at a news conference in Berlin today. “If it’s
true that diplomatic missions have been spied on, it would be
absolutely unacceptable for us.” Germany’s Foreign Ministry
“invited” the U.S. ambassador in Berlin to discuss the matter
with a senior official today, spokesman Martin Schaefer said.  Both officials were reacting to a report by  Der Spiegel 
that the NSA set up electronic surveillance of European Union
diplomatic mission buildings in  Washington  and New York,
infiltrated  computer networks  and described the 28-nation bloc
as a “target.” The German magazine cited classified documents
in the possession of former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.  Snowden’s disclosure of alleged secret NSA programs to
collect U.S. and international data have triggered concern and
outrage in Germany and other European countries. Merkel, who
grew up in communist East Germany, where the Stasi secret police
snooped on citizens, discussed the program known as Prism with
President  Barack Obama  during his visit to Berlin in June. She
may raise it with Obama again soon, Seibert said.  While ties between Merkel and Obama are close and the
German government “warns against calls” to adjust relations
with the U.S., data gathering to combat terrorism must be
balanced with Europeans’ privacy rights, Seibert said.  Two U.S. officials familiar with American electronic
espionage programs declined to comment on the allegations.
Speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence
matters, both said that multinational institutions are routine
targets for both technological and human intelligence by
virtually all nations that are members of them.  The officials said that any such U.S. efforts are far from
unique, though they allowed that in many instances American
programs are more extensive and ambitious than those of most
other countries except  China , France, Israel, the U.K. and Iran.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  