-- Goodwin, Minter Ellison, Pepper, Bingham: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/goodwin-minter-ellison-pepper-bingham-business-of-law.html
Goodwin Procter LLP is closing its
San Diego office at the end of the law firm’s fiscal year,
leaving about two-thirds of the 34 lawyers and staff without
jobs on Sept. 30.  Four partners, six other lawyers and 12 staff members will
be let go, Lee Feldman, a firm spokesman, said June 28 in an e-mail. The remainder will be offered opportunities to relocate or
pursue other work arrangements. The office has six partners, 12
associates and 16 staff members, according to a memo by Chairman
Regina M. Pisa and managing partner Robert S. Insolia.  “When we opened the office in March 2007, we envisioned
that the San Diego office would be a significant source of
corporate transactional work, particularly in the life sciences
and biotech areas,” Pisa and Insolia said in the memo. “While
this was the case initially, and while these practices have
continued to grow nationally at the firm, we haven’t been able
to realize our initial vision.”  Some law firms are trimming payrolls because of a slowdown
in business since the 2008 financial meltdown and competition
from lower-cost legal-service providers. Weil, Gotshal & Manges
LLP, based in New York, said last week that it will fire 60
salaried lawyers and 110 staff and cut some partners’ pay.
Patton Boggs LLP, based in Washington, fired 65 employees in
March, including 22 associates.  Goodwin Procter said it plans to build the firm’s life
sciences and biotechnology practice in  California  through its
three other offices in the state in  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco 
and Silicon Valley.  The Boston-based firm was ranked 39th on the  American
Lawyer  magazine’s list of wealthiest U.S. law firms, with
$715.5 million in gross revenue last year, a 2.9 percent
increase from the previous year.  The San Diego closing will leave Goodwin Procter with about
800 lawyers at eight offices in the U.S., London and Hong Kong.  News  Courthouse Safety Compromised by Sequestration, Bar Group Says  The U.S. government spending cuts known as sequestration
are compromising courthouse safety, a lawyers group said in a
letter to President  Barack Obama  and Congress.  The Federal Bar Council, an organization of attorneys who
practice before the federal courts in New York,  Connecticut  and
 Vermont , said it’s “imperative” that the president and
lawmakers reach an agreement to restore funding to the courts.  Firm News  Minter Ellison Elects Bruce Cowley New Chairman  After two two-year terms,  Minter Ellison ’s chairman,
Russell Miller, today is handing the reins to Bruce Cowley, who
was unanimously elected to the position.  Cowley, a corporate lawyer, has been with Minter Ellison
for 32 years and was appointed partner in 1987.  “During a time of tumultuous change in the Australian and
Asian legal markets, Minter Ellison has quietly gone about its
business -- expanding its regional footprint, building a strong
regional capability and emerging as one of the region’s market
leaders,” Cowley said in a statement.  Miller will return to his practice as an adviser to boards
and as a member of the Australasian competition group. Under his
leadership, the firm focused on integrating its offices in
working on behalf of clients and financially as well as opening
a second office in mainland  China  and an office in Mongolia, the
firm said.  The firm has lawyers at 15 offices in  Australia ,  Asia  and
London.  Moves  Norton Rose West Coast Health Head Joins Pepper Hamilton  Mark A. Kadzielski and four other lawyers from  Norton Rose 
Fulbright LLP, join Pepper Hamilton LLP in Los Angeles.
Kadzielski, who will head Pepper’s health-care industry group,
previously headed Norton Rose’s West Coast health-law practice.  “Mark has a substantial health-care practice in the
Western U.S. that will complement our busy East Coast
practice,” Pepper Hamilton Chief Executive Officer Scott Green
said in a statement. “With a national platform, we look forward
to servicing our clients coast to coast, under Mark’s
leadership.”  Kadzielski and his team represent hospitals, medical
staffs, managed care enterprises and institutional and
individual health-care providers, the firm said. His work
includes government regulatory investigations, contracting
issues, credentialing, peer review, and other matters.  Pepper Hamilton has more than 500 lawyers at 12 U.S.
offices.  Ex-Ticketmaster General Counsel Joins Bingham in Los Angeles  Bingham McCutchen LLP added corporate lawyer Chris Riley as
a partner in the firm’s Los Angeles office. Riley was general
counsel and senior vice president of Ticketmaster Entertainment,
Inc., prior to its merger with LiveNation.  He also has been general counsel and vice president of
online dating and personals business Match.com. Ticketmaster and
Match.com have been operating companies of IAC/InterActiveCorp,
headed by  Barry Diller , the firm said.  “Chris’s deep connections throughout the Internet and
technology business community and his years of experience as in-house counsel for leading global Internet companies represent a
great skill set for Bingham,” Rick Welch, co-chairman of
Bingham’s corporate area, said in a statement.  Bingham has approximately 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in
the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Energy Lawyer Hornstein Joins DLA Piper in Washington  DLA Piper LLP announced that Michael Hornstein has joined
the firm’s corporate and finance practice as a partner in the
Washington office. He was previously at Day Pitney LLP.  Hornstein focuses his practice on federal regulatory and
transactional energy issues, with an emphasis in the electricity
and renewable energy sectors, the firm said.  He was previously general counsel and vice president at
Trans Bay Cable LLC and vice president of its parent
company SteelRiver Transmission Company LLC. He began his
energy-law career with FERC, where he worked with two FERC
chairmen, the firm said.  “Mike brings to the firm an impressive regulatory skill
set in the electricity and power industries which, combined with
our first-rate corporate and finance practice, will strengthen
our capabilities in the areas of energy M&A, project development
and commodity trading, among others,” Bob Gruendel, global
chair of DLA Piper’s energy practice said in a statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries
throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle
East.  International Corporate Partner Joins McCarter & English  McCarter & English announced that David L. Woronov joined
as a partner with the firm’s corporate, securities and financial
institutions practice in  Boston . He was previously with
Posternak Blankstein & Lund LLP.  Woronov represents U.S. and foreign clients in
international transactions, with a focus on European and Asian
markets, according to the firm. He concentrates on mergers and
acquisitions and private equity. His experience includes the
establishment of equity joint ventures and contractual joint
ventures for American and European companies in China, the firm
said.  “Our growing base of clients with overseas business
interests will benefit from David’s global transactional
experience,” said firm Managing Partner Stephen M. Vajtay Jr.
“He complements the strengths of our corporate, securities and
financial institutions practice and adds tremendous value to the
firm as a whole.”  K&L Gates Adds Raleigh Labor and Employment Partner  The Raleigh office of K&L Gates added David C. Lindsay as a
partner in the labor, employment and workplace-safety practice.
He was previously at Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP.  Lindsay focuses on employment litigation, class-action,
international employment and wage and hours matters.  K&L Gates has lawyers at 48 offices in the U.S., Asia,
Australia, Europe, the Middle East and  South America .  Bird & Bird Strengthens International Finance Practice  Bird & Bird LLP added Bernhard Gemmel as a partner in the
international banking and finance practice group. He joins the
 Frankfurt  office today. He was previously a partner at Dentons
LLP in Frankfurt.  Gemmel has 17 years’ experience advising on domestic and
international project finance, real estate finance, export/trade
finance as well as acquisition finance/LBO transactions, the
firm said.  Gemmel and an associate also joining the firm will target
the outbound business of Russian financial institutions and
companies, an area which the firm is looking to strengthen, it
said.  “He is a very experienced transaction expert with an
international network, whose expertise in the area of real
estate as well as energy and infrastructure perfectly
complements our strategy,” Alexander Schroder-Frerkes, managing
partner of Bird & Bird in  Germany  and head of the international
corporate/M&A group, said in a statement.  Bird & Bird has more than 1,000 lawyers in 25 offices
across Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  William Fendley Rejoins Troutman Sanders in Richmond, Virginia  Troutman Sanders LLP announced that corporate and tax
lawyer William G. Fendley IV has returned to the firm as a
partner in the Richmond, Virginia, office. Fendley had been a
partner at McGuireWoods LLP, where he practiced in areas
including partnership taxation, taxation of indebtedness,
financial instruments, structured products and innovations in
global  capital markets .  Fendley’s practice includes domestic and cross-border M&A,
divestitures, taxable and tax-free reorganizations.  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers and offices in
the U.S. and China.  Video  Bar President: 3Ls Should Get Paid for Internships  John Thies, outgoing president of the Illinois State Bar
Association, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about his
organization’s report on the impact of law school debt on the
delivery of legal services. Among the changes ISBA recommends is
the implementation of apprenticeships for third-year law
students to better prepare graduates to enter the profession. As
current rules prevent law students from receiving compensation
while obtaining academic credit, the proposal would require a
substantial policy change.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 