-- Google Wins Reversal of Class Status in Authors’ Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-07-01T17:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/google-books-plaintiffs-lose-class-status-over-fair-use.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  won the reversal of a
court order allowing authors to sue as a group in a $3 billion
lawsuit alleging the technology company violated copyrights with
its project to digitize millions of books.  The trial judge should have considered whether the fair-use
defense would apply to Google’s project, a federal appeals court
in Manhattan ruled today. That doctrine allows the use of
copyrighted materials without permission for educational,
research and news purposes.  “Class certification was premature in the absence of a
determination by the district court of the merits of Google’s
fair-use defense,” the appeals panel said in its ruling.  The  Authors Guild , which represents writers, and individual
authors sued in 2005, alleging that Google, owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, infringed copyrights by scanning and
indexing more than 20 million books without writers’ permission.
Google’s legal defense relies on the fair-use doctrine.  Judge Denny Chin last year ruled the plaintiff class would
include all authors living in the U.S. who have at least one
book in Google’s project. Google appealed. Both sides asked Chin
for judgment without a trial, and he halted action on those
requests until the appeals court ruled.  Lawyers for Google said in their argument before the
appellate court in May that the authors couldn’t claim to
represent the position of all potential class members. Many
writers benefit from the use of their works in the Google
project, the company said.  Dual Benefit  “We are delighted by the court’s decision,” Matt Kallman,
a spokesman for Mountain View, California-based Google, said in
an e-mailed statement. “The investment we have made in Google
Books benefits readers and writers alike, helping unlock the
great pool of knowledge contained in millions of books.”  Google said in court papers that it has digitally scanned
more than 20 million books worldwide and that Internet searchers
would be able to view “snippets” of each book online.  Robert LaRocca , a lawyer for the writers, said on the phone
that he didn’t have an immediate comment on the ruling.  The appeals court indicated how it might rule during the
arguments in May. U.S. Circuit Judge Pierre Leval repeatedly
questioned Google’s lawyer about the timing of its appeal. Leval
suggested that the district court might consider the fair-use
issue first and then the appeals court could decide the class
certification matter.  Accord Rejected  Chin rejected a settlement between the authors and Google
in 2011, and attempts to renegotiate that deal failed.  The three writers named in the appeal are Jim Bouton, the
author of “Ball Four”; Betty Miles; and  Joseph Goulden . The
Authors Guild remains a plaintiff in the case but wasn’t a party
to the appeal because it is not a member of the proposed class.  The appeals case is Authors Guild v. Google, 12-3200, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ). The lower-court case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  