-- Groupon Adds Restaurant Bookings Challenging OpenTable
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2013-07-01T20:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/groupon-adds-restaurant-bookings-challenging-opentable.html
  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the biggest daily deal
website, is adding an online restaurant-booking service offering
discounted meals as the company seeks to bolster revenue amid
waning demand for its Web-based coupons.  The service, called Groupon Reserve, will let customers use
Savored.com’s reservations engine to find tables, Chicago-based
Groupon said today in a statement. It’s starting in 10 cities
including New York,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco  and Washington
and will expand in the U.S. and overseas by the end of 2013.  Groupon, which started out promoting discounts via e-mail
alerts, is challenging existing reservation services by
companies such as  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  as consumers are buying fewer
daily deals. Unlike other Groupon discounts, the restaurant
platform will give users a discount off their bill without
requiring pre-payment or vouchers.  “As Groupon has evolved, we’ve seen growing demand from
our customers for upscale offers and exclusive experiences,”
co-Chief Executive Officer Eric Lefkofsky said in the statement.
“Reserve gives the most prestigious brands a new way to reach
our large and desirable audience.”  Groupon Reserve will also add premium deals for beauty,
travel and entertainment brands as well as bookings for spas,
salons and hotels.  The company makes money by offering consumers discounts --
known as Groupons -- from businesses such as restaurants and
nail salons. It then shares the revenue with the businesses.  Shares of Groupon rose 1.4 percent to $8.67 at the close in
 New York . The  stock  has advanced 78 percent this year, compared
with a 13 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
OpenTable closed unchanged at $63.95, leaving the shares up 31
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  