-- Icahn Has $5.2 Billion in Financing to Back Dell Proposal
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-07-01T20:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/icahn-has-5-2-billion-in-financing-to-back-dell-tender-proposal.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said
he secured $5.2 billion in debt financing to support his latest
attempt to scuttle the planned leveraged buyout of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  by
founder  Michael Dell .  Icahn and his affiliates obtained the financing with help
from Jefferies Group LLC, which committed $1.6 billion, he said
today in an open letter to Dell shareholders and directors.
Icahn also called on the Round Rock, Texas-based company’s
special committee handling the proposed buyout to “engage in a
direct, face-to-face sit-down meeting” with his group.  “We put an end to the unwarranted speculation by Dell that
our money would not be available,” Icahn said. “Dell’s recent
aggressive PC pricing discounts are designed to buy meaningful
market share while sacrificing near-term margins -- a strategy
that we believe will benefit future owners.”  The disclosure of committed financing comes as Icahn
attempts to counter a proposed $24.4 billion buyout of the
struggling personal-computer maker by Chief Executive Officer
Dell and private-equity firm Silver Lake Management LLC. Dell is
seeking to take his company private after years of  acquisitions 
in technology services, software and data-center equipment that
have failed to reverse a  decline  in revenue and profit at the
company, once the largest PC maker.  ‘Best Outcome’  Dell’s special committee said in a statement it has
“reviewed Mr. Icahn’s open letter and will be pleased to review
any additional information, including financing commitments,
that it may receive from him regarding his recapitalization
proposal.” The committee said it “remains committed to
achieving the best outcome for all Dell shareholders.”  CEO Dell said in a June 21  regulatory filing  that Icahn’s
proposal would add substantial debt, decrease financial
flexibility and “hurt the company’s ability to weather an
economic or business downturn.”  Icahn didn’t return a call to his office seeking comment.
 David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment.  The company should make a tender offer for about 1.1
billion shares at $14 apiece as an alternative to a proposal
from CEODell and Silver Lake, Icahn said last month. The
activist investor said the buyback would address two
shortcomings of the LBO offer: that it’s too cheap and that it
doesn’t give shareholders the opportunity to profit from any
improvement in Dell’s  performance .  Dell’s special committee said Icahn’s proposal equates to a
dividend of approximately $10 a share. CEO Dell and Menlo Park,
California-based Silver Lake offered $13.65 a share, a 25
percent premium over Dell’s share price on Jan. 11, the last
 trading  day before Bloomberg News reported the company was in
talks to go private.  Dell’s shares fell less than 1 percent to $13.31 at the
close in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  