-- ICL Falls to 19-Month Low on Corn Prices, Laws: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-07-01T10:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/icl-falls-to-19-month-low-on-corn-prices-laws-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  sunk to a 19-month low on bets falling corn prices and a government review of
natural-resources royalties will lead to lower profits at the
fertilizer maker.  The  shares  fell 2 percent to 35.28 shekels, the lowest
since December 2011, at 1:46 p.m. in Tel Aviv. Controlling
holder  Israel Corp. (ILCO)  dropped 1.5 percent to 2,200 shekels. The
benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  Index gained 0.1 percent.  Corn prices for December delivery declined for an eighth
day, set for the lowest level since December 2010, after the
U.S. government forecast on June 28 that farmers will produce a
record harvest this year. A  bumper crop  could lead to lower
demand for fertilizers, Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Tel
Aviv-based Excellence Nessuah Brokerage Ltd., said.  “Lower corn prices are the trigger for the drops today,”
Alper said by phone today. “There is an overall negative
investor sentiment over these shares because of the uncertain
regulatory environment.”  Israel Chemicals shares have declined 12 percent since the
Israeli government said in June that a panel led by Eytan Sheshinski will review tax and royalties policies on natural
resources. A similar Sheshinski-led committee’s recommendations
three years ago were the foundation for a government decision to
more than double its share of gas and oil profits.  New taxation would mean revising an agreement the
government signed last year with ICL that doubled royalties on
potash sales to 10 percent from 5 percent.  Earlier this year  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc .
scrapped a proposed takeover of ICL after Finance Minister Yair Lapid said he’d “adamantly oppose” a sale, which would require
government approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  