-- Microsoft to Sell Surface to Businesses to Boost Demand
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-07-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/microsoft-to-sell-surface-to-businesses-to-boost-demand.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , facing lackluster
sales of its Surface tablet, will begin selling the devices to
large businesses through resellers like CDW Corp. in a bid to
improve sales by targeting corporate customers.  The company will also start a new program called
AppsForSurface to provide corporate software makers with devices
and funding to get them to adapt their programs to Surface.
 Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS)  and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Co.
are among those who have signed up, Microsoft said in a blog
post today.  Microsoft is trying to broaden the audience for Surface to
corporate and education customers after the tablet, released in
October, met poor demand from consumers. The company sold
900,000 Surfaces in each of the fourth and first quarters,
according to researcher IDC.  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG,
had initially projected Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
would sell 2 million units in the December quarter alone.  The company had expected greater initial sales as well.
While Microsoft didn’t give a forecast and hasn’t disclosed how
many Surface units have been sold, the company placed an initial
order for 3 million devices from the manufacturer, people
familiar with the matter said in March.  That’s left Microsoft struggling to find groups and types
of customer who may be ripe targets for Surface. Last month the
company announced a price cut to $199 from a $499 starting price
for schools purchasing the Surface RT model directly from
Microsoft. That offer runs until the end of August and is
available in 26 countries.  Until now Surface has been sold only in retail stores and
apps have focused on consumers and individual business users
rather than corporate programs, making the device less appealing
for wide-scale company use and harder to purchase if a
corporation wanted a large number.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 