-- Time Warner Said Near Deal to Sell Manhattan Headquarters
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-07-02T11:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/time-warner-said-near-deal-to-sell-manhattan-headquarters.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  is close to a deal
to sell its headquarters to Related Cos. for more than $1.3
billion and move to a new skyscraper planned on  Manhattan ’s far
west side, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said.  The plan calls for the media company to anchor a 2.4
million-square-foot (223,000-square-meter) tower on the
northeast corner of Related’s Hudson Yards project, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. Time Warner would sell its 1.1 million-square-foot
space at its namesake complex to an investment group led by
Related and lease it back for five years, about the time it
would take to build the skyscraper, the person said.  An agreement would be a breakthrough for Stephen Ross’s
Related, firming up its plans to build the tallest tower planned
for Hudson Yards, a 26-acre (11-hectare) parcel near the Hudson
River. Mayor Michael Bloomberg in April called the complex one
of the largest private developments ever undertaken in the U.S.,
poised to transform the largely industrial western edge of
Midtown into an extension of the country’s largest and most
expensive office district.  It would also culminate Time Warner’s search for a more
cost-effective real estate presence in New York, where its
offices are spread among several Midtown buildings. Time Warner
divisions with large Manhattan offices include the CNN news
network, the  HBO  cable channel and the Time Inc. magazine
business, which is being spun off.  HBO Home  Time Warner intends to house its corporate offices and HBO
at the new 80-story tower, according to another person with
knowledge of its plans. The two sides are still in talks and a
deal may not come to fruition, the person said.  Related was a lead developer behind Time Warner Center, a
two-tower complex at the southwest corner of Central Park that
was completed in 2004. That project also includes high-rise
condominiums, a shopping mall, a Mandarin Oriental Hotel and
Jazz at Lincoln Center, a music venue. The developer owns the
retail space and some of the other offices.  In late 2011, Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes said in an interview with the New York Times that its
offices at the complex were an “indulgence” in an era of
rising competition from more nimble Internet-based companies.
The company began to study how to reduce real estate expenses
around that time.  Keith Cocozza , a spokesman for Time Warner, declined to
comment, as did Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Related. Martha Wallau, a spokeswoman for Eastdil Secured LLC,
whose brokers Doug Harmon and Adam Spies are representing the
media firm in the sale of its space, didn’t return a phone
message.  The discussions were reported yesterday by the Wall Street
Journal.  Related began construction late last year on the first of
its Hudson Yards towers, to be anchored by the luxury goods
maker Coach Inc. In April it signed leases with cosmetics
company L’Oreal USA and  SAP AG (SAP) , the German software firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  