-- India’s Steelmakers Threatened With Fines for Clean-Power Lapses
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-01T23:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/india-s-steelmakers-threatened-with-fines-for-clean-power-lapses.html
Steel Authority of India Ltd.  and
 Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  were threatened with fines for
flouting clean-energy rules as regulators crack down on lapses
that undermine the nation’s renewable-credit trading market.  India’s second- and third-biggest steelmakers, under
scrutiny in Chhattisgarh, failed to get the required portion of
power from renewable sources in the three years through March,
according to the State Electricity Regulatory Commission.  “According to the regulations, there are penalties, and we
will take action,” Commission Chairman Manoj Dey said in a
phone interview from Raipur. The commission will waive about 2.9
billion rupees ($49 million) of fines only for the first year to
account for a late notification of the rules, he said.  The failure of companies to observe clean-power mandates
weakens  India ’s market for renewable credits, which are trading
at the lowest prices allowed. India requires industrial energy
users to get as much as 10 percent of their electricity from
wind, hydro and biomass and 0.25 percent from solar, and those
failing to comply must cover the shortfall by buying credits.  Jindal Steel will purchase credits to fulfill its
obligations, the company said in an e-mail. Arti Luniya, a Steel
Authority spokeswoman, didn’t respond to an e-mail and two phone
calls seeking comment.  Exchange Purchases  Both companies can buy credits on India’s power exchanges
if they can’t source enough clean electricity locally, according
to the commission, which said they “did not exercise this
option.” While Steel Authority has “made some efforts” in the
past two years, Jindal Steel “is perpetually finding reasons to
avoid purchasing renewable power,” the commission said.  Non-compliant companies must buy credits at the ceiling
price of 3,900 rupees for biomass, hydro and wind allowances and
17,000 rupees for solar. That compares with June market prices
of 1,500 rupees and 9,300 rupees, respectively. Each credit
represents 1 megawatt-hour of electricity fed into the grid.  Jindal Steel and Steel Authority aren’t the only companies
to be targeted by regulators.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ’s Hindustan
Zinc unit,  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) ’s Ambuja Cements,  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL)  and  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  have also been ordered to comply.  In September, the Rajasthan High Court ordered Hindustan
Zinc and Ambuja Cements to pay penalties for failing to meet
obligations in the northwestern state. In November, the Ministry
of New and  Renewable Energy  sent letters to 50 companies
including Tata, India’s biggest steelmaker, insisting they
comply or face fines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  