-- India Takes Over First Private Rail as Reliance Walks Out
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-01T05:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/india-takes-over-first-private-city-rail-as-reliance-walks-out.html
Billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  said it stopped operating New Delhi’s
 airport rail  link, the nation’s first privately run urban train
service, over a breach of contract relating to defects.  State-controlled Delhi Metro Rail Corp. will operate the
23-kilometer (14-mile) line starting today,  Reliance
Infrastructure  said in a stock exchange filing. Reliance, which
invested 28 billion rupees ($472 million) in the project, is
seeking a termination fee including outstanding debt.  The government takeover of the rail link within three years
of opening underscores the nation’s challenges in attracting
private funds for infrastructure. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ,
who set a  goal  in June to win 1 trillion rupees of investments
in six months, last year began directly reviewing the pace of
infrastructure construction in  India .  Reliance Infrastructure  gained  1 percent to 352.80 rupees
as of 10:02 a.m. in Mumbai trading. The stock has fallen 32
percent this year after climbing 53 percent in 2012.  Reliance shut the link for repairs in July last year after
finding defects in civil structures built by Delhi Metro. The
Mumbai-based company today cited delays to the repairs and
failure to rectify them within an agreed timeframe for
terminating the contract.  “Delhi Metro strongly denies this,” Anuj Dayal, a company
spokesman, said by phone from  New Delhi  today. “All repairs
were carried out within the stipulated time. The issues raised
by Reliance are under arbitration.”  Reliance, which had a license for 30 years, operated the
project through a special-purpose vehicle, Delhi Airport Metro
Express Pvt.  Delhi Metro, operator of the city’s subway system, built
tunnels and other infrastructure. Reliance and its partner,
 Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles SA  of Beasain,  Spain ,
paid for equipment including tracks and trains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  