-- Indonesia Two-Year Bond Yield Drops to One-Week Low on Inflation
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-07-01T09:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/indonesia-two-year-bond-yield-drops-to-one-week-low-on-inflation.html
Indonesia ’s two-year bonds advanced,
pushing the yield to the lowest level in almost a week, after a
report showed June consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in
three months.  Consumer prices  gained 5.9 percent from a year earlier,
after climbing 5.47 percent in May, the statistics bureau said
in Jakarta today. The government raised fuel costs on June 22
and the impact of the increase will be seen in the next three
months with inflation peaking at 7.5 percent to 8 percent, Mika
Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank CIMB Niaga, said today.  “There are expectations for even faster inflation and for
 Bank Indonesia  to raise its  reference rate  at its next meeting”
on July 11, said Dini Anggraeni, a fixed-income analyst at PT
Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of the nation’s largest lender.  The yield on the 9.5 percent notes due June 2015 dropped
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.5 percent, the
lowest level since June 25, closing prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association showed.  “The two-year yield is too high, we see its fair value at
5 percent to 5.3 percent,” Anggraeni said.  The rupiah was little changed at 9,928 per dollar, after
closing at 9,925 on June 28, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, fell 25 basis points to 13.89 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Bank Indonesia unexpectedly raised its benchmark  interest
rate  at last month’s meeting to damp inflation expectations. A
parliamentary committee today is assessing three candidates for
a vacancy on the central bank’s policy board. The committee will
announce its choice for deputy governor on July 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  