-- Inflation May Rise to 6% Rate in July, Indonesia’s Basri Says
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-07-01T13:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/inflation-may-rise-to-6-rate-in-july-indonesia-s-basri-says.html
Indonesia ’s inflation may rise to an
annual rate of 6 percent in July after the government raised
subsidized-fuel prices last month for the first time since 2008,
Finance Minister Chatib Basri said.  “We’re optimistic inflation will reach our full-year
target, Basri said in an interview today with Bloomberg TV
Indonesia in Jakarta. “It’s not impossible that there will be
deflation in September if we can ensure smooth supply and
distribution flow of food.”  Basri, who became finance chief in May, oversaw Indonesia’s
first price increase for subsidized fuel in five years as
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono grapples with a declining
currency near the end of his second term. The country raised
domestic diesel and gasoline rates last month to cut energy
spending and stem imports that have hurt the rupiah. The central
bank raised its benchmark interest rate for the first time since
2011 to contain inflation expectations.  The fuel-price increase will strengthen the rupiah and the
 trade balance  as oil imports fall while removing the incentive
for smugglers to sell subsidized products abroad, Basri said
last month. The nation will meet its budget assumption of the
rupiah averaging 9,600 per dollar this year, Basri said then.  The government estimates that energy subsidies would have
ballooned to $30 billion this year if left unchanged, eating up
funds that could instead be spent on benefits for the poor or
infrastructure projects. Imports of subsidized gasoline have
fallen significantly in the past two weeks, Basri said.  Loan Growth  PT Bank Mandiri, Indonesia’s largest lender by assets, has
said profit and loan growth will be hurt by higher  interest
rates  and fuel prices. Inflation in June increased to 5.9
percent from a year earlier, the statistics office said today.  Growth in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy will be at the
lower end of a forecast range of 5.9 percent to 6.1 percent in
the second quarter, Bank Indonesia Governor Agus Martowardojo
said last week. Gross domestic product rose 6.02 percent in the
January-March period from a year earlier, the 10th consecutive
quarter when growth exceeded 6 percent.  The central bank cut its 2013 economic expansion forecast
in April to between 6.2 percent and 6.6 percent from the
previous estimate of 6.3 percent to 6.8 percent, citing the drag
on exports caused by the recession in  Europe .  Indonesia’s economy faces challenges, and policy makers
need to monitor the  property market  in Jakarta, Bali and other
areas, as well as the impact of the fuel-price increase on
inflation, Assistant Governor Hendar said today.  A parliamentary committee assessed three candidates for a
vacancy on the central bank’s policy board today. The committee
will announce its choice for deputy governor on July 8. The
candidates are Hendar, who goes by one name, Treesna Wilda
Suparyono, a director of the foreign-exchange management
department at the central bank, and Mulya Siregar, an assistant
governor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  