-- Insmed Falls After Lung Drug Trial Results Disappoint
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-01T20:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/insmed-falls-after-lung-drug-trial-results-disappoint.html
Insmed Inc. (INSM) , a developer of inhaled
medicines for lung diseases, fell the most in almost two years
after its leading drug candidate didn’t perform better than a
competitor in a clinical trial.  Insmed’s Arikace met the primary endpoint of non-inferiority to  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Tobi in a late-stage study of
cystic fibrosis patients with the bacterial infection
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the Monmouth Junction, New Jersey-based
company said today in a statement. Earlier study results
suggested the drug might establish superiority as a treatment
compared with Novartis’s therapy, said Gregory R. Wade, an
analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  “That would have done two things: it would have improved
its competitiveness in the marketplace, and it would have sped
the rate at which it can make a registration filing in the
 United States ,” Wade said.  Insmed declined 19 percent to $9.72 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day fall since October 2011. The
company’s shares have increased 45 percent this year.  In March, the FDA approved a new inhaler delivery system
for Tobi, the Novartis-made cystic fibrosis treatment. The
clinical trial results announced today showed one daily dose of
Insmed’s medicine was as effective over the course of 24 weeks
as a twice-daily dose of its competitor.  Cystic fibrosis  is an
inherited chronic lung disease that affects as many as 100,000
Americans.  Insmed also announced that the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  granted Arikace Fast Track designation for the
treatment of non-tuberculous mycobacteria lung infections and
named it a qualified infectious disease product for the
infection.  The fast-track and product designations prompted Joseph Schwartz, a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst, to predict FDA approval
for Arikace in non-tuberculous mycobacteria, reiterating his buy
recommendation for the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  