-- Insurers Quizzed by N.Y. Regulator Lawsky on Iran Links
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-07-01T23:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/insurers-quizzed-by-n-y-regulator-lawsky-on-iran-links.html
Swiss Reinsurance Co. and Lloyd’s of
London, the world’s oldest insurance market, are among companies
being probed by a  New York  regulator about their compliance with
an expanded  Iran  sanctions law.  The state Department of Financial Services is asking the
insurers about their procedures to avoid violations of the Iran
Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012, according to a
letter from the department obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The department, led by Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky , said
it learned that several insurers issued coverage that applied to
trades made with Iran, including one policy issued by a group of
European domiciled companies, according to the letter. The
policy and the resulting claim payment “would likely violate
the IFCPA,” the department said, referring to the act.  “Swiss Re is aware of its legal obligations and has a
robust program in place to assure full compliance,” Michael
Gawthorne, a spokesman for the Zurich-based company, the world’s
second-biggest reinsurer, said in an e-mail. “Any suggestion
that Swiss Re is in violation of trade sanction laws against
Iran is without merit.”  Lawsky almost a year ago broke ranks with other regulators
and threatened to rescind  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s banking
license in New York over money transfers involving Iran.  Standard Chartered  had been in negotiations with the
 Federal Reserve , the  U.S. Treasury ’s  Office of Foreign Assets
Control , the Manhattan district attorney’s office and the state
Financial Services Department to resolve allegations that it
violated U.S. sanctions on transferring money to and from Iran.  Lawsky’s Action  Frustrated with the slow pace of the investigation, Lawsky
issued a catalog of Standard Chartered’s alleged misconduct last
August, saying the bank executed 60,000 wire transfers involving
$250 billion through its New York branch on behalf of Iranian
clients.  Lawsky’s pre-emptive strike angered the other regulators,
and cast a harsh light on the bank, which saw its share price
drop 16 percent in response to the threat that the bank might
lose its license to operate in New York.  The bank agreed to pay $340 million to the state to settle
the matter. It subsequently agreed to pay an additional $327
million to the other regulators investigating its conduct.  In the June 25 letter to the insurance companies, the
department said it is seeking information about insurers’ plans
for compliance and due diligence to avoid violations of the law.
The act was signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in
January. The sanctions related to insurance services took effect
today.  Diligence Required  “We believe a robust due diligence regime is required to
ensure than an insurance company is fully advised of the risks
it is taking,” the department said. “Because an insurer may
violate the IFCPA by engaging in conduct it should have known
was improper, incautious due diligence could expose an insurer
to the imposition of sanctions.”  The regulator asked the companies for a copy of every
policy issued to  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  or Trafigura that will
remain in force after today, according to the letter.  The department cited news reports of “a pattern of
trades” made by Glencore and Trafigura with Iranian entities.
At least one trade involved Glencore’s shipment of alumina to
the Iranian Aluminum Co. in exchange for processed aluminum.  Century Aluminum Co. (CENX)  said in a regulatory filing in March
that affiliates of Glencore entered into sales contracts last
year with entities controlled by Iran. Non-U.S. affiliates of
Glencore, Century’s largest shareholder, entered into sales
contracts for wheat and coal and sale and purchase contracts for
metals and metal oxides, the company said.  Sanctions Compliance  “Lloyd’s will comply with any applicable sanctions, as it
always has done,” said a spokeswoman, Caroline Harris-Gibson,
at Prosek Partners.  Besides Lloyd’s and Swiss Re, companies contacted by the
Financial Services Department include Hannover Re Ltd., XL
Insurance Ltd. and Assured Guaranty Re Ltd. Assured said it
wasn’t contacted by the regulator. Representatives for the other
companies couldn’t be reached for comment.  The probe was reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Farrell  in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  