-- Ipsa Sinks as Central Bank Cuts Growth Forecast: Santiago Mover
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-01T17:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ipsa-sinks-as-central-bank-cuts-growth-forecast-santiago-mover.html
Chile’s Ipsa  index  fell the most
among major emerging-market benchmarks after the central bank
cut its growth forecast amid mounting concern the country’s next
president will raise corporate taxes and tighten regulations.  The gauge retreated 1.5 percent to 3,971.24 at 1:36 p.m. in
Santiago, snapping a four-day advance. Latam Airlines SA
contributed most the decline.  SACI Falabella (FALAB)  was the most active
by value, with 9.8 billion pesos of the retailer’s shares
changing hands.  Chile’s economy will expand 4 percent to 5 percent this
year, down from a previous projection of growth ranging from 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent, according to the central bank’s
quarterly monetary policy report released today. Former
President  Michelle Bachelet , whose platform includes raising
corporate taxes, tightening regulations and boosting  government
spending , won a landslide in a primary yesterday and will be on
the presidential ballot in November.  “We had speculation that growth would be slower, and now
the central bank has confirmed that,” Alfredo Parra, an analyst
at Santiago-based brokerage Euroamerica Corredores de Bolsa SA,
said in a phone interview. “Also, with Bachelet we have signs
of more regulation and people fear that will cut into companies’
profits.”  Bachelet, who led Chile from 2006 to 2010, garnered 73.1
percent of the vote, while Andres Velasco, her closest rival and
a former finance minister, had 13 percent, according to the
Electoral Service website. During her primary campaign, Bachelet
promised to boost spending on education, paid for by a five-percentate-point increase in the corporate levy and a cut in the
amount companies can put aside without paying tax.  Chile’s presidential election in Nov. 17. Bachelet will
face Pablo Longueira, who won 51.4 percent of the vote in the
ruling coalition’s primary.  Latam Airlines dropped 3.2 percent to 8,346.6 pesos.
Falabella fell 1.8 percent to 5,571.1 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  