-- U.S. Stocks Drop, Brazil Shares Sink; Oil Gains on Egypt
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-07-02T20:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/japanese-futures-follow-u-s-stock-gains-as-aussie-steady.html
U.S. stocks fell, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index erasing gains after failing to hold above its
average level from the past 50 days, while  Brazil ’s shares sank
on concern the economy may shrink. Oil rallied and the yen slid.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.1 percent to 1,614.08 at 4 p.m. in New
York after climbing as much as 0.6 percent in morning trading.
Brazil’s Ibovespa sank 4.2 percent, the most since September
2011, as Nomura Holdings Inc. said the economy may slip into
recession. The 10-year Treasury yield was little changed at 2.47
percent. The yen depreciated 1 percent to 100.66 per dollar. Oil
jumped to a 14-month high, approaching $100 a barrel, on concern
unrest in Egypt will threaten supplies.  The S&P 500 reversed its advance after momentarily rising
above its  50-day (SPX)  moving average near 1,624, a level watched by
traders to gauge market momentum. The benchmark gauge also pared
gains yesterday after briefly exceeding the technical level.
Stocks climbed  earlier  as factory orders topped estimates and
the  Federal Reserve ’s  William Dudley  reiterated that the central
bank may prolong bond purchases if needed. Investors awaited
jobs data tomorrow and on July 5 to gauge the health of the
economy and the outlook for Fed stimulus.  “We’re still not out of the water yet,”  Jason Cooper , who
helps oversee $2.5 billion in South Bend,  Indiana , at 1st Source
Investment Advisors, said in a phone interview. “It’s going to
take some actual data to come in to at least reassure investors
that the economy is doing OK and people are getting jobs.”  Market Leaders  Boeing Co., General Electric Co. and Travelers Cos. lost at
least 1.6 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  down
42.55 points to 14,932.41.  DaVita HealthCare Partners Inc. tumbled 5.9 percent after
the government proposed reducing payments to dialysis-center
operators. Ford Motor Co. and Abercrombie & Fitch Co. added at
least 2.8 percent amid optimism over June sales. Zynga Inc.
jumped 6.5 percent after naming a new chief executive officer.  William Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York , said that while economic growth will probably quicken
in 2014, the central bank may prolong bond purchases if the
economy turns out weaker than Fed forecasts.  The S&P 500 has dropped 3.3 percent from its May 21 record
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the central bank
could scale back asset purchases if the economy improves in line
with forecasts. It still rallied 13 percent in the first half of
the year, the best performance since a 17 percent gain in the
first six months of 1998.  ‘Transition Period’  “We’re in a transition period where the Fed has signaled
that they’re beginning to view a possible tapering,” Ernie Cecilia, the chief investment officer who helps oversee about
$6.7 billion at Bryn Mawr Trust Co. in Bryn Mawr,  Pennsylvania ,
said in a phone interview. “The determinant is more so on what
the economy is going to produce. This transition from liquidity
to final demand is marked by higher level of volatility and
we’re witnessing it. At the end of the day, it’s fundamentals
that drive revenue and earnings.”  Factory orders in the U.S. increased 2.1 percent in May,
more than double the pace in April, a government report showed
today. Data tomorrow from the ADP Research Institute may
indicate American companies added 160,000 jobs in June, before
the Labor Department’s monthly payrolls report at the end of the
week that is forecast to show an increase of 165,000 positions.  U.S. stock exchanges will close at 1 p.m.  New York  time
tomorrow and bond markets will shut at 2 p.m. American financial
markets will be closed on July 4 for the Independence Day
holiday.  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc. will unofficially start the second-quarter
earnings season after the market close on July 8, as the biggest
U.S. aluminum producer becomes the first company in the Dow to
report results. Profits from S&P 500 companies probably grew 2.4
percent from April through June, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, down from a projected increase of 6.2
percent at the beginning of the quarter.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.4 percent from the
highest level since June 19. Fresenius Medical Care AG slumped
8.7 percent, dragging a gauge of  health-care companies  lower.
The German operator of kidney-dialysis centers plunged the most
in more than a decade on a closing basis after the U.S.
government’s Health and Human Services Department  proposed 
cutting payments to providers of the treatment from next year.  Dialog Semiconductor Plc jumped 7.6 percent after the maker
of chips used in Apple Inc.’s iPhone agreed to buy IWatt Inc.
for as much as $345 million. The acquisition enables Dialog to
expand into the market for power-management technology.  Brazil Tumble  Brazil led losses in developing nations, sending the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index down 1.2 percent. The Ibovespa fell to a
four-year low as industrial production shrank more than analysts
forecast and Nomura said the nation may enter a recession in the
last quarter of 2013 as tighter monetary policy in the U.S.
curbs capital flows to  Latin America .  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil company 
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , extended a four-day
plunge to 52 percent after Morgan Stanley cut the stock to the
equivalent of sell. Rossi Residencial SA plunged 6.3 percent as
homebuilders declined.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index jumped 4.9 percent, the steepest
advance since July 2012, after the military gave President
Mohamed Mursi 48 hours to find a solution to the country’s
political impasse, following mounting nationwide protests
against his rule. The political showdown escalated as hundreds
of thousands massed to demand the departure of Mursi. Adding to
the turmoil were vows by Mursi’s Islamist supporters to stand
firm against what they saw as a threat of a military coup.  China Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.6 percent as China’s
overnight money-market rate dropped to a one-month low. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies slipped 1.2
percent as trading resumed following a holiday yesterday.  Australia’s dollar fell 1.1 percent to 91.39 U.S. cents as
the central bank kept its overnight cash-rate target at 2.75
percent as predicted by 25 of 28 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The Aussie “remains at a high level” and may
“depreciate further over time, which would help to foster a
rebalancing of growth,” Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a
statement today.  The euro weakened 0.7 percent to $1.2969, an almost one-month low. A report showed producer prices in the 17-nation bloc
unexpectedly fell in the 12 months through May, buoying
speculation the  European Central Bank  will keep monetary policy
accommodative when it meets this week.  Portugal’s 10-year bonds fell for the first time in five
days, sending the yield up 33 basis points to 6.72 percent, as
the government said Secretary of State for Treasury Maria Luis
Albuquerque would replace Vitor Gaspar as finance minister.  Oil Rallies  West  Texas  Intermediate gained 1.6 percent to a 14-month
high of $99.60 a barrel amid concern protest in Egypt will
threaten supplies and speculation U.S. stockpiles shrank last
week.  Natural gas futures rose for a second day  in New York as
hotter weather spurred demand for the power-plant fuel. Gas
gained as much as 2.4 percent amid forecasts for above-normal
temperatures in the West and Northeast through July 16,
according to MDA Weather Services. Cooler weather will give way
to higher readings in Texas starting next week.  Wheat climbed 0.5 percent, the first advance in nine days.
Egypt, the world’s largest importer, bought 180,000 metric tons
of the grain in its first tender since February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  