-- Japan Panel to Craft Diversification Plan for Public Funds
-- B y   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-07-01T09:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/japan-panel-to-craft-diversification-plan-for-public-funds.html
A Japanese panel charged with
management of public funds, including the world’s largest pool
of retirement savings, said it discussed diversifying assets and
may eventually buy real estate, commodity futures and other non-traditional investments.  The panel aims to complete its investment proposal by
autumn, according to the Cabinet Office’s Motoyuki Yufu, who
spoke after the group met today for the first time. Takatoshi Ito, a Tokyo University professor, chairs the panel, according
to a statement distributed to reporters last week.  “It’s important for public funds to consider how to
increase average returns and make their balance sheets resilient
to market volatility over the long term,” Ito said today.  The Government Pension Investment Fund, which manages about
112 trillion yen ($1.1 trillion), said on June 7 that it’s
cutting local bond holdings to buy more stocks and foreign
securities. The fund will leave its asset allocations at the new
levels until at least March 2015, GPIF President Takahiro Mitani
said in an interview on June 21.  The  Bank of Japan  has pledged to double the monetary base
by the end of next year while Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is
promising public spending,  tax reform  and freer markets to
reinvigorate  Japan ’s economy.  Mitani said in February that if Abe and the BOJ are
successful then a 67 percent allocation for local bonds would
look “harsh.” The fund cut its target holding for local
 government bonds  to 60 percent from 67 percent, while the
proportion of foreign and local shares will rise to 12 percent
each, from 9 percent and 11 percent respectively. The
allocations announced this month are close to what the fund
already holds, he said.  Asset Shift  GPIF will release results and more details on its holdings
in July, Mitani said last month.  The shift toward higher-yielding assets comes as the
manager prepares to fund retirements in the world’s oldest
population. The fund returned 3.3 percent in the three quarters
though December, according to its latest  results . Japanese bonds
returned 1.48 percent, local stocks posted a 1.63 percent profit
and foreign bonds and stocks returned 10.3 percent.  GPIF is the biggest pension fund in the world by assets,
followed by  Norway ’s government pension fund, according to the
Towers Watson Global 300 survey in August.  Asset Range  The Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, which oversees
public pensions, demanded GPIF re-examine its portfolio
structure after a recommendation by the Board of Audit Japan, an
organization independent of the government in charge of auditing
state accounts and public bodies.  GPIF should frequently review the efficiency and security
of its  asset allocation , the board said in October last year,
according to a  statement  released with the reallocation
announcement on June 7. The fund has a range of plus or minus 8
percent for its allocation to JGBs, 6 percent for local stocks,
and 5 percent for foreign assets.  Other members of the government panel include JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Chief Economist Masaaki Kanno, Daiwa Institute of
Research Ltd.’s Mitsumaru Kumagai,  Nomura Research Institute
Ltd. (4307) ’s Sadayuki Horie and  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) 
Managing Director Soichiro Sakuma.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  