-- Japonica Offers to Buy More Greek Bonds at a Lower Price
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-07-01T11:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/japonica-offers-to-buy-more-greek-government-debt-at-lower-price.html
Japonica Partners & Co., the U.S.
investment firm that last month said it would buy as much as 2.9
billion euros ($3.8 billion) of Greek debt, cut the price it’s
offering for the bonds and gave investors more time to accept.  Japonica  will purchase Greek  government bonds  with a face
value of as much as 4 billion euros, the Providence, Rhode
Island-based firm said in a statement today. The company, run by
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. investment banker Paul Kazarian,
lowered its minimum purchase price to 40 percent of the bonds’
principal amount, down from 45 percent a month ago, and gave
investors until Aug. 1 to take up the offer.  The firm cut the price it’s prepared to offer because
European officials may impose more losses on Greek bondholders,
fractures in Greece’s coalition government and a potential 3
billion-euro to 4 billion-euro funding gap, Japonica said in the
statement. The “volatile” and “highly illiquid”
characteristics of Greek debt means the bonds don’t trade at
their true value, the firm said.  Japonica’s offer hasn’t had “any market impact so far,”
said Dimitris Drakopoulos, an economist at Nomura International
Plc in  London . Many holders of Greek government debt are hedge
funds speculating that prices will go higher, not banks seeking
to exit a volatile investment, he said. “People who are in are
in for larger gains.”  Bonds Unmoved  Greece’s 10-year bonds expiring in 2023 were little-changed
after Japonica’s offer today, with the price of the securities
at 54.29 cents on the euro. The yield on the bond due in
February 2023 was at 10.85 percent as of 12.15 p.m. London time,
up from 9.39 percent at the close on May 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The country’s 30-year-bonds were at 42.3 cents.  Greek  government bonds  have dropped 12 percent since May
31, the last trading day before Japonica announced its offer,
according to the  Bloomberg Greece Sovereign Bond Index. (BGRE)   Japonica’s revised offer would account for more than 13
percent of the 29.6 billion euros of Greek government bonds
outstanding. The firm first announced its plans on June 3,
saying it would buy bonds in a tender offer expiring July 1.  Xander Heijnen, a spokesman for the investment firm at
Munich-based CNC Communications & Network Consulting, declined
to comment on whether Japonica has purchased any Greek bonds
thus far or on how it is financing the debt purchases.  “While there has been a substantial decline in price and
volatility remains high, Japonica takes a long-term perspective
on Greece,” Heijnen wrote in an emailed response to questions.  Debt Buyback  European officials reduced  Greece ’s debt load through a
March 2012 restructuring that imposed losses of more than 50
percent on investors holding bonds with a face value of 197
billion euros. The country’s debt was cut further through a
December buyback that authorized the government to repurchase
31.9 billion euros of bonds.  “I don’t think anyone with a large position who bought
Greek bonds after the buyback would sell at 40 or 45,” Nomura’s
Drakopoulos said.  Kazarian founded Japonica in 1988, according to its
website. The firm’s previous transactions include the $630
million purchase of Alleghany International and the $250 million
initial public offering of Sunbeam-Oster after the maker of home
appliances declared bankruptcy, according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  