-- John Kerry’s Bid for Mideast Peace Is Doomed
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-07-01T15:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/john-kerry-s-bid-for-mideast-peace-is-doomed.html
It’s a testament to U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry ’s grit, determination and self-assurance that
he refuses to give up in his quest to bring Israelis and
Palestinians back to the negotiating table. But I wish that he
would, during the long slog toward renewed talks, ask himself
one question: Why didn’t his predecessor,  Hillary Clinton , apply
herself to the problem in the same manner?  Certainly, Clinton possesses the same qualities of
fortitude and indefatigability. No one is more tenacious than
Clinton when she identifies a goal worth pursuing. So why did
she resolutely avoid this issue? The answer is simple: She saw
no reasonable chance for success, even success modestly defined.  The goal Kerry has in mind -- getting Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  together for direct talks about the most divisive
issues -- won’t be achieved. Both the Palestinians and Israelis
know that Kerry’s proposed negotiations won’t work, but neither
party wants to upset Kerry by saying so, and neither wants to be
perceived as uninterested in compromise. So they may meet, and
then maybe they will meet again and maybe they will even meet
after that. But peace, and a Palestinian state that would be the
byproduct of peace, won’t happen, not now and not in the
foreseeable future.  Kerry’s Delusions  I wish this all weren’t true. Peace for Israel and a state
for the Palestinians are goals worth achieving. Reaching these
goals won’t change the  Middle East  as much as Kerry thinks it
will, but I’ll address this particular delusion of the American
foreign-policy elite another time. (I already have, come to
think of it, in  this  column.)  The delusion at hand is that Kerry will succeed where
numerous secretaries of state have failed, and succeed in what
might be the most inauspicious moment in years to start new
negotiations: The Middle East is erupting all around  Israel ,
which makes even centrist and some left-leaning Israelis fear
the idea of tangible territorial concessions; the Palestinian
Authority is weaker than ever; the two territories that would
make up the future state of  Palestine  (the  West Bank  and Gaza)
are divided between the Muslim Brotherhood-affiliated Hamas and
the more moderate Fatah; and the Israeli Cabinet is under the de
facto control of the settlement movement, which continues to
expand its holdings on the West Bank.  But maybe I’m just a cynic. I called  Ari Shavit , Israel’s
leading columnist and a man who very much wants to see a
Palestinian state created on the West Bank, to ask him if my
bleakness was unjustified. “I’m just this moment putting the
Champagne bottles in the fridge,” he said. “I expect to open
them shortly. We’re all going to have special permission from
the  Muslim Brotherhood  to drink Champagne.”  Shavit’s withering sarcasm wasn’t matched by contempt for
Kerry, though. Like many Israelis, Shavit has a strange kind of
respect for Kerry’s quixotic efforts. “Kerry is a decent, noble
American trying to bring peace to a tormented land and a
troubled region, and I salute him for his benign intentions and
commitment and energy,” Shavit said. “But that said, I think
this good will and energy and political capital is being
invested in a course of action that resembles too much the
previous attempts that have failed. I think the right approach
is to learn from the failures of the past and to do something
practical that relates to the realities on the ground rather
than reach for something that is totally unrealistic. There is
no serious Israeli or Palestinian who thinks that the Kerry
approach would work.”  Modest Ideas  So if the idea of bringing Netanyahu and Abbas together to
talk about the largest issues is a bad idea, what constitutes a
good idea? “Modest ideas,” Shavit said, modest ideas that may
lead to less modest ideas.  That means a different approach, undertaking one set of
negotiations between the U.S. and Israel, and another between
the U.S. and the  Palestinian Authority . Each side could take a
few steps separately that would lay the groundwork for
eventually having direct talks about the actual issues
separating them: the future of  Jerusalem , the future of the
Jewish settlements, a solution for Palestinian refugees and
borders for the future state of Palestine. Shavit argues that
this strategy would shift the discussion away from the dangerous
binary of all or nothing at all.  To the Israelis, Kerry should be asking for a freeze in the
expansion of settlements beyond Israel’s security barrier. These
far-flung communities are home to a small minority of settlers,
but their growth signals to Palestinians like nothing else that
Israel means to continue occupying the whole of the West Bank. A
majority of Israelis would agree to a freeze, and Palestinians
would interpret it as a sign that Israel might be considering
territorial compromise. And Kerry would have a powerful argument
behind him, one most Israelis understand: Continued expansion
outside the main settlement blocs, and on the far side of the
security barrier, threatens Israel’s democracy and its Jewish
character. The settlements entangle Israel to a dangerous degree
in the lives of Palestinians.  To the Palestinians, Kerry should be arguing for a return
to “Fayyadism,” the technocratic approach to state-building
championed by former Prime Minister Salam Fayyad. Israelis would
interpret a return to Fayyadism as a sign the Palestinians were
serious about building a state with legitimate and organized
institutions, rather than the sort of Palestinian state Israelis
fear: corrupt, dysfunctional and a launching pad for attacks.  If Israel were to make a limited gesture on settlements to
the Palestinians, and if the Palestinian Authority would make a
sincere effort to return to technocracy, then it might be worth
trying to bring Netanyahu and Abbas together.  Right now, though, there’s no point. One day soon, Kerry
will understand why.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 