-- Katainen Monitoring Finnish Debt as ECB Policy Spurs Divide
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-07-02T10:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/katainen-monitoring-finnish-debt-as-ecb-policy-splits-euro-area.html
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen 
said his government is monitoring the nation’s housing market to
ensure record-low euro-zone rates don’t fuel risks that would
warrant regulatory intervention.  “It’s certainly a very sensitive issue for Finland as it
is for other euro countries,” Katainen said yesterday in an
interview in Helsinki. “It must be monitored constantly.”  Finnish  house prices  have surged about 35 percent since
2000 as mortgage borrowing sends  household debt  burdens to a
record 119 percent of disposable incomes. Homeowners in the euro
area’s only stable AAA rated member have used the bloc’s lowest
mortgage rates to build up debt as monetary policy designed to
help nations further south shows signs of spurring bubbles in
the north.  Finland  is looking into the option of regulatory curbs to
ensure households don’t build up unsustainable debt burdens,
Katainen said. An automatic cap on mortgages is one such model,
he said.  “The idea would be to establish the instrument even if
there’s no need to use it immediately,” he said. “So far the
issue is not on the table, we’ll keep monitoring the
situation.”  Finnish Debt  Five-year credit-default swaps on Finnish debt traded at
about 27 basis points today, compared with a low of 22 basis
points at the end of last week. That’s even lower than the cost
of insuring against a German default, with equivalent contracts
on bonds sold by the largest European economy trading at 31
basis points today.  Finland pays less relative to  Germany  to borrow over 10
years than any other euro member. Its 10-year yield eased to
1.97 percent as of 1:12 p.m. in Helsinki, compared with a high
of 2.14 percent on June 24.  Finland, which together with  Sweden ,  Norway  and  Denmark 
became a haven from Europe’s fiscal crisis last year, has a
public debt load that’s just over half the currency bloc’s
average. The government in Helsinki has kept its budget within
the European Union’s 3 percent deficit rule every year since the
global financial crisis erupted in 2008.  Escaping Turmoil  Like elsewhere in the Nordic region, healthy public
finances have attracted capital from investors eager to escape
the debt turmoil further south. Demand for haven assets drove
government bond yields in the region down to record lows last
year, widening the divide between  Europe ’s north and south.  Policy makers in Scandinavia have struggled to address the
imbalances crisis policies have injected into their markets. In
Sweden, the regulator has required banks to meet stricter
capital standards than those set elsewhere. Sweden and Norway
are also telling lenders to raise the risk weights they apply to
mortgage assets to prevent credit bubbles.  Finnish authorities are considering handing the financial
watchdog powers to enforce a binding loan-to-value cap at 80
percent, compared with its current 90 percent non-binding
recommendation. More than a third of home loans exceeded the
guideline last year, according to the Financial Supervisory
Authority.  “Households put themselves in a risky position in the
future, along with the whole economy,” Lauri Kajanoja, a
principal adviser on domestic economic policy at the Bank of
Finland, said in an interview last month. “There should be
tools to interfere with this.”  Monitoring Imbalances  Finland is among eight euro-zone countries to face “in
depth” monitoring of macro-economic imbalances from the
European Commission, the European Union’s Brussels-based
executive arm said in April. Though the commission didn’t open a
disciplinary procedure on Finland that could lead to fines, it
did urge the government in Helsinki to take action as part of
its annual reform program.  Still, Katainen said record-low ECB rates are also helping
Finland’s economy, which sank into a recession at the end of
last year as business investment faltered.  “Naturally we must identify domestic risks,” he said.
“On the other hand, loose monetary policy is a prerequisite for
the investments that are made here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  