-- Kemira to Buy 3F Chimica for $111 Million for Oil Clients
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-07-01T09:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/kemira-to-buy-3f-chimica-for-111-million-for-oil-clients.html
Kemira Oyj (KRA1V)  agreed to acquire
privately owned 3F Chimica SpA of  Italy  for 85 million euros
($111 million) to expand its offering of additives for
industries spanning oil drilling to wastewater treatment.  3F, which makes specialist polymers, is forecast to
generate about 75 million euros in sales this year, Helsinki-based Kemira said today in a statement. The deal is expected to
close in the fourth quarter.  The acquisition is part of Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Buechele’s transformation of Kemira into a maker of higher-margin additives and products needed to extract minerals and
resources. The company is in the process of finding a buyer for
its ChemSolutions division, which is focusing on generating cash
for the parent.  Polymers “are highly synergistic with Kemira’s other
differentiated process chemicals,” and sales of the products
are likely to exceed the industry average, Randy Owens, head of
the Finnish company’s oil and mining units as well as the North
American operations, said in the statement. “Besides the strong
strategic fit, the transaction is expected to result in
substantial synergies through raw material, logistics and fixed-cost savings.”  Kemira is acquiring two Italian manufacturing sites, in San
Giorgio and in 3F’s headquarters city of Sandrigo, and one in
Aberdeen,  Mississippi . The Finnish company will also gain 3F’s
supply of intermediate ingredients such as bioacrylamide and
cationic monomers, it said.  No investment banks were used in the deal. Deloitte
provided transaction services to Kemira. Legal advisers were
Labruna Mazziotti Segni of Italy, and Bingham McCutchen LLP of
the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  