-- Kenya Plans to Re-Introduce Legislation to Remove Tax Exemptions
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-07-01T14:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/kenya-plans-to-re-introduce-legislation-to-remove-tax-exemptions.html
The Kenyan government plans tomorrow
to re-introduce legislation that lawmakers rejected last year
for removing value-added tax exemptions on processed food and
other goods, Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich said.  “There are over 300 exemptions which means too many
refunds, which makes administration of the tax cumbersome,”
Rotich told reporters today in the capital, Nairobi.
“Maintaining an exemption does not necessarily benefit the poor
which it is supposed to.”  Kenya is trying to boost revenues to help finance increased
spending on infrastructure development that will help spur the
economy, including a rail line from the port of  Mombasa  to the
Uganda border and geothermal-energy production.  In addition to the VAT law, Rotich announced plans in the
2013-14 budget statement to introduce a 1.5 percent levy on
imports for a new Railway Development Fund and re-enact a
capital gains tax starting with real-estate transactions.  Income from the VAT, which is applied at a rate of 16
percent, has fallen to 5 percent of gross domestic product from
as much as 8 percent previously because the number of businesses
with tax-exempt status keeps growing, Rotich said.  The International Monetary Fund, which supported the review
of the tax system as part of a three-year loan program, said the
proposed legislation will help boost efficiency.  Below Potential  “If one looks at  Kenya ’s tax revenue performance, one sees
that income tax represents about 50 percent of tax receipts,
while VAT only represents about 25 percent,” Ragnar Gudmundsson, the IMF’s representative in Kenya said in an e-mailed response to questions June 25.  “This is unexpected in an economy like Kenya’s, where the
informal economy plays an important role,” he said.  The proposed legislation was rejected by legislators in
December because they wanted items including food, fertilizers,
seeds and sanitary towels zero-rated, the Business Daily
newspaper reported, citing a parliamentary committee.  “This time we will sensitize the public more about its
benefits and intentions,” Rotich said.  The Consumer Federation of Kenya is planning to protest
outside government buildings tomorrow against the draft
legislation, which it says would increase the cost of living.  “Removing exemptions will definitely have an upward effect
on prices because producers will transfer that burden to
consumers,” Joseph Thogo, a Dar es Salaam-based senior manager
on tax at Deloitte Tanzania, said by phone today.  Kenya is the world’s biggest exporter of black tea and it
supplies a-third of all flowers traded in Europe.  The government of East Africa’s largest economy estimates
growth will expand 5.8 percent this year from 4.6 percent in
2012. About 46 percent of Kenya’s 42 million people live in
poverty, according to the World Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  