-- Kerry Hails China in Urging North Korea to End Nuclear Programs
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/kerry-hails-china-moves-in-urging-north-korea-to-denuclearize.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
hailed China’s efforts to push  North Korea  to abandon its
nuclear weapons aspirations, saying such a move would help spur
normal relations between Kim Jong Un’s regime and the region.  Kerry discussed North Korea’s nuclear program in separate
meetings in Brunei yesterday with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang
Yi and his counterparts from  Japan  and South Korea. North Korean
Foreign Minister Pak Ui Chun is also attending the security
forum hosted by the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  “All of us, all four of us, are absolutely united and
absolutely firm in our insistence that the future with respect
to North Korea must include denuclearization,” Kerry told
reporters in Brunei. “We have major, major issues with respect
to North Korea, and  China  is cooperating with us with respect to
that, and China has helped to make a difference.”  The U.S.-China cooperation on North Korea contrasted with
differences over the fate of Edward Snowden, an American accused
of revealing secret surveillance programs allowed by   Hong Kong 
to leave the city for  Russia , as well as how to resolve disputes
over territory in the South China Sea. Kerry said cooperation
among the region’s major powers is critical to peace and
economic growth in  Asia .  “We want North Korea to understand that the region will be
better with denuclearization,” Kerry said. North Korea’s
ability to have normal ties with the U.S. and other countries
“lies at the end of engaging in a serious set of steps to
denuclearize, and serious negotiations that could accompany
that.”  China Moves  Tensions had escalated in February after North Korea
conducted another nuclear test, and then eased again last month
when the North proposed talks with South Korea and then the U.S.
The turnaround has sparked a flurry of diplomatic activity even
as North Korea’s adherence to its nuclear goals remains an
impediment to negotiations resuming.  After meeting Pak yesterday, Wang reiterated China’s
commitment to denuclearize North Korea and called for the
resumption of six-party talks. China, the North’s main economic
and diplomatic ally, in May tightened enforcement of  United
Nations  sanctions targeting North Korea’s financial
transactions.  “The Chinese side will continue to encourage all the
parties concerned to work together towards the common goal and
create conditions for bringing the Korean nuclear issue back to
the track of dialogue,” Wang, in his first Asean meeting as
foreign minister since President Xi Jinping took office in
March, said on the sidelines of the forum.  North Korea  North Korea will likely hold a press conference after the
Asean meetings conclude, Yonhap News reported, citing Ri Hung
Sik, director of the Foreign Ministry’s department of
international organization.  North Korea on June 16 suggested high-level talks with the
U.S. on a peace treaty to formally end the  Korean War , less than
a week after it scrapped a meeting it proposed with the South,
citing a protocol dispute. Any talks between the North and the
U.S. would be the first since February 2012, when the North
fired a long-range rocket to break a deal for 240,000 metric
tons of food in exchange for a moratorium on weapons testing.  Even so, North Korea will only denuclearize when the entire
world, including the U.S., does the same, according to the
regime’s top envoy to the United Nations, Sin Son Ho, who spoke
at a rare press conference in  New York  on June 21.  The six-party talks, which involve North and  South Korea ,
Japan, the U.S., Russia and China, started in 2003 as a process
chaired by China. They stalled in December 2008 with North Korea
officially quitting the process in 2009 and revealing a new
uranium enrichment facility a year later.  Sea Tensions  While agreeing on a common approach to North Korea,
tensions between China and Japan remain high in the  East China
Sea , where both countries claim islands known as the Senkaku in
Japan and Diaoyu in China. Four Chinese government vessels
entered Japanese-administered waters around the disputed islands
early yesterday, the coastguard said in a statement.  The ships’ movements appeared timed to coincide with the
arrival of four Japanese fishing vessels carrying activists,
including a member of the lower house of Japan’s parliament,
public broadcaster NHK said. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said Japan would maintain a firm stance in relations with
China.  Asean Talks  China moved June 30 to ease tensions with fellow claimants
in the  South China Sea  by agreeing to talks on rules for
operating in the waters. Competition for oil, gas and fish has
led to confrontations at sea and pushed the  Philippines  to boost
military cooperation with the U.S. and Japan.  The Philippines said the same day that “the massive
presence of Chinese military and para-military ships” around
two land features it claims in the South China Sea posed
“threats to efforts to maintain maritime peace and stability in
the region.” At the same time, it welcomed the negotiation of a
code of conduct in the waters.  “We want a situation where there is peace, there is
development and really the tensions do not escalate,”  Singapore 
Foreign Minister K. Shanmugam told reporters yesterday,
referring to non-claimant countries like Singapore. “To make
sure the tensions do not escalate, we’ll need a way of putting
in a framework for people to behave.”  A code of conduct is in China’s interest because it will
help prevent incidents from escalating while not affecting its
strategy to negotiate with individual countries on disputed
territory, according to Ni Lexiong, a professor of international
military affairs and diplomacy at the Shanghai University of
Political Science and Law.  “China doesn’t want the situation in the South China Sea
to deteriorate,” Ni said by phone. “A code of conduct will
help countries in the area develop together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bandar Seri Begawan at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  