-- New Zealand Equity Trading Resumes After Fault Halts Market
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-01T05:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/new-zealand-equity-trading-resumes-after-fault-halts-market.html
Equities trading in  New Zealand 
resumed after a technical fault caused NZX Ltd., operator of the
country’s stock exchange, to halt trading for two hours.  An unspecified connectivity issue forced the exchange to
halt trading from 12:51 p.m. until 3 p.m. in Wellington, NZX
spokeswoman Kate McLaughlin said by phone today. The exchange
operator decided to suspend trading while it investigated the
issue, citing “the interests of running fair, orderly and
transparent markets.”  New Zealand is the third-smallest equity market among 16
major countries in the Asia-Pacific region tracked by  Bloomberg
News , ranking below  Pakistan  and the  Philippines . The nation is
headed for its busiest year for initial public offerings in a
decade after the sale of about 49 percent of state-owned Mighty
River Power Ltd. in May as Prime Minister John Key pledged to
raise between NZ$5 billion ($3.9 billion) and NZ$7 billion
selling shares in state-owned companies.  “This is the first time in a long while that the market
has had to shut on the back of an outage,”  James Lee , Auckland-based head of institutional equities at First NZ Capital Ltd., a
brokerage and wealth-management firm, said in a telephone
interview. “The market just re-adjusted when it re-opened.
There was nothing we could do, really.”  Tim Bennett, chief executive officer of NZX, told Bloomberg
TV June 28 that companies are currently more receptive to the
possibility of listing on the country’s exchange.  Another IPO  The government plans to offer shares in Meridian Energy
later this year. Infratil Ltd. appointed advisers for a
potential IPO of fuel retailer Z Energy, and dairy company
Synlait Milk Ltd. last week said it will offer new and existing
shares to the public and seek a listing.  “The cause of this operational issue will be fully
investigated, the findings of which will be reported back to the
Financial Markets Authority and market participants,”
McLaughlin said in an e-mailed statement.  NZX shares fell 1.5 percent to NZ$1.32. The stock gained 11
percent this year through the end of June, compared with a 9.2
percent advance on the benchmark  NZX 50 Index. (NZSE50FG)  The index fell
0.5 percent to close at 4,418.05 in Wellington.  “It does destroy the whole idea of a perfect market,”
Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based market strategist at IG Markets
Ltd., a provider of trading services for equities, currencies
and commodities, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  