-- New York Flights Delayed as Thunderstorms Sweep Region
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-07-01T19:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/new-york-flights-delayed-as-storms-bring-tornado-warning.html
Flights at New York City-area
airports, the busiest U.S. travel market, face delays of as long
as three hours as severe thunderstorms sweep through the region.  Planes headed to New York’s  John F. Kennedy  and LaGuardia
airports may be about three hours late, the U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration said today on its  travel website .
JetBlue Airways Corp.,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and American
Airlines are among the biggest carriers serving those airports.  New Jersey’s Newark Liberty International Airport, a  United
Airlines (UAL)  hub, has delays of about 90 minutes. Business-jet
operations at New Jersey’s Teterboro Airport were running
roughly on-time after delays earlier today, according to the
FAA’s website.  The National Weather Service said  severe thunderstorms  with
possible flash floods were likely in the New York City area
through this afternoon local time. Earlier the agency said
tornadoes were possible in northeast New Jersey.  About 420 flights in the U.S. had been canceled as of 2:45
p.m. New York time, according to  FlightAware.com , a data-tracking firm based in Houston.  American and its American Eagle regional unit scrubbed 20
flights this morning, and “we expect that number to increase as
the day progresses,” said  Matt Miller , a spokesman for Fort
Worth, Texas-based parent company  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)   US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  had weather delays in the New York
area and at its hub in Philadelphia, said Todd Lehmacher, a
spokesman for the Tempe, Arizona-based carrier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  