-- Nigerian Oil Union Calls Three-Day Strike
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-07-01T16:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/nigerian-oil-union-calls-three-day-strike.html
Nigeria ’s manager-level oil-worker
union called a “three-day warning strike” to press for
improved welfare and better severance allowances for members.  “All service companies to go on full-blown strike”
starting July 4 and “a systematic stoppage of loading vessels
for export at the oil terminals” will begin on July 5, Bayo
Olowoshile, general secretary of the Petroleum and Natural Gas
Senior Staff Association of Nigeria, or Pengassan, said today in
an e-mailed statement. All onshore and offshore locations have
been placed on red alert, he said.  Pengassan also want the government to expedite passage of a
new petroleum industry law, check pipeline sabotage and
intervene in a tax dispute between the maritime regulator and
Nigeria LNG Ltd.  Nigeria is  Africa ’s largest oil producer and a major
supplier of U.S. imports.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Exxon Mobil
Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures
with the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump
about 90 percent of the country’s crude. In the past, Pengassan,
which represents about 24,000 oil workers, has called off
strikes before they started after assurances from the
government.  The planned warning strike will last until the end of July
6, Olowoshile said.  The blue-collar National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas
Workers, or Nupeng, walked off their jobs today in a three-day
strike to protest “unfair labor” practices by Shell, Chevron
and Eni units, Isaac Aberare, general secretary of Nupeng, said
by phone from Lagos, the capital.  Nigeria produced about 1.83 million barrels of crude a day
last month, the least since March, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  