-- Nowhere to Hide in Worst Bond Losses Since 2008: Credit Markets
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-07-01T16:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/nowhere-to-hide-in-worst-bond-losses-since-2008-credit-markets.html
Investors are finding no shelter from
the worst corporate-bond losses in almost five years as debt
plunges for the most creditworthy to the riskiest borrowers in
every industry worldwide.  Company debentures erased 2.2 percent the last three
months, the worst quarterly decline since a 5.2 percent plunge
in the period ended September 2008, when the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. ignited the worst credit crisis since the
Great Depression, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
All 16 industries in the index lost during the period, from a
0.7 percent decline for the debt of automakers to a 3.5 percent
drop in energy-company bonds.  Speculation that Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
may soon lead a pullback from unprecedented stimulus efforts
fueled a 1 percentage point jump in 10-year Treasury yields the
past two months. That sparked withdrawals from bond funds and a
slowdown in corporate debt issuance from a record pace. Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc strategists in the U.S. lowered their
predictions for 2013 gains last week.  “There has been no safe haven,” said Jeroen van den Broek, head of credit strategy for ING Bank NV in Amsterdam, who
recommends investors buy credit, with a preference for
investment-grade debt. “We’re seeing a complete focus on rates
and everything surrounding Bernanke.”  Junk Deflated  Even junk-rated bonds, typically considered a buffer
against rising interest rates because they offer larger relative
yields over Treasuries, lost 1.5 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a 2.4 percent decline for investment-grade notes.  By comparison, when 10-year Treasury yields surged 1.45
percentage points during two months in 2003, speculative-grade
debt fell 2 percent, less than half the 4.3 percent drop in
their higher-graded, lower-yielding counterparts.  “High yield has been hit more than we would have expected,
especially considering the losses we see in investment grade,”
said Putri Pascualy, the senior credit strategist at Pacific
Alternative Asset Management Co. in  Irvine ,  California , which
oversees $4 billion in fixed-income investments. “It’s not
cheap, but it’s approaching fair value.”  Global Spreads  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. and Europe fell to the
lowest in almost two weeks.  Egypt ’s borrowing costs and credit
risk climbed to records as masses poured into the nation’s
streets demanding President Mohamed Mursi step down, prompting
the military to threaten intervention.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s
third-largest power-equipment maker, sold bonds for the first
time since October.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.6 basis points to a
mid-price of 84.5 basis points as of 12:09 p.m. in New York,
poised for the lowest closing level since June 18, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  fell 4.5 to
114.7, the lowest since June 19.  Both indexes typically decline as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Egypt Risk  Credit swaps protecting Egyptian debt against default for
five years climbed 18 basis points to 900, heading for the
highest closing level on record after surging 261 basis points
in June, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The yield on the government’s benchmark $1 billion of 5.75
percent Eurobonds due in April 2020 rose 18 basis points to
10.33 percent at 4:57 p.m. in Cairo. The yield jumped 211 basis
points, or 2.11 percentage points, in June.  The military said it will intervene if the government
doesn’t find a solution to the crisis in the next 48 hours.
Anti-government demonstrations intensified today, with
protesters storming the headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood
and setting it ablaze. The violence reflected the magnitude of
the rift dividing the nation as Mursi’s supporters vowed to
protect him on grounds he was democratically elected a year ago.  Alstom Offering  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 3.7 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Alstom sold 500 million euros ($653 million) of six-year, 3
percent securities to yield 165 basis points more than the mid-swap rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with an average 140 basis-point spread for similarly-rated BBB securities, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  Corporate-bond  sales  of $196.8 billion worldwide in June
were the least since December 2011, bringing this year’s total
to $2 trillion, Bloomberg data show. That’s more than the $1.96
trillion sold in the first six months of 2012, a year in which
offerings reached a record $3.98 trillion worldwide.  Investors Withdraw  U.S.-listed bond mutual funds and exchange-traded funds
posted record monthly redemptions of $61.7 billion through June
24, surpassing the previous record of $41.8 billion in October
2008, according to an e-mailed statement last week by TrimTabs
Investment Research in Sausalito, California.  The bond-market selloff accelerated after Bernanke said
June 19 the Fed may start dialing down its $85 billion monthly
bond purchasing program this year and end it entirely in mid-2014 if growth is in line with the central bank’s estimates.  The comments sparked declines from bonds to stocks as
investors weighed the possibility of an end to easing that has
suppressed interest rates, pushing investors into riskier assets
and helping to keep the U.S. growing in the face of  federal
budget  cuts, a slowdown in  China  and a recession in the euro
area. Less than two months before Bernanke’s comments, global
corporate-bond yields touched a record-low 3.09 percent.  Gains Lost  “The initial reaction was just to sell everything,”
Regina Borromeo, a money manager at Brandywine Global Investment
Management LLC, which oversees $36 billion in fixed-income
assets, said in a telephone interview from London. Rising rates
are logical in light of a gradually recovering U.S. economy,
“but the magnitude of the move and the indiscriminate selling
was a surprise to us,” she said.  The second-quarter decline more than erased a 0.8 percent
gain in the three months ended in March, leaving investors with
a 1.4 percent loss since year-end on the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Corporate & High Yield index, the worst first-half
performance in records dating back to 1997.  Investment-grade securities, which posted their worst June
on record with a 2.4 percent decline, have lost 1.96 percent
this year. Junk bonds declined 2.8 percent last month, paring
the year’s gain to 1 percent, the smallest first-half returns
since 2008. Speculative-grade debt yields fell to a record 5.94
percent on May 9, a week after its duration, a gauge of the
securities’ price sensitivity to rate moves, touched a two-year
high of 4.71.  Emerging Markets  Emerging-market securities are leading the declines as
rising interest rates discourage investors from lending to
companies in developing nations.  Bonds of state-owned oil company Petroleos Mexicanos have
dropped the most among the top 50 issuers this year, with an
average 7.1 percent loss. Debentures of Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
the most indebted publicly traded oil company, posted a 6.3
percent decline.  European bank bonds have performed the best this year, with
French bank  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  debt gaining an average 2 percent
to lead the biggest issuers as the lender completed the sale of
its Greek consumer-bank unit in February and shut its riskiest
investment-banking businesses.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, which is 39 percent-owned by the
U.K. government, has returned 1.6 percent, while  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-biggest bank, has advanced 1.4 percent.  Corporate debt pared losses last week as Fed officials
stepped up a campaign to damp expectations that an increase in
the benchmark interest rate will come sooner than previously
forecast. In Europe, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said June 26 that policy makers will maintain a loose
monetary stance for as long as needed.  ‘Tail End’  Bond yields and risk spreads were too low two months ago
and “the Fed tilted over-risked investors to one side of an
overloaded and over-levered boat,”  Bill Gross , manager of the
world’s largest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management
Co.,  said in a July investment outlook note posted on Pimco’s
website on June 26. “We like bonds here. They won’t make you
rich, but the May/June experience is unlikely to be replicated
in 2013,” Gross wrote on Twitter two days later.  As rates begin to stabilize, investors will return to the
corporate-debt market, according to Ashish Shah, head of global
credit investment at New York-based AllianceBernstein Holding
LP, which oversees about $250 billion in fixed-income assets.
Ten-year Treasuries have eased 18 basis points from a near two-year high of 2.66 percent reached June 24.  “These types of moves burn themselves out,” Shah said.
“We’re in the tail end of this thing, and I do think we’re at a
stage where now is a good time to buy.”  Estimates Pared  U.S. issuance this year will decrease “modestly” from
last year’s record pace as many issuers have already completed
their long-term refinancing plans and with Treasury yields
elevated above historical lows, RBS strategists led by Edward Marrinan wrote in a June 28 report. Investment-grade credit will
return 0.6 percent this year, down from the 3.5 percent
projected in December, they said. Junk-rated debt will return
8.3 percent, compared with the 8.9 percent seen earlier.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. expanded its recommendation for
investors to favor equities over fixed-income investments,
saying they should be underweight both government debt and
corporate credit “given now more clearly negative price
momentum,”  Jan Loeys , the bank’s chief market strategist, wrote
in a June 26 note.  “In an environment like this, it’s going to be an awkward
dance,” Pacific Alternative Asset’s Pascualy said in a
telephone interview. “The Fed takes one step forward, and the
market takes two back. As hard as it is, you just have to look
at the long-term expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  