-- Numbers Go Missing From China Factory Report Without Explanation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-01T09:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/numbers-go-missing-from-china-factory-report-without-explanation.html
An official report on  China ’s
manufacturing in June omitted numbers for  export orders , imports
and inventories of finished goods, without any explanation for
the gaps.  Five of 12 sub-indexes usually released with the Purchasing
Managers’ Index were absent from today’s releases from the
 National Bureau of Statistics  and the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing. The others were for backlogs of work
and quantities of purchases. The statistics bureau didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed questions asking for comment.  Analysts seeking a fuller picture of China’s  economy  could
turn to an English-language version of the report released in
Hong Kong by the Fung Business Intelligence Center, which
included the missing numbers. Inflated trade figures this year
highlighted flaws and omissions in data that investors rely on 
for assessing the strength of the world’s second-biggest economy.  “We hope it’s just a hiccup, and we certainly want the
data released to be consistent and comprehensive,” said  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong
Kong. He said the sub-indexes of export orders, imports and
stocks of finished goods are “important” in reading the
Chinese economy.  The Fung Business Intelligence Center, which is part of
Fung Group, said in its  monthly release  that the export orders
sub-index was at 47.7, which would be the lowest reading since
February.  Both the official PMI and a gauge released by HSBC Holdings
Plc declined in June, indicating weakness in manufacturing as
officials grapple with a cash squeeze in the banking system.  The sub-indexes for exports, imports and inventories became
available after the initial release in a separate data feed from
the China Economic Information Service, said Ding Shuang, senior
China economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong.  “The export and import sub-indexes are very important for
economists to read the trade and economic situation,” Ding
said. “They need to be a bit more consistent in releasing the
data.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  