-- Oak Hill Said to Reap 240% Gain in Sale of 19 TV Stations
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-07-02T01:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/oak-hill-said-to-reap-240-gain-in-sale-of-19-tv-stations.html
Oak Hill Capital Partners, the
private-equity firm backed by Texas financier Robert M. Bass,
will reap more than a 240 percent gain selling Local TV Holdings
LLC to  Tribune Co. (TRBAA)  for $2.73 billion, a person familiar with the
matter said.  Tribune, a Chicago-based media company, said today that it
would buy all 19 television stations owned by Newport, Kentucky-based Local TV. The all-cash purchase would be the biggest U.S.
broadcasting deal in six years.  Oak Hill, based in New York, owns about 95 percent of the
holdings, said the person, asking not to be identified because
the information is private. Including about $530 million it
already has made in dividends, Oak Hill will garner more than
$1.7 billion, or 3.4 times the firm’s $493 million equity
investment, the person said.  “Oak Hill did a very good job working with management to
improve margins by cutting back expenses, and doing better than
their peers in core revenues,” said Carl Salas, a senior
analyst at New York-based credit rater Moody’s Investors
Service. “They outperformed the industry.”  James David, a spokesman for Oak Hill at Kekst & Co.,
declined to comment on the transaction.  Oak Hill, which manages more than $8 billion in assets,
created Local TV in 2007 to buy nine television stations from
New York Times Co. for $575 million. In 2008, it bought eight
stations from News Corp.’s Fox Television Stations arm for $1.1
billion. Both deals were financed mainly with borrowings. It
later added two more stations.  ‘Going Directly’  The group will almost double Tribune’s stable of stations
to 42, the company said in a statement today. The Local TV
assets include 16 markets, with top-rated stations in Denver,
 Cleveland  and St. Louis, the companies said.  Local TV has expanded its advertising base by “going
directly to advertisers and bypassing the usual agencies to
place ads,” according to Salas. The company’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -- a standard
yardstick of financial performance -- is about $250 million a
year based on an average of last year’s results and this year’s
estimate, according to Salas.  That represents a profit margin that has risen to about 40
percent from 33 percent in 2009, he said. Salas used an average
because Ebitda for TV companies tends to rise during election
years.  Oak Hill, which was created in 1999 with Bass as the lead
investor and traces its roots to the mid-1980s, has backed
acquisitions of restaurant operator Dave & Buster’s Inc.,
drugstore chain Duane Reade Inc., business-services outsourcing
firm  Genpact Ltd. (G)  and aerospace-products maker Firth Rixson Ltd.  It completed raising its latest fund, at $3.8 billion, in
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  