-- Mobius Sees U.S. Economy Improving After Stock Market Recovery
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-07-01T13:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/mobius-sees-u-s-economy-improving-after-stock-market-recovery.html
Mark Mobius , who oversees $53 billion
in  emerging markets , said the rebound in U.S. stocks signals the
world’s largest economy will improve by the end of this year.  “There is a recovery in the U.S. now and it’s pretty
substantial already,” Mobius, executive chairman of Templeton
Emerging Markets Group, said in a phone interview from Moscow.
“That tells you you’re going to see a much better economy. By
the end of this year, you’ll see signs of a pick-up.”  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose to a record in May and has
gained 13 percent this year, outstripping emerging market
indexes with Hong Kong’s Hang Seng declining 8 percent and the
MSCI Emerging Market Index dropping 11 percent over the same
period. U.S. employers added 165,000  workers  last month after
hiring 175,000 in May, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the Labor Department data on July 5.  “Unemployment at 7 percent is remarkable,” Mobius said on
June 28. “Markets are built on a wall of worry but volatility
is high and you can have a very rapid change in environment.”  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said at a conference in
Aspen, Colorado last week that while the  U.S. economy  probably
won’t grow as fast as in the 1990s, he’s confident gross
domestic product growth can accelerate. A U.S. recovery may spur
global growth, Mobius said.  Investments in Africa are increasing, said Mobius, who has
about $1 billion in the continent.  “The growth of funds is ongoing,” he said. “We can find
lots of opportunities in listed companies.”  Mobius’s Templeton Africa Fund’s largest investments are in
Nigeria,  South Africa  and Egypt, while favored industries
include financials, consumer staples and telecommunication
services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  