-- Lockheed Martin Creates Overseas-Focused Unit Amid Export Drive
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-01T13:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/lockheed-martin-creates-overseas-focused-unit-amid-export-drive.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense company, is establishing a unit dedicated to
export business as it seeks to offset declining sales at home
amid Pentagon spending cuts.  The effort is focused on strengthening existing ties and
building new ones, Lockheed Martin President and Chief Executive
Officer Marillyn Hewson told reporters in London today. The
business will have dual headquarters in London and in the
Washington D.C. area.  U.S. defense contractors are increasingly looking overseas
for sales, particularly in Asia and the  Middle East . Some of
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin’s European and U.S.
rivals have been boosting their presence abroad to win orders
overseas.  “Lockheed Martin International is a key component of our
growth strategy,” Hewson said. “We are bringing additional
resources and we are bringing additional leadership focus.”  The maker of the  U-2 high-altitude reconnaissance jet  and
Trident ballistic missiles wants to boost sales from exports in
the coming years to 20 percent of revenue from 17 percent,
Hewson said. About $8 billion in sales currently stem from
overseas business, she said.  The company, which has seven corporate offices, will expand
some foreign locations and consider adding more, Hewson said. In
the U.K., its largest operation outside the U.S., it’s adding
400 staff this year, she said.  Pat Dewar, who will head the business, said sales of the
company’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter to foreign buyers will equal
those to the Pentagon over the next five years. Export customers
include the U.K.,  Australia , and  Israel . As the company expands
overseas, it’s offset responsibility, the value of transactions
that buying countries require to flow back to them, will also
grow, Dewar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  