-- Moffett Hires Ex-Nomura Analyst Michael Nathanson
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-07-01T13:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/moffett-research-brings-on-ex-nomura-analyst-michael-nathanson.html
Moffett Research LLC , the
telecommunications research firm started by Craig Moffett last
month, is adding ex-Nomura Holdings Inc. media analyst Michael Nathanson and changing its name to MoffettNathanson LLC.  Nathanson will join the firm in early September, Moffett
said in an interview. Nathanson has been at Nomura since 2010,
following 12 years as a senior media analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., where he worked with Moffett.  Nathanson, 50, has been named the No. 1 media analyst for
six of the past seven years by Institutional Investor magazine.
The two men regularly wrote research reports together on media
companies and pay-TV providers at Bernstein, a division of New
York-based AllianceBernstein LP.  “Michael’s the best media analyst on Wall Street,”
Moffett said. “He’s also a fantastic collaborator, and right
now, what investors need is a holistic view of how the pieces
fit together.”  Former Bernstein colleagues Patrick O’Connell, Ethan
Steinberg and John Towers, as well as attorney David Cielusniak,
have joined Moffett at the new firm.  The New York-based company will cover cable and satellite
providers, media and telecommunications. Moffett followed fellow
equity analysts  Meredith Whitney  and Dana Telsey in leaving
banks to start their own research firms.  Nathanson has also worked for Time Inc. and Rainbow
Programming Holdings LLC, then a joint venture between
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  and NBC Universal.  “We’re getting the band back together,” Nathanson said.
“Now, more than ever, what matters to media investors is
insight across the whole value chain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  