-- OGX Cancels OSX Contracts as It Weighs Shutting Oil Field
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-07-01T20:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ogx-cancels-osx-contracts-as-it-weighs-shutting-oil-field.html
Billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA tumbled to record lows as a
warning that the company may shut its only producing wells
intensified speculation it will have to restructure debt.  OGX shares posted a record 30 percent drop, erasing about
$300 million of market value, while its bonds due 2018 fell to
19 cents on the dollar. The Rio de Janeiro-based producer said
in a regulatory filing today that it’s considering halting
output at the Tubarao Azul field after a technical review and
canceled orders for new oil platforms.  Batista’s natural resources and logistics startups made him
the world’s eighth richest person in March 2012 with an
estimated $34.5 billion fortune. Now he’s scaling back projects
and selling assets after net debt at his EBX Group Co. holding
almost doubled the combined market value of its units and his
own wealth shrank to $4.7 billion. OGX shares have slumped 87
percent this year after missed targets and production delays.  “OGX is on the ropes and could face imminent financial
restructuring,” Michael Wang, an analyst at IHS Herold in
Norwalk,  Connecticut , said by phone. “The company may go
bankrupt and not be able to pay its debt.’  OGX informed its shipbuilding sister company  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) 
that it will pay the lease on the OSX-2 platform until it’s sold
or relocated, according to the filing. The company also canceled
tentative orders for the OSX-4 and OSX-5 platforms and for three
so-called wellhead platforms, or WHPs.  ‘Unraveling Process’  Following today’s announcements, OGX will pay $449 million
compensation to OSX, which provides the platform at Tubarao
Azul. That’s 39 percent of the oil’s producer’s cash at the end
of the first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX’s total debt reached 7.99 billion reais in the first
quarter from zero two years earlier,  the data  show. At today’s
prices the company’s dollar-denominated bonds total $3.6 billion
and its market value is about $800 million.  ‘‘You need to restructure the debt or bring cash into the
group,” said Eric Conrads, who manages about $750 million of
Latin American stocks at ING Investment Management in New York.
“Its an unraveling process, stuff needs to happen or else it
goes to zero.”  OGX’s dollar bonds due 2018 lost 13 cents to 19 cents at
4:36 p.m. in Sao Paulo, pushing up the yield to 64 percent.
OGX’s shares slumped a record 30 percent to 55 centavos, leading
declines by Batista-controlled companies. OSX dollar bonds due
2015, which are backed by the OSX-3 platform, slid 3 cents to 85
cents, sending the yield to 21 percent.  Put Option  OGX has the chance of exercising a $1 billion put option
awarded by controlling stakeholder Batista to fund its
investment program. The option, which expires April 30, is still
a viable funding option, OGX’s press office said today in an e-mailed response to questions. OGX hasn’t filed for bankruptcy
protection, the company said.  Banco Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Banco Bradesco SA and Grupo
BTG Pactual are among Batista’s biggest creditors, two people
familiar with the debt said in March. Bradesco and BTG press
officers declined to comment in e-mailed responses to questions.
Itau officials didn’t return an e-mail and a telephone call
seeking comment.  OGX is also considering requesting  Brazil ’s oil regulator
to suspend the license to develop the Tubarao Tigre, Tubarao
Gato and Tubarao Areia offshore fields, where the OSX-2 platform
was to be deployed, according to today’s filing.     Development
of the Tubarao Martelo field, where OGX will use the OSX-3, will
continue.  “At this time, there doesn’t exist any type of technology
available to make investments in this field financially viable
with the aim of increasing its production,” OGX said in
reference to Tubarao Azul.  Worst Performer  On May 8, OGX  sold  a 40 percent stake in the Martelo
project to Petroliam Nasional Bhd. for $850 million. OGX will
receive $250 million once the deal is approved, another $500
million when production starts and $100 million after meeting
three separate output targets.  Batista  created  OSX in 2010 to supply vessels to OGX. While
the shipbuilder has sought to diversify its client base, it has
yet to supply vessels to other customers. OSX will use 70
percent of OGX’s $449 million payment to conclude OSX-3 and
WHP-2, according to the filings. OGX will also continue to meet
lease payments for the OSX-1 platform being used at the Tubarao
Azul field.  OSX, which rose as much as 5 percent before declining 2.9
percent to 1.36 real, is benefiting from OGX’s commitment to
continue paying rental fees on its equipment despite the
production failures, said Rogerio Freitas, who helps manage
about $100 million at hedge fund Teorica Investimentos.  “OSX will receive leasing payments, and it can still sell
the assets,” Freitas said by phone from Rio. “They have the
capacity to survive independent of OGX.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  