-- Oil Rises on Manufacturing Data Amid Middle East Tension
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-07-01T19:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/oil-roises-on-manufacturing-data-amid-middle-east-tension.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
for the fifth time in six days on signs of growth and concern
than protests in Egypt will spread. WTI’s discount to Brent
narrowed to less than $5 a barrel for the first time since 2011.  Crude gained 1.5 percent as U.S. manufacturing rebounded
last month and euro-area manufacturing output contracted less
than estimated. Egypt’s military issued a 48-hour ultimatum for
political leaders to find a solution to the country’s crisis,
warning the demands of the people can’t be ignored.  “We are seeing signs of growth in the U.S. and it’s good
for oil demand,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the
Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “We did get some strong data
out of  Europe . The protest in Egypt is making people concerned
about oil supplies.”  WTI for August delivery advanced $1.43 to $97.99 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since June 19. The volume of all futures traded was 21 percent
above the 100-day average at 2:34 p.m.  Brent for August delivery increased 84 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $103 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 3.8 percent below the 100-day average. The European benchmark’s premium to WTI fell as low
as $4.77 and ended the day at $5.01, the narrowest based on
settlement prices since Jan. 4, 2011.  Manufacturing Rebound  U.S. manufacturing  rebounded last month from its largest
contraction since 2009, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
index showed. The gauge increased to 50.9 from 49 in May. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for
the measure to rise to 50.5. A reading of 50 is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  “The number is not bad,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “The market
overall remains bullish. There are still not a lot of other
places to put your money in.”  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area
increased to 48.8 last month from 48.3 in May, London-based
Markit Economics said.  The U.S. and European Union used 35 percent of world’s oil
in 2012, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World
Energy.  ‘Road Map’  Egypt’s armed forces said in a statement that the demands
of the people can’t be ignored and it would issue its own “road
map” if the deadline is not met, according to a statement read
on state television.  Hundreds of thousands of President Mohamed Mursi’s
opponents took to the streets nationwide yesterday in  Egypt , the
largest Arab nation, marking the end of the Islamist leader’s
first year in office with demands that he quit.  Almost 18,000 ships transited Egypt’s Suez Canal in 2011 in
both directions, of which 20 percent were petroleum tankers,
according to the  Energy Information Administration .  “The price gain is tied to what’s happening in Egypt, not
that it is a major oil exporter, but this is setting up the
conditions for an arc of unrest,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion.  The protests come amid continuous armed conflict in  Syria ,
raising concern that tensions may spread to larger oil-exporting
nations in the  Middle East , which collectively accounts for 34
percent of world oil supply.  Syria borders  Iraq  and is near  Iran , countries that
together hold almost a fifth of the production capacity of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according to
Bloomberg estimates.  Buzzard Field  North Sea production at the Buzzard field operated by Nexen
Inc. is said to be running at rates as much as 25 percent less
than normal, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter.  Buzzard is the largest contributor to the Forties crude
grade, which sets the value of Dated Brent, the benchmark used
to price more than half of the world’s crude.  “The protests in Egypt and the shutdown of the Buzzard
field are supporting factors but not the primary one because
then Brent would be leading the way,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New York . “WTI is
outperforming Brent, which is a sign that we’re moving on U.S.
supply fundamentals.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 19.4 percent, down from 19.7 percent on June 28, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 617,242
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. It totaled 565,994 contracts on June
28, the lowest level since June 18. Open interest was 1.82
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  