-- Thoma Bravo to Buy Financial Services Unit From Intuit
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-07-01T20:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/thoma-bravo-to-buy-financial-services-unit-from-intuit.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU)  rose the most in more
than two months after private-equity firm Thoma Bravo LLC agreed
to buy the small-business software maker’s financial-services
unit for $1.025 billion in cash.  Shares of Intuit advanced 3.5 percent to $63.15 at the
close in  New York , the biggest gain since April 26.  Mountain
View , California-based Intuit, which makes financial and tax-preparation software for small businesses and consumers, plans
to use the proceeds to buy back shares, the company said in a
statement today.  Intuit is seeking to diversify beyond desktop software and
Web services, including QuickBooks and TurboTax, into software
for tablet computers and smartphones. Intuit also plans to seek
a buyer for its health unit, a Web-based service for medical
providers to manage appointments and billing, it said in a
separate statement. The moves will let the company sharpen its
focus on its core markets, according to  Brad Smith , Intuit’s
Chief Executive Officer.  Banking software and tools for doctors’ offices had been
“slow revenue growers and had the lowest segment margins” at
the company, according to  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG.
Thill recommends buying the shares.  Intuit’s health business, the result of its $91 million
2010  acquisition  of Medfusion Inc., took a $46 million
impairment charge in the fiscal third quarter that reduced the
value of Intuit Health “to zero,” according to a May 30  filing 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The business’s largest customer made an acquisition that
turned it into a direct competitor, the filing said. That
customer was  Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc. (MDRX) , Diane Carlini, a spokeswoman for Intuit, said.  Divesting Businesses  Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen & Co. who has an
outperform rating on Intuit, said in an e-mail that makers of
medical-practice management software could be potential buyers
for Intuit’s health, which generated about $15 million in sales
last year.  Thoma Bravo will establish Intuit Financial Services, which
enables banks and credit unions to offer online and mobile-payment services to customers, as a separate company. The
business had revenues of $305 million in the last fiscal year
and is expected to generate sales of $325 million in the 2013
fiscal year, according to the statement. The  Westlake Village ,
California-based unit has 730 employees in the U.S. and  India .  Recurring Revenue  “Thoma Bravo’s acquisition of IFS is consistent with our
strategy of buying great technology franchises with significant
recurring revenue,” Orlando Bravo, a managing partner at the
private-equity firm, said in the statement.  Thoma Bravo concentrates on investing in software,
education and financial-services companies. It manages funds
with about $4 billion of commitments from offices in Chicago and
 San Francisco .  Golder Thoma & Co., which was started by Stanley Golder and
Carl Thoma in 1980, split into two firms in 1998. GTCR, the
other firm, has invested more than $10 billion in more than 200
companies, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  