-- Mortgage Bonds Drop Up to 22% in June as Some 2013 Gains Erased
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-01T17:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/mortgage-bonds-drop-up-to-22-in-june-as-some-2013-gains-erased.html
U.S.  home-loan bonds  without
government backing tumbled last month to leave several types of
the debt trading at their lowest prices of the year.  Declines reached almost 22 percent in June among certain
 subprime -mortgage securities, according to a June 28 report by
Bank of America Corp. While returns remain positive this year
among subprime-backed bonds, including gains of 12.5 percent for
those notes, losses in 2013 for other non-agency securities are
as high as 4 percent and bonds tied to mortgages known as prime-jumbo and  Alt-A loans  now trade below values at the end of last
year, according to the report and data from Barclays Plc.  The debt is slumping, after soaring earlier this year, as
concern that the Federal Reserve will curb its bond buying roils
credit markets and boosts interest rates. Investors are also
finding trading more difficult after an $8.7 billion sale of
holdings by Lloyds Banking Group Plc in May that was the largest
of its type since at least 2010 bloated dealer  inventories .  “The non-agency market is likely to remain volatile over
the near term,” New York-based Barclays analysts including
Sandeep Bordia and Jasraj Vaidya wrote in a June 28 report. “We
believe that current prices represent attractive entry points
for investors with long-term capital, who are able to take some
mark-to-market volatility.”  Typical prices for senior securities backed by option
adjustable-rate mortgages dropped last week to 65.5 cents on the
dollar, from 74 cents in mid-May, to fall below their value of
66 cents on Jan. 1, according to Barclays. The underlying loans
can allow borrowers to pay less than the interest due by
increasing how much they owe.  Jumbo Loans  Securities tied to jumbo fixed-rate loans and ARMs and
fixed Alt-A mortgages have also fallen below their prices at the
start of 2013, according to the bank. Jumbo mortgages are larger
than government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are allowed
to finance; borrowers with Alt-A loans often failed to document
their incomes or bought investment properties.  Losses among some Alt-A ARM securities reached as high as
13.4 percent last month, to create declines of 1.5 percent this
year among those notes, according to Bank of America. Losses
among jumbo securities reached as high as 8.5 percent in June,
leaving some debt down 4 percent in 2013, according to the bank.  Many of the bonds that still have positive returns this
year are “more reliant on recoveries on defaulted properties,”
which can be improved by home price appreciation, Bank of
America analysts Chris Flanagan, Ryan Asato and Justin Borst
wrote.  Home prices climbed 12.1 percent in the 12 months through
April, the most in more than seven years, according to an
S&P/Case-Shiller index of values in 20 metropolitan areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 