-- Emerging Stocks Cap Longest Gain Since March on U.S. Data
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-07-01T21:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/most-emerging-stocks-gain-as-philippines-rallies-htc-declines.html
Emerging-market stocks capped the
longest rally since March, currencies gained and bond yields
retreated, as a rebound in U.S. manufacturing bolstered optimism
that global economic growth will pick up.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 0.2 percent to
941.93, advancing a fifth day. Gold producers led South Africa’s
FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index higher, while Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
paced declines in Sao Paulo. South Korea’s won climbed the most
in almost five months and the premium investors demand to own
emerging-market debt over U.S. Treasuries retreated for a fifth
consecutive day, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  American manufacturing rose more-than-forecast in June,
showing gains in the U.S. housing market and stronger auto sales
are helping stabilize industry.  Egypt ’s borrowing costs and
credit risk climbed to a record after masses poured into the
streets demanding President Mohamed Mursistep down. The iShares
MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded fund rose for a
fifth day, adding 0.3 percent to $38.62.  The U.S. data was “mildly better than consensus,” David Sowerby, who helps oversee about $190 billion at Loomis Sayles &
Co. in Bloomfield Hills,  Michigan , said by phone. “For an
investor who can be patient,  emerging markets  present value.”  Seven out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
gained, led by health-care and commodity shares. The broad
measure has slumped 11 percent this year, compared with a 7.9
percent advance in a measure of developed nations’ stocks. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, fell 7.1 percent to 25.64.  Brazilian Shares  Brazil ’s Ibovespa slid as economists cut estimates for
Brazil’s growth. OGX plunged 29 percent after saying it may shut
its only producing wells next year. Mining company MMX Mineracao
& Metalicos SA and port developer LLX Logistica SA, also
controlled by Batista, dropped.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rebounded in Moscow after the worst
quarterly slump in a year as metal producers rallied. OAO
Novolipetsk Steel increased 3.3 percent, after slumping 12
percent last quarter. OAO Rostelecom jumped 1.7 percent as
 Russia ’s largest fixed-line operator started accepting offers
from shareholders after proposing to buy back stock at a premium
to the market.  Turkish shares gained, while benchmark gauges  Poland , the
Czech Republic and  Hungary  retreated. South Africa’s equity
benchmark gained a fifth day as  DRDGold Ltd. (DRD)  surged 6.1 percent.  PetroChina Rallies  Chinese stocks completed the first back-to-back gain in a
month as money-market rates slumped. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.8 percent as PetroChina Co. rose for a third
day after the biggest energy producer slid to a record low last
week. Hong Kong’s markets were shut for a holiday.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex rose 0.9 percent, after the most in
18 months on June 28. Reliance Industries Ltd., owner of the
world’s largest refining complex, reached a five-month high.  The cost of protecting Egyptian debt against default for
five years soared 43 basis points today to 925, according to
CMA. The contracts surged 261 basis points in June. The stock
market was closed for a holiday. Anti-government demonstrations
intensified today, with protesters storming the Cairo
headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood and setting it ablaze.  South Korea’s won advanced the most in almost five months
as data showed the nation’s June trade surplus was near the
highest level since 2010. Bonds fell.  The extra yield for emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries declined three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 337 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  