-- Toyota Targets Myanmar Among New Emerging Markets for Expansion
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-07-01T05:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/toyota-targets-myanmar-among-new-emerging-markets-for-expansion.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest automaker, plans to expand in Myanmar, Cambodia and
Kenya as part of its push to attract first-time buyers and get
about half of global sales from  emerging markets .  Toyota plans to work closely with its Daihatsu Motor Co.
unit to develop compact cars for emerging markets, Executive
Vice President Yasumori Ihara said at a briefing in Nagoya,
 Japan , today.  “Compared with  North America ,  Europe  or Japan, where
buyers are mostly replacement buyers, it’s mostly first-time
buyers in emerging markets,” said Ihara, who is in charge of
Toyota’s emerging-markets business. “It’s where the future
growth is.”  Toyota and other foreign automakers are expanding in
 developing countries , where increasing numbers of consumers are
becoming rich enough to afford cars for the first time.  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-largest automaker, will introduce its
first Datsun model this month in  India , after reviving the
marque as a budget brand for emerging markets.  Toyota counts  China , Southeast Asia, India and  Brazil  as
its key emerging markets, Ihara said at the briefing, held to
introduce senior management after a reshuffle by President Akio Toyoda in March.  On Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic policies, Executive
Vice President Nobuyori Kodaira said the weaker yen has created
a “good” business environment.  Toyota is reviewing its forecasts for global sales and
production for the 2013 fiscal year, Kodaira said today in
Nagoya, without being more specific.  -- Editors: Chua Kong Ho, Terje Langeland  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  