-- Pfizer’s Eliquis Stops Blood Clots as Well as Standard
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-01T20:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/pfizer-s-eliquis-stops-blood-clots-as-well-as-standard.html
Eliquis, the blood thinner sold by
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , was as good as the
current standard of care in preventing blood clots and with
fewer bleeding complications, according to a study.  In a trial of 5,400 people, the drug was found to be
equivalent to the generic warfarin at preventing new clots and
death in patients who had a venous thromboembolism, or VTE. In
VTE, clots form in the body’s large arteries, often in the legs
or pelvis. The clots can then break off and travel into the
lungs, causing a potentially deadly pulmonary embolism.  Eliquis is one of three in a new class of blood thinners
that may replace warfarin, a half-century old therapy that needs
regular monitoring and requires patients to avoid certain foods.
Bristol-Myers and Pfizer will use the results of the study to
apply to regulators for using Eliquis in short- and long-term
treatment of VTE. It’s already approved for stroke prevention in
patients with irregular heartbeat.  “We have data to support a real change in clinical
practice,” said Giancarlo Agnelli, a professor of internal
medicine at Italy’s University of Perugia who led the trial.
Current therapy “has some limitations,” he said. With Eliquis,
“we have a new compound and a new way to give it that’s much,
much easier.”  Bristol-Myers and Pfizer, both based in  New York , sponsored
the trial. It is being published in the New England Journal of
Medicine and presented at the Congress of the International
Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis in Amsterdam.  Pfizer  shares  fell less than 1 percent to $27.78 at the
close in New York. Bristol-Myers rose less than 1 percent to
$44.82.  Study Findings  Patients in the  study  were given Eliquis or warfarin for
six months after being diagnosed with a VTE that came on
suddenly, instead of from an expected cause such as surgery or
childbirth. Of the patients on Eliquis, 2.3 percent died or had
another clot, compared with 2.7 percent on warfarin. The
warfarin patients also typically received heparin, another blood
thinner typically given in a hospital, in the early part of
treatment.  “This population is of very high risk of recurrence,”
Agnelli, referring to a deep-vein thrombosis, said in a
telephone interview. “If you have deep-vein thrombosis after
surgery, the recurrence rate is much lower.”  Eliquis was better than warfarin in terms of safety, the
trial also found. In the study, 0.6 percent of patients on
Eliquis had major bleeding -- for example inside the eye, skull,
gastro-intestinal tract or in other major organs -- compared
with 1.8 percent of patients on warfarin.  Competing Drugs  Xarelto, a competing drug sold by Leverkusen, Germany-based
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
already is approved for VTE.  Boehringer Ingelheim ’s Pradaxa,
also one of the new wave of blood thinners, isn’t yet approved
in the U.S. for VTE.  New treatments for VTE can help save money because they can
shorten the time patients are taking the heparin, often the
first treatment they get before warfarin, and staying in the
hospital, said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann &
Co. “Venous thrombosis treatment with Xarelto is a big cost-saver for hospitals, driving incremental access and uptake,” he
said in an April 5 note to clients. “Success in VTE treatment
could be a major boon to BMY/PFE’s Eliquis,” Fernandez said.  From 300,000 to 900,000 people in the U.S. have a venous
thromboembolism each year, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta. About half of those occur
after a hospital stay or surgery, according to the CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  