-- PGA Tour to Adopt Ban on Use of Anchored Putting Strokes in 2016
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-07-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/pga-tour-to-adopt-ban-on-use-of-anchored-putting-strokes-in-2016.html
The U.S.  PGA Tour  said yesterday it
will adopt the  U.S. Golf Association ’s ban on the use of
anchored putting strokes, beginning in 2016.  The ruling by the Policy Board for the world’s top
professional golf circuit comes after PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said its players had opposed banning a technique that
has been used by players to win four of the past seven major
professional tournaments.  The outlawing of a stroke in which the player’s putter
rests against the body to create a pendulum-like swing will
begin Jan. 1, 2016, the USGA and Royal & Ancient Golf Club said
in May. While the proposed rule is intended for all players, the
PGA Tour’s Policy Board yesterday passed a resolution asking the
USGA to extend the period for amateurs to adopt the rule beyond
2016.  “In making its decision, the Policy Board recognized that
there are still varying opinions among our membership, but
ultimately concluded that while it is an important issue, a ban
on anchored strokes would not fundamentally affect a strong
presentation of our competitions or the overall success of the
PGA Tour,” Finchem said in a statement. “Having a single set
of rules on acceptable strokes applicable to all professional
competitions worldwide was desirable and would avoid
confusion.”  The new rule, known as Rule 14-1b, will not alter current
equipment rules and allows for the continued use of all
conforming clubs, including long-handled and belly putters,
provided they are not anchored to the body.  Increased Use  The use of anchored putting strokes, which first gained
popularity among players on the 50-and-over tour, has increased
at all levels during the past decade. While many players,
including 14-time major tournament winner  Tiger Woods , oppose
its use, others including  South Africa ’s  Tim Clark  and American
Keegan Bradley are against a ban and have threatened possible
legal action.  While the stroke is used primarily in putting, the ban
would apply to its use with any club on the course.  Bradley became the first player to use a so-called belly
putter to win one of golf’s four Grand Slam events when he
captured the 2011  PGA Championship .  Australia ’s  Adam Scott  won the  Masters Tournament  in April
using a putter that he anchored against his chest. Tianlang
Guan, a 14-year-old Chinese amateur, became the youngest player
to make the 36-hole cut at the Masters while using a similar
stroke.  In 2012, 15 percent of professional golfers used anchored
putters, up from 6 percent from 2006 through 2010, the two
groups said when disclosing the proposed ban in November.  The U.S. PGA Tour had opposed the ban, while the European
PGA Tour had said it would support the decision to outlaw the
stroke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  