-- Philippine Pension Fund Boosts Stock Investments During Sell-Off
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-07-01T08:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/philippine-pension-fund-boosts-stock-investments-during-sell-off.html
The second-largest Philippine pension
fund may increase its holdings of local stocks after buying
shares during the recent market rout, Social Security System
Executive Vice President Edgar Solilapsi said.  “We have added to our holdings and are still adding since
several stocks meet our criteria,” Solilapsi said in an
interview today in  Manila . The fund may boost its equity
allocation to 30 percent from as much as 25 percent, he said. It
has between 85 billion pesos and 95 billion pesos ($2.2 billion)
currently invested in equities, Solilapsi said.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  dropped 22 percent from
the May 15 peak through June 25 as foreign investors pulled
funds on concern the U.S. would reduce monetary stimulus.
Overseas sales of Philippine stocks totaled $240 million in
June, the most since December 2008. The market climbed 1 percent
today, completing a four-day, 13 percent rally that’s the
steepest in more than four years.  The pension fund, which serves employees of the private
sector, bought shares in finance companies, power generation and
distribution firms, as well as infrastructure and
telecommunications companies, Solilapsi said.  The Philippine benchmark stock index  trades  at 18.1 times
projected 12-month earnings after reaching 20.9 times on May 15.
The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is valued at a multiple of 9.8.
Overseas investors bought a net $81.8 million worth of
Philippine shares on June 28, the third day of net purchases and
the largest inflow since May 31.  Economic Growth  “We are comfortable with market valuations because we
think Philippine growth prospects are sustainable,” Solilapsi
said.  The Philippine economy expanded at a faster-than-estimated
7.8 percent pace in the first quarter, more than  China ’s 7.7
percent, while the nation has won its first investment grade
rating this year.  The Philippine index’s 30-day historical  volatility  rose to
45 today, the highest level since December 2008.  “The market’s recent correction didn’t affect our long-term strategy of boosting the fund’s earnings,” Solilapsi said.
“Our long-term strategy is to buy shares in businesses that
make money and pay dividends on time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  