-- Poor Rules Almost Led to Mid-Air Collisions, NTSB Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-01T22:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/poor-rules-almost-led-to-mid-air-collisions-ntsb-says.html
A series of near mid-air collisions
at commercial airports in recent years exposed inadequate air-traffic control procedures that create excessive risk for planes
aborting a landing, accident investigators said today.  There is “no safety justification” for current rules that
in at least five cases since 2006, including four last year, put
planes on collision courses near an airport, the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board said today.  The current rule “facilitates hazardous conflicts and
introduces unnecessary collision risk,” and may leave pilots on
their own to avoid hitting another plane, the NTSB said in a
letter to the  Federal Aviation Administration  calling for a
change in procedures.  The near collisions occurred when the plane that aborted
its landing began climbing just as another aircraft lifted off
from or prepared to land at an adjacent runway, putting the two
planes flying toward each other, the NTSB said.  The incidents occurred at Las Vegas McCarran International,
 New York ’s John F. Kennedy International and Charlotte-Douglas
International, according to the safety board.  The agency, which investigates aviation accidents and
incidents, has no regulatory authority and can only make
recommendations for safety improvements.  “The NTSB has determined that existing FAA separation
standards and operating procedures are inadequate and need to be
revised to ensure the safe separation between aircraft near the
airport environment,” the agency said in an e-mail.  Converging Runways  Planes are allowed to land and take off simultaneously on
runways with converging paths if the runways don’t touch.
Normally, planes on the two runways stay apart as the landing
plane slows and turns off the runway.  A safety issue arises in the unusual case when pilots on a
plane that is about to land decide to abort the landing in what
is known as a “ go around .” Pilots are encouraged to go around
if they aren’t properly set up to touch down or another plane is
on the runway.  At some airports, such as at  Las Vegas  and New York’s
Kennedy, a pilot who aborts a landing and begins climbing may
head directly for the path of other departing or arriving
flights, according to the safety board.  Separated Planes  If planes are taking off on runways with converging paths,
FAA regulations require controllers to wait for one plane to
clear the airspace before allowing another one to take off, to
keep them separated. The current rules contain no such
requirement in the event of an aborted takeoff, according to
NTSB.  “Instead, separation was established by resorting to
impromptu evasive maneuvers by pilots during critical phases of
flight,” the NTSB said.  A  Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE)  plane, an Airbus SAS A319, and a
Cessna Aircraft Co. Citation 510 corporate jet came within one-quarter mile (0.37 kilometers) of colliding just above Las
Vegas’ airport on July 30, 2012, according to the NTSB.  As the Spirit plane climbed, the Citation’s pilots had to
turn left to go behind it, according to the board’s letter.  On the same day at Kennedy, an  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  American Airlines
Inc. Boeing Co. 757 came within 0.35 miles (0.56 kilometers) of
a Pinnacle Airlines Corp. Bombardier Inc. CRJ 200 regional jet,
the NTSB said in the letter.  The American plane had aborted its landing and climbed
toward the Pinnacle aircraft. The American pilot refused a
directive from an air-traffic controller to climb to 2,000 feet
altitude.  “Negative, we are trying not to hit this aircraft off our
right,” the pilot replied, according to the safety board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  