-- Portugal’s Albuquerque to Replace Gaspar as Finance Chief
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-07-02T09:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/portugal-s-albuquerque-to-replace-gaspar-as-finance-minister.html
Portugal  said Secretary of State for
Treasury Maria Luis  Albuquerque  will replace Vitor Gaspar as
Finance Minister two years after the government took office.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva accepted the proposal from
Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  about Gaspar’s resignation
and the appointment of Albuquerque, the presidency said on its
website. Albuquerque, 45, will be sworn in at 5 p.m. in Lisbon
today. Gaspar asked to resign, the prime minister’s office said
in an e-mail.  “It’s my firm conviction that my departure will contribute
to reinforce the leadership and cohesion of the government
team,” Gaspar wrote in a resignation letter addressed to the
prime minister and e-mailed by the  Finance Ministry . “The risks
and challenges of the near future are enormous. They demand
government cohesion.”  Passos Coelho is battling rising joblessness and a
deepening recession as he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet
the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($102 billion) aid plan from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . Coelho
announced measures on May 3 intended to generate savings of
about 4.8 billion euros through 2015 that include reducing the
number of state workers.  Deficit Targets  “The timing of the resignation is not great, as the eighth
review of the aid program is due to start in two weeks’ time,”
 Ricardo Santos , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said
in a note today.  On March 15, the government announced less ambitious
targets for narrowing its  budget deficit  as it forecast the
economy will shrink twice as much as previously estimated this
year. It targets a deficit of 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3 percent
limit in 2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. Portugal
forecasts  debt  will peak at 123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  “The repetition of this slippage undermined my credibility
as finance minister,” Gaspar said in the letter. Portugal in
September had already been given more time to narrow its budget
gap after  tax revenue  missed forecasts.  On Oct. 3 Gaspar announced a plan to implement an
“enormous” increase in taxes on wages and other income in 2013
to meet budget deficit targets. He is a former head of the
Bureau of European Policy Advisers at the European Commission
and a former director-general of research at the  European
Central Bank .  Second Attempt  Gaspar said he had already asked to be replaced in October
after a July 2012 Constitutional Court ruling that blocked
certain pay cuts for government workers in 2013, and a decline
in public support following proposed changes to social security
tax.  Olli Rehn, the EU’s economic and monetary affairs
commissioner, said Gaspar showed “unwavering commitment” to
Portugal’s adjustment program. “I am confident that Maria Luis
Albuquerque will show similar commitment and determination,”
Rehn said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Albuquerque worked at Portuguese debt agency IGCP before
joining the government in 2011. As secretary of state,
Albuquerque has overseen the debt agency.  Portugal’s IGCP sold 10-year bonds on May 7 for the first
time in more than two years as a decline in  interest rates 
worldwide spurred demand for higher-yielding assets. It had
stopped selling bonds until this year after requesting the
bailout in April 2011 following a surge in debt levels and
borrowing costs.  Bond Yields  The yield on Portugal’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 7 basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.47 percent at 9:50 a.m.
in London. The two-year bond yield declined 2 basis points to
3.42 percent. The  difference  in yield that investors demand to
hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds has
narrowed to 4.77 percentage points from a euro-era record of 16
percentage points in January 2012.  Portugal pays an average interest rate on its aid loans of
3.25 percent, Passos Coelho said on May 10. His coalition
government is backed by the  Social Democrats  and the
conservative CDS party, which together have a majority of seats
in parliament.  Passos Coelho also named Helder Reis as the new secretary
of state for the budget and Joaquim Pais Jorge as the new
secretary of state for treasury. The other three secretaries of
state at the finance ministry will remain in their posts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  