-- Providence’s Halpin Said to Join NFL on Smaller Fundraise
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-07-02T01:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/providence-s-halpin-said-to-join-nfl-on-fundraising-woes.html
Christopher Halpin left Providence
Equity Partners Inc. for a position with the  National Football
League , according to two people familiar with the matter, at
least the eighth managing director to depart the buyout firm
since the start of last year.  Halpin, who joined Providence in 2000 and was most recently
a partner in the firm’s media buyouts group, joined the NFL as a
vice president of media strategy and business development, said
one of the people, who requested anonymity because neither
Providence nor the NFL announced the move publicly. Halpin was
based in  Providence ’s  New York  office and previously helped
start its Hong Kong office.  Halpin joins at least seven managing directors who have
left the Providence, Rhode Island-based firm since last year.
The company, run by Chief Executive Officer  Jonathan Nelson , is
set to close its seventh fund this month with $5 billion, a
revised target after the firm initially sought $6 billion when
it started fundraising in the first half of 2011, one of the
people said. Providence’s previous fund brought in $12.1 billion
in 2007.  The NFL in March  said  it partnered with Providence to
invest in sports- and entertainment-related media assets,
targeting growth-oriented investments of $25 million to $50
million in private companies.  Andrew Cole, a spokesman for Providence at public-relations
firm Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment. Halpin didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment.  Media Focus  Other recent departures include Patrick Corso, who was a
senior managing director and head of the Hong Kong office, and
Julie Fisher, head of  investor relations , the people said. Jesse
Du Bey and Nadim Nsouli left the firm earlier this year to
pursue other opportunities, according to an investor letter, a
copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News . Mark Masiello and
Gustavo Schwed left last year, and Julie Richardson, who helped
start the firm’s New York office, stepped back to become a
senior adviser.  Providence, started in 1989, oversees $28 billion in assets
and concentrates on deals in media, communications, education
and information-related companies. The firm is adjusting for
“departures that often occur at the start of a new fund’s
investment period,” it said in the investor letter. The average
tenure of managing directors at the firm is 12 years, said one
of the people.  Yankees Deal  In addition to Halpin, Wooseok Jun, a director based in
 Hong Kong , and Ankur Kumar, a vice president based in New York,
also recently left, one of the people said. Jun and Kumar didn’t
return e-mails seeking comment.  Providence added two senior managers earlier this year, in
May naming former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive Renee Beaumont a managing director and global head of business
development, and in April hiring Deutsche Bank AG’s Richard Byrne in Providence Equity Capital Markets, the firm’s credit
business. Nelson in May said his company regularly adds “top
talent in every area of our business.”  Providence is best known for deals including the 2007
buyout of Univision Communications Inc. and its investment in
the cable-television network of the  New York Yankees . Its
previous two funds, raised in 2007 and 2005, were generating net
internal rates of return of 4.1 percent and 2.8 percent,
respectively, as of Dec. 31, according to  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , an  investor  in both pools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  