-- Raw Sugar Climbs in New York Before July Delivery; Cocoa Drops
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-01T10:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/raw-sugar-climbs-in-new-york-before-july-delivery-cocoa-drops.html
Raw sugar climbed in  New York  on
speculation the amount of sweetener delivered against the
expired July futures contract will be the smallest in seven
years. Cocoa retreated and coffee advanced.  The raw sugar delivery for July may be about 144,000 metric
tons, Sao Paulo-based consultancy Archer Consulting estimates.
That would be the smallest for a July contract since 2006, data
from the ICE Futures U.S. exchange showed. The sweetener will
come mainly from  El Salvador  and  Argentina , Arnaldo Luiz Correa,
a director at Archer, said in a report e-mailed on June 29.
London-based broker Marex Spectron Group said in a report dated
today that sugar from  Mexico  may also be delivered.  “The small volume compared to initial forecasts for a
monster delivery can be considered bullish,” said Archer’s
Correa. “The premiums in the physical market appreciated to
such a level that hindered any delivery of Brazilian sugar.”  Raw sugar for delivery in October gained 0.7 percent to
17.04 cents a pound by 5:44 a.m. on ICE. Futures trading volumes
were 25 percent below the average for the past 100 days for this
time of day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. White
sugar for October delivery was 0.3 percent higher at $486 a ton
on NYSE Liffe in London.  The delivery was estimated to top 1 million tons, with most
of the sugar coming from  Brazil , Alex Oliveira, a trader with
Newedge Group in New York, said on June 26. The premium buyers
have to pay to obtain sugar from Brazil climbed before the
delivery, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Weak Currencies  Sugar price gains are capped by weaker currencies in Brazil
and  India , the world’s leading producers, Lausanne, Switzerland-based researcher Kingsman SA, a unit of  McGraw-Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI) ’s Platts, said in a report e-mailed today. Brazilian
producers sold sugar for delivery in “distant months,” while
Indian exporters sold 50,000 tons to 100,000 tons of white
sweetener, Marex Spectron said. The Brazilian real was the worst
performer last quarter in a basket of 24 emerging-market
currencies, followed by the  Indian rupee , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The weak real has encouraged Brazilian producers to get
on with their selling for both this crop and next while at the
same time flipping the relative returns back in favor of sugar
and away from ethanol,” Kingsman said. “A weak rupee has
encouraged fresh export sales from India.”  Arabica coffee for delivery in September gained 0.7 percent
to $1.212 a pound on ICE. Robusta coffee for delivery in
September gained 0.3 percent to $1,765 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  Cocoa for September delivery was down 0.8 percent to $2,147
a ton in New York. Cocoa for September delivery slid 1.1 percent
to 1,442 pounds ($2,198) a ton in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 