-- Rawleigh Warner, Mobil CEO Who Shaped Company Image, Dies at 92
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-07-01T22:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/rawleigh-warner-mobil-ceo-who-refined-company-spin-dies-at-92.html
Rawleigh Warner, the Mobil Oil Corp.
chairman and chief executive officer who took corporate image-management to a new level through company sponsorship of
“Masterpiece Theater” on public television and paid opinion
pieces that appeared in U.S. newspapers, has died. He was 92.  He died June 26 at his home in Hobe Sound,  Florida , his
daughter, Suzanne Parsons, said yesterday in an interview. The
cause was complications from the progressive muscle disease
known as  inclusion body myositis .  As chairman and CEO from 1969 to 1986, and president from
1965 to 1969, the finance-minded Warner led Mobil, then based in
New York, as it overtook rivals to become second in sales behind
Exxon Corp., years before the two companies merged. He had a
hand in all facets of Mobil’s operations, from oil production
around the world to its logo and cultural sponsorships.  With his successor as president, William P. Tavoulareas,
Warner made Mobil a leading recipient of crude oil from Saudi
Arabia while also increasing production in North America through
the purchases of domestic reserves, according to the New York
Times obituary of Tavoulareas in 1996. (In 1979, Warner took
home $4.3 million and Tavoulareas $2.3 million, and were among
just 33 U.S. executives who earned more than $1 million,
according to Time magazine.)  Warner was credited with instilling an emphasis on asset
management and financial stewardship, which weren’t then typical
of oil companies. According to his family, he considered his
chief legacy to have been developing young executives for
corporate leadership positions.  ‘Masterpiece Theater’  In 1966, early in Warner’s tenure as president, Mobil
revised its logo, removing the red Pegasus featured for 35 years
in favor of the word “Mobil” in blue lettering except for the
letter O, in red.  In the 1970s, under Warner and his vice president for
public affairs, Herb Schmertz, Mobil began sponsoring
“Masterpiece Theatre” on PBS, a relationship that ran to 2004.  In 1970, after the New York Times opened its op-ed page to
paid advertising, Warner directed Schmertz to give Mobil a voice
in public affairs through what became known as advocacy
advertising. By 1975, according to a Times story, Mobil’s op-ed
ads were appearing every week in the Times, the Wall Street
Journal, the  Chicago  Sun-Times, the Los Angeles Times, the
Washington Post and the Boston Globe.  Mobil’s high profile reflected its chairman’s belief that
big business needed to stand up to criticism,  Newsweek  reported
in 1976.  Undoing Acquisition  “My worry is that I don’t see many other people responding
as we have,” Warner said, according to Newsweek. “I think it’s
wrong for business to hunker down and wait for the storm to blow
over.”  Not every element of Warner’s growth strategy was a success.
In 1985, one year before he stepped down at age 65, Mobil shed
money-losing retailer Montgomery Ward, which it had acquired
nine years earlier.  Following his retirement in 1986, Warner served on the
board of American Express Co. and started the ultimately
successful effort to oust James Robinson III as chief executive.  In December 1999, Exxon bought Mobil for $85.2 billion in
stock in what was then the biggest takeover. The merger formed
Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , today the world’s largest
company by market value.  Warner was “thrilled” by the merger, his daughter said.  Rawleigh Warner Jr. was born on Feb. 13, 1921, in Chicago
to Rawleigh Warner Sr., who was chairman of Pure Oil Co., and
the former Dorothy Haskins. He grew up in the Chicago suburbs of
Evanston and Winnetka, and attended Lake Forest Academy.  Field Artillery  Then, following in his father’s footsteps, he enrolled in
the  Lawrenceville School  and graduated in 1943 from Princeton
University, both in New Jersey.  He entered the U.S. Army and served in field artillery with
the 10th Mountain Division in  Italy , attained the rank of
captain and was awarded the Silver Star, Bronze Star and Purple
Heart, according to a death notice in the New York Times.  In 1946, the year of his discharge from the service, he
married the former Mary Ann de Clairmont. They raised their
family in New Canaan,  Connecticut , in a  house  designed for them
by modernist architect John Johansen that is cited on the
website of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.  Also in 1946, he co-founded an investment firm, Warner Bard
& Co., with another Princeton graduate, Ralph Bard. Looking for
a new line of work two years later, he ruled out joining his
father at Pure Oil because of a concern about the appearance of
nepotism, he explained to the New York Times in  1965 .  Father’s Advice  His father did advise him that Conoco -- the Continental
Oil Co. -- was building a financial staff, the Times said, and
Warner joined the Houston-based company as assistant to the
treasurer in 1948.  As Warner told the story, his wife withered in the Texas
heat and went through a whole packet of tissues during one
dinner party about five years after they moved to Houston.
Another guest at that dinner, George Holton, chairman of Socony
-- the Standard Oil Co. of New York, one of the successors to
the broken-up Standard Oil -- noticed her struggles and thought
her husband might welcome a chance to relocate.  “I always attribute the fact that I joined Socony to a
package of Kleenex,” Warner said, according to the Times.  Warner joined Socony -- then known as Socony-Vacuum Oil Co.
-- in 1953 as an assistant to the financial vice president of a
unit based in Fort Lee, New Jersey. He was transferred to the
parent company as manager of its economics department, according
to the Times.  He managed Socony’s Middle East department and was named a
regional vice president of Mobil International Oil Co., another
Socony division.  He became president of the renamed Socony Mobil Oil Co. in
1965. It became Mobil a year later.  In addition to his wife and daughter, Warner’s survivors
include a second daughter, Alison Pyne; four grandchildren,
Rebecca Parsons Bartels, Amalia Pyne Sykes, Rawleigh Warner Pyne
and Emily Parsons Talamo; and four great grandsons. He also is
survived by two sisters, Dorothy Sills and Suzanne Kenly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  