-- Treasuries Fall 2nd Day as Economists Predict Factories Expanded
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-07-01T12:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/treasuries-little-changed-as-economists-say-u-s-added-jobs.html
Treasuries fell for a second day
before an Institute for Supply Management report that economists
predict will show U.S. manufacturing expanded last month,
limiting demand for the safest assets.  U.S. government securities handed investors a loss of 2.5
percent in the first six months of 2013, the biggest decline
since the first half of 2009, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Treasuries have fallen since Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that policy makers may
begin slowing bond purchases this year. A Labor Department
report July 5 is forecast to show the U.S. added 165,000 jobs.  “There’s a little bit of optimism,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The big
number will be payrolls. ISM could be a market mover if it’s
well away from consensus.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  climbed four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.53 percent at 8:31 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75
percent note maturing in May 2023 dropped 11/32, or $3.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 93 7/32.  Factory Index  The ISM’s factory index rose to 50.5 last month from 49 in
May, which was the lowest since June 2009, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists before today’s report. A reading
of 50 is the dividing line between growth and contraction. U.S.
employers added 165,000  workers  last month after hiring 175,000
in May, a separate survey showed before the Labor Department
data on July 5.  “For Treasuries the U.S. data is crucial, and in
particular payrolls, as the Fed made it quite clear that
tapering will be contingent on the developments in the labor
market,” said  Michael Leister , an interest-rate strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London . Better-than-expected factory and job
numbers may push 10-year yields up to 2.70 percent, he said.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said that while the  U.S.
economy  probably won’t grow as fast as in the 1990s, he’s
confident gross domestic product can accelerate more than it is
now. Lew spoke yesterday at a conference in Aspen,  Colorado .  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities each month to support the economy by putting
downward pressure on borrowing costs. Bernanke said on June 19
the central bank could reduce its monthly purchases if the
employment outlook shows sustained improvement.  ‘Upward Moves’  Jobs data will be of “particular importance” to
investors, Silvia Ardagna, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., wrote in an e-mailed note today. The bank forecasts
payrolls rose 150,000 last month, the report said.  “A report significantly stronger than the one we expect
would put further pressure on intermediate maturity bonds and
upward moves in  interest rates  might occur earlier than we
currently expect,” Ardagna wrote. “The market may take a
stronger-than-expected payroll report as confirmation that
tapering will occur in the next few months, before December as
we currently forecast.”  China  is ready for the possible end of quantitative easing
by the U.S. and has prepared plans on fund outflows, Oriental
Morning Post reported, citing Guan Tao, an official of the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange.  Bond Funds  Even after recent yield increases, the Treasury 10-year
rate is still about a percentage point below its  decade average 
of 3.56 percent.  Investors who poured $1.26 trillion into bond funds in the
past six years pulled out record amounts of cash last month,
leaving the world’s biggest fixed-income managers struggling to
stem the flow.  The funds saw $61.7 billion of withdrawals as money market
mutual-fund assets rose $8.17 billion in the week ended June 25,
according to TrimTabs Investment Research and the Money Fund
Report. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Index dropped 2.9 percent in the past two months, the most since
the inception of the daily gauge in 1996, as Bernanke laid out
possibilities for reducing the $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases supporting the economy.  Market bears say losses are just getting started because
yields barely exceed inflation, leaving little relative value in
bonds as the global economy improves. Pacific Investment
Management Co.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and DoubleLine Capital LP, which
together oversee about $6 trillion in assets, said the worst is
already over because the securities are  fairly valued .  “We are at a definite inflection point,” Richard Schlanger, who helps invest $20 billion in fixed-income
securities as a vice president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston ,
said in an interview on June 28. “If this thing continues in
this vein, people are going to throw in the towel and you’re
going to get this pain trade. And the markets can’t take it.
They’d rather see a gradual rise in short-term rates versus a
precipitous rise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  