-- Relational’s Funds Said to Gain Up to 33% on HP, Timken
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-07-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/relational-s-funds-said-to-gain-up-to-33-on-hp-timken.html
Relational Investors LLC’s two
activist asset-management funds gained about 25 percent and 33
percent in their fiscal year as campaigns at  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
and  Timken Co. (TKR)  rewarded shareholders, a person with knowledge of
the performance said.  The large-cap and mid-cap funds, which together hold about
$5.5 billion, calculated returns on portfolios of publicly
traded companies for the 12 months ended June 30, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the results are
private. San Diego-based Relational, co-founded by Ralph Whitworth, is in the process of consolidating the two into a
single fund.  Founded in 1996 by Whitworth and David Batchelder,
Relational buys stakes in companies it considers undervalued and
then lobbies management and boards for changes to boost investor
returns. Gains in  Hess Corp. (HES)  and  Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW)  also
contributed to the large-cap fund’s 25 percent return, the
person said.  Harman International Industries Inc. (HAR) ,  Abercrombie &
Fitch Co. (ANF)  and  Ashland Inc. (ASH)  boosted returns to 33 percent at the
mid-cap fund.  Hewlett-Packard, the largest personal-computer maker, named
Whitworth interim chairman in April in the midst of a multiyear
turnaround after the activist urged the company to invest more
in research and development and rebuild its reseller network.
Its shares have climbed 74 percent this year. Illinois Tool
Works said in February it’s studying the sale of its packaging
business after Relational took a stake last year and pushed for
increased profit. The stock has gained 36 percent in the past 12
months.  Steel Unit  Relational got ball-bearings maker Timken to consider
spinning off its  steel unit  as the company hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in June to study options after stockholders backed a
split. The shares have gained 18 percent in 2013. Relational is
also invested in Hess, the energy company that recently settled
a proxy fight with activist shareholder Elliott Management Corp.
and was said to have begun the sale of its oil-terminal network.
Hess is up 26 percent this year.  Whitworth, an influential adviser on corporate governance,
last week received the Lifetime Achiever Award from the London-based International Corporate Governance Network, which
represents institutional investors.  In 1990, Whitworth wrote a paper calling for changes to
corporate governance rules that the Securities and Exchange
Commission adopted in 1992 -- steps that helped make today’s
shareholder activism possible.  Rule Changes  Those changes included allowing investors to nominate a
short slate of directors instead of the entire board; an
overhaul of communication rules to allow anyone to comment about
ballots without having to send documents to every shareholder;
and requiring compensation disclosures as charts with numbers
instead of “arcane narrative disclosures written by lawyers,”
Whitworth said in an interview last week.  Activist investors tend to buy at least 5 percent of a
company’s stock and flag their intention to actively engage
corporate management and directors by disclosing their holding
in a 13D filing with the SEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  