-- Tribune Seeks Cable Riches in $2.7 Billion Broadcast Deal
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-07-02T14:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/tribune-ceo-seeks-cable-riches-in-2-73-billion-broadcast-deal.html
Tribune Co. (TRBAA)  Chief Executive Officer
Peter Liguori, with his $2.73 billion acquisition of 19 TV
stations, is accelerating a wave of consolidation that
strengthens the hand of broadcasters and network owners over
cable providers in pay-TV negotiations.  The all-cash deal with Local TV Holdings LLC, announced
yesterday, will extend Tribune’s broadcast footprint into 50
million homes. A larger Tribune is in a better position to seek
higher licensing fees from cable companies such as Comcast Corp.
and Time Warner Cable Inc., which purchase the rights to air
local broadcasts.  Recent deals have left TV stations in the clutches of fewer
media companies, and investors are driving up stock prices amid
speculation more will ensue. Aside from helping boost fees, the
added revenue will give Liguori more firepower to invest in
original programming -- another way for Tribune to vie for more
of the billions of dollars spent on paid content.  “Part of the investment thesis of the deal is marrying a
larger distribution footprint with investment in content,”
Liguori said in an interview yesterday. “There’s so much
potential now with this deal.”  Liguori’s strategy hinges in part on Chicago-based
Tribune’s sole cable network,  WGN America , which operates
separately from the broadcast division, with distribution in 75
million homes. The channel now mostly airs reruns of popular
network shows such as “How I Met Your Mother” and “Law &
Order.” With its own programming, it could become a must-have
for cable and satellite providers, just as 21st Century Fox
Inc.’s FX and  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) ’s AMC are today, Liguori said.  Leg Up  “Looking at the value of FX and AMC cable networks, we
believe WGN America down the road presents the same
opportunity,” said Liguori. “We need to create new content and
get better distribution for WGN America.”  Fox is one of the pioneers of the strategy, with a package
of local stations and cable channels that give it a leg up when
discussing fees with cable carriers. Liguori was chairman of
entertainment for Fox Broadcasting and CEO of the company’s FX
Networks, then went to Discovery Communications Inc. as chief
operating officer before joining Tribune.  At Fox, which until last week was part of News Corp.,
broadcast revenues climbed 15 percent in the quarter ended in
March from a year earlier, even with ratings down for shows such
as “American Idol.” The reason for the gain was pay-TV
licensing fees, which almost doubled. Affiliate fees for New
York-based Fox’s cable channels, meanwhile, rose 11 percent.  TV Guide  Like Tribune, New York-based CBS Corp., owner of the most-watched U.S. broadcast network, is expanding into cable
channels. It acquired 50 percent of TV Guide Network in March
and plans to revamp it into a new entertainment channel. CBS’s
affiliate fees rose 14 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier.  The deal also spotlights the shift among traditional
newspaper publishers toward the more lucrative television
business. Tribune, which owns eight English-language daily
newspapers including the Los Angeles Times and the Chicago
Tribune, hasn’t decided whether to sell some or all of its
newspapers after receiving unsolicited offers earlier this year.  “Being new to the newspaper business and keeping an arms-length, rookie perspective, I do believe there are ways to
manage the business differently,” Liguori said, adding that
there could be ways to change how the company manages content,
as well as distribution.  ‘Eight Locations’  “It’s the difference between running eight different
businesses versus one business with eight different locations --
if you try to use that optic, what changes would you make?” he
said.  Gannett Co., the publisher of USA Today, is also reducing
its exposure to newspapers, which are suffering from declining
advertising as readers move online. The newspaper publisher
agreed to buy local-TV company Belo Corp. for $1.5 billion two
weeks ago, amid a wave of acquisitions in the broadcast
industry.  Last month,  Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. (SBGI) , based in Hunt
Valley,  Maryland , agreed to  buy  four outlets from  Titan
Broadcast Management  for $115.4 million. That accord was
followed on June 6 by the $870 million merger of  Media General
Inc. (MEG) , backed by  Warren Buffett  and Mario Gabelli, with New Young
Broadcasting Holding Co.  New Sources  Original television content garners more money than ever,
Liguori said. Even beyond the fees from satellite and cable
providers, online streaming distributors such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
and Amazon.com Inc. are providing new sources of revenue, he
said.  “The cable-network business is the best business in
media,” said Paul Sweeney, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.
“How do you convince a cable company to carry your cable
network? You have to have leverage. One of the ways Tribune
thinks they can leverage is by owning a lot of TV stations.”  Liguori said he’s agnostic about whether Tribune would
create more scripted shows, as he did at Fox and FX, or the kind
of reality programming that drives Discovery.  “I’m agnostic on that front,” he said. “It’s not about
the form, it’s about the characters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Madeline McMahon in New York at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  