-- Riksbank Seen Keeping Rates on Hold as Krona Slide Aids Target
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-07-01T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/riksbank-seen-keeping-rates-on-hold-as-krona-slide-aids-target.html
Sweden ’s central bank probably won’t
cut its  main lending rate  this week after a krona sell-off
helped policy makers bring inflation closer to their target.  The six board members of the world’s oldest central bank
will keep the repurchase rate at 1 percent for a third
consecutive meeting. Policy makers meet today and publish their
decision tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. in Stockholm. All but one of
nineteen economists  surveyed by Bloomberg  predict no change,
with a single forecast pointing to a cut to 0.75 percent.  “There are no really strong reasons to change the rate
here and now,” said  Roger Josefsson , chief economist at Danske
Bank A/S in Stockholm. “The outlook for the Swedish and
international economy has improved and the krona weakened.
Household debt continues to rise at a pretty rapid pace.”  The krona touched its lowest in a year against the euro
last week after signals from the U.S. it may withdraw monetary
stimulus prompted investors to exit less liquid markets. The
sell-off reversed a surge in the Swedish currency that had
threatened to undermine the Riksbank’s efforts to reach its 2
percent inflation target. Headline consumer prices fell in May
for a second month.  Since then, a weaker krona and signs the export industry is
recovering have given the central bank more scope to respond to
signs of overheating elsewhere in the $500 billion economy.  Credit Growth  Swedish manufacturing has picked up and  unemployment  fallen
after gross domestic product grew faster in the first quarter 
than most economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimated. At the 
same time, Swedish household borrowing has started to accelerate 
again after years of slowing, reviving concern at the central 
bank that private debt burdens may grow to unsustainable
levels.  Regulators and the government have sought to cool credit
growth by placing curbs on lending and requiring banks in the
largest Nordic economy to hold more capital than their
competitors elsewhere.  “Sweden stands, in relative terms, on a stronger footing
than many others but there will surely be a relatively shifting
climate in the  economy  also during the autumn,” Finance
Minister  Anders Borg  said last month.  Swedish  manufacturing  and  consumer confidence  rose last
month as household spending helped the Swedish economy grow an
annual 1.7 percent in the first quarter. Manufacturing expanded
at the fastest pace in two years and  seasonally-adjusted
unemployment  fell to a 10-month low of 7.9 percent in May.  Lending to Swedish households  picked up to 4.7 percent in
May. Private debt as a share of disposable incomes will reach
a record 177 percent by the end of 2014, the Riksbank predicts.  The Riksbank kept rates unchanged at its last meeting in
April, citing improving economic growth prospects. Still, it
pushed back the timing of a rate increase by about a year until
late 2014 as weak demand and a strong currency earlier this year
resulted in falling consumer prices in five of the seven months
through May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  