-- Rio’s Oyu Tolgoi Shipment Deadline Slips Amid Mongolia Feud
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-07-01T06:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/rio-s-oyu-tolgoi-shipment-deadline-slips-amid-mongolian-dispute.html
Oyu Tolgoi, the $6.6 billion mine
jointly owned by  Rio Tinto  Group and Mongolia, is awaiting
government support before it can start shipments that were due
to begin by the end of June.  “All necessary permits have been received and the mine is
ready to commence concentrate shipments,”  Turquoise Hill
Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , a Vancouver-based unit of Rio Tinto that holds
its Oyu Tolgoi stake, said in a statement June 28. “Shipping
will begin as soon as the Mongolian government indicates its
support for Oyu Tolgoi to do so.”  Shipments of copper concentrate from the mine to Chinese
smelters were due to begin before the end of June and were twice
postponed last month. The second delay, on June 21, was at the
request of the Mongolian government, London-based Rio said. The
mine is operated by Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which is 34 percent owned by
 Mongolia  and the rest by Rio’s Turquoise Hill unit.  The two sides have yet to resolve the government’s request
that sales from the mine are handled by Mongolian banks, Mining
Minister Davaajav Gankhuyag said in Ulaanbaatar, the country’s
capital, on June 28. He also said they have yet to reach
agreement on the government’s contention that the mine overshot
its budget, as well as financing for its second stage and
management fees accrued by Rio.  February Clash  Oyu Tolgoi is the biggest foreign investment in Mongolia,
expected to account for 35 percent of the country’s economy when
fully operational in 2020. Rio and the government clashed in
February over the mine’s costs, tax payments, and the number of
locals in management. The government temporarily froze Rio’s
bank accounts in Mongolia in February over the tax disputes, two
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Oyu Tolgoi spokesman Tsend Ganzorig, and Rio Tinto
spokesman  David Luff  in  Melbourne , declined to comment on the
delays to the shipments.  “The longer the delay continues the greater the cost to
the people of Mongolia,”  Michael Howard , deputy chairman of
Vancouver-based Entrée Gold Inc., which owns part of the Oyu
Tolgoi area via a joint venture with Rio Tinto, said in a phone
interview from  London  on June 28. Howard is a former leader of
the U.K. Conservative party.  Mongolia may lose $2 million in taxes every day that the
mine’s shipments are delayed, independent Ulaanbaatar-based
analyst Dale Choi said in a June 23 note to investors.  Chinese Buyers  Rio hasn’t shown the Mongolian members of the Oyu Tolgoi
board the sales contracts it has struck with Chinese buyers,
mining minister Gankhuyag said.  “If the product sales agreements are not introduced to the
Mongolian side, the sales revenue must be transferred via
Mongolian banks,” Gankhuyag told reporters at a briefing. The
value of the sales contracts is $8 billion and need to be
ratified by Oyu Tolgoi’s board under Mongolian law, he said.  Rio has also agreed to lend $225 million to Turquoise Hill
as a bridge facility to finance the mine’s operations, the
Canadian unit said in its statement. Oyu Tolgoi has so far
produced 40,000 tons of copper concentrate, according to the
statement.  The government and Oyu Tolgoi are in talks to resolve the
various issues between them, said Entree Gold’s Howard. “It is
of the interest of everyone in Mongolia, including all those
Mongolian citizens who can benefit from the unlocking of wealth
that lies buried underneath the soil of Mongolia,” he said.  Sam Walsh , chief executive of officer of Rio, said in a May
9 briefing that the company planned to begin first shipments in
the first half of 2013. “We’ve moved well down the path in
terms of resolving the issues the government had tabled with us,
enabling us really to move forward with the project,” Walsh
said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  