-- Ritz-Carlton San Francisco Sold by Host for $161 Million
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-07-01T12:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ritz-carlton-san-francisco-sold-by-host-for-161-million.html
Host Hotels & Resorts Inc. (HST) , the
largest U.S. lodging real estate investment trust, sold the
Ritz-Carlton San Francisco for about $161 million to closely
held investment firm Thayer Lodging Group.  The purchase of the 336-room luxury hotel is the first
investment by the $300 million Thayer Fund VI.  Thayer Lodging 
plans to spend as much as $17 million on renovations at the
property in the next two years, the Annapolis, Maryland-based
company said in a statement.  Room rates at San Francisco hotels are growing faster than
in most of the country. Nightly charges rose 7.5 percent this
year through April, higher than the 5.2 percent growth for the
top 25 U.S. markets, according to Hendersonville, Tennessee-based research firm STR. Net operating income at the  JW Marriott
San Francisco Union Square , which Thayer bought in 2011, has
tripled since the purchase, the company said.  “We are bullish on the San Francisco market, and bullish
on the environment for investing in hotel real estate,” Thayer
Chief Executive Officer Lee Pillsbury said in the statement.
“We look forward to making additional announcements in the
weeks ahead.”  The average daily rate this year through April at San
Francisco hotels was $169.83, with only rooms in New York, Miami
and Oahu,  Hawaii , priced higher, according to STR.  Rooms at the Ritz-Carlton San Francisco -- which have 400-thread-count linens, Bang & Olufsen 10-speaker surround-sound
systems and Kohler rain shower heads -- start at $335 this week,
according to the hotel’s website. The property also has a
Parallel 37 restaurant and full-service Spa De Vie.  San Diego  Thayer also owns hotels such as the San Diego Marriott Del
Mar and the  Annapolis Marriott Waterfront  in  Maryland . Bethesda,
Maryland-based Host Hotels, owner of such properties as the W
New York - Union Square and the Ritz-Carlton in Phoenix,
acquired the high-end, 775-room  New York Helmsley Hotel  in
midtown  Manhattan  in 2011. Last July, the REIT bought the Grand
Hyatt  Washington  for about $400 million after backing out of a
pricier deal for the District of Columbia property at the end of
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  