-- Romania Starts Rate Cuts as Isarescu See CPI Drop
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-07-01T16:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/romania-lowers-key-rate-for-first-time-since-march-2012-on-cpi.html
Romania  signaled more monetary easing
on slowing inflation after it cut the European Union’s second-highest benchmark interest rate for the first time in more than
a year.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  lowered its main rate by a
quarter point to a record-low 5 percent, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. The outlook for consumer prices allows for
“gradual” monetary-policy easing, Governor Mugur Isarescu told
reporters after the announcement.  “Our policy decisions are tied to our calculations over
the inflation trend as we are convinced that the rate will be
significantly lower in the next few months,” Isarescu said in
Bucharest. “We’re indeed keeping our eyes wide open when
assessing external developments.”  Policy makers, who had held rates since March 2012, are
joining central banks across eastern  Europe  in seeking to
bolster economic growth even as signs of a pullback in U.S.
monetary stimulus dent asset prices. Isarescu signaled in May
that he’d deliver several cuts this year as inflation will slow
to within the bank’s target in the second half.  Rates may fall 25 basis points or 50 basis points further
in a “short-lived easing cycle,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an
economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London  and
Tatiana Orlova, his colleague in Moscow, said in an e-mail
today. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Wary’ Bank  “The central bank will be wary of aggressive monetary
easing, fearful of discouraging inflows, especially in an
environment in which portfolio inflows are already likely to be
constrained by Fed tapering and in which regional peers will
also have most likely brought their easing cycles to an end,”
the RBS economists wrote.  Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier in
May, growing at the same pace as in April, National Statistics
Institute data show. Price growth will return to the central
bank’s 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent target range by year-end,
policy makers  predict .  The leu maintained gains after the rate announcement,
adding 0.4 percent to 4.4488 against the euro by 6:19 p.m. in
Bucharest. It has weakened 0.7 percent in the past three months,
the fourth-best performance among 24 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Recent leu volatility was sparked by a bond rally earlier
this year, Isarescu said, adding that currency swings of 5
percent were “normal.”  The benchmark BET stock index gained 0.4 percent to
5,281.51. The yield on the government’s dollar bonds maturing in
2023 fell 10 basis points to 5.01 percent.  ‘Closely Monitors’  “The National Bank of Romania closely monitors domestic
and global economic developments via the gradual adjustment of
the monetary policy conduct and the adequate use of its
instruments so as to achieve  price stability  over the medium
term and financial stability,” the regulator said in the
statement.  Romania halted a rate-cutting cycle more than a year ago as
a drought stoked food prices and utility bills rose following a
pledge to the  International Monetary Fund  to free energy prices.
Its main rate is second only to  Croatia ’s within the EU after
the Adriatic nation became the trading bloc’s 28th member today.  The country should reach a new financing agreement with the
Washington-based lender to help the government keep borrowing
costs low and to push forward with “delayed structural
reforms,” Isarescu said. The EU may not be part of a new
accord, he said.  Reserve Requirements  The central bank left its minimum reserve requirements on
foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent and kept the ratio for
leu deposits at 15 percent, according to the statement.  Romania joined Poland and  Hungary  in lowering borrowing
costs to boost growth. Poland cut its benchmark to a record 2.75
percent on June 5 as the economy grapples with its worst
slowdown in four years and is expected to  reduce it further  to
2.50 at its next meeting on July 3. Hungary reduced its main
rate to a record 4.25 percent on June 25 in an 11th straight
quarter-point cut.  Romanian  gross domestic product  advanced 2.2 percent from a
year earlier in the first quarter, accelerating from a 1.1
percent pace in the previous three months. GDP growth this year
may exceed the government’s 1.6 percent forecast because of a a
better harvest, Isarescu said in May.  “Today’s cut in Romanian  interest rates  is likely to be
followed by further policy easing over the coming months,”
 William Jackson , an analyst at Capital Economics Ltd., said by
e-mail. “However, the scope for aggressive loosening is limited
by the country’s high level of foreign-currency debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  