-- Rousseff Misses Brazil Soccer Victory After Approval Plummets
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a ,   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t ,   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-07-01T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/rousseff-misses-brazil-soccer-victory-after-approval-plummets.html
President  Dilma Rousseff  was absent
when  Brazil  won the soccer Confederations Cup in Rio de Janeiro
yesterday after her popularity plunged to a record following
three weeks of protests.  Brazil beat world champion Spain 3-0 in a dry run for next
year’s World Cup, while Rousseff remained in the capital
Brasilia, according to her press office. She congratulated the
team in an e-mailed statement. Before the game, protesters
marched to the city’s iconic Maracana stadium, where police used
teargas to disperse a group of about 1,000, a spokesman for
Rio’s military police said.  The two-week tournament has magnified demands for better
public services as Brazil spends 30 billion reais ($13.4
billion) on stadiums and related projects to host the 2014  World
Cup . The protests have sent the approval rating of Rousseff’s
administration to 30 percent, according to a Datafolha poll
published at the weekend, from 57 percent in the first week of
June and a high of 65 percent in March. While Brazil has pulled
millions out of poverty in the past decade, its new middle class
is demanding more, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim said in an
interview yesterday.  “If you lift your people out of extreme poverty, it’s not
like they’re going to say ’great, now we’re all set, we don’t
want anything else,” Kim said.  Cutting Costs  About 200 people demanding deeper cuts in bus fares are
camping inside the municipal council building in  Belo Horizonte ,
the capital city of Minas Gerais state with 2.4 million
residents, Globo News TV said yesterday.  Bus-fare cuts will cost  Sao Paulo , the country’s biggest
city, about 200 million reais in 2013 as the metropolis finds
itself “insolvent,” Mayor Fernando Haddad said in interview
published on Folha de S.Paulo’s website yesterday.  Any further tax incentive the federal government may need
to cut the cost of public transportation, such as tax breaks on
diesel used by buses, will have to be followed by cost cuts or a
new tax to balance public accounts, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told O Globo newspaper in an interview.  Brazilians who say Rousseff’s management of the economy is
good fell to 27 percent, from 49 percent, according to the
Datafolha poll, which interviewed 4,717 people in 196 cities on
June 27-28 and had a margin of error of plus or minus 2
percentage points.  Keeping Calm  Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  told the daily Folha
de Sao Paulo that Rousseff is “calm” about her drop in
popularity and the government will keep working to reverse the
slide in approval ratings. A ministry official declined to
comment.  In response to the unrest, Rousseff on June 24 pledged
another 50 billion reais for urban transportation after meeting
with leaders of the protest group Passe Livre.  By July 2 she will present Congress with a request to call
a plebiscite on measures to make Brazil’s electoral system more
representative and less susceptible to corruption. Proposals
will include issues such as campaign financing, Education
Minister Aloizio Mercadante said on June 28.  In the Datafolha survey, 68 percent of those surveyed said
they support the plebiscite proposal.  Rousseff, who was jeered at the tournament’s opening match
June 15 in Brasilia, garnered 29 percent of voter intention for
the October 2014 presidential election, ahead of former
environment minister  Marina Silva  with 18 percent, Datafolha
showed. Senator Aecio Neves of the opposition PSDB party has 15
percent and is tied in third place with Supreme Court Chief
Justice Joaquim Barbosa, who has taken a tough stance against
corruption and says he has no intention of running for the
country’s top job.  ‘Demonstrations Cup’  FIFA’s Confederations Cup has been dubbed the
“Demonstrations Cup” in placards and chants as protesters
criticize money spent on stadiums in a nation where 21 percent
of the population lives below the poverty line.  Protests have taken place ahead of almost every match,
sometimes turning violent.  In downtown Sao Paulo on Saturday, police blocked roads for
a “March for Jesus,” Marco Feliciano, the head of the
congressional commission on human rights, posted on his Twitter
page from the event. Gay rights activists held protests in the
city June 21 against a proposal approved by the commission to
let psychologists recommend treatment for homosexuality.  Eight out of 10 Brazilians said they support the protests,
according to the Datafolha survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  