-- Australia Recession Risk Flagged in Rudd Rhetoric Shift: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-07-02T06:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/rudd-switches-pitch-to-invoke-crisis-handling-as-china-boom-ebbs.html
Kevin Rudd is ditching the optimism
of his predecessor and selling himself as the best leader to
steer  Australia  through a downturn as Chinese demand wanes.  The new prime minister, who ousted Julia Gillard last week
as the ruling Labor party headed toward a landslide election
loss, is channeling his ex-boss Ross Garnaut in flagging that
the end of a China-led  mining boom  could lead to a recession.
He’s highlighted the dangers posed by a slowing China in at
least five statements and warned policies advocated by his
opponent Tony Abbott would result in British-style contraction.  As employers including Ford Motor Co. cut jobs, and the
central bank said today growth is likely to remain below trend
in the near term as it held interest rates steady, Rudd’s
language puts him more in tune with voters than the message of
prosperity emphasized by Gillard and former Treasurer Wayne
Swan. Rudd, 55, is betting his record as leader through the
2007-2009 financial crisis, when Australia sustained growth,
will help close Labor’s two-year  opinion-poll  deficit.  “Rudd’s wanting to re-frame the economic debate,” said
Stephen Koukoulas, a former adviser to Gillard and now managing
director of Canberra-based Market Economics Pty. “He’s being
more direct on China’s slowdown and the end of the boom. A sense
of crisis also helps him cover the budget deficit and debt
issues that the opposition has hammered, and allows him to
remind people of what he did last time.”  Gillard and Swan’s economic credibility was undercut when
they failed to return the budget to surplus last fiscal year as
they had promised. Rudd met with the Business Council of
Australia today as he tries to mend ties with executives and
find ways to spur growth.  RBA Pause  The Reserve Bank of Australia, which has cut its  benchmark
rate  by 2 percentage points since November 2011, left borrowing
costs unchanged today at a record-low 2.75 percent. Governor
Glenn Stevens said in a statement accompanying the decision that
“the economy has been growing a bit below trend over the recent
period” and “this is expected to continue in the near term as
the economy adjusts to lower levels of mining investment.”  Policy makers are trying to revive employment-intensive
industries such as construction and manufacturing. Stevens said
while the local dollar “remains at a high level,” it may
“depreciate further over time, which would help to foster a
rebalancing of growth.”  Prospects for RBA cuts as the Federal Reserve considers
paring back its stimulus drove the Aussie down 12 percent last
quarter, the biggest slide worldwide after the Syrian pound.  Talking Down  While “talking the economy down” can weigh on sentiment,
the linkage from sentiment to activity is weak, Michael Blythe,
chief economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in Sydney,
wrote in a note to clients dated today. “One reason for this
weak linkage may actually be that fears about the outlook
generate a response by policy makers and consumers that
ultimately reduce activity risks.”  Rudd, who faces an election due by Nov. 30, has already
boosted the government’s standing. A Newspoll conducted June
28-30 and published in The Australian newspaper yesterday showed
the Abbott-led opposition in front of Labor by 51 percent to 49
percent on a two-party basis, designed to gauge which party is
most likely to form government under Australia’s preferential
voting system. That’s down from a 14 percentage-point gap a week
ago.  China Manufacturing  Manufacturing in  China , Australia’s biggest trading
partner, expanded at the slowest pace in four months in June,
and growth in the world’s second-largest economy probably eased
for a second straight quarter, according to the median estimate
of a Bloomberg News survey. Since reclaiming the leadership,
Rudd has highlighted Australia’s challenge, noting trade with
China now accounts for about 10 percent of his nation’s economy.  Australia can’t rely on a sole source of growth and must
boost manufacturing, services and agricultural industries, Rudd
said in Newcastle yesterday as he announced his new ministry.
This should be achieved “by making full use of the falling
exchange rate, which in fact boosts our global competitiveness,
and to enhance our productivity,” he said.  Rudd’s new treasurer, Chris Bowen, told reporters in Sydney
today that “there’s a transition to manage,” when asked if the
government is reframing the economic message.  Gillard, by contrast, found that highlighting job growth
had little resonance in areas such as western Sydney, a
traditional Labor heartland that polls indicate is becoming more
competitive. Keith Darley, a 34-year-old electrician, said
earlier this year that voters in the area were “sick of hearing
everything’s great when they know it’s not.”  Garnaut Echo  Rudd’s assessment of Australia’s outlook echoes that of
Garnaut, who served as ambassador to China from 1985 to 1988
when Rudd was a newly arrived diplomat. Rudd commissioned
Garnaut to undertake an independent study on the impact of
climate change on Australia’s economy, a policy area followed up
by Gillard with legislation to introduce a carbon tax.  Garnaut said in a speech five weeks ago that the Australian
dollar needs to depreciate “many times further” and China’s
resource demand has passed its peak and “will soon end.”  “If we continue within the political culture of the later
years of high prosperity, ‘‘Business as Usual’’, we will live in
greater comfort for a short while,” Garnaut, one of the
nation’s foremost economists and an architect of the floating
currency, said in the May 28 speech. “But sooner rather than
later we will experience deep economic recession with high
unemployment -- probably unemployment rising with each new
recessionary episode without falling much in the years
between.”  Garnaut declined to comment, his office said today.  Rudd, in his first press conference since resuming as prime
minister, echoed Garnaut’s views on the world’s most populous
nation.  Economic Challenge  “The huge outstanding economic challenge for us is the end
of the China resources boom,” he told reporters in Canberra on
June 28. “This will have a dramatic effect on our terms of
trade, a dramatic effect on living standards in the country, a
dramatic effect also potentially on unemployment unless we have
an effective counter-strategy.”  Australia is headed for an election with a slowing economy,
weakening labor market, falling currency and budget in deficit.
In the five years since the global financial crisis, Australia
grew at the fastest average pace among major developed nations,
underpinned by government stimulus and the extension of a once-in-a-century resources boom to meet Chinese demand that soaked
up excess labor.  Austerity Approach  Rudd last week warned that a government led by his opponent
Abbott would adopt an austerity approach similar to that of
Britain.  Under such a scenario, “he will tip Australia into
recession and bring about significant unemployment,” Rudd said
last week. “And what I know from economic history in this
country is that once you’ve done that, it takes so long to get
people back into employment.”  Spain, where joblessness is 27 percent, will today release
registered unemployment for June that will probably show a
100,000 drop from a month earlier, according to a Bloomberg
survey. In the U.S., factory orders will likely show a 2 percent
rise in May from April.  In Australia, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists estimated
in a report last month there’s a 20 percent chance the economy
will fall into recession -- defined locally as two consecutive
quarters of contraction -- even after the central bank cut rates
to a record-low 2.75 percent. Saul Eslake, chief Australia
economist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Melbourne ,
projects a 25 percent chance for 2015.  “Kevin Rudd is right to be concerned about some of the
risks to the Australian economy, and to be thinking about how
best to counter them,” said Eslake, who has analyzed
Australia’s economy as a financial economist for a quarter
century. “If he, like other successful reformers before him, is
able to use the threat of a crisis, or the reality of one, as a
spur to reform, then history will judge him well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  