-- Russian Manufacturing PMI Improves to Four-Month High
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-07-01T08:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/russian-manufacturing-pmi-improves-to-four-month-high.html
Russian manufacturing strengthened
for a fourth month in June as domestic demand helped fuel an
increase in new orders, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  The HSBC Purchasing Manager’s Index increased to 51.7 in
June from 50.4 in May, HSBC said today in an e-mailed statement,
citing data compiled by London-based Markit Economics. The
median estimate of three economists in a Bloomberg survey was
for no change at 50.4. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Improving sentiment among manufacturers may signal a
turnaround is near for industrial production, which shrank on an
annual basis in May for the third time this year, as domestic
customers help make up for weak demand from the European Union.
The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter grew at the
slowest pace since a 2009 contraction in the first quarter,
sparking calls from President Vladimir Putin for measures to
revive growth.  “Manufacturing growth gained stronger momentum in June,”
Alexander Morozov, chief economist for Russia and the
Commonwealth of Independent States at HSBC in Moscow, said in
the statement. “The previous cautious manufacturers’ view on
the sustainability of demand growth seems to have become more
optimistic.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks retreated 0.4 percent to
1,324.90 as of 12:07 p.m. in Moscow.The ruble weakened 0.1
percent to 32.8355 against the dollar.  Rail Cargoes  OAO Russian Railways said shipments fell 2.8 percent in
June from a year earlier. First-half cargo volumes are down 3.7
percent from a year earlier to 605.6 million tons, the Moscow-based railroad monopoly said in an e-mailed statement today.  Industrial production contracted 1.4 percent in May from a
year earlier as  manufacturing  slid 4.4 percent, the sharpest
fall since October 2009, according to Federal Statistics Service
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.8 percent in the first
five months from a year earlier, according to the Economy
Ministry, which projects 2.4 percent growth this year and 3.7
percent in 2014. Expansion is set to exceed 3 percent in the
second half, according to the ministry.  New orders grew at the fastest pace since February, driven
by domestic orders, according to the HSBC statement. New export
orders advanced “marginally” for a second month, HSBC said.  “Although export demand edged up again in June, the global
economy is not in a great shape, posing downside risks for
 Russia ,” Morozov wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  