-- Sanovel Owner Said to Explore Sale of Turkish Drugmaker
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-07-02T09:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/sanovel-owner-said-to-explore-sale-of-turkish-drugmaker.html
Toksoz Holding AS, a Turkish food and
pharmaceutical group, is exploring a sale of Sanovel Ilac Sanayi
& Ticaret AS, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Toksoz is working with  Greenhill & Co. (GHL) , Alpacar Associates
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to sell most of closely held drugmaker
Sanovel, the people said, asking not to be named because the
plans are private. Toksoz is seeking a valuation of more than $1
billion, two of the people said. Potential buyers may be willing
to pay $750 million to $1 billion, another person familiar with
the matter said.  Sanovel, based in Istanbul, makes anti-inflammatory, anti-asthmatic and antibiotic medications as well as veterinary
drugs, according to its  website . It is among the 10 largest
 pharmaceutical companies  in Turkey, the website says.  Transactions in Turkey may prove more challenging amid
political unrest that has affected markets. Protests against 
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and his government roiled 
Turkey’s markets last month, with the  stock index  down 2.8 percent
since the start of the year.   Emlak Konut Gayrimenkul Yatirim Ortakligi AS (EKGYO) , a state-owned 
property developer, slumped the most on record on June 10 after 
the company delayed a share sale, citing stock market turmoil
triggered by the anti-government protests in Turkey.  While the sale process is not currently under way, Sanovel
has drawn interest from international drugmakers, one of the
people said.  Sanovel Sales  Sanovel had about $227 million of sales to pharmacies last
year, one of the people said. The figure didn’t include exports
and direct sales to hospitals, the person said.  Turkey has been a popular target for pharmaceutical deals
in recent years, with companies seeking to tap its $786 billion
economy, which grew 2.2 percent last year.  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the
world’s largest biotechnology company, agreed to buy closely
held Mustafa Nevzat Pharmaceuticals for almost $700 million last
year. Zentiva NV, a Czech drugmaker bought by  Sanofi (SAN)  in 2009,
acquired 75 percent of the generic-drug unit of Turkey’s
Eczacibasi in 2007 and later purchased the rest.  Ahmet Toksoz, chairman of Sanovel, didn’t immediately reply
to phone calls seeking comment. Officials at Greenhill, Alpacar
Associates and JPMorgan declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
jackiem@bloomberg. 