-- Saudi Slice of Asia at Risk as King Aims Jobs at Locals: Economy
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-07-02T07:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/saudi-slice-of-asia-at-risk-as-king-aims-jobs-at-locals-economy.html
In the Battah district in the heart
of Riyadh, immigrants have recreated a slice of home, buying and
selling clothes, food and movies from a dozen mostly Asian
countries. It’s a way of life that may be under threat.  King Abdullah’s drive to replace foreign workers with
Saudis has begun to transform the Arab world’s biggest economy.
Since its oil industry took off in the 1970s,  Saudi Arabia  has
relied on migrants for tasks from building pipelines to fixing
cars and packing grocery bags. They make up more than half the
 11.3 million workforce , and now many are being urged to leave.  “I can’t give you a percentage but I can tell you that
business is down,” said Mohammed Fahem, manager of the New Sri
Lankan Restaurant in Battah, as he stood behind the cashbox
watching a depleted clientele enjoy chili crab and dhal. “Many
people have left the country.’  The king made reducing unemployment in the world’s top oil
exporter a priority after the popular unrest that began in 2011
toppled or threatened leaders across the  Middle East . He
unveiled a $130 billion social-spending plan, and this year the
government is taking steps to ensure the jobs it creates go to
Saudis. It has tightened labor regulations on expatriates while
offering an amnesty that allows the millions working here
illegally to formalize their status or go home.  King Abdullah today extended the three-month grace period,
announced in April, for foreign workers to rectify their
residency status, the official Saudi Press Agency said. They
have until the end of the Islamic year, at the beginning of
November, it said. The previous deadline was tomorrow.  Government ‘Serious’  ‘‘The government is serious about getting Saudis into the
workplace,” John Sfakianakis, chief investment strategist at
MASIC, a Riyadh-based  investment company , said in a phone
interview. “There are real structural changes happening in the
labor market.”  Foreigners often entered the kingdom under the sponsorship
of one person or company then changed jobs without official
approval. Many were stranded in the country, unable to leave
without the consent of their original employer, who often
retained their passports. Foreign workers without legal visas
may represent 30 percent of the total, Cairo-based investment
bank EFG Hermes Holding SAE said in May.  The jobless rate for Saudi workers is about 12 percent,
according to official figures.  The government said in March it would penalize Saudis who
allowed employees to work for someone else. Weeks later,
Abdullah ordered a three-month grace period so migrants could
correct their status or leave the country without any
restrictions. About 1.6 million people applied under the plan as
the July 3 deadline approached, according to the Saudi Press
Agency.  Period Extended  The clampdown could hurt countries from  Egypt  to the
 Philippines  that rely on Saudi Arabia’s economy to prop up their
own with money sent from abroad. Neighboring Yemen, whose
economy is significantly bolstered by remittances, has already
warned the measures could destabilize its fragile government.  Saudi Arabia is the third-biggest global provider of worker
remittances after the U.S. and  Switzerland , sending $28.5
billion in 2011, according to  World Bank  data.  Egypt, the Arab world’s most populous country, received
$14.3 billion in remittances in 2011, representing 6 percent of
its gross domestic product, according to the  World Bank . For the
Philippines, it’s 10 percent. In Yemen, pushed to the brink of a
civil war in 2011, remittances account for 4 percent.  Filipino Fish  In Battah, Filipinos sell fish in narrow back-streets next
to Yemeni-run fruit stalls, while Indians and Bangladeshis sell
garments and buy the latest sub-continental movies.  On Olaya Street, in another part of the capital, many of
the Asian men who once hawked pirated computer software are
gone. Jashim Uddin, a 31 year-old Bangladeshi, is still there,
working in a shop selling computer parts. He says he still
hasn’t resolved his working status  “Twenty or 30 guys have already left,” he said. “They
didn’t have their work permits. I expect more will go.”  Meanwhile, young Saudis -- women as well as men -- are
increasingly visible in jobs that used to be the preserve of
migrants. At the  Lulu supermarket  chain in Riyadh, Saudi men bag
groceries and scan items. Women work at checkout counters in
family only sections at branches of  Carrefour SA (CA) , the French
retail chain.  With the cost of living rising, many families need to have
more than one person earning a salary, Sfakianakis said. Women
“need to contribute to a family’s income far more today than a
decade ago,” he said. Also, under the government’s jobs-for-locals drive, “retail chains are being compelled to hire more
Saudis with higher salaries than before.”  Long-Term Trouble  The kingdom’s $657 billion economy grew 6.8 percent in 2012
and will expand 4.4 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Inflation is forecast to average
4.2 percent this year in a Bloomberg survey.  It’s important for Saudi Arabia’s public finances that as
the local workforce expands, private companies take a growing
share of it, said Fahad al-Turki, head of research at Jadwa
Investment Co. This year’s budget provides for a record $219
billion in spending, including on new state jobs.  “The government can afford the wage bill in the short- to
medium-term,” al-Turki said in a phone interview. “But in the
long term it will be difficult.”  Preparing Saudis for private-sector jobs is one of the
tasks of the  Technical and Vocational Training Corp. , which
teaches 110,000 Saudis a year. It has “gotten a lot of requests
from different companies,” spokesman Fahad Alotaibi said in a
phone interview. “There is a need in the market for our
graduates.”  Consulate Riot  This month,  Al-Hidada , a construction company, hired 500
graduates from the program, and the local BMW distributor,
Mohammed Yousuf Naghi Motors, took 200 for its car workshops,
Alotaibi said.  As such jobs go to Saudis, crowds are gathering outside
embassies and consulates as foreign nationals line up for the
paperwork required to leave the country.  The wait erupted into a riot at the Indonesian consulate in
Jeddah on June 9, leaving one woman dead. The Indian Embassy in
 Riyadh  has “urged our community to avail the concessions
announced by the Saudi authorities” and is working on a “24/7
basis” to process them, said spokesman Surinder Bhagat in an e-mailed response to questions.  There are still jobs for foreigners, and not all the
Indians will have to leave. For Mohammed al-Dowsari, a Saudi
camel farmer, it’s a good time to hire cheap labor and the
embassy is a good place to find it.  “I need two or three workers,” he called out to the
hundreds of Indians waiting outside. “I can provide them with
their work permits.”  Others have already made the decision not to stay,
including Saleem Amid, 38. Waiting in the sun for hours, he’s
trying to get a one-way ticket to  New Delhi  from the embassy,
after working illegally in Saudi Arabia for years.  “I’m going home and will start over,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  