-- Scene Last Night: Kelly Behun, Jackman, Monkee Nesmith
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-07-01T14:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/scene-last-night-kelly-behun-jackman-monkee-nesmith.html
Ambition on a warm, muggy Saturday
night can take many forms.  On the grass in front of the dunes of her home in
Southampton, designer Kelly Behun showed off a living-room
tableau of her new furniture line, Neo-Laminati, available at
showroom Suite  New York . The party also celebrated her home’s
inclusion in Elle Decor, and drew hedge-fund manager  Richard
Perry , actor  Hugh Jackman , chef Bobby Flay and Ivanka and Jared Kushner, whose  Manhattan  home Behun designed.  Meanwhile on a rooftop in Gowanus with views of fire
escapes, satellite dishes and far-off Manhattan skyscrapers, I
attended the first annual summer benefit of The New Inquiry, the
nonprofit online magazine devoted to critical thought.  In the crowd at Sackett Farms -- named apparently for the
planters on the aforementioned rooftop -- were Adrian Chen, a
staff writer for Gawker and an editor at The New Inquiry, John Hagel III, co-chairman of Deloitte LLP Center for the Edge, and
Michael Nesmith, who is the chairman of the Gihon Foundation as
well as the son of the inventor of Liquid Paper and a former
member of the band the Monkees.  Chen said he liked working on a publication that doesn’t
care about page views. One of the writers he’s edited is Nathan
Jurgenson. His first TNI contribution was a rant against TED
talks. His specialty -- the subject of his dissertation -- is
the duality of online and offline life. (Being offline doesn’t
make you more authentic or real, he said, nor does living in
 Brooklyn . He’s planning a move to Manhattan.)  Nesmith Drawn  The gathering had support from the Gihon Foundation, which
has begun to focus on the online presence of ideas after ending
its annual Council on Ideas, a physical meeting of thinkers
asked to describe the world’s problems.  “When I saw what she was doing and the quality of thinking
around her, I was drawn to it,” said Nesmith of TNI’s editor,
Rachel Rosenfelt, whom he met via Facebook. “She has good
people. I hope you get a chance to really bore down here.”  “It would be hard to find people who are not already
popularly published who are so smart doing their work,” added
Sarah Leonard, an associate editor at Dissent who contributes to
TNI.  “We have no major funder, no institutional support,”
Rosenfelt said. “We make all of our money on reader support.”  The magazine expects $2 a month from readers; how many
participate, Rosenfelt wouldn’t say. “It’s enough to pay every
writer, and we pay some editors,” she said. “Most are
volunteers.”  Blogs, Reviews  Rosenfelt seeks more funding to be able to expand blogs and
reviews of work by small publishers, and offer the magazine by
print-on-demand.  In the tote bag distributed to guests were early copies of
The New Inquiry Reader No. 1, to be published in 2014. It
contains a sampling of essays published in the magazine on
loneliness, mystery shoppers, Ai Wei Wei, drones, and social
media’s ability to understand and mediate war.  DJ Rupture -- artist and author Jace Clayton -- played
tunes from his record label, Dutty Artz. He met Rosenfelt at a
secret bookshop in Manhattan.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on
architecture,  Susan Antilla  on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 