-- MSCI to Monitor Perception of Israel for Europe Index Entry
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-07-01T14:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/msci-to-monitor-perception-of-israel-for-europe-index-entry-1-.html
Investors opposed including  Israel  in
 MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s European index and the portfolio analytics provider
will monitor changes in perception, the company’s global head of
index management said.  MSCI decided in June against including Israeli equities in
its Europe index based on its poll of more than 60 major
institutions around the world, Sebastien Lieblich said in a
phone interview from Geneva. New York-based MSCI surveyed
investment houses, asset owners, active and passive asset
managers, broker dealers and custodians, he said.  “A strong majority of investors didn’t yet see Israel as
part of their European investment opportunity set,” Lieblich
said. “We will continue to monitor the markets and ask the
question on an ongoing basis and continue to review this.”  The bourse requested to be included to the MSCI Europe
gauge in an effort to boost trading volumes. The country’s move
to developed market from emerging in May 2010 was one of the
factors contributing to a decline in trading volumes in Tel
Aviv, the  Bank of Israel  said in a March 12 report.  “International investors need to adapt their views,”
Lieblich said. Changing their minds is “in the hands” of the
Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange, the Israel Securities Authority, and
the  Finance Ministry  to make sure Israel “is more perceived as
part of the European” portfolio, he said.  Trading volume fell 44 percent from the beginning of 2010
through the end 2012, compared with an 18 percent average global
decline, the central bank said. Exchange Chief Executive Officer
Ester Levanon said June 6 a move to MSCI Europe would bring an
additional flow of $1 billion to $2 billion. The benchmark TA-25
Index of stocks has declined 2.7 percent since the June
announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  