-- Scientists Back Alzheimer’s Test Amid Doubts Over Value
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/scientists-back-alzheimer-s-test-amid-doubts-over-value.html
The U.S. government is set to decide
this month whether federal health insurance should cover the
cost of a $3,000 test that for the first time accurately
identifies the signature brain plaques of Alzheimer’s disease.  A lot is riding on the decision. Those in favor of coverage
say the brain scan will reduce anguish and lower medical costs
for families struggling to determine appropriate care for a
relative suffering from memory loss. What’s more, the test could
help create a broad base of early Alzheimer’s patients for
research purposes, they say. Opponents counter that coverage
would be a waste of money because Alzheimer’s remains an
incurable disease and knowing whether a person has the disease
is of little or no benefit.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if this decision went in either
direction,” said Sean Tunis, the founder and director of the
Center for Medical Technology Policy in Baltimore. “The science
on this one is so early, so it’s hard to make a case from a
clinical point of view that the diagnosis will make a
difference. It will tilt on political dynamics more than the
science.”  The test, approved last year by U.S. regulators, uses  Eli
Lilly & Co.’s (LLY)  Amyvid imaging agent to trace a brain protein
linked to a disease that affects 5 million Americans, a number
that patient advocates say could double by 2050. A decision in
favor of coverage could also spur interest in a similar agent
that  General Electric Co. (GE)  is developing.  Mistaken Alzheimer’s  Differentiating between those who suffer from Alzheimer’s
and others who have lesser forms of dementia is key for
determining proper treatment, said  Robert Berenson , a fellow at
the  Urban Institute . One kind of illness frequently mistaken for
Alzheimer’s is called  multi-infarct dementia . For this
condition, doctors can use blood thinners to keep the disease
from progressing.  Memory loss can also be caused by tumors or dietary
deficiencies, conditions that can be reversed before they become
too damaging, said Dean Hartley, director of scientific
initiatives for the  Alzheimer’s Association .  “We need to make sure we can rule out Alzheimer’s,”
Hartley said in a telephone interview.  Over the last decade, attempts to develop an effective
Alzheimer’s’ treatment have come up short, failing to crack an
estimated $20 billion market. As a result, scientists have
called for a national research effort that was recently endorsed
by U.S. President  Barack Obama .  Amyloid Plaques  Amyvid, the first drug of its kind, was approved for sale
last year by U.S. regulators, and in January in  Europe . It binds
to beta-amyloid plaques in the brain that are a suspected cause
of Alzheimer’s. The dye’s radiation allows an image to be
produced using a PET scan, showing where amyloid plaques exist
in the brain and how extensive they may be.  In January, after Lilly requested a  determination  on
coverage from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, a
panel of U.S. advisers said it wasn’t confident the tests would
improve the health of people with Alzheimer’s. A final decision
will come July 9, according to Don McLeod, an agency spokesman
who declined to comment further. The agency oversees Medicare,
the U.S. health program for the elderly and disabled, and
Medicaid, the joint-state medical plan for the poor.  While a negative decision would limit use of the tests,
approval would probably open the door for coverage by private
insurers such as  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , which often follow the
federal government’s lead. That would potentially result in
millions of people receiving the test.  Accelerating Knowledge  Those sorts of numbers could be especially useful for
research, said Daniel Skovronsky, chief executive officer of
Lilly’s Avid Radiopharmaceuticals unit. Currently, scientists
must scan each patient they recruit for Alzheimer’s trials to
determine if they have the disease, according to Skovronsky.
About a third of patients don’t and those scans are thrown away,
wasting time and money.  “If it’s reimbursed already, then there will be people
already pre-sorted,” Skovronsky said in a telephone interview.
“Most trials want to know the amyloid status of patients but,
because it’s not been widely used in clinical practice, it takes
time and money. That’s a drag on research.”  Deciding how such tests will be used in the future is an
important issue as the Baby Boom ages. More than 60 percent of
family caregivers for those with dementia rated the emotional
stress of their effort as high or very high in a 2010 poll of
3,118 people in that situation, and 39 percent of caregivers
suffer depression that needs to be treated, according to
research published in the Journal of Clinical Epidemiology.  “You have two different emotions,” said Pamela Machado,
54, of Waterford,  California . Her father, Tom Perry, was
diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease and underwent amyloid
imaging. “I was happy to know what was going on, but so
incredibly sad it’s confirmed. It helps prepare you, though, and
you can then seek help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  