-- Serena Williams’s Wimbledon Loss Clears Way for New Champ
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/serena-williams-s-wimbledon-loss-clears-way-for-new-champ.html
Serena Williams’s Wimbledon defeat to
big-serving Sabine Lisicki opens up the possibility of a first-time women’s singles champion at the All England Club.  Lisicki yesterday beat the five-time titlist from the U.S.,
6-2, 1-6, 6-4 on Centre Court at the All England Club in
southwest  London .  “I’m still shaking, I’m so happy,” the German said in a
televised interview, before bursting into tears. “Serena played
a fantastic match, she is such a tough opponent. An amazing
feeling to win this match.”  Williams’s fourth-round departure follows defending men’s
champion Roger Federer’s exit in the second round and two-time
winner Rafael Nadal’s loss in the opening round. With 2011
victor Petra Kvitova the only former Wimbledon winner left on
the women’s side, there could be a first-time female champion on
July 6.  Kvitova of the Czech Republic plays  Belgium ’s Kirsten Flipkens in today’s quarterfinals, while No. 17 seed Sloane Stephens, the last remaining singles player from the U.S., faces
former runner-up Marion Bartoli of  France .  China ’s Li Na plays
last year’s finalist Agnieszka Radwanska of  Poland , while
Lisicki meets Kaia Kanepi of  Estonia .  “This has been a crazy Wimbledon,” Stephens said.  Men’s Quarterfinals  Men’s top seed Novak Djokovic and second-seeded Andy Murray
advanced to the quarterfinals yesterday without dropping a set.
Britain’s Murray beat Mikhail Youzhny of  Russia , 6-4, 7-6 (7-5),
6-1, while  Serbia ’s Djokovic fired 13 aces in a 6-1, 6-4, 7-6
(7-4) victory against 35-year-old Tommy Haas of  Germany . Fourth
seed David Ferrer of Spain also won.  Lisicki had three more aces yesterday than Williams, who’s
hit the most on the women’s tour this season. The 23-year-old
converted five of eight break points and used an efficient
volley, winning 14 of 16 approaches, or 88 percent. Lisicki’s
winning forehand on match point was her 35th winner, 10 more
than Williams, a 16-time Grand Slam singles champion.  “It’s not a shock, she always plays really good on
grass,” Williams said in a news conference. “I didn’t play the
big points good enough, I didn’t do what I do best. I had a
little bit of hesitation.”  Lisicki has now dumped the reigning French Open champion
out of Wimbledon four times in five years. She said Williams put
up a fight.  “She played unbelievable tennis, I gave it everything I
had,” Lisicki said, “I just hung in there and fought for every
single point.”  The 23rd-seeded Lisicki trailed 4-2 in the final set, then
came back to 4-4 as she continued to fire serves of faster than
120 miles per hour (193 kilometers per hour). Lisicki got to
break point with a drop shot, and broke for a 5-4 lead as
Williams sent a seemingly easy smash just over the baseline.  No Risk  “She was just on today, she was definitely reading my
serve,” Williams said. “She had nothing to lose.”  Serving for the biggest victory of her life, Lisicki set up
her first match point with a service winner, only to squander it
with a forehand long. A double fault followed to hand Williams a
break point, which Lisicki saved with her 10th ace. A forehand
winner after a long rally secured the win, with the victor
falling to the grass in joy.  “She has one of the biggest serves on tour,” Williams
said. “She’s actually super fast, she gets every ball back.”  It was the earliest loss in a major for Williams since she
was eliminated in the opening round of the French Open last
year. Since then, the 31-year-old had won Wimbledon, two Olympic
gold medals, the U.S. Open and last month’s French Open. Today’s
defeat ended her 34-match winning streak.  New Champions  Williams’s loss means there will be new men’s and women’s
singles champions. Federer was upset six days ago in the second
round, when a record seven players exited the tournament because
of injuries.  With Nadal also eliminated last week, the 20th-seeded
Youzhny had been the highest-ranked player left on Murray’s
side.  Murray is trying to become the first man from the British
Isles to win the Wimbledon singles title since Fred Perry in
1936. The Scot plays 54th-ranked Spaniard Fernando Verdasco in
the quarterfinals. After that, he would meet the winner of the
first all-Polish men’s quarterfinal at Wimbledon, between 24th-seeded Jerzy Janowicz and 130th-ranked Lukasz Kubot.  Djokovic, the 2011 champion, plays former finalist Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic, who overcame  Australia ’s Bernard Tomic, 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, 6-4.  ‘No Guarantees’  “I lost to him the only time we played on grass, in
2010,” Djokovic said about Berdych. “But I am playing really,
really good tennis at the moment.”  Murray said he expects to be challenged in the coming
rounds.  “I don’t expect to come in to win, there’s no guarantees
at all,” Murray, who won his first Grand Slam title at last
year’s U.S. Open, said when asked about his possible path to the
final. “Serena lost. Rafa and Roger also lost. If they can
lose, so can I.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  