-- Ship Rates Drop as U.S. Oil Imports Fall Most Since ’91: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/ship-rates-drop-as-u-s-oil-imports-fall-most-since-91-freight.html
Growing U.S. energy independence is
driving the biggest drop in crude imports in two decades and
rates for the  oil tankers  most reliant on the shipments to the
weakest in at least 16 years.  Seaborne imports will decline 11 percent to 5.4 million
barrels a day in 2013, the largest slide since at least 1991,
according to Clarkson Plc, the leading shipbroker. Suezmaxes
hauling 1 million-barrel cargoes earned $10,652 a day this year,
the least since 1997, its data show. The rate is 55 percent less
than Euronav NV says it needs to break even on the 22 tankers it
owns. Shares of the company will fall 8.3 percent in a year, the
average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Rising oil and gas output as fracking unlocks supplies
trapped in shale rocks means the U.S. is meeting the highest
proportion of its energy needs since 1986, government data show.
The nation will overtake  Saudi Arabia  as the top oil producer by
2020, according to the  International Energy Agency  in Paris.
Suezmax shipments of West African crude to North America will
average 700,000 barrels a day this year, a 30 percent drop in
three years, Clarkson estimates.  “Domestic oil is crowding out West African imports,” said
Frode Moerkedal, an Oslo-based analyst at RS Platou Markets AS
whose recommendations on the shares of shipping companies
returned 16 percent in the past year. “Overall trade has been
declining because nobody is picking up the slack from the U.S.”  Capacity Glut  Suezmaxes, the 900-foot ships that haul about 21 percent of
all seaborne oil, will earn $14,700 a day this year, 16 percent
less than in 2012, Morgan Stanley estimates. Euronav, based in
Antwerp,  Belgium , said in May it needs $23,600 to break even.  Shares of  Euronav (EURN)  fell 19 percent to 3.73 euros in Brussels
this year and will reach 3.42 euros in 12 months, the average of
six  analyst estimates  shows. The company’s net loss will narrow
to $74.7 million this year, from $85.9 million in 2012,
according to the mean of five estimates. Euronav is the third-largest listed owner of Suezmaxes, after Teekay Corp. and  Nordic
American (NAT)  Tankers Ltd., both based in Hamilton,  Bermuda .  The industry should demolish 50 to 60 ships out of a total
fleet of about 480 to diminish the capacity glut, Paddy Rodgers,
Euronav’s chief executive officer, said in an interview.  “There’s no magic wand,” he said by phone on June 26.
“No particular operator can significantly outperform the market
for a prolonged period of time.”  Gulf Coast  U.S. imports, including by pipeline, fell to 7.3 million
barrels a day in February, the lowest monthly rate since 1996,
Energy Department data show. Daily domestic production was 7.26
million barrels in the week ended June 21, within 2 percent of
the 21-year high reached in May, government data show.  Some U.S. importers prefer Suezmaxes over very large crude
carriers twice the size because the smaller vessels can dock in
more places. Only one U.S. port on the  Gulf Coast , the region
that receives the majority of imports, can accommodate VLCCs,
according to McQuilling Services LLC, a  Garden City , New York-based consultant. Shipments to  North America  will account for 27
percent of Suezmax demand this year, a higher proportion than
for any other type of tanker, Clarkson data show.  West African cargoes that once went to the U.S. are now
going to China on larger tankers. VLCCs were booked to haul 44
percent of the region’s exports last month, from 38 percent a
year earlier, according to Galbraith’s Ltd., a shipbroker in
 London . The supertankers cost less per ton of cargo carried than
Suezmaxes for longer voyages, Moerkedal said.  European Ports  Demand for Suezmaxes may be boosted by more Middle East
cargoes going to  Europe . Shipments through the  Suez Canal 
linking the  Red Sea  to the Mediterranean rose 13 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, data from the waterway show.
VLCCs only dock regularly at three European ports and Suezmaxes
are the biggest vessels that can navigate the canal fully laden.  Extra demand may also come from  China , which is poised to
import almost as much seaborne crude as the U.S. for the first
time ever this year, according to Clarkson. The world’s second-biggest economy will buy 5.4 million barrels a day in 2013, 9
percent more than in 2012, London-based Clarkson estimates. A
one-way delivery from  Angola  to China takes about 32 days,
compared with 22 days to Houston.  Global seaborne trade in crude will advance 0.8 percent to
38.4 million barrels a day this year, down from growth of 1.8
percent in 2012, the shipbroker estimates. While volumes carried
by Suezmaxes will climb 3 percent, the leading contributor will
be shipments to  India  from the  Persian Gulf , a voyage that can
take as little as four days.  Global Recession  The combined capacity of Suezmaxes increased 40 percent
since 2008, when rates surged to a record $155,000 a day. That
spurred owners to order too many ships just as a global
recession began. Outstanding contracts at shipyards equal 14
percent of existing capacity, the most of any type of crude
tanker, according to IHS Fairplay, a Redhill, England-based
research company. The Suezmax fleet will expand 8.2 percent this
year, the fastest of any tanker class, Clarkson estimates.  The glut extends across much of the industry. Rates for
VLCCs and the largest iron-ore carriers averaged less than
operating costs this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ClarkSea Index, a measure of industrywide
earnings, is averaging the lowest since at least 1990.  Shares of  Teekay (TK) , which also owns smaller tankers and
liquefied natural gas carriers, rose 26 percent to $40.39 in  New
York  this year and will drop to $39.20 in 12 months, the average
of 10 analyst estimates shows. Nordic American declined 14
percent to $7.55 and will advance to $9 in a year, according to
the forecasts. The company says its fleet of 20 Suezmaxes needs
$12,000 a day to break even.  “The crude that the U.S. is producing is light and
sweet,” said Jonathan Chappell, a New York-based analyst at
Evercore Partners whose recommendations on the shares of
shipping companies returned 23 percent in the past year.
“That’s displacing primarily West African crude, which is a
primary route for Suezmaxes. Then throw on top the highest order
book, and it’s just a really tough near-term outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  