-- Singapore Home Prices Climb to Record as Loan Curbs Imposed
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-07-01T09:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/singapore-home-prices-climb-to-record-as-government-curbs-loans.html
Singapore  home prices  climbed to a
record in the second quarter as gains in suburban housing values
accelerated, leading to new government measures on property
loans at the end of last week.  The island state’s private residential property price index
 rose  0.8 percent to 214.9 points in the three months ended June
30, extending a 0.6 percent increase in the first quarter,
according to preliminary estimates released by the  Urban
Redevelopment Authority  today. The pace of gain in suburban home
prices more than doubled from the previous three months.  Record home prices amid low  interest rates  raised concerns
of a housing bubble and prompted the government to widen a four-year campaign in January to curb speculation prices in  Asia ’s
second-most expensive housing market. Singapore on June 28
unveiled new rules governing how financial institutions grant
property loans to individuals, extending efforts to curb
excessive price increases.  “In the immediate-term, there could be some negative
impact on property sales as buyers and banks alike take time to
digest how the new framework impacts them,” analysts Desmond
Ch’ng and  Wilson Liew  at Maybank Kim Eng Securities said in a
note to clients today. “We maintain our view that the mass
market residential segment is the most vulnerable to downside
price pressure.”  The analysts said in the report that they prefer so-called
diversified and retail developers.  Suburban Gains  Apartment prices fell 0.2 percent in prime districts in the
second quarter, compared to a 0.4 percent gain in the previous
three months. Those in the suburbs climbed 3 percent, compared
to the 1.4 percent increase in the previous quarter, according
to today’s government data.  “The continued climb in private home prices suggests that
market fundamentals have not been overly compromised by the
cooling measures as they are still able to generate sufficient
sales momentum to thrust prices forward,’’ said Mohamed Ismail,
CEO of PropNex Realty, a brokerage in  Singapore .  Singapore is Asia’s most-expensive housing market after
 Hong Kong , according to a Knight Frank LLP and Citi Private Bank
report released last year that compared 63 locations globally.
Hong Kong homes cost an average $28,300 per square meter in 2011
compared to Singapore where an apartment would cost $25,600 per
square meter, the report showed.  Stocks Fall  The  measure  tracking the city’s property stocks fell 0.8
percent at the close in Singapore trading, the first drop in
five days. Shares of  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , the country’s biggest
developer, dropped 2.3 percent to S$3.01, while  City
Developments Ltd. (CIT) , the second largest, declined 1.6 percent.  “The latest credit tightening measures are expected to
cause a dent on volume in the coming months as buyers will hold
off decision-making,” said Joseph Tan, Singapore-based
 executive director  for residential at CBRE, a property
consulting company.  A  report  by the  National University  of Singapore’s
Institute of Real Estate Studies showed the NUS - Singapore
Residential Property Index fell 0.2 percent in May from the
previous month. Those in the central region rose 1.5 percent.  The government measures in January included an increase in
the stamp duty for homebuyers by between 5 percentage points and
7 percentage points, with permanent residents paying taxes when
they buy their first home. Singaporeans will also have the levy
starting with their second purchase.  Singapore also plans to raise taxes for luxury homeowners
and investment properties. The higher tax will apply to the top
1 percent of homeowners who live in their own residences, or
12,000 properties, Singapore Finance Minister  Tharman
Shanmugaratnam  said in his budget speech on Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  