-- Snowden’s Leaks Cloud U.S. Plan to Curb Chinese Hacking
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2013-07-01T00:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/snowden-s-leaks-cloud-u-s-plan-to-curb-chinese-hacking.html
The Obama administration’s strategy
for confronting China over the theft of commercial technology
has been battered by Edward Snowden’s disclosures of U.S.
spying, leaving officials rushing to salvage a plan they crafted
in secret over the past two years.  A public confrontation with China that appeared to erupt
spontaneously this year actually coalesced after significant
shifts in U.S. policy and years of internal argument, analysis
and vetting, according to two people briefed on the plan who
asked not to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak on the matter.  Approved by top national security advisers and presented to
President  Barack Obama  in a series of meetings in 2012 and early
this year, the plan includes classified counterintelligence
operations, the seizure of assets and even the possible
indictment of Chinese hackers, those people said.  The U.S. already has privately provided China’s leaders
with evidence it gathered linking the hacks of commercial
companies to China’s intelligence agencies -- a risky demarche
that exposed the methods of U.S. spy agencies tracking those
activities, according to the two people.  While some elements of the plan are well under way, other
parts were intended to be rolled out over the next several
months to increase pressure on China’s leaders.  What the administration didn’t anticipate was that a
disaffected American would expose some U.S. spying operations as
it prepared for Obama’s first meeting with China’s new
president.  Damaging Publicity  Snowden, a former worker for government contractor  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , disclosed top-secret U.S. National
Security Agency programs that collect phone and Internet data.
He fled to Hong Kong and then Moscow, as the administration has
pleaded for his extradition.  With every twist in the global cat-and-mouse game with
Snowden, the administration has to struggle to keep its plan to
take on China over its hacking of commercial secrets from being
upended by damaging publicity.  “It’s now going to be a lot harder to convince people in
South Africa or Indonesia or  Brazil  that we are any different
than the Chinese,” said Adam Segal, a specialist in
cybersecurity at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.  The question is how much of the plan remains effective and
workable. The first test may come early this month, when U.S.
and Chinese officials convene for the first time a working group
on cybersecurity, including data theft.  China’s Stance  China  has portrayed itself as a victim of cyber-attacks,
not a perpetrator, and called last month for international
regulation under the United Nations.  On June 27, Yang Yujun, a spokesman for China’s Defense
Ministry, said the U.S. had a double standard when it comes to
cyberspying and that Snowden’s leaks of classified programs have
revealed “hypocritical behavior,” according to Xinhua, the
state news agency.  Some of the steps previously considered by the Obama
administration may not be well-suited to the current
environment.  Even if there is no chance of getting the Chinese into a
U.S. court, an indictment of China’s hackers by the Justice
Department’s national-security division had emerged as a way for
the government to lay out evidence of how China is orchestrating
the theft of global technology and industrial know-how. The
prospective tactic was vetted over several months, said the two
people familiar with the plan, and finally approved.  Less Rhetoric  A person involved in that process said he believed that
such a step now -- amid the furor over the National Security
Agency’s cyber-espionage -- would lose much of its punch.  The same might apply to statements over China as a source
of hacking made in the past five months by senior administration
officials including National Security Adviser Tom Donilon,
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and the president himself.  “You’re going to see a lot less public rhetoric for a
while,” said Ellen Shearer, co-director of Northwestern
University’s National Security Journalism Initiative in
 Washington . “It just opens them up for questions afterward
about their own activity.”  Laura Lucas, a spokeswoman for the National Security
Council, said the agency doesn’t comment on internal
deliberations.  U.S. spy agencies, using some of the methods disclosed by
Snowden, have tracked China’s hackers for more than a decade,
according to secret diplomatic cables made available by the
anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks. By 2011, a body of accumulated
evidence pushed the administration to action.  ‘Overwhelming’ Scale  A classified report by U.S. intelligence agencies in August
2011 showed the scope of China’s collection across dozens of
industries, including the theft of valuable clean-energy
technology and satellite engineering, as well as data on
microelectronics, chemical manufacturing, conventional energy
technology and more, according to a person briefed on the survey
who asked not to be identified discussing its findings.  “The scale of their economic espionage against all
countries, not just the U.S., is overwhelming, so large that
it’s creating instability in the world,” said James Lewis, who
specializes in cybersecurity at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington. “They have to realize that
this is not what normal countries do.”  Interagency Committee  Obama’s team formed an interagency policy committee focused
on the cyberthreat from China, placing it within the National
Security Council and pulling in experts from the FBI, the State
Department, the Treasury Department and intelligence agencies.  Interagency policy committees, or IPCs, are the workhorses
of national-security decision making and signal the importance
placed on emerging threats. Among the task forces developed
during President George W. Bush’s administration were IPCs on
pandemics, maritime security, and biodefense, according to a
2011 report by the National Defense University. The list of
Obama’s IPCs remains classified, the report said.  The sensitivities of the U.S. relationship with China and
its role in global trade made the work of the task force
especially difficult. The option of placing trade sanctions on
goods made with stolen technology -- an idea now popular in the
U.S. Congress -- was debated for months before it was jettisoned
by the group as unworkable, the two people briefed on the
private deliberations said.  Dossiers Compiled  Thick dossiers on individual hackers and their organization
already have been compiled. Indictments could include military
personnel or private contractors and civilian employees,
depending on the desired impact, according to a person familiar
with the intelligence.  Some elements of the plan already have been put in motion,
including providing China’s leaders with clear evidence that the
cyber-attacks were aimed at acquiring advanced commercial
technology. Because that option risked compromising some U.S.
intelligence sources, it was carefully vetted by top national
security officials before being approved last year, according to
the two people briefed on the process.  The move was seen as important in order to undercut China’s
repeated denials and kick-start discussions on putting private
companies off limits to state-sponsored hacking, which is among
the U.S. goals for the upcoming talks, the people said.  Snowden’s leaks may have made other elements of the plan
less risky, two U.S. officials said. Disclosures that the U.S.
had hacked into China’s Internet backbone as well as specific
computers has compromised those sources, letting the U.S. reveal
information gathered from them.  Obama Decides  The result, Lewis said, is that Obama can now decide “when
to deploy a measure and what measure to deploy that won’t blow
up the relationship but will get China’s leaders to take this
seriously.”  Not all elements of the plan hinge on the public’s view of
the U.S. role in cyberspace as less threatening than China’s,
although some do.  Applying multilateral pressure to hem in China’s leaders is
a significant part of the strategy, and the U.S. scored a recent
success when a UN working group found in early June that
international law and the protection of intellectual property
applied in cyberspace.  “The White House has made a terrible error in failing to
distinguish all along industrial espionage from political-military stuff,” said  Joel Brenner , who was the head of U.S.
counterintelligence under Bush and Obama. “They’re trying to
make that distinction now, and nobody’s listening.”  ‘Long-Term Problem’  Officials involved in the debate say that after the uproar
over Snowden’s leaks passes, many of the fundamentals of the
U.S. case -- and the administration’s plan -- will remain the
same.  “This is a long-term problem, and it’s not something to be
solved overnight either,” said Michael Daniel, the most senior
cybersecurity official in the White House.  The model is the engagement with China over how to curb the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, an effort that
took years to bear fruit, Lewis said. The real discussions will
occur behind closed doors, not in public view.  “The Chinese will try to get as much leverage they can get
out of Snowden,” Lewis said. “But in the actual talks it
doesn’t give them a lot to stand on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  