-- Snowden Exit From Hong Kong Shows Obama’s Limited Pull
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-07-02T15:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/snowden-exit-from-hong-kong-shows-obama-s-limited-pull.html
When President  Barack Obama  met
Chinese President Xi Jinping last month in California, the
relaxed setting beside man-made lakes shimmering in the desert
heat was intended to herald an era of cooperation between the
leaders of the world’s two largest economies.  Today, those images of solidarity are more like a mirage.  The abrupt departure from  Hong Kong  of Edward Snowden, the
former national security contractor accused of revealing U.S.
surveillance programs, with the consent of Chinese authorities,
embarrassed Obama and other American officials.  “The president takes it personally,” said  Bonnie Glaser ,
a senior Asia adviser at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington. “There was agreement that
this relationship would move forward in a personal way. I think
the president probably feels burned.”  That incident underscores the limited pull Obama has over a
country that’s increasingly intertwined with U.S. economic
fortunes, says  Nicholas Lardy , an expert on the Chinese economy
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington. “Snowden is just one more example of where we can’t
call the shots,” says Lardy.  The first test of whether Snowden’s case has caused
significant damage to the Sino-U.S. relationship will come next
week, when Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and Secretary of State
John Kerry lead talks with top Chinese officials in Washington.  The fifth Strategic and Economic Dialogue will take place
as part of Obama’s so-called Asia pivot, in which he’s seeking
to redirect the U.S. diplomatic focus to the  Far East . The
Chinese view the increasing attention as an effort to contain
their military and economic rise.  Global Influence  The two nations alternatively cooperate and compete for
global wealth and influence.  Bilateral trade  grew to $536
billion last year, and  China ’s $1.26 trillion in Treasury
holdings makes it the U.S.’s largest foreign creditor. While
they have struggled over currency issues and China’s growing
military assertiveness in the  South China Sea , they’ve shown
signs of mutual interest on issues like  climate change  and
containing North Korea’s nuclear program.  China’s economic rise is intensifying friction over
military issues. Though Chinese  defense spending  is still
dwarfed by U.S. outlays, the  People’s Liberation Army ’s clout is
raising concern in the U.S. and with Asian allies. The military
buildup, largely directed at dominating regional waters, comes
as Chinese territorial claims with Japan, Vietnam and the
Philippines have grown bolder.  Cybersecurity Focus  Topping the issues on the Obama administration’s agenda for
next week’s meeting, though, is cybersecurity, a topic the
president has repeatedly highlighted as an American concern and
one that has been complicated by the Snowden episode.  The president has urged China to agree to what he calls
“norms” of behavior on cyber issues. During last month’s talks
in California, he detailed for Xi episodes involving Chinese
theft of American intellectual property. U.S. officials argued
that reports linking hacking attacks on American corporate and
government sites to a Chinese military unit gave them the upper
hand in negotiations.  “We’ve had increasingly direct conversations with the
Chinese,” said Tom Donilon, Obama’s national security adviser
at the time of the meeting, told reporters afterward. “It is
now really at the center of the relationship.”  Snowden has withdrawn a request for asylum in Russia
because of a demand that he stop harming U.S. interests by
leaking secret documents. As more revelations appear in the
media, the Obama’s administration’s arguments may become
increasingly difficult to make to the Chinese.  Muddled Message  “The message has been muddled as a result of the whole
Snowden affair,” said Glaser. “This is going to be a problem
for the administration.”  Adding to the difficulty was a German magazine article this
week that said the U.S. is spying on European diplomats, a
report that sparked concern among European politicians and
prompted Obama to say his staff will review the matter.  Obama, winding up a trip to Africa, declined to say
yesterday whether the article in  Der Spiegel , which cited
classified documents in Snowden’s possession, is true. He said
“every intelligence service” in the world uses its resources
to try “to understand the world better.”  Chinese officials have seized on Snowden’s revelations
about surveillance to argue that the U.S. is engaging in exactly
the type of behavior it criticizes abroad.  ‘Biggest Villain’  “The United States, which has long been trying to play
innocent as a victim of cyberattacks, has turned out to be the
biggest villain,” wrote Xinhua, the state-run Chinese  news
agency , in a commentary. The U.S. owes “an explanation to China
and other countries it has allegedly spied on,” it said.  American officials say there’s no comparison between the
U.S. programs, which are overseen by Congress and a secret
court, and those in China. Obama has made the case that there’s
a difference between international espionage and a foreign
government hacker stealing corporate secrets from companies such
as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “That’s theft,” he said in an interview last month with
 Charlie Rose  on PBS. “And we can’t tolerate that,”  Chinese cyberspying has also raised concerns among American
officials about their growing investment in U.S. companies,
according to emerging market analysts.  Smithfield Deal  In the past 15 months, private Chinese firms spent more on
U.S. deals than in the 11 years before combined, according to
 data  collected by the Rhodium Group. In May, Shuanghui
International Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest pork producer,
agreed to acquire  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , a Virginia-based meat
processor, for about $4.72 billion, marking the largest Chinese
takeover of a U.S. company ever.  The Smithfield sale has raised questions in Congress and
scrutiny from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.,
an interagency panel that reviews foreign takeovers of U.S.
companies that could have an impact on national security.  In September, Obama ordered Chinese-owned Ralls Corp. to
divest its interest in U.S. wind-farm projects near a military
base in Oregon.  “The Snowden issue is a very small part of a very large
relationship,” said  Kenneth Lieberthal , director of the
 Brookings Institution ’s John L. Thornton China Center. “Whether
the atmosphere will be significantly more tense because of this,
we just don’t know.”  Dialing Back  In recent days, U.S. officials have begun dialing back
their public outrage against China. Speaking at a June 27 news
conference in Dakar, Senegal, Obama defended his handling of the
incident, saying he wouldn’t be “wheeling and dealing and
trading” on other issues in pursuit of Snowden.  Chinese officials are also eager to stress their desire for
continued cooperation.  “Safeguarding the healthy development of Sino-U.S.
relations is in accordance with the interests of the peoples of
both countries,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told
reporters in Beijing last week.  Senate Intelligence Committee Chairwoman  Dianne Feinstein 
of California said she was encouraged by the comments of Cui Tiankai, the Chinese ambassador to the U.S., in a June 26
meeting, on cybersecurity.  “He really showed every evidence of wanting to work
closely,” Feinstein said in an interview. “I was delighted.”  Lieberthal said heated incidents like the Snowden case are
typical in a complex U.S.-China relationship. In the days before
last year’s Strategic and Economic Dialogue in Beijing, American
officials gave asylum to blind Chinese dissident  Chen Guangcheng 
in the U.S. embassy.  Though the Chinese demanded an apology from the U.S., they
didn’t let the incident undermine the talks.  “It was the kind of thing that normally would have had
enormous repercussions, but the Chinese negotiated with us and
set it aside,” said Lieberthal. “Neither country can afford to
let an incident like this negatively impact our capacity for
cooperation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  