-- Snowden Seeks Russian Asylum as Putin Says Leaks Must End
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-07-02T06:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/snowden-asks-for-russian-political-asylum-airport-official-says.html
President Vladimir Putin said Edward Snowden must quit hurting American interests if he wants to
remain in  Russia , after an official said the fugitive U.S.
whistleblower applied for asylum here.  “If he wants to stay, there’s one condition: He must stop
his activity aimed at harming our American partners, as strange
as it sounds coming from my lips,” Putin, a frequent critic of
U.S. policy, told reporters in the Kremlin yesterday. Snowden,
who also applied for refuge in 20 other countries, according to
WikiLeaks, is unlikely to accept that restriction, Putin said.  The Russian president defied U.S. calls last week to hand
over Snowden, who remained stuck in the transit area of Moscow’s
Sheremetyevo airport days after arriving on June 23 from Hong
Kong. The former worker for government contractor  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  has said he was the source of leaks on
top-secret U.S. National Security Agency programs that collect
phone and Internet data.  “Our position is the same -- that he should be expelled
and returned home here to the U.S.” to face espionage charges,
State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell said at a briefing
yesterday when asked about reports of Snowden’s asylum request.
Ventrell said it was “up to the Russians” to confirm it.  Snowden’s application was delivered on the evening of June
30 to a visa office at Sheremetyevo by WikiLeaks’ legal adviser
Sarah Harrison, a consular official who received the document,
Kim Shevchenko, said by phone.  European Demands  Shevchenko said he informed his superiors of the
application and sent it by courier. “I don’t know what has
happened with it since,” he said.  European officials demanded more information yesterday on
the latest revelation stemming from Snowden’s releases, a report
in the German magazine Der Spiegel that the NSA eavesdropped and
infiltrated computer networks of the European Union. The report
cited classified documents in Snowden’s possession.  “Given the fact that he feels that he is a human-rights
defender, he is unlikely to stop such work, so that is why he
should choose a country of destination and go there,” Putin
said. “When that will happen, unfortunately, I don’t know.”  Snowden, 30, can’t be handed over because Russia and the
U.S. don’t have an extradition treaty, Putin has said.  “The only country in the world which is ready to enter
into conflict with the U.S. over the fate of the fugitive
American turned out to be Russia,” leading Russian newspaper
 Kommersant  said in a front-page article today.  Ecuador’s Position  Snowden had previously requested asylum in  Ecuador . U.S.
Vice President Joe Biden asked President Rafael Correa to reject
Snowden’s bid, the Ecuadorean leader said in a radio address
June 29. Ecuadorean officials have said that Snowden would have
to make his way to their country or one of its embassies to
apply in person before they would weigh whether to take him in.  Nothing that happens to Snowden can stop the release of
more information he possesses about classified U.S. programs,
said Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy
group that publishes government documents on its website.  “Great care has been taken to make sure that Mr. Snowden
can’t be pressured by any state to stop the publication
process,” Assange, who’s been holed up at Ecuador’s embassy in
 London  for more than a year after the country granted him
asylum, said June 30 on ABC’s “This Week” program.  ‘Stateless Person’  WikiLeaks posted a statement on its website yesterday that
it attributed to Snowden in Moscow. It quoted him as saying that
“the Obama administration has now adopted the strategy of using
citizenship as a weapon. Although I am convicted of nothing, it
has unilaterally revoked my passport, leaving me a stateless
person.”  Harrison filed requests for asylum on Snowden’s behalf with
more than dozen countries on June 30, WikiLeaks said on its
website. In addition to Russia, those countries include  Austria ,
Bolivia,  Brazil ,  China , Cuba,  Finland ,  France ,  Germany ,  India ,
 Italy , Ireland, the Netherlands,  Nicaragua ,  Norway ,  Poland ,
Spain, Switzerland and  Venezuela , joining previous requests to
Ecuador and  Iceland , WikiLeaks said.  Bolivian President Evo Morales told Russian state-run RT
television today that his country is ready to consider Snowden’s
request.  Snowden has a good chance of getting refugee status in
Russia, Svetlana Gannushkina, head of the Moscow-based Civil
Assistance rights group, said on Gazeta.ru. Most countries
require the applicant to be physically on its territory to gain
political asylum, so Snowden’s applications to other nations are
unlikely to be approved, she was cited as saying.  ‘Consequences’  The Snowden case has rattled international relations, with
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry last week warning China and
Russia of “consequences” of their actions in spurning U.S.
extradition requests. U.S. officials later shifted to a more
conciliatory approach, and President  Barack Obama  said that
“some useful conversations” have been held between the U.S.
and Russia to resolve the issue.  Venezuela, whose President Nicolas Maduro said on June 26
that his country would “almost surely” give asylum to Snowden
if he asked for it, may be the fugitive’s last hope for a
destination other than Russia, according to Fyodor Lukyanov, the
editor of Russia in Global Affairs, a Moscow-based foreign
affairs magazine.  Maduro and heads of other gas-exporting nations including
Iran and  Algeria  are attending a meeting in Moscow this week. A
spokesman at Venezuela’s Information Ministry said last night
that he had no information on whether Snowden had requested
asylum from the South American country.  Putin said that he didn’t know if any foreign delegations
were planning to take Snowden away.  ‘Completely Surprised’  Russia was “completely surprised” by Snowden’s arrival
from Hong Kong, Putin told reporters in Finland on June 25.
Russian authorities were probably informed by the Chinese
government of Snowden’s route although they didn’t plan his
escape, according to Lukyanov.  “If Snowden has nowhere to go, maybe Russia will have to
take him in,” Lukyanov said by phone. “It won’t do so exactly
enthusiastically, but it can’t hand him over to the U.S. for
reasons of national prestige.”  Russia should protect Snowden and offer him asylum if he
wants it, said Mikhail Fedotov, the head of Putin’s human rights
council.  ‘Public Interest’  “His actions were in the public interest and so society
must defend him,” Fedotov said by phone. “We must protect this
person if he ends up on Russian territory and asks for political
asylum.”  Helping Snowden is a “matter of principle” for Russia
because handing over a political refugee is “morally
unacceptable,” Alexei Pushkov, the head of the lower house of
parliament’s foreign affairs committee, said on his Twitter
account June 29.  Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said June 30 that while
Snowden’s case wasn’t a matter for the Kremlin, the Russian
leadership would take into account the views of human rights
organizations and society.  Obama said yesterday that his staff will review the Der
Spiegel article saying the U.S. spied on European diplomats,
declining to say if it was true and explaining that “every
intelligence service” in the world uses its resources “to try
to understand the world better.”  Obama, Hollande  “I guarantee you that in European capitals, there are
people who are interested in, if not what I had for breakfast,
at least what my talking points might be should I end up meeting
with their leaders,” Obama said at a news conference in Dar es
Salaam, Tanzania. “That’s how intelligence services operate.”  Among U.S. allies seeking an explanation was Germany.
Steffen Siebert, chief spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government, said yesterday that “we aren’t in the Cold War
anymore” and that spying on diplomatic missions would “be
absolutely unacceptable for us.”  French President Francois Hollande said that before
proceeding with talks on a proposed U.S.-European trade deal, he
wanted assurances that the U.S. will halt the spying.  “What are the consequences to draw?” Hollande said during
a visit to Brittany in northwestern France. “That it stop as
quickly as possible, that is immediately. We can have
negotiations and transactions only once we have these
guarantees.”  European Parliament President Martin Schulz said in an e-mailed statement that “if the allegations prove to be true, it
would be an extremely serious matter which will have a severe
impact on EU-U.S. relations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  