-- South African Purchasing Managers Index Climbs in June
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-07-01T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/south-african-purchasing-managers-index-climbs-in-june.html
South Africa’s purchasing managers’
 index  rose to a four-month high in June, signaling a rebound in
manufacturing, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index increased to 51.6 from 50.4
in May, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-mailed statement
today. A number above 50 indicates growth in factory output. The
Bureau for  Economic Research , based at the University of
Stellenbosch near  Cape Town , conducts the PMI survey for Kagiso.  “While the latest PMI results show that conditions
improved marginally, the outlook for the sector is expected to
remain challenging in an environment of muted demand and
relatively high input prices,” Abdul Davids, head of research
at Kagiso said.  Mining strikes and a drop in export demand from  Europe  has
curbed growth in Africa’s largest  economy , which expanded an
annualized 0.9 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace
since a 2009 recession. Manufacturing makes up about 15 percent
of gross domestic product.  The index measuring new sales orders rose to 54 last month
from 51.1 in May, while the business activity sub-index
increased 1.6 points to 52.2, Kagiso said. The employment index
dropped 2.3 points to 44.9, indicating the industry continued to
shed jobs last month.  “A sustained recovery in demand hinges on improvement in
domestic demand and better GDP growth prospects in the European
Union and U.S. economies,” Davids said.  Consumer spending  grew at the slowest pace since 2009 in
the first quarter, while business  confidence  fell in May as the
threat of further mining strikes loom. Labor stoppages shaved
0.5 percentage point off GDP last year, according to the
National Treasury.  The  Reserve Bank  has limited room to adjust  interest rates 
to respond to the slowing economy because inflation remains
close to the top of its 3 percent to 6 percent target, Governor
Gill Marcus said last week. The bank has left its benchmark rate
unchanged at 5 percent for a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  