-- S. Africa Releases First Grain Supply-Demand Estimates
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-07-01T15:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/south-africa-releases-first-ever-grain-supply-demand-estimates.html
South Africa , the continent’s largest
corn producer, released its first grain supply and demand
estimates to help smooth price swings and improve stocks
information, a committee set up to collate the data said.  The country will consume 9.55 million metric tons of corn
in the year to April, compared with supply of 12.2 million tons,
the Grain and Oilseeds Supply and Demand Estimates Committee
said in its first report, e-mailed by Pretoria-based Crop
Estimates Committee’s spokeswoman Marda Scheepers.  The information-sharing committee, which comprises traders,
agricultural businesses and processors, is tracking intended
shipments to help prevent excessive exports that could threaten
local  food supply . A government-backed plan to ship a record
surplus of corn, one of the nation’s staple foods, cut stocks to
the lowest in at least 12 years by the end of April last year.
Exports surged to the highest in nine years in 2012.  “Industry stakeholders expressed the need for much-improved information on intended imports or exports of grains
and oilseeds,”  the committee said. “There is a need for
official supply and demand figures for the major grain and
oilseed crops, as is common practice in many countries.”  In South Africa, white corn is a staple food, while the
yellow type is mainly used as  animal feed . The average needed
each month is projected at 745,250 tons, the committee said.  The forecast for total demand of white corn is 5.01 million
tons while the total supply will probably be 6.47 million tons
in the marketing year through April, it said. Demand for the
yellow variety is predicted at 4.54 million tons while its
supply will be 5.74 million tons.  Forecast Lowered  The Crop Estimates Committee cut its forecast for corn
output by 0.6 percent to 11.38 million tons, it said in a June
25 report. South Africa produced 12.8 million tons in 2010, the
biggest harvest since 1982.  The Supply and Demand Estimates Committee will release the
data monthly, about three or four days after the crop output and
planting forecasts, Lizette Mellet, a spokeswoman for the
National Agricultural Marketing Council, which runs the SDEC,
said by phone from  Pretoria  today.  The NAMC won’t disclose individual information to other
parties to avoid uncompetitive behavior, the SDEC said in the
report.  An antitrust crackdown that led to grain miller  Pioneer
Foods Ltd. (PFG)  being fined a record 500 million rand ($50 million)
in 2010 curbed information-sharing in the industry, leaving
buyers unclear on how much corn is leaving the country.  South African white-corn futures have declined 23 percent
since reaching an intraday record level of 2,879 rand a ton in
Johannesburg on July 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  