-- Star’s Williams Microwaved Tobacco Before McDonnell Probe
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-07-01T19:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/star-s-williams-microwaved-tobacco-before-mcdonnell-probe.html
(Corrects governor’s age in 14th paragraph.)  Businessman Jonnie Williams cooked
tobacco in microwaves from Wal-Mart, packaged it in candy-like
lozenges and tried to turn  Virginia ’s oldest cash crop into an
elixir for old age.  Williams’s company,  Star Scientific Inc. (STSI) , has lost money
since 2002. Now, the 58-year-old chief executive officer is at
the center of a federal investigation into whether he sought
another path to success: thousands of dollars in gifts to
Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell, whose wife, Maureen, has
helped promote a dietary supplement that’s key to Star’s future.  McDonnell’s relationship with the businessman is tarnishing
the reputation of the Republican governor in the final year of
his term, who is often named as a potential Republican
presidential candidate. It may also hurt Kenneth Cuccinelli, the
Republican attorney general seeking to replace McDonnell in
November, because of his own ties to Williams.  “He’s got this great personality,” said Victor Kashner, a
Sarasota, Florida-based banker who underwrote stocks in
Williams-backed companies. “It’s not surprising that he’s got
all kinds of friends, including some in high places. You didn’t
have to pay a dime for anything if he was around.”  Gifts are a focus of questions by the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, which is asking people close to the governor
whether his administration helped the company, according to a
law-enforcement official familiar with the matter who asked for
anonymity because of a continuing probe.  ‘Healthy Metabolism’  It’s not clear how Williams befriended the McDonnells. For
years, Williams has found ways to profit from struggling
businesses. He helped start medical companies during the 1980s
that foundered after selling stock to investors, and in 1993
settled Securities and Exchange Commission allegations that he
sought to inflate the value of a pharmaceutical company that
later collapsed.  Williams founded Star’s predecessor company 23 years ago.
It shifted from tobacco to unregulated dietary supplements
designed to promote a “healthy metabolism” and “support good
nutrition,” based according to the company’s website. Its main
product, called Anatabloc, is described by the company as
helping the body maintain “lower levels of inflammation,” and
accounts for nearly all of its $6 million in sales.  Star, based in  Glen Allen , Virginia, is being investigated
by the U.S. Justice Department for stock sales since 2006,
according to a company filing in March with the SEC.  Selling Cars  Williams, who began his career as a car salesman, later
amassed enough wealth to buy a Bombardier jet and pay $2.3
million in 1995 for a Virginia estate with its own baseball
diamond. He also owns two condominiums in Bradenton,  Florida ,
according to property records. He’s described by people who know
him as charming, generous and skilled at promotion.  “He was a very slick salesman,” said David Muller, the
founder of Summit Technology, a company that competed with one
of Williams’s ventures in the 1990s. “He was the guy who could
sell snowballs in  Alaska .”  Star gave $108,500 worth of airplane trips to McDonnell’s
campaign committees in 2009 and 2010, according to the Virginia
Public Access Project, a Richmond group that compiles data on
donations. Williams or his company also paid for a McDonnell
trip to Massachusetts, a vacation, and $15,000 worth of catering
for the 2011 wedding of the governor’s daughter, Caitlin.
Williams also gave McDonnell a Rolex watch, according to the
law-enforcement official.  Thanksgiving Dinner  In April, Cuccinelli, the Republican gubernatorial nominee,
disclosed receiving gifts, including a $1,500 Thanksgiving
dinner and trip and use of a summer house. Cuccinelli reported
last year that he owned more than $10,000 in Star stock after
“inadvertently” leaving it off disclosure reports, said his
spokesman, Brian Gottstein. He sold the stock in April,
Gottstein said.  Gifts to officials are legal under Virginia law, though
there can’t be a quid pro quo.  No one has been charged, and McDonnell, 59, has said his
administration didn’t confer favors on Williams’s company. His
spokesman, Tucker Martin, declined to comment on the status of
the investigation.  Williams also declined interview requests made through his
company and his lawyer, Jerry Kilgore, a former Virginia
attorney general. Talhia Tuck, a spokeswoman for Star, said the
company didn’t seek or receive favors.  When Maureen McDonnell organized a lunch at the mansion in
2011 for Williams and Star executives to promote Anatabloc, the
governor’s aides raised questions about whether the governor
should participate, according to internal e-mail released by his
office. The event went forward.  Gift Bag  Maureen McDonnell also spoke at a Florida seminar about the
product, and arranged for it to be included in a gift bag
distributed at a meeting of the  National Governors Association .
In August 2011, she also arranged for Williams to meet with a
top state health official to pitch the benefits of his products,
according to the Washington Post.  Tom Davis , a former Republican Congressman from Virginia
who has known McDonnell for about 20 years, said he’s never
known the governor to push ethical limits.  “I have observed him in some tight situations -- and I’ve
never seen him come close to the line,” Davis said. “So you
wonder how close he was to this stuff.”  Williams, barrel chested with dark hair, grew up in the
rural area around Fredericksburg, Virginia, and graduated from a
two-year business program at Johnson & Wales University in
Providence,  Rhode Island .  Eye Business  He began his career selling cars at a Lincoln, Mercury and
Ford dealership. He then invested in an optometry business in
Fredericksburg, which he abandoned in 1980.  In the early 1980s, Williams pursued ventures with  Frank
O’Donnell , a Johns Hopkins University-trained eye doctor and
entrepreneur. At least three companies the two helped start went
out of business after selling stock to investors, while another,
Eye Technology Inc., languished until a 1998 merger with Star.  Samuel Sears, a Boston lawyer who worked with Williams,
said the businessman had little role managing the companies once
they went public.  “They didn’t fail because of him,” Sears said.  Sears said Williams is honest.  “Does he get enthusiastic about things? Yes,” he said.
“In my experience, he’s not one of those people who are capable
of lying.”  SEC Allegations  Yet Williams ran afoul of the SEC, along with Kashner, the
Florida banker. In 1988, Williams paid an analyst at a
newsletter Kashner owned to write a research report sent to
thousands of investors to promote a drug from one of his
companies, Spectra Pharmaceutical Services Inc., according to
the SEC. The report made exaggerated claims about its prospects,
according to the agency.  Williams in 1988 sold about half his stake in the company,
making illicit gains of $178,000, according to the SEC.  Williams paid $295,000 to settle the case, without
admitting or denying wrongdoing, according to the SEC. Kashner
also was fined.  Spectra went bankrupt in 1990.  LaserSight Inc., another Williams company, sought to create
better tools for eye surgery. Jui-Teng Lin, the company’s
initial CEO until 1994, settled with the SEC over allegations of
orchestrating sham transactions to divert company funds to
himself and his wife. The company later entered bankruptcy.  Making Cigars  Williams’s most recent company, Star, emerged from the
failure of C.A. Blockers Inc., another company that Williams and
O’Donnell invested in that was trying to develop safer
cigarettes. It went out of business in 1990 and sold its
manufacturing operations to Williams and O’Donnell to satisfy a
debt, according to  Arizona  court records stemming from
O’Donnell’s divorce.  Until 1994, Star made cigars and cigarettes for other
companies. Williams tried to develop tobacco-laced gum as a
substitute for smoking. He was told by the  Food and Drug
Administration  that it would still be unsafe because of a
carcinogen that forms during curing, he said in a hearing
stemming from a 2001 patent-infringement lawsuit he brought
against  R.J. Reynolds  Tobacco Co. in U.S. District Court in
Greenbelt,  Maryland .  Williams consulted a  University of Kentucky  professor, who
told told him that carcinogens form after the yellowing of the
leaf, according to 2009 testimony from Williams in the case. So
he looked for ways to stop curing before that happens. He
experimented cooking leaves in microwaves and in Maytag driers
and then patented the curing process, according to Williams’s
testimony.  ‘Health Problems’  “It’s causing all these health problems,” he testified.
“I decided I could make a difference.”  In an effort to sell his cured tobacco, Williams called
Chris Coggins, a former vice president at  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  in
Greensboro,  North Carolina . Coggins said the calls came day and
night for months and didn’t result in a sale.  “He had a process that was advertised beyond belief as the
magic bullet that would cure everything,” he said. “He never
came up with any data.”  Still, the company had initial success, with sales reaching
$223 million in 2000, a year after it signed an agreement to
sell tobacco to Brown & Williamson. The contract was canceled in
2003 and Star has lost money every year since, according to
Star’s SEC filings.  In 2007, Star shuttered its cigarette business. The patent
lawsuit ended when R.J. Reynolds agreed to pay Star $5 million.  Making Cosmetics  Since then, Star focused on developing nutritional
supplements and cosmetics. In 2012, Star recorded a net loss of
$22.9 million, and it said in its annual report that it may run
out of money in the first three months of 2014.  Williams, who earned $9 million in 2011, including  stock
options , agreed to cut his usual $1 million annual salary to $1
a month until the company earns a profit. Its shares slumped to
$1.39 in  New York  trading at the close on June 28, down 70
percent from a year earlier.  Star is fighting shareholder lawsuits in U.S. District
Court in Alexandria, Virginia, alleging that the company delayed
its disclosure of the Justice Department investigation,
misrepresented the role of  Johns Hopkins University  in research
and oversaw improper transactions involving Williams.  Marc Oken, a former Bank of America Corp. chief financial
officer who served on Star’s board from 2005 until 2009, said
Star is struggling like other research and development
companies. The company’s ability to raise money shows Williams’s
success.  Star “raised a lot of additional money from current
investors who believe in the company and believe in Jonnie,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  