-- U.K. Factory Growth Quickens to Fastest in Two Years
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-07-02T13:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/u-k-factory-index-increases-to-two-year-high-as-mortgages-jump.html
U.K. manufacturing  grew at the
fastest pace in two years and mortgage approvals rose more than
forecast, adding to signs that the recovery is gaining traction.  A factory gauge rose to 52.5 in June from 51.5 in May,
Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said today in London, above the 50 level that divides
expansion from contraction. A separate report showed banks
granted the most home loans in May since 2009.  The data come as  Mark Carney  begins his governorship of the
Bank of  England , which will probably leave its stimulus program
unchanged at a meeting of policy makers on July 4. Still, data
from  China  and the euro area today point to signs of strain that
could curb Britain’s recovery.  “It’s encouraging to see some decent signs of recovery in
manufacturing and housing, and overall it looks like the economy
may have expanded at a faster rate in the second quarter,” said
Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London.
“Whether Carney can persuade the other policy makers to do more
quantitative easing this week is doubtful, and the time for more
action will most likely be in August.”  Economists had forecast a factory index reading of 51.4 in
June, according to the median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The pound erased its loss against the dollar after
the data and traded at $1.5241 as of 10:56 a.m., up 0.2 percent
from June 28.  Economy Accelerates  New orders at manufacturers rose for a fourth month in
June, while input costs fell for a third month. Textiles and
clothing and food and drink categories led the pickup in
manufacturing, though all categories covered by the survey
showed improvement, Markit said.  The strength in production suggests  gross domestic product 
rose 0.5 percent in the second quarter, up from 0.3 percent in
the first three months of the year, Rob Dobson, senior economist
at Markit, said in the statement.  Bank of England  data today showed lenders granted 58,242
home loans in May, up from 54,354 in April. Net mortgage lending
rose 282 million pounds ($429 million). The government’s Funding
for Lending Scheme has helped ease credit strains, supporting
the recovery in the housing market. Property researcher
Hometrack said today that  house prices  rose 0.4 percent in June,
matching the biggest increase in six years.  Still, the BOE said loans to non-financial businesses fell
by 1.3 billion pounds in May from April. Lending dropped 3.6
percent from a year earlier.  Carney’s Welcome  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee will leave its  bond-purchase plan  at 375 billion pounds, according to all 44
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Officials will also keep
the key  interest rate  at 0.5 percent, a separate poll showed.
The bank will announce its decision at noon in London on July 4.  “Mark Carney has been welcomed by some solid data releases
on his first day,”  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas
SA in London and a former central bank official, said in an e-mailed note. “The question is whether the improvement in the
activity data is strong enough and whether it will prove
enduring.”  Former BOE deputy governor  John Gieve  said Carney faces a
challenge in pushing through more stimulus.  Mervyn King  and two
colleagues failed in recent months months to persuade the nine-member MPC to authorize more bond purchases.  “This is quite hard as a majority has voted against an
extra boost for several months in a row and the news is a little
bit better,” Gieve said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “He’s got a big persuasive job if he wants to
change their views today.”  China Weakness  Elsewhere, two gauges of China’s manufacturing fell in
June. An  official Purchasing Managers’ Index  dropped to 50.1,
the lowest level in four months, from 50.8, the National Bureau
of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said in Beijing. A private PMI from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit
Economics was 48.2, the weakest since September.  In the euro area,  manufacturing output  contracted less than
initially estimated in June. A gauge in the 17-nation region
increased to 48.8 from 48.3 in May, Markit said. That’s above an
initial estimate of 48.7 on June 20.  Spain ’s manufacturing
output stabilized for the first time since April 2011, with an
index rising to 50 from 48.1.  Still, the euro-region  jobless rate  rose to 12.2 percent in
May from a revised 12.1 percent in April. Inflation accelerated
to 1.6 percent in June from 1.4 percent in May, matching the
median estimate of 40 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  A U.S. manufacturing report from the Institute of Supply
Management may show an increase to 50.5 in June from 49 in May,
according to the median of 71 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
The May reading was the weakest in four years. The Tempe,
Arizona-based group will publish the data later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  