-- U.K. Says Single Market Top Reason for Scotland to Stay in Union
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/u-k-says-single-market-top-reason-for-scotland-to-stay-in-union.html
An independent  Scotland  in the
European Union would not compensate for the loss of the single
U.K. market, the British government said in its latest analysis
of the implications of Scotland going it alone.  Scotland’s exports to the rest of the U.K., excluding oil
and gas, totaled 45.5 billion pounds ($69.3 billion) in 2011,
four times as much as to the rest of the EU and twice as much as
to the rest of the world, U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
said in an e-mailed statement.  “Breaking up Scotland’s most lucrative market would
destabilize enterprise and potentially put growth and jobs at
risk,” Cable said. “As the economy starts to heal, now is the
time to focus on renewed opportunities to do business.”  Independence is the flagship policy of the semi-autonomous
Scottish government headed by Scottish National Party leader
 Alex Salmond . A referendum is being held on Sept. 18 next year,
with polls showing voters in favor of retaining the status quo.  It’s the fourth paper from the U.K. government on why it
considers Scotland would be better off staying as part of the
306-year-old union. The previous three looked at why it says a
currency union with the pound would be unlikely to work, how an
independent Scotland would not be able to rescue its biggest
banks in the event of their failure, and why Scotland would have
to reapply for membership of EU.  Salmond’s nationalists published a report in February from
a group of economic advisers including Nobel Prize winner  Joseph Stiglitz  setting out recommendations for how an independent
Scottish economy might work. It has since published reports on
welfare as well as North Sea oil and gas, most of which would
belong to the country post-independence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  