-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Rise to Highest Since December 2009
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-01T08:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/u-k-mortgage-approvals-rise-to-highest-since-december-2009-1-.html
U.K. mortgage approvals  rose more
than economists forecast in May to the highest since 2009,
indicating that the  Bank of England ’s credit-boosting program is
aiding the housing market.  Lenders granted 58,242 home loans compared with a revised
54,354 in April, the Bank of England said today in London.
Economists had forecast an increase to 55,800 from an initially
reported 53,710, according to the median of 22 estimates in
Bloomberg News survey. Net mortgage lending rose 282 million
pounds ($429 million).  Property researcher Hometrack said today that  house prices 
rose 0.4 percent in June, matching the biggest increase in six
years. The BOE’s Funding for Lending Scheme has helped ease
credit strains for homeowners by lowering banks’ funding costs
and was cited by  Nationwide Building Society  last week when it
said property values rose 0.3 percent last month.  “Latest survey evidence and mortgage data indicate that
the rate of housing market activity may finally be really
stepping up a gear,”  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in London, said before today’s data.  Separate BOE data showed that overseas investors increased
their holdings of U.K. government bonds in May. Non-residents
bought 6.9 billion pounds more gilts than they sold.  While mortgage lending has benefited from the FLS, the BOE
report showed continued weakness in credit to businesses. Loans
to non-financial businesses fell by 1.3 billion pounds in May.
Lending fell 3.6 percent from a year earlier. Consumer credit
rose 725 million pounds in May.  FPC Minutes  Separately today, Markit Economics said its  index of
manufacturing  rose to 52.5 in June from 51.5 in May, exceeding
economists’ forecast. The pound erased its loss against the
dollar after the reports and was at $1.5230 as of 9:33 a.m. in
 London , up 0.1 percent from Friday.  In another release, the BOE published the minutes of the
Financial Policy Committee’s June 18 meeting, at which it
ordered a review of banks’ exposure to interest-rate risks.
While some FPC members noted that an increase in rates would
occur alongside a strengthening economy, which would mitigate
any impact, others were concerned about the potential impact on
liquidity.  “There would be a sharp reduction in market liquidity in
the event that these risks crystallized,” some FPC members
said. “There was potentially more leverage in the system than
it was possible to identify.”  The members added that “some of these concerns were
heightened given the increased volatility in financial markets
in the days prior to the meeting.”  The BOE also said that U.K.  M4 money supply  fell 0.1
percent in May from the previous month and was down by the same
amount from a year earlier.  A separate measure of M4 money-supply growth the central
bank uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases
accelerated to a quarterly annualized 4.3 percent in May from
2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  