-- Manufacturing in U.S. Rebounds as Orders Pick Up
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-07-01T21:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/u-s-ism-manufacturing-index-increased-to-50-9-in-june-from-49.html
American manufacturing rebounded in
June as orders picked up, while factory reports from  Japan  to
the U.K. pointed to stabilization in the global economy.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. manufacturing
 index  climbed to a three-month high of 50.9 from 49 in May, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Shares in the world’s biggest economies rose as the data
bolstered optimism for a pickup in global growth in the second
half of the year. At the same time, a decline in  China ’s
purchasing manager’s index showed a credit squeeze in the
world’s second-largest economy poses a risk to the outlook.  “The pace of activity at the global level is moderate and
stable,” said  David Hensley , director of global economic
coordination at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “We are not
at a point yet where we are seeing a significant pickup in the
growth rate. Our outlook is for growth to pick up a bit, though
not extraordinarily so.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5 percent to
1,614.96 at the close in New York. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
and Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  also advanced.  Big Japanese manufacturers turned optimistic for the first
time since September 2011, indicating confidence in Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s reflationary policies even after stock
market volatility.  The quarterly Tankan index for large manufacturers rose to
4 in June from minus 8 in March, the  Bank of Japan  said in  Tokyo 
today. A positive figure means optimists outnumber pessimists.  U.K. Manufacturing  U.K.  manufacturing  grew at the fastest pace in two years,
adding to signs that the recovery is gaining traction. A factory
gauge rose to 52.5 in June from 51.5 in May, Markit Economics
and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in
 London .  In the euro area, manufacturing contracted less than
initially estimated last month, adding to signs the currency
bloc’s economy is beginning to emerge from a record-long
recession.  At the same time, efforts to rein in financial speculation
and real-estate prices are holding back  China’s economy . Two
gauges of Chinese manufacturing fell in June. An official
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index dropped to 50.1, the lowest level in
four months, from 50.8, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today in
Beijing. A private PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics was 48.2, the weakest since September.  Construction gains in the U.S. and in other parts of the
world are giving a boost to companies such as Caterpillar Inc.,
the world’s largest maker of construction and mining equipment.  ‘Getting Better’  “We have a construction business that’s getting better,”
Michael DeWalt, director of  investor relations  for Peoria,
Illinois-based Caterpillar, said at a June 5 conference. “If
you look at the three biggest end markets -- U.S., Europe in
general and China, with the exception of Europe, I think they’re
getting better but they have a lot of room to grow.”  Construction spending in the U.S. climbed 0.5 percent in
May, led by the strongest expenditures on residential projects
in more than four years, Commerce Department figures showed.
Outlays on housing climbed to the highest level since October
2008.  “A number of the positive things occurring in the U.S. are
domestically oriented,” such as the boom in shale gas
exploration and a recovery in housing, said  Drew Matus , deputy
U.S. chief economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Even if the rest of the world has issues, we have
our own little renaissance going on.”  Economists’ Forecasts  The  median  forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for the ISM measure to rise to 50.5. Economists’
estimates ranged from 49 to 52. The report showed 12 of the 18
manufacturing sectors reported growth in June, led by makers of
furniture.  The  production gauge  rose to 53.4 last month from 48.6 in
May. A measure of new orders increased to 51.9 from 48.8, and
the gauge of export demand advanced to 54.5 from 51 the month
prior.  “The increase in new orders is a positive for
production,” said Daniel Silver, an economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in  New York . JPMorgan was the top-ranked forecaster of the
ISM index in the past two years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “We’ll still see growth in manufacturing but much
more modest growth than the first quarter.”  Factory Employment  Still, the group’s measure of factory employment dropped to
48.7, the lowest since September 2009, from 50.1.  “As new orders and production continue to move forward, we
hope to see employment come back into positive territory,”
Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the group’s factory committee, said
on a conference call today with reporters.  In addition to housing, sustained strength in auto sales is
keeping factories busy. Vehicle  purchases  increased to a 15.24
million annual rate in May, the strongest in three months,
according to figures from Ward Automotive Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  