-- U.S. June ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-07-01T14:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/u-s-june-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the  Institute for Supply
Management .  PMI at 50.9%; June Manufacturing ISM Report On Business;
New Orders,  Production and Inventories Growing; Employment Contracting;
Supplier  Deliveries Unchanged  DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various regional
purchasing reports released across the country. The national
report’s information reflects the entire  United States , while
the regional reports contain primarily regional data from their
local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional reports
is not used in calculating the results of the national report.
The information compiled in this report is for the month of June
2013.  Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
June following one month of contraction, and the overall economy
grew for the 49th consecutive month, say the nation’s supply
executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM,
CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 50.9 percent, an
increase of 1.9 percentage points from May’s reading of 49
percent, indicating expansion in the manufacturing sector for
the fifth time in the first six months of 2013.  The New Orders Index increased in June by 3.1 percentage
points to 51.9 percent, and the Production Index increased by
4.8 percentage points to 53.4 percent. The Employment Index
registered 48.7 percent, a decrease of 1.4 percentage points
compared to May’s reading of 50.1 percent. Manufacturing
employment contracted for the first time since September 2009,
when the index registered 47.8 percent. The Prices Index
registered 52.5 percent, increasing 3 percentage points from
May, indicating that overall raw materials prices increased from
last month. Comments from the panel generally indicate slow
growth and improving business conditions.”  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 12 are reporting growth
in June in the following order: Furniture & Related Products;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Paper Products;  Electrical
Equipment , Appliances & Components; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Wood Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Primary
Metals; Fabricated Metal Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Machinery; and Nonmetallic Mineral Products.  The four industries reporting contraction in June are:
Textile Mills; Transportation Equipment; Chemical Products; and
Computer & Electronic Products.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Business remains good to improving.” (Miscellaneous
Manufacturing) “Industry volumes picking up with improved
housing starts.” (Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components)
“Indications are that customers have acceptable inventory
levels, and as a result, are backing down on new orders and
reassessing market conditions.” (Wood Products) “Last couple of
weeks a little slower.” (Furniture & Related Products) “Seeing
signs of life through summer retail [sales] promotions -- still
an overall soft market.” (Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products)
“Business is steady. Qualified CNC machinists are hard to find.”
(Fabricated Metal Products) “Weather conditions are causing
uncertainty in agricultural markets.” (Machinery) “Continued
slow improvements.” (Transportation Equipment) “June sales
appear to have rebounded from what was a lackluster May.” (Paper
Products) “Slow growth continues to choke the recovery. We are
not out of the woods yet by any stretch of the imagination.”
(Chemical Products)  MANUFACTURING AT A GLANCE
COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price Aluminum Products; Caustic Soda
(3); Corrugated Boxes (11); Corrugated Packaging (2); Lumber
(6); Plastic Products; Plywood; and Polypropylene*.  Commodities Down in Price Butter; Hydraulic Components;
Polypropylene (2)*; Stainless Steel (2); Steel (3); Steel --
Cold Rolled; Steel -- Hot Rolled (2); and Sugar (2).  Commodities in Short Supply  No commodities are reported in short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  *Reported as both up and down in price.  JUNE 2013 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  PMI Manufacturing expanded in June as the PMI registered
50.9 percent, an increase of 1.9 percentage points when compared
to May’s reading of 49 percent. June’s reading of 50.9 percent
reflects the resumption of growth in the manufacturing sector
for 2013, following the only month of contraction for the year
in May. A reading above 50 percent indicates that the
manufacturing economy is generally expanding; below 50 percent
indicates that it is generally contracting.  A PMI in excess of 42.2 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the June PMI indicates growth for the 49th
consecutive month in the overall economy, and indicates
expansion in the manufacturing sector following one month of
contraction. Holcomb stated, “The past relationship between the
PMI and the overall economy indicates that the average PMI for
January through June (51.5 percent) corresponds to a 2.9 percent
increase in real gross domestic product (GDP) on an annualized
basis. In addition, if the PMI for June (50.9 percent) is
annualized, it corresponds to a 2.7 percent increase in real GDP
annually.”  New Orders  ISM’s New Orders Index registered 51.9 percent in June, an
increase of 3.1 percentage points when compared to the May
reading of 48.8 percent. This represents growth in new orders
after one month of contraction. A New Orders Index above 52.2
percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in
the Census Bureau’s series on manufacturing orders (in constant
2000 dollars).  The 11 industries reporting growth in new orders in June --
listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Paper Products; Furniture & Related Products; Primary Metals;
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Plastics & Rubber Products; Machinery; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; Fabricated Metal Products; and
Miscellaneous Manufacturing.  The five industries reporting a decrease in new orders
during June are: Wood Products; Transportation Equipment;
Chemical Products; Computer & Electronic Products; and
Nonmetallic Mineral Products.  Production  ISM’s Production Index registered 53.4 percent in June,
which is an increase of 4.8 percentage points when compared to
the 48.6 percent reported in May. This month’s reading indicates
growth in production and follows the only month of contraction
in production for the year.  An index above 51.2 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with an increase in the Federal Reserve Board’s
Industrial Production figures.  The 11 industries reporting growth in production during the
month of June -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Furniture & Related Products; Paper Products; Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Wood Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Primary Metals; Petroleum & Coal Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; and Computer & Electronic Products.  The three industries reporting a decrease in production in
June are: Chemical Products; Machinery; and Transportation
Equipment.  Employment  ISM’s Employment Index registered 48.7 percent in June,
which is 1.4 percentage points lower than the 50.1 percent
reported in May. This month’s reading indicates contraction in
employment for the first time since September 2009, when the
index registered 47.8 percent. An Employment Index above 50.5
percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in
the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on manufacturing
employment.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, eight reported growth
in employment in June in the following order: Wood Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Paper Products; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Primary
Metals; Machinery; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products.  The five industries reporting a decrease in employment in
June are: Textile Mills; Computer & Electronic Products;
Transportation Equipment; Fabricated Metal Products; and
Chemical Products.  Supplier Deliveries  The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations in June was unchanged from May as the Supplier
Deliveries Index registered 50 percent. This month’s reading is
1.3 percentage points higher than the 48.7 percent reported in
May. A reading below 50 percent indicates faster deliveries,
while a reading above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries.  The six industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in
June -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
and Chemical Products.  The four industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in
June are: Primary Metals; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Transportation Equipment; and Paper Products. Eight
industries reported no change in supplier deliveries in June
compared to May.  Inventories*  The Inventories Index registered 50.5 percent in June,
which is 1.5 percentage points higher than the 49 percent
reported in May. This month’s reading indicates that respondents
are reporting inventories expanded in June, following three
consecutive months of contraction.  For the current year, inventories of raw materials have
registered in a well-managed range from a high of 51.5 percent
in February to a low of 46.5 percent in April. An Inventories
Index greater than 42.7 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with expansion in the  Bureau of Economic Analysis ’
(BEA) figures on overall manufacturing inventories (in chained
2000 dollars).  The seven industries reporting higher inventories in June -
- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Primary Metals;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; and Machinery. The six industries
reporting decreases in inventories in June -- listed in order --
are: Textile Mills; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Chemical Products; Transportation Equipment;
and Wood Products.  Customers’ Inventories*  The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 45 percent
in June, which is 1 percentage point lower than in May when the
index registered 46 percent. This month’s reading indicates that
customers’ inventories are considered too low, and lower than
reported in May.  Customers’ inventories have registered at or below 50
percent for 51 consecutive months. A reading below 50 percent
indicates customers’ inventories are considered too low.  The four manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during the month of June are:
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Primary Metals; Chemical
Products; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products. The nine
industries reporting customers’ inventories as too low during
June -- listed in order -- are: Plastics & Rubber Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Machinery; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Transportation Equipment; Fabricated Metal Products; Paper
Products; and Computer & Electronic Products.  Prices*  The ISM Prices Index registered 52.5 percent in June, which
is an increase of 3 percentage points compared to the May
reading of 49.5 percent. This indicates that raw materials
prices increased in June, following only one month of price
decreases for the year in May. In June, 20 percent of
respondents reported paying higher prices, 15 percent reported
paying lower prices, and 65 percent of supply executives
reported paying the same prices as in May. A Prices Index above
49.7 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Index of
Manufacturers Prices.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, nine reported paying
increased prices during the month of June in the following
order: Textile Mills; Furniture & Related Products; Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Paper Products;
Plastics & Rubber Products; Primary Metals; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; and Computer & Electronic Products.  The five industries reporting paying lower prices during
June are: Petroleum & Coal Products; Wood Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Machinery; and Fabricated
Metal Products.  Backlog of Orders*  ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 46.5 percent in
June, which is 1.5 percentage points lower than the 48 percent
reported in May. This is the second month of contracting order
backlogs since January 2013, when the index registered 47.5
percent. Of the 84 percent of respondents who reported their
backlog of orders, 17 percent reported greater backlogs, 24
percent reported smaller backlogs, and 59 percent reported no
change from May.  The five industries reporting increased order backlogs in
June are: Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Furniture & Related Products; and Machinery. The seven
industries reporting decreases in order backlogs during June --
listed in order -- are: Primary Metals; Textile Mills;
Transportation Equipment; Chemical Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Computer & Electronic Products; and Wood
Products.  New Export Orders*  ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 54.5 percent in
June, which is 3.5 percentage points higher than the 51 percent
reported in May. This month’s reading represents the seventh
consecutive month of growth in new export orders, and follows
six consecutive months of contraction dating back to June 2012.  The seven industries reporting growth in new export orders
in June -- listed in order -- are: Primary Metals; Furniture &
Related Products; Paper Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Fabricated Metal Products; Machinery; and Transportation
Equipment.  The two industries reporting a decrease in new export
orders during June are: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and
Chemical Products. Eight industries reported no change in new
export orders in June compared to May.  Imports*  ISM’s Imports Index registered 56 percent in June, which is
1.5 percentage points higher than the 54.5 percent reported in
May. This month’s reading represents the seventh consecutive
month that the Imports Index has registered at or above 50
percent.  The 10 industries reporting growth in imports during the
month of June -- listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Primary
Metals; Fabricated Metal Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances
& Components; Plastics & Rubber Products; Machinery; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Furniture & Related Products.
The two industries reporting a decrease in imports during June
are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; and Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products.  Six industries reported no change in imports in June
compared to May.  * The Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Prices, Backlog of
Orders, New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the
accepted criteria for seasonal adjustments.  Buying Policy Average commitment lead time for  Capital
Expenditures  remained unchanged at 125 days. Average lead time
for Production Materials decreased 2 days to 60 days. Average
lead time for Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies
decreased 1 day to 25 days.  The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
July 2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday,
August 1, 2013.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  