-- U.S. Pilot Registry has Errors Hindering Terror Checks
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-01T16:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/u-s-aircraft-registry-errors-hinder-checks-for-terror.html
U.S. registries of pilots and
aircraft contain incomplete information that may interfere with
screening for terrorists and investigations of aviation
accidents, according to a government report.  The Transportation Department’s inspector general found
about half of foreign-owned aircraft registered with the  Federal
Aviation Administration  didn’t list required information such as
the owners, a report out today found.  Pilot registrations often contain incomplete addresses,
making it difficult for the U.S. Transportation Security
Administration to locate people for required security screening,
the report found.  “These data weaknesses largely stem from FAA’s lack of
formal quality control procedures to regularly reassess the
integrity of the registry’s data and information systems,”
Louis King, assistant inspector general for financial and
information technology audits, said in the report.  Auditors found 130 cases in which planes were registered
multiple times to different entities, making it difficult to
identify the owner. The U.S. registry contains 350,000 planes
and helicopters.  “While this is a small number of discrepancies, the impact
is potentially significant if a serious incident occurs and FAA
is unable to identify the aircraft’s owner in a timely manner,”
King said in the report.  Foreign Trusts  The FAA, which is re-registering all aircraft, said many of
the pilot licenses lacking address information were no longer
active and those licenses were granted in the 1970s and 1980s
before the address requirement was imposed.  If non-U.S. citizens register aircraft with the FAA under a
trust, they must identify the owner of the trust and the
operator of the aircraft.  Auditors estimated that 5,600 of 10,292 foreign-owned
aircraft in the FAA registry, or 54 percent, lacked that type of
information. That has led to cases in which the FAA couldn’t
identify an aircraft’s owner after an accident or incident in
another country, according to the report.  The FAA granted pilot licenses to more than 43,000 people
who didn’t provide a permanent address, the report found. They
used businesses or flight schools as addresses, according to the
report.  The FAA had 614,000 registered pilots, including students,
in 2008, the most recent year with data, according to the
agency’s website.  The IG’s report reached similar conclusions to a U.S.
Government Accountability Office  audit  last year. The GAO found
that some of the 26,000 non-U.S. citizens who received pilot
licenses hadn’t been vetted by the TSA as required.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  