-- Lufthansa Adds Germanwings Routes as Low-Cost Unit Cuts Expenses
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-07-01T14:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/lufthansa-adds-germanwings-routes-as-low-cost-unit-cuts-expenses.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Germanwings
discount subsidiary is adding aircraft on routes where the
German carrier previously lost money as it benefits from lower
costs.  The airline, which operates at as much as 30 percent lower
costs than Lufthansa, has begun taking over the parent’s network
in Stuttgart, with stations including Dusseldorf, Hamburg,
Berlin and Cologne to follow. Germanwings plans to eventually
operate Lufthansa’s European short-haul routes outside the
airline’s main hubs in Frankfurt and Munich.  “We have more planes in Stuttgart today than 5 years ago,
as the transformation to Germanwings allowed us to operate
routes profitably that had been loss-making for many years,”
 Carsten Spohr , a board member at Lufthansa who is responsible
for the companay’s passenger airlines business, told reporters
in Hamburg today. “The size of our fleet depends on the number
of routes we can fly profitably.”  Beefing up Germanwings, founded in 2002, is the central
project of an efficiency push that plans to increase Lufthansa’s
operating profit to 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion) by 2015. The
airline’s European short-haul operations had caused as much as
300 million euros in losses in past years, more than eating up
profit generated on long-haul routes last year.  The move will create a low cost carrier operating 87
planes, competing with  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  Easyjet Plc (EZJ) ,
Spohr said. The unit will take over about 10 percent of
Lufthansa’s sales, 20 percent of its passengers and 30 percent
of its fleet in  Europe , he said.  Unlike Lufthansa, Germanwings is selling sizable parts of
its capacity to tour operators. This year, demand has been
“especially strong” for such services, resulting in Lufthansa
selling more than 1,000 flights, the manager said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  