-- Murders Mar Mexico Election Campaigning in Drug-Torn States
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-07-01T20:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/murders-mar-mexico-election-campaigning-in-drug-torn-states.html
At least four candidates and
politicians have been killed ahead of July 7 elections in
Mexican states where drug cartels have long sought to gain
influence with local officials.  A party leader in Oaxaca, mayoral candidates in Veracruz
and Chihuahua states and a campaign manager in Sinaloa, were
murdered in the past month. A new assassination attempt over the
weekend left the husband and niece of another candidate dead in
Oaxaca, while the son of a second campaign manager in Sinaloa
was killed.  Mexicans go to the polls on Sunday in 15 states to pick
mayors and local lawmakers. The states include areas where more
than 60,000 people have been killed since the nation began
deploying troops in December 2006 to areas overrun by drug
gangs. While President Enrique Pena Nieto has presented figures
showing violence diminishing since he took office in December,
the battle for territory and influence among traffickers
continues to mar this weekend’s vote.  “Political assassinations won’t end anytime soon,” said
 Jorge Chabat , a political science professor at the Center for
Economic Research and Teaching, a Mexico City-based university.
“It’s very probable organized crime groups are trying to
prevent some people from gaining office, either because they
think they’ll act against their group’s interests, or because
they think they’re aligned with a rival gang.”  Tarnished Election  This isn’t the first election season tarnished by drug-war
violence. In 2010, gunmen shot dead the leading gubernatorial
candidate in Tamaulipas state, Rodolfo Torre Cantu, who had run
on a crime-fighting platform. Gunmen killed at least 10 standing
mayors in the same year.  The government will “thoroughly investigate” the recent
killings and “seek out solutions and clarifications,” Interior
Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong told reporters June 28.  Killings related to the drug war fell 14 percent in the
first four months of Pena Nieto’s administration, from the same
period a year earlier, the  Interior Ministry  said April 10.
Milenio newspaper, which tracks drug violence in a monthly
study, reported a 2.5 percent drop over the same period,
according to data supplied by the newspaper in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 