-- Vigilantes Armed With Machetes Fight Nigerian Islamists
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-07-02T15:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/vigilantes-armed-with-machetes-fight-nigerian-islamist-militants.html
Armed with machetes and clubs,
vigilantes in  Nigeria ’s northeastern city of Maiduguri are
setting up roadblocks and conducting house-to-house searches to
aid the army’s fight against Islamist militants.  While the military welcomes the public’s support in the
battle against the Boko Haram Islamist group, human rights
activists say vigilantes’ activities may worsen violence and
lead to abuses against innocent civilians.  So far the vigilantes have seized more than 100 suspected
insurgents in Maiduguri, the Borno state capital that has borne
the brunt of Boko Haram’s violent campaign to impose Shariah law
on Nigeria, according to Abubakar Malum, a leader in a group
that calls itself the Civilian Joint Task Force.  “The activities of the vigilantes is a step in the right
direction,” Mohammed Modu, a fish seller in the city of about 1
million, said on June 25. “They seem to be more effective in
capturing Boko Haram members than the soldiers.”  President  Goodluck Jonathan  declared emergency rule on May
14 in Borno and two other northeastern states, saying the
militants had taken over parts of the area. The government
classified Boko Haram and another Islamist group, Ansaru, which
has claimed the abduction of 10 expatriates in northern Nigeria,
as terrorist groups and banned them.  Right Abuses  Boko Haram, whose name means “western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language, started its violent campaign to impose
Shariah law in  Africa ’s biggest oil producer following the death
in 2009 of its leader,  Mohammed Yusuf . Yusuf died in police
custody after he was arrested during clashes between militants
and security forces. Since then the group has killed thousands
of people in gun and bomb attacks in the mainly Muslim north and
capital, Abuja.  Human rights activists say that since the vigilante groups
have no legal standing, abuses may occur.  “Where vigilantes exist, they aren’t part of the legally
established law enforcement order,” Clement Nwankwo, executive
director of Abuja-based Policy and Legal Advocacy Center, said
in a June 21 interview. “So the possibility of abuse, of people
being targeted and victimized, is real.”  Vigilantes yesterday burned down the house of Alhaji Mala
Othman, the Borno state chairman of the opposition All Nigeria
People’s Party, Inuwa Bwala, the state commissioner of home
affairs and information, said today. The arsonists, who accused
Othman of supporting Boko Haram, torched his house after failing
to catch him for the second time as security forces let him out
through the back door, Bwala said by phone.  Burning Houses  “The incident is quite unfortunate; nobody has the right
to take the law into their hands to the extent of burning down
people’s houses,” Bwala said from the town of Gombe, the
capital of neighboring Gombe state. Borno state governor Kassim
Shettima is a member of the ANPP.  While the military’s air and ground assaults since May
forced many militants to flee, large numbers have since
regrouped, killing 24 people last month in three attacks on
schools in Maiduguri and Damaturu, the Yobe state capital, about
130 kilometers (81 miles) southwest of Maiduguri.  The military’s offensive has also hit civilians.  Nigeria’s National Human Rights Commission said it received
allegations that security forces have been involved in abuses,
including rape, in their fight against Boko Haram.  ‘Summary Executions’  The government’s human-rights agency cited “several
credibly attested allegations” in a June 29 report that the
military has carried out “summary executions, torture,
arbitrary detention amounting to internment.”  Defense Headquarters spokesman Chris Olukolade in Abuja
declined to comment on the report when contact yesterday by
phone.  As many as 185 people were killed and more than 2,000
houses were burned down in Baga, near Lake Chad, after security
forces responded to a militant attack on April 16, according to
local officials and residents. The army said 30 insurgents, six
civilians and a soldier were killed, and 30 houses were burned
down, because of incendiaries caused by Boko Haram’s weapons.  It’s still not known exactly how many vigilante groups have
formed in Maiduguri, according to Usman Majidadi, spokesman for
Borno state Governor Shettima.  Military Control  “As much as the youth are doing great work in fishing out
the terrorists,” Majidadi said in an interview in Maiduguri,
the security forces “must act fast before other youth abuse the
good work currently going on.”  The combined military-police Joint Task Force in the area
said in a June 30 statement that it was “monitoring, guiding
and regulating the activities of the vigilant youths with a view
to making them operate within the ambit of the law.”  Boko Haram has acknowledged that some residents are turning
against them and has vowed to retaliate.  “We have established that youths in Borno and Yobe states
are now against our cause,” a Boko Haram spokesman, who gave
his name as Abu Zinnira, said in a statement e-mailed to
reporters on June 18. “They have connived with security
operatives and are actively supporting the government of Nigeria
in its war against us. We have also resolved to fight back.”  Serious Crimes  A committee set up by Jonathan in April to draft a plan to
grant amnesty to Boko Haram should exclude serious crimes
committed by its fighters,  Human Rights Watch  said today in an
e-mailed statement. At the same time, the government’s security
personnel who have committed abuses in their fight against the
militants must also be held responsible, the New York-based
group said.  “Justice for the gravest abuses, whether by Boko Haram or
security forces, is essential for victims and building long-term
peace in Nigeria,” said  Daniel Bekele , the rights group’s
Africa director.  While Defense Ministry spokesman Olukolade said in an e-mailed statement on June 17 that suspects were being
investigated properly,  Shehu Sani , president of Kaduna-based
rights group,  Civil Rights Congress , said there was potential
for abuses of those detained.  “People are being detained in police stations, in military
barracks in horrible conditions,” he said. “There have been
lots of cases of disappearances whereby families don’t even know
where their loved ones are kept.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  