-- LVMH Fined 8 Million Euros by France Over Stake in Hermes
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-01T16:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/lvmh-fined-8-million-euros-by-france-over-stake-in-hermes-1-.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
was fined 8 million euros ($10 million) by  France ’s financial
markets regulator over how it built its stake in rival luxury-goods maker  Hermes International SCA. (RMS)   The fine, announced today by the regulator’s sanctions
committee, was less than the 10 million-euro penalty that was
proposed by the AMF’s college at the end of May. LVMH said it
will appeal against the fine.  The level of the punishment reflected “the seriousness of
the successive breaches of public disclosure requirements, which
consisted in concealing each stage of LVMH’s stakebuilding in
Hermes,” the regulator said in a statement on its website.  The AMF spent more than two years investigating how LVMH
acquired a stake in Hermes using cash-settlement equity swaps.
The market authority informed the world’s largest luxury-goods
maker in October that its board would recommend that the company
be fined over the matter. LVMH won’t be forced to give up its
stake. The company has claimed it did nothing wrong after buying
equity derivatives of Hermes shares in 2008.  The owner of Celine and Kenzo brands announced in October
2010 that it held 17.1 percent of Hermes after converting the
derivative instruments it bought from three banks in 2008 into
shares. LVMH, which says it isn’t seeking control of Hermes, has
since added to its holding and now owns 22.6 percent.  LVMH has said it decided to convert the swaps into Hermes
stock because it was concerned that settling in cash would mean
millions of Hermes shares would be released onto the market,
depressing the Kelly bag maker’s stock price and offering
another competitor a way into its capital.  Investors normally have to disclose holdings whenever they
cross thresholds of 5 percent increments. While equity swaps
were exempt from such rules, that doesn’t mean investors can
ignore general principles of transparency and integrity in their
financial communications, the AMF’s then Chairman  Jean-Pierre
Jouyet  told Le Journal du Dimanche in November 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at +33-1-5365-5064 or
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Viscusi at +33-1-5365-5068 or
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net  