-- Why Celebrate a False U.S. Manufacturing Renaissance?
-- B y   A l a n   T o n e l s o n
-- 2013-07-01T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/why-celebrate-a-false-u-s-manufacturing-renaissance-.html
The repeated claims that U.S.
manufacturing is enjoying, or is on the verge of, a renaissance
have been undermined again. The latest reality checks were
provided by official statistics on manufacturing output.  The Commerce Department’s first report on domestic
industry’s full-year 2012 performance showed an impressive
increase in  U.S. manufacturers’ output . Yet the figures released
June 6 were hardly profound, even by the standards of the
previous decade, which no one considered a golden age for U.S.
industry.  President  Barack Obama  and other proponents of a
manufacturing renaissance got even more bad news June 14, when
the  Federal Reserve ’s industrial-production data for May showed
that the sector’s rebound from the recession had just about
stalled. Manufacturing output remains smaller than when the last
recession began in 2007, despite the huge government stimulus
since then.  U.S. manufacturing’s 6.2 percent inflation-adjusted growth
in 2012 was much faster than the 2.5 percent growth of the
economy as a whole, and considerably faster than manufacturing’s
2.5 percent real expansion in 2011. Even so, we are nowhere near
a renaissance. In 2010, early in the current recovery, the
sector recorded real growth of 6.9 percent; it showed an 8.2
percent expansion in 2004, and grew 6.4 percent in 2000.  Slowing Momentum  Moreover, not only has U.S.  manufacturing  previously
surpassed the 2012 number, it doesn’t appear that it will stay
at these levels. According to the Fed’s May report, industry’s
real year-on-year growth rate is about 2.4 percent, the worst
showing since the recession ended in June 2009. And the momentum
has slowed since January.  It’s true that manufacturing growth has outpaced the
overall economy during the recovery. Doesn’t that reverse a
longtime trend? In particular, doesn’t that relative strength
signal progress toward Obama’s worthy goal of creating an
economy “built to last,” one based on producing and earning,
instead of borrowing and spending?  The data don’t support this optimistic reading, either.
Manufacturing’s robust growth last year did raise its percentage
of inflation-adjusted  total economic output  to 12.5 percent.
That’s a big change from its nadir of 11.5 percent in 2009. But
this improvement is only a return to levels that industry
reached regularly during the previous bubble decade, when
manufacturing is widely thought to have atrophied in relative
terms largely in response to the financial sector’s bloat.  In fact, the new statistics -- along with the latest
monthly results from regional Fed banks and  private-sector
surveys  -- show that the manufacturing-renaissance skeptics have
been right all along. Industry’s recent surge is a direct result
of the magnitude of this highly cyclical sector’s recessionary
decline. From the recession’s onset in 2007 through its bottom
in 2009, domestic manufacturing output fell almost 15 percent
after inflation. Overall output fell, too, but only by 3.9
percent.  Since 2009, real manufacturing production has rebounded by
16.4 percent, more than twice as fast as the 6.4 percent growth
for the entire economy. Nonetheless, domestic industry still
hadn’t quite regained its pre- recession  peak by the end of 2012.
The full economy, meanwhile, had erased all of its real gross-domestic-product losses by 2011.  The new data aren’t the only reason to doubt the
renaissance claims.  Job creation  in the sector has turned
negative in the past three months, and the pace of recovery in
manufacturing has been less than one-third as fast as the
overall employment recovery. The manufacturing trade deficit set
a record of $686 billion (in pre-inflation terms -- the only
official data available) in 2012 and is headed toward another
record high this year.  China’s Dominance  Imports now control a greater share of U.S. markets for
advanced manufactured goods (38 percent, according to a new U.S.
Business and Industry Council  study ) than ever before. And U.S.
manufacturing output keeps slipping further behind that of
China, the world’s new industrial-production leader.  Further, while a future reversal in U.S. manufacturing’s
fortunes can’t be ruled out, many of the long-term trends
believed to be lining up in its favor look decidedly less
promising upon closer inspection. For example, though wages and
other production costs in  China  are rising sharply, the prices
of Chinese manufactured goods imported into the U.S. are
actually falling at roughly the same rate as the prices of all
imports of manufactured goods. And the shale-gas revolution’s
impact on U.S. industry could be muted by the sector’s
continuing shift toward less energy-intensive industries, such
as information-technology hardware; sophisticated navigational,
measuring and control instruments; and advanced medical
equipment.  For  U.S. manufacturing  to be in a position to thrive, the
government will need to devise, as is frequently recommended,
new policies in education, taxes, regulations and research, and
provide development assistance.  Even then, domestic manufacturers will face financially
stronger competitor countries that are much more able to afford
subsidies and tax cuts; perhaps two-dozen manipulated
currencies; nontariff trade barriers with no U.S. counterparts;
and rivals in the developing world (including the overseas
affiliates of U.S. companies) that exploit rock-bottom
regulatory levels.  That means the U.S. should also press for new
international-trade policies. For example, longstanding
legislation to strengthen the response to currency manipulation
has been reintroduced in the House and Senate. It should be
promptly passed and signed by the president. Buy American
regulations that govern public-sector procurement should be
greatly expanded, even at the risk of violating treaty
obligations, and much better enforced. The massive,
discriminatory effects of foreign value-added tax systems must
be offset by a border-adjustment levy. And new trade deals, such
as the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership, which are modeled on
past failures, should be scrapped or reconsidered.  Until then, talk of a manufacturing renaissance will remain
just talk.  (Alan Tonelson is a research fellow at the U.S. Business
and Industry Council, which represents almost 2,000 domestic
manufacturing companies. He is the author of “The Race to the
Bottom: Why a Worldwide Worker Surplus and Uncontrolled  Free
Trade  Are Sinking American Living Standards.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Alan Tonelson at  tonelson@usbusiness.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  