-- Serena Williams Served Out of Wimbledon by Sabine Lisicki
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-01T20:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/williams-ousted-by-lisicki-in-fourth-round-of-wimbledon.html
Defending Wimbledon champion Serena Williams was served out of the tournament she’s won five times
by Sabine Lisicki.  Lisicki of  Germany  beat the top-seeded American, 6-2, 1-6,
6-4 on Centre Court at the All England Club in southwest  London .  “I’m still shaking, I’m so happy,” Lisicki said in a
televised interview, before bursting into tears. “Serena played
a fantastic match, she is such a tough opponent. An amazing
feeling to win this match.”  Men’s top seed Novak Djokovic and second-seeded Andy Murray
won today, advancing to the quarterfinals without dropping a
set. Britain’s Murray beat Mikhail Youzhny of Russia, 6-4, 7-6
(7-5), 6-1, while  Serbia ’s Djokovic fired 13 aces in a 6-1, 6-4,
7-6 (7-4) victory against 35-year-old Tommy Haas of Germany.
Fourth seed David Ferrer of Spain also won.  Lisicki had three more aces today than Williams, who’s hit
the most aces on the women’s tour this season. The 23-year-old
German converted five of eight break points and used an
efficient volley, winning 14 of 16 approaches, or 88 percent.
Lisicki’s forehand on match point was her 35th winner, 10 more
than Williams, a 16-time Grand Slam singles champion.  “It’s not a shock, she always plays really good on
grass,” Williams said in a news conference. “I didn’t play the
big points good enough, I didn’t do what I do best. I had a
little bit of hesitation.”  Stephens Picked  No. 17 seed Sloane Stephens, the last remaining singles
player from the U.S., overcame Puerto Rico’s Monica Puig, 4-6,
7-5, 6-1 to move to her first Wimbledon quarterfinal. Stephens
next plays former runner-up Marion Bartoli of  France , who beat
Karin Knapp of Italy 6-2, 6-3.  Williams said Stephens has “a really good chance of
winning” the title.  “Very nice of her,” Stephens said, who lost last year
against Bartoli in the only time they’ve played. “I have a
couple more matches to go ’til that happens. So just going to go
out and play my hardest and see what I can do.”  Lisicki has now dumped the reigning French Open champion
out of Wimbledon four times in five years. She said Williams put
up a fight.  “She played unbelievable tennis, I gave it everything I
had,” Lisicki said, “I just hung in there and fought for every
single point.”  The 23rd-seeded Lisicki trailed 4-2 in the final set, then
came back to 4-4 as she continued to fire serves of faster than
120 miles per hour (193 kilometers per hour). Lisicki got to
break point with a drop shot, and broke for a 5-4 lead as
Williams sent a seemingly easy smash just over the baseline.  No Risk  “She was just on today, she was definitely reading my
serve,” Williams said. “She had nothing to lose.”  Serving for the biggest victory of her career, Lisicki set
up her first match point with a service winner, only to squander
it with a forehand long. A double fault followed to hand
Williams a break point, which Lisicki saved with her 10th ace. A
forehand winner after a long rally secured the win, with the
victor falling to the grass in joy.  “She has one of the biggest serves on tour,” Williams
said. “She’s actually super fast, she gets every ball back.”  It was the earliest loss in a major for Williams since she
was eliminated in the opening round of the French Open last
year. Since then, the 31-year-old had won Wimbledon, two Olympic
gold medals, the U.S. Open and last month’s French Open. Today’s
defeat ended a 34-match winning streak.  French Connection  In the past five years at Wimbledon, Lisicki has eliminated
French Open winners Svetlana Kuznetsova of  Russia  in 2009, Li Na
of  China  in 2011 and Maria Sharapova of Russia last year.  Williams’s loss means there will be both new men’s and
women’s singles champions. Defending men’s champion Roger Federer was upset five days ago in the second round, when a
record seven players exited the tournament because of injuries.  Today was ‘Manic Monday’’ at Wimbledon -- when all 16
fourth-round matches are scheduled.  With two-time winner Rafael Nadal eliminated in the first
round and seven-time champion Federer having lost, the 20th-seeded Youzhny had been the highest-ranked player left on
Murray’s side of the draw.  The Scot, who is trying to become the first man from the
British Isles to win the Wimbledon singles title since Fred Perry in 1936, plays 54th-ranked Spaniard Fernando Verdasco in
the quarterfinals. After that, he would meet the winner of the
first all-Polish men’s quarterfinal at Wimbledon, between 24th-seeded Jerzy Janowicz or 130th-ranked Lukasz Kubot.  Djokovic, the 2011 champion, plays former finalist Tomas
Berdych of the Czech Republic, who overcame  Australia ’s Bernard
Tomic, 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, 6-4.  “I lost to him the only time we played on grass, in
2010,” Djokovic said about seventh-seeded Berdych. “But I am
playing really, really good tennis at the moment.”  ‘No Guarantees’  Murray said he expects to be challenged in the coming
rounds.  “I don’t expect to come in to win, there’s no guarantees
at all,” Murray, who won his first Grand Slam title at last
year’s U.S. Open, said when asked about his possible path to the
final. “Serena lost today. Rafa and Roger also lost. If they
can lose, so can I.”  Petra Kvitova, the 2011 champion and the only former
Wimbledon winner left on the women’s side, advanced to the
quarterfinals with a 7-6 (7-5), 6-3 win against Spain’s Carla Suarez Navarro. She’ll play  Belgium ’s Kirsten Flipkens, who beat
Italy’s Flavia Pennetta, 7-6 (7-2), 6-3, in the quarterfinals.  Li defeated No. 11 seed Roberta Vinci, one of four Italians
in the fourth round, 6-0, 6-2. The sixth-seeded Chinese player
meets last year’s runner-up,  Agnieszka Radwanska , in the last
eight. Radwanska of  Poland , at No. 4 the highest remaining seed
in the women’s draw, defeated  Bulgaria ’s Tsvetana Pironkova,
4-6, 6-3, 6-3.  British Defeat  Kaia Kanepi of Estonia moved into the last eight by ending
the run of 19-year-old  Laura Robson , 7-6 (8-6), 7-5. Robson was
the first British woman into the second week at Wimbledon since
Sam Smith in 1998. Kanepi will play Lisicki for a spot in the
semifinals.  “I’m really, really disappointed,” Robson said. “I had
my chances here and there and I just didn’t take them.”  French Open men’s runner-up Ferrer of Spain overcame Dodig
of  Croatia , 6-7 (3-7), 7-6 (8-6), 6-1, 6-1. The unseeded Dodig
had reached the fourth round after his opponents quit with
illnesses in the first and third rounds.  Ferrer next plays former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina, who beat  Italy ’s Andreas Seppi, 6-4, 7-6
(7-2), 6-3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  