-- Worst Currency Decline Imperils Gol’s Turnaround Strategy
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-07-01T22:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/worst-currency-decline-imperils-gol-s-turnaround-strategy.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL3) ,
Brazil’s largest airline, is losing the cost savings from flight
and job cuts as the real tumbles, erasing a rally that the
company triggered with its turnaround effort in the past year.  The real’s 7 percent plunge in the month ended June 28, the
worst performance among the 16 most-traded currencies against
the dollar, is swelling Gol’s foreign debt and fuel expense.
Gol’s 39 percent free fall since the start of April is deeper
than all 31 carriers in the Bloomberg World Airlines Index.  Brazil’s slumping currency and weak economy are hampering
Chief Executive Officer Paulo Kakinoff’s bid to return to profit
as he unwinds Gol’s growth-at-any-price approach. The airline
posted losses in seven of the past eight quarters, and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg project a third straight annual deficit
this year.  “Gol has been cutting capacity in the domestic market and
making difficult cost-cutting decisions,” Duane Pfennigwerth,
an  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  analyst in  New York , said by e-mail.
“However, the company needs a more favorable currency scenario.
Specifically, a weaker real increases their dollar-based
expenses and dollar-based debt in local currency. Current
management inherited this dollar-based liability mismatch.”  Kakinoff Rally  The stock surged  69 percent  after Kakinoff became CEO on
July 2 through Jan. 29 as he had lessors take back planes from
the 2011 purchase of discount carrier Webjet, agreed to sell
part of the Smiles frequent-flier plan and began what is now a
20 percent workforce cut since 2012’s first quarter, to 16,470.  Gol has surrendered all those gains, with the shares down
19 percent  during his tenure  to 7.17 reais on June 28. That left
Sao Paulo-based Gol with a market value of about 1.99 billion
reais ($896 million), less than the  list price  for nine of the
Boeing Co. 737 Max jets ordered last year. Gol fell 1.3 percent
to 7.08 reais, the lowest closing price in a week.  “We’re in a difficult situation,” Alberto Fajerman, vice
president of government relations at Gol, said in an interview
in Sao Paulo. “The market doesn’t like the airline sector
because of the currency increases, the fuel costs.”  For Gol and other carriers in Brazil, the weaker real makes
everything from fuel to airline parts and plane leases more
expensive. About 60 percent of Gol’s expenses are dominated in
dollars, Fajerman said. While some costs are hedged, he declined
to specify how much.  Industry Concern  “The currency is really worrying the sector,” said Victor
Celestino, director of institutional relations at Azul Linhas
Aereas Brasileiras, the Brazilian airline controlled by JetBlue
Airways Corp. founder  David Neeleman . Celestino made the
comments at an industry event in Sao Paulo last week, as Gol
completed a first-half slide that left the shares down 44
percent for 2013, twice as much as the benchmark Ibovespa index.  About 70 percent of Gol’s 5.3 billion reais in debt is
based in dollars, while 93 percent of its 2012 revenue came from
 sales in Brazil , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
dependence on its home market hurts with  consumer confidence 
falling to a three-year low in May.  While Kakinoff said in May that Gol was nearing the limits
of its ability to keep cutting expenses, he signaled last week
that he’s willing to keep paring operations to stem losses. Gol
said its 2013 pullback in seating capacity would be 9 percent,
two percentage points deeper than forecast.  ‘Responding Constructively’  “The industry is responding constructively by
rationalizing capacity and pricing for profitability,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by Tom Kim said in a June 28
report. Their neutral rating on Gol’s  Brazil  shares is
equivalent to the equalweight on the American depositary
receipts from Evercore’s Pfennigwerth.  Gol’s revenue for each seat flown a kilometer, an industry
benchmark, rose 11 percent in May from a year earlier, according
to a June 17 filing. Yield, or the average fare per kilometer,
also was up 11 percent, suggesting that Gol was gaining power to
charge more for tickets.  The airline’s challenge is finding more travelers. Traffic,
or the number of kilometers flown by paying passengers, fell 2.7
percent in May. Even with the pullback in seats, Gol’s jets flew
only 66 percent full, among the worst rates in the Americas.  Goldman Sachs also cut its estimate for earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent -- known as
Ebitdar -- for 2013 and 2014 as the real boosts costs and
Brazil’s street protests curb travel.  Of the 11 analysts who rate  Gol’s shares , four say buy and
six recommend holding while one says sell, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s down from six buys, three hold ratings
and one sell at the start of April, before the real’s tumble.  “When the dollar goes up, our costs automatically go up,”
Gol’s Fajerman said. “We have absolutely no way to manage
this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  