-- WTI Crude Gains After Quarterly Drop Amid Egypt Protests
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-07-01T12:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-01/wti-crude-drops-for-a-second-day-opec-june-production-declines.html
West Texas Intermediate rose,
snapping last quarter’s decline, amid concern than mass protests
against President Mohamed Mursi of Egypt, the largest Arab
nation, might spread and affect Middle Eastern oil supply.  Futures gained as much as 1 percent in New York. At least
eight people were killed in clashes near the Cairo headquarters
of Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood, and part of the Islamist
organization’s building was set on fire, government officials
and police said today. WTI fell earlier as much as 0.5 percent
as  China ’s Purchasing Managers Index dropped to 50.1 last month,
from 50.8 in May. U.S. crude rose 5 percent in June even as
stockpiles increased for three weeks, government data showed.  “Today’s rise came as a bit of a geopolitical lift,” Ole Hansen, the head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S, said by
telephone from Copenhagen, adding that prices could continue to
increase on concern that unrest in Egypt may spread in the oil-producing region. “The main drivers now are geopolitics and the
expected build-up in demand in the third quarter.”  WTI for August delivery was at $97.51 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 95
cents, at 1:10 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures
traded was about 23 percent below the 100-day average. The
contract decreased 49 cents to $96.56 on June 28, capping a 0.7
percent loss for the second quarter.  Moving Average  Brent for August settlement was at $103.03 a barrel, up 87
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $5.51 to WTI
futures. The spread was $5.60 on June 28, the narrowest based on
closing prices since January 2011.  Brent, which dropped 7.1 percent in the second quarter, may
extend its decline because of technical resistance, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures traded higher than the 50-day moving average the past two days without settling above it.
This indicator is at about $103.20 a barrel today. Investors
typically sell contracts when prices fail to breach chart-resistance levels.  In  Egypt , protesters stormed the Muslim Brotherhood’s main
Cairo headquarters, setting ablaze the first floor hours after
hundreds of thousands poured into Egypt’s streets demanding
Mursi step down. The attack on the group that fielded Mursi for
office followed a night of clashes that killed at least eight
people and injured 45, according to South Cairo Prosecution
official Tamer El-Arabi.  Fatal Clashes  The protests come amid continuous armed conflict in  Syria ,
raising concern that tensions may spread to larger oil-exporting
nations in the Middle East, which collectively accounts for 34
percent of world oil supply.  China’s manufacturing index, released today by the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing, matched the median forecast of 33 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Slowing gains add to odds that Li Keqiang may become the first Chinese premier to miss an annual
growth target since the Asian financial crisis in 1998.  “The data out of China is showing slowing,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a
commodity newsletter in Sydney, who predicts investors may sell
WTI contracts at about $98.50 a barrel. “Sentiment is down and
inventories are building. Oil shouldn’t be at these levels.”  China Demand  China accounted for 11 percent of global oil demand last
year, compared with 21 percent for the U.S., the biggest user,
according to the International Energy Agency’s monthly oil
market report published on June 12.  North Sea production at the Buzzard field operated by Nexen
Inc. is said to be running at rates as much as 25 percent less
than normal, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter. The field is producing between 150,000 barrels and
170,000 barrels a day, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Hedge funds and other money managers cut bullish bets on
Brent crude to the lowest level in six weeks, according to data
from ICE Futures Europe. Speculative bets that prices will rise,
in futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
136,809 lots in the week ended June 25, the London-based
exchange said today in its weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Net-long positions in WTI held by money managers, including
hedge funds, commodity pools and commodity-trading advisers,
dropped by 30,045 futures and options combined, or 11 percent,
to 232,194, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission said
in its Commitments of Traders report on June 28. The decline was
the most since February.  Oil supply from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries fell in June for the first time in five months.
Production slid 227,000 barrels to an average 30.697 million
barrels a day, from a revised 30.924 million in May, according
to a Bloomberg survey last week of oil companies, producers and
analysts. OPEC’s 12 members pump about 40 percent of the world’s
crude.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  