-- 12 Banks Accused in Lawsuit of Restraining Swaps Market
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-05-07T16:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/12-banks-accused-in-lawsuit-of-restraining-swaps-market.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and 10 other banks have restrained market competition for
credit default swaps in violation of U.S. antitrust law, an  Ohio 
union pension plan contends in a federal court complaint.  “The CDS market has been starkly divided between those who
control and distort the market and those who, in order to
participate in the market, must abide their distortions,”
according to papers filed May 3 in  Chicago .  Sheet Metal Workers Local No. 33 Cleveland District Pension
Plan , based in Parma, Ohio, seeks damages for what it says are
“substantial injuries” it and people and entities on the “buy
side” sustained in buying or selling CDS contracts to the
“sell side” dealer-defendants between 2008 and 2011.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, has filed an
application at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
become a swap data repository.  Other banks named as defendants in the case include  Bank of
America Corp. , Deutsche Bank AG, and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   The union pension plan seeks a jury trial and class-action
status on behalf of other dissatisfied swaps investors “to
recover damages for the substantial injuries” sustained, and
prevent restraint of competition in the swaps market by “the
proverbial too-big-to-fail banks,” court papers show.  European Union  Spokesmen for New York-based Goldman Sachs and Citigroup,
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America and Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Bank declined to comment on the complaint.  “We believe that the allegations against us are without
merit and that ISDA acted properly at all times,” said Lauren
Dobbs, a spokeswoman in New York for the International Swaps &
Derivatives Association, said in an e-mailed statement.  The European Union has been investigating potentially
anticompetitive activity relating to the $24.3 trillion market
since 2011.  That probe expanded in March to include whether the ISDA, a
trade association, has been involved in an effort to delay or
prevent exchanges from entering the credit derivatives business.  In 2011, the EU began investigating whether Deutsche Bank,
Citigroup and 14 other lenders had engaged in collusion by
giving pricing information to Markit Group Ltd., a London-based
financial information business owned in part by 16 banks.  Markit Group  All of the banks sued by the sheet metal workers’ pension
plan are part owners in Markit Group, which is named with ISDA
as a co-defendant.  “Markit has not been served with the complaint filed by
this class action law firm but we have seen a copy of it,” said
Alex Paidas, a spokesman for Markit. “The allegations are
wholly without merit and we will defend ourselves vigorously.”  While not a party to the case, ICE Clear Credit, an
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  unit that clears swaps trades, is
identified in the complaint as a co-conspirator.  Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME)  is seeking regulator approval
to have swaps information routed to its own database. The sheet
metal lawsuit defendants allegedly blocked CME’s efforts to
obtain ISDA and Markit permissions necessary to enter the
market, according to their complaint.  The pension plan is seeking unspecified “treble damages”
for claims including conspiracy to “fix” swap spreads and
monopolize the market, and for illegal “group boycott of
potential market entrants,” according to court papers.  The case is Sheet Metal Workers Local No. 33 Cleveland
District Pension Plan v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 13-cv-03357,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  