-- Lafarge Repeats Forecasts as Cold Weather Constricts Sales
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-05-07T11:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/lafarge-first-quarter-earnings-miss-estimates-amid-harsh-weather.html
Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest cement
maker, reiterated its full-year forecast as cold weather,
stinted Algerian and Egyptian production and fewer working days
constricted first-quarter sales.  Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont said in a statement
the first quarter traditionally represents a small proportion of
income and isn’t indicative of full-year trends. “Our outlook
remains unchanged and we expect to see cement demand growth in
our markets of between 1 percent and 4 percent in 2013.”  Lafont is cutting jobs and procurement costs and pushing
sales of higher-margin services and products to counter a
construction slump in  Europe  and political turmoil in the  Middle
East . He’s also selling assets to repair a  credit rating  that
has fallen below investment grade. Paris-based Lafarge said it
was able to raise prices to counter cost inflation and that the
increases “will fully deliver in the coming months.”  The stock rose as much as 6.2 percent in trading in the
French capital, the steepest rise in 2 1/2 months, giving the
company a market value of 14.9 billion euros ($19.6 billion).
Lafarge shares were up 5.9 percent to 51.78 euros at 12:58 p.m.
local time.  “The fact that price increases are gaining momentum month
after month is reassuring,” Arnaud Palliez, an analyst at
 Raymond James  in Paris, said by telephone. He rates Lafarge
market perform. “With stable energy costs in the first quarter,
they’re a bit ahead” compared with their annual guidance.  Production Incidents  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 26 percent from a year earlier to 380 million
euros, the company said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
expected 450 million euros.  Lafont said the decline in earnings was entirely linked to
one-time items that reduced volume, including very unfavorable
weather in central Europe, northern  Africa  and the U.S., and
production incidents that are now largely solved.  Sven Edelfelt, an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co. who
recommends clients to buy Lafarge, said today’s weak results
were a good entry point in the stock.  “The full-year guidance 2013 is unchanged on volume and
energy costs,” he said in a note to clients. “We view this
weak performance as linked to the strike in  Algeria , production
disruption in  Egypt , and fewer working days in Europe.”  Debt Trimmed  Lafarge’s  debt  shrank by 4 percent at the end of first
quarter from a year earlier to 11.8 billion euros. Lafont has
set a goal to trim the company’s debt below 10 billion euros
this year, a target that the manufacturer will “probably”
attain in the second half of the year, he said on a call with
reporters.  The company said it has agreed to 1 billion euros in asset
sales since the start of 2012, and has already received 600
million euros in proceeds from these divestments.  Lafont said that 800 million euros of capital expenditure
this year will be used to free up production capacity, mostly in
 emerging markets . The company plans new grinding investment in
Algeria,  India , the  Philippines  and plant renovation in  Iraq .  Lafarge plans to deliver 650 million euros of additional
Ebitda from cost cutting and innovation in 2013, the company
reiterated. That will help it meet most of its 2015 target to
boost Ebitda by 1.75 billion euros one year early, though the
benefit could be partly offset by lower sales of carbon credits
and falling revenue in some markets, Lafarge has said.  The company posted a net loss of 117 million euros in the
quarter compared with a loss of 60 million euros a year earlier.
Sales fell 2.7 percent to 3.14 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  