-- Thai Bonds Drop Most in a Week on Fund Curbs Concern; Baht Gains
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-05-07T03:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/thai-bonds-drop-most-in-a-week-on-fund-curbs-concern-baht-gains.html
Thailand ’s government bonds fell the
most in more than a week on concern the central bank is seeking
tighter rules on foreign purchases of local debt. The baht rose.  The Bank of Thailand has submitted to the  finance ministry 
a plan, aimed at slowing capital inflows and currency gains,
that proposes a minimum holding period and a fee for overseas
investment in fixed-income notes, the Bangkok Post reported
today, citing Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong. The minister
said last week he was “disappointed” policy makers didn’t cut
 interest rates  after an April 30 meeting, even as he urged them
to do so after the baht climbed to a 16-year high.  “With increasing pressure from the government, investors
are concerned that the central bank will do something to slow
fund inflows,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist covering
 emerging markets  at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in
 Tokyo . “Looking at the central bank’s stance so far, the rate
cut remains unlikely, which in turn would mean measures such as
the introduction of fees are possible.”  The yield on the 3.625 percent debt due June 2023 climbed
three basis points from May 3 to 3.41 percent as of 9:31 a.m. in
Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the
biggest increase since April 25. Onshore financial markets were
closed yesterday for a public holiday.  The one-year interest-rate swap rate, the fixed cost needed
to receive a floating payment, rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.34 percent.  Capital Controls  No specific date has been set for measures to control fund
inflows and the central bank said they would be imposed at an
appropriate time, the Bangkok Post cited Kittiratt as saying.
The minister prefers an interest-rate cut and said the Bank of
Thailand’s current benchmark rate of 2.75 percent is “too
high,” according to the report.  The government should limit foreign investment in domestic
bonds to maturities of less than six months, Paiboon Nalinthrangkurn, chairman of the Federation of Thai Capital
Organizations, a trade group, said on May 3.  Foreign investors  sold $123 million more sovereign debt
than they bought this month through May 3 after net purchases of
$12 billion in the first four months of the year, according to
Thai Bond Market Association data.  The baht appreciated 0.1 percent from May 3 to 29.67 per
dollar. It advanced 3 percent this year, the best performance
among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies, and reached 28.56 on
April 22 and April 19, the strongest since July 1997.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped nine basis
points to 6.29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  