-- AIG Falls as Goldman Says Not Confident of Buybacks in Next Year
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-07T17:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/aig-falls-as-goldman-says-not-confident-of-buybacks-in-next-year.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG)  fell
the most among large financial firms after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said U.S. oversight may limit the insurer’s ability to buy
back shares in the next year.  AIG dropped 2.6 percent to $44.29 at 12:33 p.m. in New
York, the biggest decline in the 81-company Standard & Poor’s
500 Financials Index. Goldman Sachs analysts led by Michael Nannizzi cut AIG to  neutral  from buy in a note today.  Robert Benmosche , chief executive officer of New York-based
AIG since 2009, redeemed debt and struck a deal to sell a plane-
leasing unit as he seeks to bolster the company’s credit rating
and win confidence of regulators. The insurer halted dividends
in 2008, the year of a U.S. rescue, and is overseen by the
 Federal Reserve  after repaying the bailout funds in December.  “We are not confident that AIG’s priority for the next 12
months will shift toward buybacks until it has satisfied both
 rating agencies  and regulators, the latter of which will reflect
a yet undefined framework and timeline,” the Goldman Sachs
analysts wrote. The insurer also faces the risks of “credit and
interest-rate volatility, and an inability to adequately
monetize non-core assets along the anticipated timeline.”  The insurer last year became the first non-bank to disclose
it’s under consideration to be labeled a potential risk to the
financial system because of its size. Benmosche said in a letter
to the Fed in November that he welcomes supervision.  AIG surged 39 percent in 12 months through yesterday as
Benmosche repaid the bailout, and results improved at the global
 property-casualty  and U.S. life businesses that are the main
units of a scaled-back company. The insurer last week posted
first-quarter operating profit of $1.34 a share, beating by 46
cents the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We see limited upside to our $46, 12 month-price
target,” the analysts said. “Current shares now well reflect
the fundamental story.”  Jon Diat, a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  