-- Airline Insurance Costs Decline as Lower Crash Rates Pare Claims
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-07T15:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/airline-insurance-costs-decline-as-lower-crash-rates-pare-claims.html
Airlines will benefit from lower
insurance costs after claims declined for a third year running
as reduced accident rates and increased competition among
insurers keep premiums down.  Claims dropped 20 percent last year to $924 million as
premiums fell 11 percent to $1.61 billion, insurance broker Aon
Risk Solutions said in a report today. “For an industry with
remarkably inflexible cost-base, insurers certainly played their
part in contributing significant percentage cost savings in
2012,” it said.  Airlines in recent years have seen a steady drop in crashes
using western-built planes, the most common types among major
carriers. The accident rate  fell  to 0.20 accidents per million
sectors from 0.37 a year earlier, according to International Air
Transport Association data which had no hull losses among
members last year.  “The outlook for airline insurance purchase in 2013 is
very positive,” said Simon Knechtli, chairman of Aon’s aviation
unit. “It will take a series of losses, or one very large loss
in 2013 to create a change in current market trends.”  More insurers have entered the market, showing the drop in
premiums hasn’t reduced the appetite to work with airlines, he
said.  Ample supply has had a spillover effect in related markets,
lowering insurance costs for general aviation and the  aerospace
industry , Knechtli said in an interview.  “Certain capital investment vehicles are looking to place
their money in the financial markets and insurance would appear
to be providing an attractive level of return,” Knechtli said.
“You have got some startup insurers in aviation and there are
one or two other entities thinking about joining the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  