-- Alafco to Focus on Sale-Leasebacks for Growth, Chairman Says
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-05-07T08:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/alafco-to-focus-on-sale-leasebacks-for-growth-chairman-says.html
Aviation Lease & Finance Co., a
Kuwaiti aircraft leasing company, will generally refrain from
buying new airliners until it gets the first of 117 planes
already on order in four years, its chairman said.  Aviation Lease, known as Alafco, now has 49 planes
operating in its fleet. Until 2017, when Alfaco’s new  Boeing Co. (BA) 
and Airbus SAS single-aisle planes start delivering, the company
will add to the portfolio only with occasional sale-leasebacks,
buying newly-delivered planes from airlines and leasing them
back, Chairman Ahmad Al-Zabin said.  “We need to slow down now or stop rather, until we see
what the coming days tell us about the market, about our ability
in placing these aircraft,” Al-Zabin said in a May 5 interview
at company headquarters in  Kuwait City .  Alafco aims to increase operating profit by 10 percent
every year by boosting income from leases on the current fleet,
Al-Zabin said. While the company has “good expectations” for
the business, it prefers to move cautiously on orders, he said.  Alafco is only now seeking to line up airlines to lease the
planes coming online, and the results of that marketing effort
will dictate decisions on possible further orders. Alafco has
ordered 85 Airbus A320neos, a re-engined version of the A320
single-aisle plane, and 20 Boeing 737 MAX planes, an upgraded
variant of the U.S. planemaker’s current 737.  Studying Wide-Bodies  “The main aircraft we are interested in now is Airbus A320
and Boeing 737 new generation or -800,” Al-Zabin said. If a
good business opportunity arises with a larger aircraft, the
company may go ahead, he said.  Besides the single-aisle planes, Alafco also has 12
A350-900s on order from Airbus and also already found takers for
half of those. While Alafco has ordered A350-900s, it continues
to monitor development of the -1000 version.  “We study whatever comes up in the market for these
aircraft. Things can always change but for the time being we’re
happy with the 900s,” Al-Zabin said.  Alafco has hired Deutsche Bank to study listing a portion
of the company’s shares on a foreign exchange. Once the study is
complete, shareholders will decide whether to list and where.  “Assuming they go for a listing, it takes some time to
prepare Alafco for that list,” Al-Zabin said. “We’re talking
about the remainder of the year before we can get to anything
meaningful. It could be this year, it could be toward the end of
this year, it depends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  