-- Alan Blinder Says Leverage Limit Crucial to Financial System
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-07T15:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/alan-blinder-says-leverage-limit-crucial-to-financial-system.html
Limiting leverage is “a crucial
part” of guarding against future financial meltdowns, said  Alan Blinder , former Federal Reserve vice chairman and current
Princeton University economics professor.  “One of the things that made this Rube Goldberg
contraption so lethal when it collapsed was the incredible
amount of leverage,” Blinder said, speaking on  Bloomberg Radio 
with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee . “We’re pretty sure there’s a
lot less leverage in the system now.”  Blinder’s 2013 book, “ After the Music Stopped : The
Financial Crisis, the Response and the Work Ahead,” discusses
how the U.S. financial system started unraveling in 2007. He
criticizes the Obama administration for what he depicts as an
inadequate job explaining the crisis to U.S. voters, while he
says stimulus helped to prop up the American economy.  Having a limit on leverage “is part of the solution,” to
prevent future crises, Blinder said today, and he said it’s
already being examined as a safeguard.  “With banks, when people talk about raising capital
charges, as in the Basel III agreement, and the  Federal
Reserve ’s Dan Tarullo has been talking about going higher than
that, that’s about limiting leverage,” he said. “Limiting
leverage is a crucial part of it.”  Basel Accord  Basel III refers to international measures designed to
strengthen regulation, risk management and supervision of the
banking industry. Fed Governor Tarullo said in Washington last
week that regulators should impose higher requirements for
capital and liquidity at banks that pose the greatest risk to
the financial system, and should consider measures to link the
two.  Financial instruments that were too complex for buyers to
understand also contributed to the crisis, Blinder said.  “What was driving the complexity was profit,” he said.  Blinder, who was vice chairman from 1994 to 1996, is a
former economic adviser in the Bill Clinton administration and
advised presidential nominee  John Kerry  during the 2004 election
campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  