-- Alcatel Chief Looks to Ericsson for Lessons in Turnaround
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-05-07T12:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/alcatel-s-new-chief-looks-to-ericsson-for-lessons-in-turnaround.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  Chief Executive
Officer  Michel Combes , taking the reins after his predecessor’s
turnaround plan failed, told shareholders today keeping the pace
of cash consumption under control and focusing on fewer
businesses are among the network-equipment maker’s priorities.  In his first address to investors, Combes said Alcatel-Lucent could emulate Ericsson AB, which a decade ago focused on
mobile equipment and reorganized its workforce to grow the
Swedish company into the world’s largest vendor of wireless
networks. Alcatel-Lucent will use divestments and partnerships
to help stem losses, said the 51-year-old Frenchman, who took
over from Ben Verwaayen last month.  “It is possible to turn Alcatel around,” Combes said in
front of about 250 shareholders in a conference room near the
Champs-Elysees in Paris. “Ericsson was out of breath 10 years
ago and they did it. We could follow a similar trajectory.”  Ericsson cut more than 50,000 jobs -- more than half its
workforce -- between the end of 2000 and early 2004 to end years
of losses caused by slowing spending by debt-laden phone
carriers and emerging competition from Asian rivals.  The company regained its investment-grade  credit rating  in
2005 and has now had nine straight profitable years amid
recovering sales. Its stock has risen about fivefold since its
2002 depths.  Loan Pact  Alcatel-Lucent shares jumped 9.3 percent at 2:18 p.m. in
Paris for their biggest gain in a month. The Paris-based company
this month reported its fourth straight quarterly loss as its
cash pile shrank by half a billion euros. Moody’s Investors
Service said it may cut the company’s debt rating further into
junk unless it returns to profit and stops spending to much in
the second half.  Alcatel-Lucent in January closed a 2 billion-euro ($2.6
billion) loan deal and in February named Combes as CEO, opening
a new chapter in a quest to make the company profitable since it
was created through the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA and Lucent
Technologies.  “Alcatel-Lucent’s situation today is hardly sustainable in
the long run,” Combes said, adding that he is putting final
touches to a reorganization plan to be unveiled by mid-July.
“Our company can’t stay a telecoms generalist. We need to
evolve to become a multi-specialist.”  Alcatel-Lucent, along with Nokia Siemens Networks and
Ericsson, have eliminated jobs to adapt their business models to
aggressive price cuts by Asian vendors.  Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s biggest maker of phone-network equipment, said this month it plans to hire 5,500 people
in  Europe  over the next four to five years. In  France , Alcatel-Lucent has about 9,500 workers, of a total of 72,000 worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  