-- Half of Hepatitis C Patients Don’t Get Full Testing, CDC Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-05-07T18:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/half-of-hepatitis-c-patients-don-t-get-full-testing-cdc-says.html
Only 51 percent of people in the U.S.
who test positive for hepatitis C received the necessary follow-up to determine if they require medical care, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  About 80 percent of people can’t fight off the virus that
attacks the liver on their own. Without a follow-up, these
patients may not get the health care they need, the Atlanta-based government health agency said today  in a report .  A screening test shows if a person has ever been infected
by the virus that usually spreads through contact with infected
blood. If that antibody test is positive, a follow-up determines
if the person is still infected and needs medical treatment.
About 3.2 million people in the U.S. have hepatitis C, which can
cause cirrhosis and liver cancer. The CDC recommends that people
born from 1945 to 1965 get tested, as 75 percent of infected
adults were born in this period.  “You may not remember everything that happened in the ’60s
and ’70s, but your liver does,”  Thomas Frieden , the director of
the CDC said today in a conference call with reporters. “The
bottom line here is if you’re born between those years, get
tested.”  Authorities say many people in the targeted group may have
been infected in their teens and 20s, either through blood
transfusions or with experimental drug use, and don’t know they
have the virus. Hepatitis C often shows no symptoms while it
damages the liver.  Drugmakers including  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  are competing to develop new
treatments for hepatitis C that can cut the time for treatment
and don’t cause side effects such as flu-like symptoms. Analysts
estimate the global market for such pills is $20 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  