-- Alibaba Net More Than Doubles After Commissions Increase
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-08T01:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/alibaba-net-income-more-than-doubles-after-commissions-increase.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
largest e-commerce company, had profit that doubled in the three
months ended in December after commissions likely increased on
surging sales.  Net income at Alibaba jumped to $642.2 million in the
quarter ended December from $236.9 million a year earlier,
according to a  Yahoo (YHOO) ! Inc. filing to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Revenue rose 80 percent to $1.84 billion, Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo, which owns about a 24 percent stake in
Alibaba, reported. John Spelich, an Alibaba spokesman in  Hong
Kong , declined to comment today.  “The majority of growth is likely to come from
commissions,” Victor Yip, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in
Hong Kong, said by phone today. “Transaction volumes were up.”  Jack Ma, Alibaba’s billionaire executive chairman, said
last year the company may go public within five years. While
Alibaba has said it has no timetable for an initial public
offering, analysts are anticipating an IPO this year or next.
The valuation could reach $62.5 billion, according to the median
of eight estimates by investment banks and research firms since
February, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Their strong growth is good news before the listing,”
Yip said.  Yahoo Gains  Proceeds from the IPO would be used along with additional
cash to buy back stock held by Yahoo, a person familiar with the
situation has said.  Yahoo gained as much as 6.4 percent to $26.79 in  New York 
trading, the biggest intraday gain since Oct. 23 and the highest
level since June 2008, before closing 3.6 percent higher at
$26.07. Shares have gained 31 percent this year.  Alibaba doesn’t sell merchandise itself. Instead, it runs
platforms including Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com that
connect retail brands with consumers, a cross between Amazon.com
Inc. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   “The results were better than we expected, probably
because of stronger revenue from commissions,” said Alex Wang,
a Beijing-based analyst at Internet consulting group iResearch.
“This will be positive for their anticipated IPO.”  The value of goods sold on Alibaba this year may reach
about $330 billion as more Chinese shop online, Wang said.  Morgan Stanley estimates Alibaba’s revenue for the 12
months through December of this year may increase 59 percent
from 2012 to $7.48 billion, and another 44 percent in the next
year, analysts Jordan Monahan and  Scott Devitt  said in a March 6
research note.  Online Shopping  Net income this year at Alibaba may reach $2.18 billion,
more than double last year’s $746.3 million, according to the
Morgan Stanley note.  “Companies usually will dress up their margins before
IPOs,” said Echo He, an analyst for Maxim Group LLC in New York.
“U.S. investors have an appetite for Chinese Internet companies,
especially ones with dominant market share in China.”  Online retailing in China more than doubled each year from
2003 to 2011 and is projected to more than triple to $395
billion from 2011 to 2015, according to a McKinsey & Co.  report 
in March. China had 564 million  Internet users  at the end of
2012, 10 percent more than a year earlier, according to the
government-run China Internet Network Information Center.  Google, Tencent  In a move to strengthen its mobile business, where an
increasing number of shoppers place orders, Alibaba last month
said it paid $586 million for an 18 percent stake in Sina
Corp.’s Weibo unit, which is China’s largest Twitter-like
service. That gives Alibaba access to the company’s 46.2 million
daily active users -- 75 percent of whom access the service
through mobile devices, according to Sina.  Alibaba said in April it was working with five Chinese
handset makers to use its operating system, called AMOS, as it
takes on Google Inc. and China-based Tencent Holdings Ltd.,
which runs a messaging service, for mobile-device users.  In addition, Alibaba is offering a credit-payment service
to provide  consumer credit  to Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com
shoppers. The credit limit is as much as 5,000  yuan  ($812) per
month, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  