-- Alstom Cuts Margin Forecast After Earnings Miss Estimates
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-05-07T09:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/alstom-cuts-forecast-after-missing-full-year-profit-estimate.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-largest
power-equipment maker, cut its profitability forecast after
earnings missed analyst estimates amid reduced spending by
clients. The stock dropped the most in more than four years.  The operating margin is now predicted to stay stable in the
12 months through March 2014 and then gradually increase over
the next two to three years to about 8 percent of sales, Alstom
said in a  statement  today. The company, based in the Paris
suburb of Levallois-Perret, previously forecast that the margin
would rise to about 8 percent by fiscal 2015.  Alstom has cut  jobs  in  Europe  to adjust to lower demand
from local utilities as clients slash spending amid the region’s
economic woes. Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kron said today
he’s also shutting wind turbine plants in  Spain , reducing
capacities in transformers, and regrouping hydro staff on fewer
sites in Europe.  “Alstom faces medium to long-term market position
challenges in the majority of its businesses,” said RBC Capital
analyst  Andrew Carter . “We estimate consensus full-year
estimates could fall by 5 to 10 percent, based on the revised
guidance.”  Alstom declined as much as 3.57 euros to 28.63 euros, the
biggest drop since Oct. 2008, in Paris trading and was down 9.1
percent as of 10.59 a.m., valuing the company at 9 billion
euros. Before today, the stock had risen 6.9 percent this year,
while the Bloomberg Europe Machinery Index had gained 2.1
percent.  Lower Volumes  ‘Markets aren’t easy,’’ Kron said at a press conference
today. “Our short-term performance is expected to be impacted
by lower volumes than anticipated due to a more challenging
environment.”  Some customers are now also slowing down some power-
transmission projects, notably in  India , the company said.    Net income  in the year through March rose 9.6 percent 802
million euros ($1.05 billion), Alstom said. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had  estimated  profit of 932 million euros. Income from
operations, defined as revenue minus the cost of sales, research
and development and administration, rose 4.1 percent to 1.46
billion euros, with the operating margin widening to 7.2 percent
of sales from 7.1 percent a year earlier.  Higher Dividend  Alstom said it plans to raise this year’s  dividend  by 5
percent to 84 cents a share. Free  cash flow  amounted to a
positive 408 million euros in the year ended March after an
outflow of 573 million euros in fiscal 2012, it said.  The French company ranks behind  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE)  in the power-equipment industry. The
French company also competes with Siemens and Montreal-based
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  on train cars, and with Siemens and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  on
power-transmission markets.  New orders at Alstom jumped 9.5 percent to 23.8 billion
euros in fiscal 2013, helped by a rebound in demand for regional
trains and power-transmission equipment. Sales climbed 1.7
percent to 20.3 billion euros.  “Sales were up despite lower milestones recognition” in
hydroelectric contracts in  Latin America  and customers “slowing
down some projects” in power transmission, notably in India,
Kron said. The CEO, who had predicted sales would rise by more
than 5 percent in the three years through March 2015, now
forecasts that revenue will “grow organically at a low single-
digit” rate.  Siemens Competition  Siemens, Europe’s biggest engineering company, predicted on
May 2 that it would post a “moderate” decline in sales in its
fiscal year through September, excluding acquisitions or
disposals. The manufacturer’s quarterly earnings missed analyst
estimates amid charges for failed wind-energy transmission
projects and the delayed delivery of trains.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Alstom’s long-term  credit
rating  by one level last year to Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade, and said there’s the possibility of another
reduction because of “material negative trends in working
capital levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  