-- Man. United Plans $31 Million Bid for Marchisio: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-07T07:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/man-united-plans-31-million-bid-for-marchisio-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Marchisio Move  Manchester United  is planning a 20 million-pound bid ($31
million) for Juventus playmaker Claudio Marchisio in the
offseason and may use Portuguese winger Nani as part of the deal,
the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Marchisio has told friends he would be willing to move to
the Premier League if the two clubs can agree on transfer terms,
the newspaper added.  Pre-Contract Deal  Bayer Leverkusen  forward Andre Schurrle has probably
already signed a pre-contract agreement to join Chelsea, the  Sun
reported , citing the German club’s general manager, Wolfgang
Holzhauser.  “It all depends on whether we let him go,” the Sun cited
Holzhauser as saying. “We have received a concrete offer for a
fee which we are considering. But the price alone is not
decisive. We must also have alternatives.”  McCarthy Targeted  Chelsea and Arsenal are considering an offseason move for
Wigan midfielder James McCarthy, the  Independent reported .  McCarthy, 22, is said to be open to the possibility of a
transfer for the sake of his career though is not desperate to
leave Wigan, the newspaper added.  Packing for Return?  Jose Mourinho was spotted buying boxes and packaging in an
Ikea furniture store, increasing speculation that the Real
Madrid coach is set to leave Spain and return to England as
Chelsea manager, the  Guardian reported .  Mourinho wants former Blackburn manager  Steve Kean  to join
his coaching team if he returns to  Stamford  Bridge and also
plans to bring ex-Chelsea midfielder Nemanja Matic back to the
club from Benfica, the  Daily Mirror reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  