-- Antibiotics May Relieve Chronic Lower Back Pain Cases
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-05-07T12:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/antibiotics-may-relieve-chronic-lower-back-pain-cases.html
As many as four in 10 cases of chronic
lower back pain are probably caused by bacteria, and treatment
with antibiotics may cure them, a  study  showed.  As many as 80 percent of the participants with persistent
back pain following a herniated disc and swelling in the spine
reported an improvement after taking antibiotics three times
daily for 100 days, Danish scientists wrote in research
published by the  European Spine Journal .  “In people who received the placebo, nothing happened,”
Hanne B. Albert, an associate professor at the University of
Southern Denmark who led the research, said today at a press
conference in London. “People on the antibiotics attained
highly clinically significant improvement.”  The findings support previous research that has  linked  some
cases of chronic back pain to bacterial infection. The team of
scientists said the discovery merits the establishment of a new
disease category, Modic-related low back pain. The group devised
a diagnostic test using MRI scanning and treatment with
Bioclavid, a generic version of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Augmentin.  The pain is caused by an infection of Proprione acne
bacteria inside the affected spinal disc, Albert said. The
bacteria normally live in hair follicles, on the gums and inside
cheeks and may enter the bloodstream after the teeth are brushed
and travel into the damaged disc, she said.  Antibiotic Effect?  Patients in the trial who were prescribed the antibiotic
were better able to function after one year and they had less
lower back pain, less leg pain and fewer days off work due to
the condition than those on the placebo, according to study.  Albert said that the antibiotic regimen is not appropriate
for everyone with lower back pain and that it shouldn’t be given
to patients for whom it isn’t suitable or who are allergic to
antibiotics. People who do undergo the treatment aren’t more
susceptible to developing antibiotic resistance because the
infection occurs within the spinal disc and the condition isn’t
contagious, Albert said.  The researchers studied 162 people who had pain for more
than six months after a herniated disc and had bone swelling
known as Modic Type 1 changes. Four patients stopped treatment,
mainly because of gastrointestinal side effects. More studies
should be conducted in other types of patients and to better
understand the science underlying the disease and its treatment,
Albert’s team said.  The study was funded by six Danish foundations and the
Danish Rheumatism Association. Modic Type 1 accounts for as many
as 40 percent of chronic back-pain cases, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  