-- Apple Seeks Android Source Code Records in Samsung Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/apple-seeks-android-source-code-records-in-samsung-suit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , taking its patent fight to
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  through its infringement litigation against  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , is asking a judge to force Google to turn over
documents related to its Android operating system.  Apple told U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal in  San
Jose ,  California , that Google is improperly withholding
information about what terms it’s using to find the documents
Apple has requested in pretrial information sharing.  Apple, as part of its second patent-infringement lawsuit
against Samsung in the same court, argues that Android is used
in all of Samsung’s allegedly infringing products and “provides
much of the accused functionality” in Apple’s claims, according
to a court filing.  “It’s a question of transparency,” Mark Lyon, a lawyer
for Apple, told Grewal yesterday, referring to the documents.
“We have concerns that they’re not doing a full search.”  The dispute over evidence gathering comes in the case filed
last year by Cupertino, California-based Apple covering
technology in newer smartphones made by both companies,
including its iPhone 5 and Samsung’s Galaxy S III.  Matthew Warren, a lawyer for Google who also represents
Samsung, told Grewal that Apple made a “strategic decision” in
filing its case “to keep Google off the complaint.” As a
third-party to the case, Warren said, Google doesn’t have the
same legal rights that Apple and Samsung have, in particular
with respect to “reciprocal discovery.”  Search Terms  Turning over the search terms Apple wants may lead to
“future discovery that we don’t think they’re entitled to” and
give Apple “ideas about how to proceed that they wouldn’t have
had.”  The second patent suit follows a previous case in which a
jury awarded Apple $1.05 billion, finding Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung infringed six of the iPhone maker’s mobile-device
patents. U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, correcting what she said
was the jury’s error, lowered the damages total to $639.4
million and ordered a new trial in November for some of the
products at issue in that case.  The earlier case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-1846, and the second case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 12-cv-630, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  