-- Apple’s Customer Data-Privacy Rules Struck Down by German Court
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-05-07T12:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/apple-s-customer-data-privacy-rules-struck-down-by-german-court.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , already facing a U.S.
privacy lawsuit over its information-sharing practices, was told
by a German court to change its rules for handling customer
data.  A Berlin court struck down eight of 15 provisions in
Apple’s general data-use terms because they deviate too much
from German laws, a consumer group said in a  statement  on its
website today. The court said Apple can’t ask for “global
consent” to use customer data or use information on the
locations of customers.  “The ruling shows the high importance of data protection
for consumers in a digital world,” said Gerd Billen, head of
the group, Verbraucherzentrale Bundesverband.  Technology companies face increased pressure from
regulators over data protection and consumer rights. Google Inc.
agreed last year to pay $22.5 million to settle U.S. Federal
Trade Commission allegations it violated people’s privacy rights
by breaching Apple’s Safari Internet browser.  The German press office of Cupertino, California-based
Apple declined to comment. The ruling, which only applies to
 Germany , can be appealed.  In the U.S. lawsuit, Apple is accused of improperly
collecting data on the locations of customers through iPhones,
even after the device’s geo-location feature was turned off, and
sharing personal information with third parties.  Binding Declaration  Apple had already signed a binding declaration that it
wouldn’t use seven of the 15 clauses VZBV had objected to before
the German suit was filed, the consumer group said. The
remaining eight provisions were invalidated by today’s ruling,
VZBV said. German law allows recognized consumer groups to sue
companies over illegal terms and conditions.  Apple asked customers in the terms for “global consent”
to use their data, while German law requires that clients know
in detail what data is used for what purpose, VZBV said. Apple
also may not ask for permission to use names, addresses and
phone numbers of users’ contacts.  The court also blocked the iPad maker’s rule for delivering
the data to other companies that use them for advertising,
according to VZBV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  