-- Arena’s FDA-Approved Weight Loss Pill Clears DEA Hurdle
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-07T16:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/arena-s-fda-approved-weight-loss-pill-clears-dea-hurdle.html
Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) ’s Belviq,
the  weight-loss  pill approved in June by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, was cleared to start sales next month after a
separate review found the drug’s abuse potential to be low.  The Drug Enforcement Administration will classify Belviq as
a Schedule IV drug, the second-least restrictive designation on
a five-step scale, according to a  rule  made public today. The
DEA reviewed Belviq because the agency said the active
ingredient, lorcaserin, can produce a high or hallucinogen
effect at doses greater than those used to produce weight loss.  The DEA designation removes the last known hurdle for San
Diego-based Arena to market Belviq, which may be made available
to patients as soon as June 7,  Andrew Berens , a Bloomberg
Industries analyst, said today in a note. Belviq in June was the
first obesity drug approved by the FDA in 13 years.  Arena rose 8.1 percent to $8.13 at 12:22 p.m.  New York 
time. The  shares  have almost tripled in the past year through
yesterday. The DEA rule is effective 30 days after its official
May 8 publication.  Arena licensed the medicine to Tokyo-based  Eisai Co. (4523)  to
sell in the U.S. The pill mimics some of the action of
fenfluramine, part of the fen-phen appetite-suppression drug
combination pulled from pharmacies 15 years ago when it was
linked to heart abnormalities.  Belviq will have restrictions on distribution and storage
and prescriptions may not be filled or refilled more than six
months after they’re written or be refilled more than five times
unless renewed by a doctor, according to DEA.  The FDA approved  Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ’s obesity pill Qsymia in July.
That drug, which combines two previously approved ingredients,
came to market in September, and is also listed as Schedule IV
by the DEA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  