-- Arkansas Asks Court to Throw Out Abortion-Law Challenge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-07T23:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/arkansas-asks-court-to-throw-out-abortion-law-challenge.html
Arkansas asked a federal judge to
throw out a constitutional challenge by two doctors to its law
restricting the availability of abortions, claiming that the
statute furthers the state’s interest in protecting the fetus.  In a filing today with U.S. District Judge Susan Webber Wright in Little Rock, attorneys for the state defended the law
curbing the procedure’s availability after the 12th week of a
pregnancy. The measure, passed over the veto of Governor Mike Beebe, doesn’t take effect until July 18.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  and Center for
Reproductive Rights, which filed the lawsuit on the doctors’
behalf, have called the measure an “unwarranted intrusion”
into a woman’s life and asked for an order blocking it while the
challenge is pending.  The state disagreed and asked Wright to dismiss the case,
saying in its filing that the measure “regulates certain pre-
viability abortions without placing a substantial obstacle in
the path of a woman seeking a pre-viability abortion.”  The law also furthers “the state’s legitimate interests in
protecting the life and health of the pregnant woman, protecting
the life of the fetus that may become a child and protecting the
ethics and integrity of the medical profession,” according to
the  Arkansas  filing.  Two Doctors  The case was filed on April 16 by doctors Louis Jerry
Edwards and Tom Tvedten, who are affiliated with Little Rock
Family Planning Services in the state’s capital city. Violation
of the law could result in a doctor losing his medical license,
according to their complaint.  Twenty percent of abortions performed in the state are
performed after the 12th week of pregnancy, while a fetus isn’t
viable outside the womb until months later, they alleged.  “The act will prohibit most of these post-12 week, pre-
viability abortions,” according to the doctors’ complaint.
“Absent an injunction, plaintiffs will have no choice but to
turn away patients in need of abortion care,” and the
constitutional rights of Arkansas women will suffer, they said.  A hearing on the doctors’ injunction request is scheduled
for May 17 in  Little Rock . The state also asked the court today
to deny that request, saying the doctors are unlikely to succeed
in having the law invalidated.  The case is Edwards v. Beck, 13-cv-00224, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Arkansas (Little Rock).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  