-- Harrisburg Settles, Brazil Soccer, Monster: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/harrisburg-settles-brazil-soccer-monster-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission accused the city of Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , of
making misleading statements to municipal bond investors as its
financial condition deteriorated in 2009.  The city, Pennsylvania’s capital, agreed to implement
remedial measures in settling the claims, which related to
statements in its budget report, annual and midyear financial
statements, and a State of the City address, the SEC said
yesterday in a statement. The city wasn’t assessed a financial
penalty.  Harrisburg failed to provide certain financial information
and audited statements from 2009 to 2011, leaving investors to
rely on other public statements for information about the city’s
finances. The case marks the first time the agency has
sanctioned a municipality for misleading statements made outside
of its securities disclosure documents, the SEC said.  Harrisburg Mayor Linda Thompson said her administration
cooperated fully with the SEC’s investigation and has
“completely revamped” its policies for financial disclosures.  “These new policies and procedures are designed to ensure
that accurate and complete financial information regarding the
city’s finances is made available to investors and the public in
a timely manner,” Thompson said in an e-mailed statement.  The SEC also issued a related report of investigation to
address the liability of public officials who make statements
about a municipal issuer. While no Harrisburg officials were
sanctioned, the agency said that public officials who make
misleading written or oral statements could be liable under
antifraud laws.  The city of about 50,000 defaulted on debt it guaranteed
and lost a bid for bankruptcy. Harrisburg’s fiscal woes stem
from an overhaul of a trash-to-energy incinerator that didn’t
generate enough revenue to pay off its debt. Dauphin County, of
which Harrisburg is the seat, and bond insurer Assured Guaranty
Municipal Corp., a unit of Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Assured
Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , have covered the payments Harrisburg skipped
since 2009.  Compliance Policy  Brazilian Government Considers Ban on Soccer Transfer Investors  The Brazilian government is planning to propose banning
soccer teams from selling player-transfer rights to investors, a
key source of revenue for many of the country’s cash-strapped
clubs.  The plan is part of a wider bill that will be sent to
Congress to improve the financial state of Brazilian soccer, the
sports ministry said in an e-mailed statement. Clubs have unpaid
tax debts of about 4 billion reals ($2 billion), according to
Vicente Candido, a member of the ruling Workers’ Party on the
lower house sports Committee.  A group of 21 Brazilian teams have joined to fight any ban
on so-called third-party ownership plans which allow investors
to loan clubs money in return for a stake in the future transfer
rights of players. Soccer’s global governing body, FIFA, said it
is discussing rules to stop the growth of the practice around
the world. The European soccer federation, UEFA, has said it
will wait to see what  FIFA  decides, and if that body fails to
introduce a ban, the European group will do so.  Europe  is
soccer’s biggest market and accounts for the majority of trades
in the sport’s annual $2.5 billion transfer market.  Traffic has invested more than $75 million in the rights of
about 60 players since it was founded in 2007.  Soccer is split over whether action should be taken against
player investment, which has mushroomed since emerging in South
America in the 1990s. Although banned in France and  England , the
practice is now common in Europe as clubs look for alternative
sources of income. Investment funds say they are stepping in
place of banks, and their arrangements should be seen as loans.  Separately, the UEFA regulation that big-spending teams
such as Manchester City and Chelsea must come close to breaking
even is being challenged by lawyer Jean-Louis Dupont, who
successfully overturned rules on player transfers in 1995.  Dupont is representing Daniel Striani, a Brussels-based
player agent who lodged a complaint yesterday with the European
Commission, claiming the rule breaks competition law, according
to a statement from Dupont’s office.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Fannie Mae Regulator Restricts Purchases to Qualified Mortgages  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  are being asked by their
regulator to limit purchases to loans meeting qualified-mortgage
requirements and those exempt from Dodd-Frank Act ability-to-
repay rules.  The change announced yesterday by the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  means that beginning Jan. 10 next year, the U.S.-
owned companies won’t purchase interest-only mortgages, loans
with 40-year terms or those with points and fees exceeding
thresholds set by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The government-sponsored enterprises will continue to buy
loans that meet their own underwriting and delivery eligibility
standards, FHFA said in the  statement . Most loans purchased by
Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean,  Virginia ,
already meet qualified mortgage standards.  In January, the consumer bureau issued a final rule
implementing the Dodd-Frank ability-to-repay provisions.  BofA, Wells Fargo Violated Foreclosure Accord, New York Says  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  violated the
terms of a nationwide settlement last year over banks’
foreclosure practices, New York Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman said.  The two banks have failed to comply with standards
established for processing homeowners’ loan modification
applications, Schneiderman said yesterday in a statement. He
said he plans to sue the banks unless a monitoring committee set
up to enforce the settlement’s terms takes action.  Bank of America and Wells Fargo were among five lenders
that entered into the settlement with 49 states and the U.S.
government. The  deal  sets standards for servicing mortgage loans
and provides homeowners with relief including loan
modifications. It followed a probe by state attorneys general
into claims of abusive foreclosure practices after the housing
bubble collapsed.  Schneiderman, citing 339 documented violations related to
the timeline for processing mortgage modifications, said he
notified the settlement’s monitor, Joseph Smith, and a
monitoring committee of his intention to bring a claim. The
committee may pursue its own action against the banks for the
alleged violations, according to the statement.  Laura Brewer, a spokeswoman for Smith, said his office is
waiting to hear the complete public statement before responding.  “Through March we have provided relief for more than
10,000 New York homeowners through the National Mortgage
Settlement, totaling more than $1 billion,” Rick Simon, a bank
of America spokesman, said in a statement. “Attorney General
Schneiderman has referenced 129 customer servicing problems
which we take seriously and will work quickly to address.”  Vickee J. Adams, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said it was
“unfortunate that the New York attorney general has chosen this
route rather than engage in a constructive dialogue through the
established dispute resolution process.”  “Wells Fargo has helped more than 70,000 homeowners across
the country through National Mortgage Settlement Programs and we
will continue to do everything we can to help all borrowers,”
she said in an e-mail.  Courts  Goldman Sachs Hire Accused of Secrets Theft by Credit Suisse  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s hiring of a former  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  vice president of  emerging markets  has left the
executive facing a lawsuit accusing her of stealing her former
employer’s trade secrets.  Credit Suisse alleged Agostina Pechi took the information
in a bid to win clients for Goldman Sachs, according to a
complaint in state court in  Manhattan . In February and March,
Pechi secretly sent e-mails with client lists and other
confidential bank information from her work account to her
personal in box, and printed “critical transaction documents”
late at night from her office, when she was supposed to be on
vacation, Credit Suisse said in the complaint filed May 3.  Credit Suisse, the second-biggest Swiss bank, alleges Pechi
started systematically taking secret bank data by at least Feb.
4, when she e-mailed “highly confidential deal-structuring
documents” related to a sensitive deal with a client.  Pechi, who lives in New York, resigned from the Zurich-
based bank on April 2, telling Credit Suisse’s human-resources
department she was accepting a position at New York-based
Goldman Sachs, according to the complaint.  A message left on a mobile phone listed for Pechi, seeking
comment on the lawsuit, wasn’t returned.  Michael DuVally , a
Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC v Pechi,
651617/2013, Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Monster Beverage Sued by San Francisco for Marketing to Kids  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  was sued by San Francisco City
Attorney Dennis Herrera, who made good on recent warnings to
take legal action against the energy-drink maker for allegedly
improper marketing to minors.  The lawsuit, which Herrera said was filed in state court in
San Francisco, comes six days after Monster sued Herrera in a
Southern California federal court, claiming his investigations
of the company and threat to sue violated free-speech rights and
attempted to improperly regulate the caffeine content of its
products.  Herrera said his office had been working with Monster in
good faith to negotiate voluntary changes to its youth-targeted
marketing practices when the Corona, California-based drink
maker abruptly sued April 29.  Evan Pondel, a spokesman for Monster, didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The filing couldn’t immediately be confirmed independently
in court records.  Monster said its drinks have less than half the caffeine
per ounce of coffeehouse-brewed coffee.  The case is California v. Monster, California Superior
Court (San Francisco).  Interviews  Levitt Says Top Job at JPM Will Eventually Be Spilt  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, said  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is likely to
split the roles of chairman and chief executive officer in the
next 12 months. Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and
Michael McKee on Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  