-- Arrowgrass Joins CR Intrinsic in Opposing Freeport’s Plains Bid
-- B y   J o d i   X u   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-05-07T14:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/arrowgrass-joins-cr-intrinsic-in-opposing-freeport-s-plains-bid.html
Arrowgrass Capital Partners LLP is
opposing  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s takeover of
 Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  after amassing a stake in
the energy company.  Arrowgrass, which owns about 4.6 million Plains shares,
views the Freeport proposal as too low, according to a letter
the London-based firm sent to the Plains board, which was
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Investors are scheduled to vote on
the takeover on May 20.  “We are confident that Plains shares would trade at or
better than current levels in the absence of the Freeport
proposal,” Michael Edwards, a partner at Arrowgrass, said in
the letter dated today.  Phoenix-based Freeport agreed in December to acquire Plains
and  McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)  for $9 billion in cash and stock. At
a recent event with several large Plains shareholders including
 Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) , Arrowgrass and other holders expressed
their opposition to the merger, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Franklin is the fourth-largest shareholder of Plains,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, with about 6.2 million
shares, or a 4.8 percent stake, as of March. A representative of
Franklin didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Eric Kinneberg , a spokesman for Freeport, declined to
comment on Arrowgrass’s position or whether Freeport expects the
deal to be approved by Plains shareholders. Hance Myers, a
spokesman for Houston-based Plains, declined to comment.  Growing Resistance  Arrowgrass joins fellow Plains shareholder CR Intrinsic
Investors LLC in rejecting the deal. CR Intrinsic said it owns
3.8 percent of the common stock including shares underlying  call
options , according to a letter to the Plains board.  The mounting investor push-back is threatening the deal,
said  Mark Hanson , an analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .
CR’s rejection of the deal is symbolically powerful because the
firm isn’t a traditional activist, he said. Plains executives
also own less than 5 percent of the company.  “I could see this certainly being a rallying cry” for
other investors, he said. “You’ve got two weeks, which is
forever in an investment horizon.”  If shareholders reject the deal, private equity could make
a play for Plains, he said.  “It is a mature, cash-flowing asset,” he said. “Private
equity has certainly taken out bigger firms than this.”  2 Takeovers  Freeport said Dec. 5 that it agreed to buy Plains for a
mixture of cash and stock that amounted to about $50 a share at
the time. The miner announced the same day it would acquire New
Orleans-based McMoRan Exploration, a company that was spun off
from Freeport-McMoRan Inc. almost two decades ago. It’s paying
$14.75 a share in cash for that company, in addition to giving
shareholders a stake in a royalty trust to benefit from future
production.  The two takeovers will expand Freeport, which got almost 80
percent of its $18 billion of  revenue  last year from copper,
into a global natural-resources giant with access to oil and gas
deposits onshore and in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.  Freeport rose 0.7 percent to $31.64 at 10:02 a.m. in  New
York , while Plains gained 2.2 percent to $47.07. The energy
company has traded at a premium to the Freeport offer every day
since March 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors sued both McMoRan and Plains in a series of
lawsuits in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington alleging the
directors violated their duties to get the best price for the
companies. A preliminary injunction hearing to block the buyouts
under their present terms was held May 1 in Wilmington before
Judge John Noble.  Paulson & Co., the hedge-fund manager run by billionaire
 John Paulson , is Plains’s biggest holder, with about a 10
percent stake, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A spokesman for
Paulson declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  