-- Aruba, Ruckus Tumble as Sales Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-05-07T20:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/aruba-falls-as-predicted-profit-sales-miss-estimates.html
Aruba Networks Inc. (ARUN)  and  Ruckus
Wireless Inc. (RKUS) , makers of wireless-networking equipment, tumbled
after quarterly sales fell short of analysts’ estimates as
customers postponed purchases.  Aruba  shares  fell 23 percent to $17.02 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since Feb. 8, 2008. Ruckus dropped 26
percent to $14.03, the lowest price since December, the month
after the company’s initial public offering.  Aruba, Ruckus and rivals such as Motorola Solutions Inc.
are being hurt by slowing demand from telecommunications
carriers as well as corporate customers, a category whose sales
growth has probably slowed to 10 percent a year from 20 percent,
 Tavis McCourt , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.,
wrote in a note on Aruba today. McCourt cited economic weakness
and increased competition.  “A sudden slowdown in April was likely hard for Aruba to
adjust for,” wrote McCourt, who rates Aruba shares the
equivalent of a hold.  For Aruba’s third quarter, which ended April 30, profit
excluding some items was 11 cents to 12 cents a share on sales
of $144 million to $147 million, the Sunnyvale, California-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts on average had
 projected  profit of 20 cents on revenue of $160.6 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In April, we saw a push-out in customer orders across the
Americas, Europe and  Asia ,” Aruba Chief Executive Officer
Dominic Orr said in the statement. “We attribute this weakness
primarily to a challenging economic environment worldwide.”  Aruba said it will release full quarterly financial results
on May 16.  Ruckus Results  Yesterday, Ruckus, also based in Sunnyvale, reported first-quarter sales of $57.2 million, while analysts on average had
estimated revenue of $63.4 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We believe that the fundamentals, growth drivers and
long-term market opportunity for Ruckus remain intact,” Ruckus
CEO Selina Lo said in a statement.  During the company’s conference call, she said the
company’s first-quarter revenue was “impacted by delayed
deployments with several service provider customers in the
Americas, as well as challenging market conditions in  China .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  