-- Austria Seeks Tax Compromise With EU On After Standoff
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-05-07T15:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/austria-seeks-tax-compromise-with-eu-on-after-standoff.html
Austria  is pushing the European Union
to take a tougher stance toward offshore financial centers in a
long-delayed tax agreement in an effort to overcome political
deadlock when EU finance ministers meet next week.  Austria and Luxembourg, the two holdouts in the EU tax
talks, last week put forward proposals to change planned updates
to the EU’s savings tax pact, according to documents obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The two nations have revived the tax talks by
dropping their opposition to automatic information exchange, a
long-time sticking point in the debate.  Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said his nation now has
reached internal agreement on how to negotiate the issue.  “I’m glad we’re making progress and I dare say that I
expect a positive result,” Faymann told reporters in Vienna
today. Austria is governed by a coalition of Faymann’s centre-
left  Social Democrats  and the conservative  People’s Party , which
has taken a harder line on the EU tax talks.  EU finance ministers will discuss the savings tax directive
on May 14 along with proposals on how the 27-nation bloc
negotiates tax-data exchanges with countries like  Liechtenstein ,
Switzerland,  Monaco , San Marino and Andorra. EU leaders also
will take up the tax issues at a summit on May 22, when they are
set to discuss broader efforts to combat  tax evasion  and fraud.  “We’re very glad the Austrians are now constructively
engaged in the discussion and we still hope that we can get
agreement on this very important file,” Emer Traynor, a
spokeswoman for EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta, said today
in a telephone interview.  ‘Step Forward’  If the EU can break its deadlock, “it would be a great
step forward in terms of both showing that it’s actually
possible and also of course to break some of the secrecy,
particularly in Austria and Luxembourg,” said Oygunn
Brynildsen, senior policy officer at Eurodad, a Brussels-based
network of non-governmental policy organizations.  Austria and Luxembourg say the savings-tax accord update
needs to include a “clear access to ownership information”
such as beneficiaries of offshore trusts, according to a May 2
proposal to an EU tax working group. That proposal also asks for
assurance that there can be separate handling of existing
bilateral agreements, such as Austria’s pacts with Switzerland
and Liechtenstein.  It’s not clear how many of the new requests will be added
into the EU proposal. A May 3 draft of the EU updated savings
pact calls for improving the quality of information used to
establish the identity and residence of beneficial owners, while
also noting that “the directive does not impose an obligation
on  member states  to introduce tax identification numbers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  