-- Australian Banks Pass on Full RBA Rate Cut as Funding Costs Ease
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-07T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/australian-banks-pass-on-full-rba-cut-as-funding-costs-ease.html
Three of Australia’s major lenders
passed on in full the central bank’s interest-rate cut for the
first time in 17 months, sending benchmark home-loan costs to
the lowest since 2009.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  cut their variable mortgage rate by
25 basis points yesterday after the Reserve Bank of Australia
trimmed its key rate by the same amount to a record-low 2.75
percent.  Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  will
review its rates on May 10, Annabel Urquart, a Melbourne-based
spokeswoman for the bank, said by phone.  “Banks’ funding cost has stopped rising, giving them all
room to hand out the full RBA cut,” said Brett Le Mesurier, an
analyst at BBY Ltd. in Sydney. “It could spur mortgage demand,
which is very weak now.”  Since November 2011, when the central bank began its latest
round of rate reductions,  Australia ’s top four lenders held back
a portion, citing high wholesale funding costs and increased
competition for deposits. The yield premium on bank bonds over
government debt is the lowest since November 2007, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show, and CBA Treasurer Lyn Cobley
said in March that competition for deposits was moderating.  A 25 basis-point reduction in mortgage rates saves
customers A$62.50 ($63.66) a month in interest payments on the
average A$300,000 home loan, NAB said in a statement.  Outstanding mortgages grew 4.4 percent in the year ended
March, RBA data show. Australia’s economic growth may slow to
2.5 percent this year, according to a February central bank
forecast.  The rate cut “will provide continued stimulus to
strengthening housing markets,” Andrew Wilson, a senior
economist at Australian Property Monitors in Sydney, said in an
e-mailed note.  ANZ Bank’s cash profit climbed 10 percent in the first half
from a year earlier, the lender said on April 30. Westpac
reported a similar increase on May 3. The so-called four pillar
banks will post record full-year profits of A$26.5 billion this
year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  