-- Baidu Buys PPS Online Video Business to Contend With Youku Tudou
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-07T03:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/baidu-buys-pps-online-video-business-to-contend-with-youku-tudou.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  said it’s buying PPS Net
TV’s Internet video business for $370 million as the owner of
 China ’s largest search engine competes for online viewers with
 Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)   Baidu will merge the business with recently acquired online
video unit iQiyi.com, making the platform China’s largest online
video site by mobile user numbers and viewing time, according to
an e-mailed statement from the company today.  The acquisition is part of Baidu Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Robin Li’s strategy of preferring “buy to
build” as the company seeks a greater share of advertising
sales in China’s online video business. Revenue is projected to
increase to 16.2 billion yuan ($2.6 billion) in 2014 from 1.36
billion  yuan  in 2009, according to iResearch, a Shanghai-based
Internet consulting company.  “If they combine PPS with iQiyi, it will help cut costs,”
said Zhang Xi, a Beijing-based analyst at iResearch. “Revenue
from online-video advertisement should have higher growth than
Baidu’s traditional search business.”  Baidu acquired iQiyi last year. Li expects the site to
become profitable, he said during an April 26 earnings call.  “We will continue to support iQiyi to grow, but right now
it is still burning money,” Li said at the time.  Baidu spent at least $22.5 million on acquisitions last
year, compared with $356 million in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Baidu’s 2011 deals included the $306
million purchase of a controlling stake in travel site
Qunar.com, the company’s largest deal on record.  Youku Tudou  The company had cash and equivalents of 8.73 billion yuan
as of March 31, compared with 11.9 billion yuan as of Dec. 31.
The shares have fallen 13 percent in  New York  trading this year.  Baidu’s biggest online video competitor, Youku Tudou, also
hasn’t been profitable since listing on the New York Stock
Exchange. Victor Koo, chairman and chief executive of Youku
Tudou, said in an interview in Beijing last month that he
expected mobile and original content to help boost profit
growth.  Daily mobile video views exceeded 100 million by the end of
last year, Youku Tudou said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  