-- Baidu Gains on Video Buy as Chalco Jumps: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-07T20:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/baidu-gains-on-video-buy-as-chalco-jumps-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rallied a fourth day in
New York as  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  rose on prospects Internet video
acquisitions will bolster its mobile presence and Aluminum Corp.
of  China  Ltd. led gains among energy and commodity producers.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 1 percent to 94.17 yesterday,
the highest level since March 11. Baidu, owner of China’s most-
used online search engine, rose to a one-week high. Aluminum
Corp. surged the most in four months and  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) 
jumped while  Mindray Medical International Ltd. (MR)  slid after
first-quarter sales trailed analysts’ estimates.  Baidu plans to merge two recently acquired Internet video
businesses to create China’s largest online video website for
mobile users, the Beijing-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Shares of  Sina Corp. (SINA)  surged 12 percent last week
after Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the nation’s biggest e-
commerce company, bought an 18 percent stake in Shanghai-based
Sina’s Weibo, the biggest Twitter-like service in China.  “Mobile-related investments are the only things that make
sense at this point,” Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales
at Auerbach Grayson & Co. in New York, said by phone. “You’ll
see more interesting things coming out of Baidu, which will
better enable them to compete as they seek a transition to
mobile. If Baidu does it correctly, they could create a pretty
good opportunity for long-term investors again.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 1.1 percent to $38.31
in New York, rising for a fourth day. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  gained 0.5 percent to a record high of 1,625.96.  Video Platform  China’s April trade data to be released today may show
exports grew 9.2 percent, from 10 percent in March, while
imports expanded 13 percent from 14.1 percent the previous
month, according to the median of 39 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts advanced 1.9 percent
to $89.30, the highest since April 25.  Baidu said it’s buying PPS Net TV’s Internet video business
for $370 million yesterday, after acquiring shares of video site
iQiyi.com in November. While the service is still “burning
money,” iQiyi is expected to become profitable, Baidu Chief
Executive Officer Robin Li said during an April 26 earnings
call.  Jefferies Group Inc. reiterated a hold rating on Baidu and
a price target of $91.  “The integration of PPS into iQiyi will
be synergistic in sharing content and bandwidth costs across the
platforms,” analyst Cynthia Meng wrote in a note yesterday.  Youku Slips  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , China’s largest online video company,
slid 1.8 percent on a second day of slump to $19.5, the lowest
close in a week.  The combined iQiyi-PPS platform should get more market
share in terms of time spent than current market leader Youku
Tudou, according to Jefferies’ Meng.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a Shanghai-based mobile-
chip maker, rallied 3.6 percent to $20.63, the biggest gain
since April 18.  Aluminum Corp., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
known as Chalco, surged 5.5 percent to $9.90, the biggest rally
since Jan. 10. Its ADRs, each representing 25 underlying shares,
traded 1.4 percent  above  its  Hong Kong  stock, posting a premium
for a fourth day.  Yanzhou, the fourth-biggest coal mining company in China,
climbed 3.2 percent to $10.65, the steepest advance in a month.
Its ADRs had sunk to a four-year low of $10.08 on May 2 after a
six-day slide.  Mindray Tumbles  The rebound “may just be short-covering as some investment
firms still predict weakness in commodity prices like coal,”
 Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital
LLP in  London , said by phone yesterday. Short-covering refers to
buying back contracts betting on lower prices.  Mindray, a medical device manufacturer based in Shenzhen,
China, dropped 5.7 percent to $37.42, losing the most in four
months.  The company reported May 6 sales of $242.1 million for the
first quarter, missing the $256.3 million average projection of
four analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The American depositary
shares were cut to sell from hold by S&P Capital IQ yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.2 percent to 2,235.57
yesterday, rising for a third day, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong advanced 1 percent to 11,115.05,
the highest close in eight weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  