-- Bank of China Cuts Off N.Korea Bank Accused of Weapons Dealing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-07T05:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/bank-of-china-cuts-off-n-korea-bank-accused-of-weapons-dealing.html
     May 7 (Bloomberg) --  Bank of China Ltd.  closed the account
of a North Korean lender accused by the U.S. of facilitating
transactions linked to weapons of mass destruction.  North Korea’s Foreign Trade Bank has been notified of the
account closure and cessation of all fund transfers related to
it, a spokeswoman for Beijing-based Bank of China said by phone
today, asking not to be named due to company policy. She didn’t
say when or why the account was shut.  The action by the state-controlled Chinese lender may
reflect rising frustration with the North and an attempt to join
the U.S. in tightening the flow of cash to Kim Jong Un’s
government. As the North’s closest ally and biggest trading
partner,  China ’s involvement is crucial for any measures against
North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.  The announcement comes nearly a month after the U.S. and
China, in a rare display of unity, set out a joint commitment to
end the North’s bid to develop nuclear weapons. During an April
14 visit to Beijing, Secretary of State John Kerry asked
President Xi Jinping to make greater efforts to enforce United
Nations sanctions and to toughen China’s message to Pyongyang
leadership.  The United Nations Security Council unanimously agreed on
March 7 to new sanctions against the North after it conducted a
nuclear weapons test in February.  The measures target “illicit activity” by North Korean
diplomats, bulk transfers of cash, and banks and companies
funneling funds or materials to support the country’s ballistic
missile and nuclear weapons programs.  Four days later, the U.S. Treasury department froze
American assets of the North’s primary foreign exchange bank,
saying in a statement that it “facilitated millions of dollars
in transactions” benefiting the country’s premier arms dealer
Korea Mining Development Corp.  Bank of China, the country’s fourth-largest lender by
assets, was the monopoly foreign-exchange dealer until 1994.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  