-- Banks Say Fed Should Lead in CyberSecurity for Industry
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-05-07T19:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/banks-say-fed-should-lead-in-cybersecurity-for-industry.html
U.S. banks urged the  Federal Reserve 
to take the lead in defending the financial services industry
from cyber attacks by working with federal counterterrorism,
intelligence and  law enforcement  agencies, documents show.  Bank representatives on the  Federal Advisory Council  said
at their last gathering on Feb. 8 in Washington that the Fed
should collect and distribute threat information to lenders, law
enforcement, securities exchanges and clearinghouses, according
to meeting minutes obtained today through a Freedom of
Information Act request by  Bloomberg News .  Lenders said cybersecurity is “a critical issue for the
industry and the financial system” and that they are stepping
up plans to mitigate incursions after recent attacks, minutes
showed. Some institutions received assistance from the  Treasury
Department  and National Security Agency, the records show.  “The Fed is already well equipped to play a role in
sharing sensitive information among banks without disclosing
commercially sensitive data,” bankers said, according to the
minutes. The Fed should offer “advisory services as a trusted
interlocutor between banks and other government agencies in
relaying selected threat information to the banking community.”  Bankers said the Fed should coordinate between lenders,
regulators, and intelligence agencies to protect the financial
system and set up a central source of information on attacks.
The said the Fed should provide financial expertise to the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation and Department of  Homeland
Security , and work with other agencies to ensure they don’t
establish duplicative regulatory requirements, minutes show.  Intelligence Officials  U.S. lawmakers are renewing a push to pass cybersecurity
legislation following warnings by intelligence officials that
electronic attacks could disrupt banks, telecommunications,
utilities and other services. Congress last year failed to pass
cybersecurity legislation that had bipartisan support.  Banks have been targeted by attacks known as distributed
denial-of-service, or DDoS, in which hackers flood a computer
system with information to shut it down. While lenders have
acknowledged the attacks damaged their websites, hackers reached
deeper than institutions have said, according to research by
 Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the  Mountain View , California-based information
security company that investigated the incidents.  Symantec’s findings show that the attacks, which have been
a threat for years, have evolved from nuisances causing
temporary website outages into robbing banks. Hackers drained $9
million in two hours from one European bank’s automated teller
machines in 46 cities, Symantec said. Tens of millions of
dollars were stolen from a dozen European banks in the past year
in this way.  Fed Attacked  The Fed itself faced an attack this year when intruders
breached a website it uses to stay in touch with banks during
emergencies. The Richmond Fed, the regional bank that runs the
central bank’s information-technology office, said the February
incident didn’t affect critical operations of the  Federal
Reserve System .  A group claiming to be the hacker-activist organization
known as Anonymous took responsibility for the breach. The group
posted the names, titles and e-mail addresses of more than 4,000
bankers on the pastebin.com website, according to the  American
Bankers Association  in Washington.  The advisory council, made up of 12 banking industry
representatives from each Federal Reserve district, meets four
times a year in Washington. Members, who serve for one year,
include  James Gorman , chief executive officer of New York-based
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s biggest brokerage, and Jim Rohr, CEO of Pittsburgh-based PNC Financial Services Group Inc.,
the second-largest U.S. regional bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  