-- Baxter Immunoglobulin Fails to Aid Alzheimer’s Patients
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-05-07T20:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/baxter-immunoglobulin-fails-to-aid-alzheimer-s-patients.html
Baxter International Inc. (BAX) ’s Gammagard
failed to help patients with Alzheimer’s disease in a late-stage
study, adding to a string of failures to develop a treatment for
the most common form of dementia.  Baxter will halt all studies of the therapy for mild to
moderate forms of the disease and reconsider its Alzheimer’s
program, the Deerfield, Illinois-based company said in a
statement today. Gammagard, or immunoglobulin, is currently used
to replace antibodies in people with immune system disorders.  Gammagard is the third experimental Alzheimer’s drug to
fail in less than a year, leaving  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  as the only
company left with a medicine for the disease in the last phase
of testing needed for marketing clearance. Lilly’s drug, called
solanezumab, is being studied in patients with mild Alzheimer’s
after it failed to show a benefit in more advanced stages.  “It is disappointing for the millions of families
suffering right now,” said Reisa Sperling, director of the
Center for Alzheimer’s Research and Treatment at Brigham and
Women’s Hospital. “In terms of timing, this means we are
several years away from getting anything on the market.”  Baxter fell 2.5 percent to $68.58 at 4 p.m. in New York
trading.  Grifols SA (GRF) , a Barcelona-based company that’s also
studying immunoglobulin in Alzheimer’s, fell 5.5 percent to
28.15 euros in Madrid trading, the biggest decline in nine
months.  Study Result  Immunoglobulin failed to reduce the cognitive decline or
preserve functional abilities in Alzheimer’s patients after 18
months of treatment, the company said. The full results will be
presented in July at the Alzheimer’s Association International
Conference in  Boston .  Researchers began to hope the Baxter treatment could
provide a benefit in July after it halted progression of the
disease for as long as three years in a study of 16 patients. In
that study, four patients given the ideal dose at the start of
the trial experienced lasting improvement. Five patients
initially given a placebo and seven others on varying amounts of
Gammagard, experienced no benefit.  More than 5 million Americans suffer from the disease, and
the number is expected to increase to 16 million by 2050,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . Existing drugs
temporarily ease symptoms of the condition, while patients
continue the inexorable slide into dementia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  