-- Berkowitz’s MBIA Bet Soars as Wagers on Insurers Pay Off
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-05-07T12:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/berkowitz-s-mbia-bet-soars-as-wagers-on-insurers-pay-off.html
Bruce Berkowitz, whose bets on
financial stocks helped him beat 99 percent of rivals last year
after what he called a “horrible” 2011, made about $140
million as shares of mortgage insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  surged following
a legal settlement with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   MBIA will get about $1.7 billion as part of a deal to end
five years of litigation against the bank and its Countrywide
unit over claims of defective securitized  mortgage loans , the
Armonk, New York-based company said yesterday in a statement.
MBIA shares rose 45 percent to close at $14.29 in  New York 
trading. Berkowitz’s firm owned  31.4 million shares  of MBIA as
of March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Berkowitz, who was named Morningstar’s domestic stock
manager of the decade in 2010, has made a big bet on insurance
companies and financial stocks with about 55 percent of his
fund’s assets in such shares as of Nov. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Berkowitz’s $7.8 billion Fairholme Fund
has surged 20 percent this year to beat 98 percent of similarly
managed funds after gaining 36 percent in 2012 and beating 99
percent of rivals.  Berkowitz, 54, got another boost as shares of his largest
holding,  American International Group (AIG) , rose after the company
reported better-than-expected earnings last week, bringing its
gain since May 1 to 10 percent. Shares of AIG climbed 2.2
percent to $45.48 in New York trading. Berkowitz’s Miami-based
Fairholme Capital Management LLC owns more than 85 million AIG
shares, making him the largest shareholder in the New York-based
firm.  AIG Bailout  AIG, which repaid a bailout last year, posted first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as results improved at the
property-casualty operation. AIG shares have gained 29 percent
this year.  Berkowitz accumulated financial stocks in 2010, reasoning
that as the  U.S. economy  improved, banks and insurers would
rebound along with them. The bet hurt him in 2011 when his
 Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  fell 32 percent, trailing all his competitors, as
financial stocks tumbled in response to economic troubles in
Europe and a sluggish recovery in the U.S.  After AIG, the fund’s two largest positions are in Bank of
America, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank that is up 11
percent in 2013, and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the Hoffman Estate,
Illinois-based retailer that’s up up 26 percent this year.  In a February interview, Berkowitz said he was moving
beyond mutual funds as he seeks to lock in investors’ capital
for longer and avoid rapid deposits and withdrawals that make it
difficult to hold onto investments over longer periods. The fund
suffered redemptions in 2011 after investors pulled their money
in response to subpar results. Berkowitz did not return a call
seeking comment.  Berkowitz has also bet on the debt of companies including
MBIA and Sears through his Fairholme Focused Income Fund, which
invests in cash-generating securities. He wrote in a letter to
investors in February that a settlement between MBIA and Bank of
America would “lift MBIA’s bonds.”  The Focused Income Fund has advanced 18 percent this year
to beat 99 percent of similarly managed funds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  