-- MBIA Escapes Distressed Label in BofA Accord: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-05-07T16:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/mbia-escapes-distressed-label-in-bofa-accord-corporate-finance.html
MBIA Inc. is no longer considered by
credit-derivatives traders to be in distress after  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  agreed to a legal settlement that injects $1.6
billion of cash into the bond insurer and resolves five years of
litigation stemming from the U.S. housing crisis.  Credit-default swaps tied to MBIA, which in February cast
“substantial doubt” about the ability of one of its main units
to continue as a going concern, dropped by the most on record
after the settlement was announced yesterday. The plunge was
enough for traders to stop quoting the upfront cost of
protection on the parent company, a distinction indicating
traders consider default a less imminent threat.  The settlement will allow the Armonk, New York-based
company to repay a loan made by one of its units last year to
its cash-strapped MBIA Insurance Corp., which guaranteed some of
Wall Street’s most toxic mortgage-linked securities. That will
free up funds as it seeks to revive its  business  of insuring
state and municipal bonds.  “This was all a bet-the-house kind of scenario here,”  Rob Haines , a New York-based analyst at debt researcher CreditSights
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “If MBIA hadn’t reached a
settlement with BofA, then MBIA Insurance Corp. was going to be
seized.”  Demands Dropped  As part of the settlement, MBIA will drop demands that Bank
of America’s Countrywide Financial Corp. unit buy back faulty
home loans that MBIA guaranteed, while the bank ends a challenge
to a 2009 restructuring of the insurer that allowed MBIA to move
its municipal-bond business into a new insurance unit, according
to separate statements from the company yesterday.  MBIA also issued Bank of America warrants for 9.94 million
shares to be exercised at any time before May 2018 at $9.59 a
share. The stock  rose  45 percent yesterday to $14.29 a share and
today to $16.32 at 12:25 p.m. in  New York .  The bank will pay $1.6 billion in cash to MBIA and remit
$137 million of the insurer’s bonds that it bought in December
during a tender offer. Bank of America bought the debt during an
attempt at blocking bondholder consents to amendments that would
have shielded MBIA from being dragged into bankruptcy by its
insurance unit. Bank of America had filed a default notice on
those bonds, a claim that was dropped as part of the settlement
announced yesterday, MBIA said in its statement.  ‘Comprehensive Settlement’  “We are very pleased to have reached a comprehensive
settlement agreement with Bank of America that improves the
outlook for MBIA Insurance Corp. and sets the stage for National
to reclaim its leadership position in the U.S. public finance
insurance market,” MBIA Chief Executive Officer  Jay Brown  said
in a news release, referring to the municipal-bond insurance
unit National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.  The cost to protect against a default by  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  for five
years in the credit-default swaps market fell to 344 basis
points annually as of 10:30 a.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill Financial Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Yesterday the contracts fell by the most ever.  The swaps are down from an upfront payment of 14.3 percent
on May 3 and from as high as 28.2 percent upfront in November,
the data show. The upfront payments are in addition to 5 percent
a year, meaning the cost last week was $1.43 million initially
and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of MBIA obligations
from default for five years.  Contracts tied to MBIA Insurance Corp. dropped 30.7
percentage points to 8.5 percent upfront, the data show. That’s
down from as much as 42.9 percentage points upfront in February.
The swaps fell further to 5.5 percent upfront today.  Bonds Jump  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline as
investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  MBIA’s $275 million of 6.4 percent senior unsecured bonds
due in August 2022 climbed 2.1 cents to 98.1 cents on the dollar
as the yield fell to 6.68 percent from 8.59 percent before the
settlement, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  After cutting MBIA’s municipal-bond insurance unit to junk
in February,  Standard & Poor’s  credit analysts led by David Veno
said they may raise the rating if the insurer was able to
deflect the challenge to its 2009 split and its $1.6 billion
intercompany loan was repaid.  ‘Strong Sell’  While the $1.6 billion  payment  to MBIA “addresses a near-term liquidity and capital adequacy issue and resolves a degree
of uncertainty,” the company’s “long-term viability remains
uncertain without an additional, and likely dilutive, capital
infusion,” Cathy Seifert, an equity analyst at Standard &
Poor’s Capital IQ, said in a note yesterday, keeping a “strong
sell” opinion on MBIA’s shares.  The bond insurer in February questioned the viability of
the MBIA Insurance unit to continue as a going concern unless it
reached a deal with Bank of America.  Haines estimated the settlement was about half what the
bank could have paid out.  Bank of America “had been setting itself up to deal with a
number something like this, in this range,” Marc Pinto, head of
corporate bond strategy at New York-based Susquehanna
International Group LLP, said in a telephone interview. “It
wasn’t a shock, if anything maybe it was a little bit better
than people had expected” from Bank of America’s perspective,
he said.  Step Forward  The settlement “is a terrific result for MBIA and
represents a significant step forward for the company and the
municipal  bond market ,”  Marc Kasowitz  of Kasowitz Benson Torres
& Friedman LLP said in a statement.  Kasowitz is defending MBIA in two lawsuits brought in New
York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  by Bank of America and
other lenders over the restructuring. Justice Barbara Kapnick
dismissed one of the suits in March that sought to reverse New
York state regulators’ approval of the restructuring.  Bank of America, along with  Societe Generale  SA, were among
lenders that had sued MBIA over its 2009 restructuring in which
the insurer created National Public Finance Guarantee in an
effort to start guaranteeing municipal bonds again after losses
from mortgage debt shut the company out of the market. The banks
argued the split, approved by then-New York Insurance Department
Superintendent  Eric Dinallo , harmed them as policyholders.  Lone Bank  Societe Generale, the only bank left challenging the 2009
split, will probably step out, Haines said.  Jim Galvin , a
spokesman for Societe Generale in New York, didn’t return a
telephone message and e-mail seeking comment on the suit.  The settlement gives National a chance at being “a viable
entity” writing new business, “but even if it’s not, you still
have a huge stored value” with upfront premiums already booked,
CreditSights’s Haines said.  MBIA Insurance is “not bulletproof” with the additional
$500 million, he said, “but you’ve got a much cleaner
portfolio, you have basically have double the liquidity, you
have an entity that, at least for the next couple years, is
probably out of the regulators crosshairs.”  ‘Worst Environment’  While record low interest rates have created “the worst
environment we’ve ever seen” for bond insurers as the benefit
even a AAA rated bond insurer can add is minimal, there may be
demand in the “low A to mid BBB segment of the market, smaller
deals that don’t have market visibility that really would be
difficult to bring to the market without bond insurance,”
Haines said.  The settlement “clears a path towards a recreation of a
bond insurance market,” Manal Mehta, the founder of San
Francisco-based hedge fund Sunesis Capital LLC, which owns MBIA
shares, said in a telephone interview.  “If you’re a hospital in  Oklahoma  and you want to issue
$20 million of bonds, in order to facilitate capital market
access, you’re going to need to get a wrap from somebody,” he
said. While “no one is going to pay for insurance when they’re
looking for yield,” he said, “this positions the company well
for when rates ultimately rise and demand for bond insurance
comes back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 