-- Blackstone Funds to Sell General Growth Properties Shares
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-05-07T20:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/blackstone-funds-to-sell-general-growth-properties-shares.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  plans to sell 23.4
million shares of  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , exiting its
investment in the second-biggest U.S. mall owner after helping
the company emerge from bankruptcy in 2010.  Blackstone funds will sell the shares, equal to a 2.5
percent  stake , in a secondary offering, Chicago-based General
Growth said in a statement today. General Growth won’t receive
any proceeds from the sale, according to a regulatory filing.  Blackstone, based in  New York , joined investors led by
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  and  Bill Ackman ’s Pershing
Square Capital Management LP to bring General Growth out of
bankruptcy in November 2010. A surge in the landlord’s  shares 
and rising property valuations since then may have prompted the
private-equity firm to decide it was a good time to sell, said
Craig Guttenplan, a real estate investment trust analyst with
CreditSights Inc. in London.  “Blackstone has made a nice profit on its investment and
in order to perform for their shareholders, they look for
liquidity events,” Paul Adornato, an analyst with BMO Capital
Markets in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It’s good
for GGP shareholders because it eliminates this overhang down
the road.”  Stock Advance  General Growth gained 75 percent from its bankruptcy exit
through today. Since its restructuring, the company has
redeveloped properties and focused on its best-quality malls.  The stock fell 2.2 percent today to $22.82 at the close in
New York.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, didn’t immediately
return a message seeking comment on the sale.  In January, General Growth purchased $633 million of
warrants to buy its shares from Blackstone and Fairholme Funds
Inc., which was also part of the investment group.  Brookfield, based in Toronto, is General Growth’s largest
investor, holding about 40 percent of the outstanding stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New York-based Pershing
owns almost 8 percent of the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  