-- BMC Software’s $6.9 Billion Buyout Reflects Cloud Shift
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/bmc-software-s-6-9-billion-buyout-reflects-cloud-shift.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC)  agreed to be taken
private in a $6.9 billion deal by Bain Capital LLC and  Golden
Gate  Capital after struggling to compete with newcomers better
equipped to handle the shift toward cloud computing.  The buyout group, which includes  Singapore ’s GIC Special
Investments Pte Ltd. and Insight Venture Partners, is taking
control of BMC in the third-largest private-equity deal of 2013.
The investors said yesterday that they will pay $46.25 a share
in cash, a 13 percent premium to the closing price on March 4,
before Bloomberg reported that BMC had drawn renewed takeover
interest after failing to find an acquirer last year.  BMC, a Houston-based provider of software that keeps
corporate  computer networks  running smoothly, gets about 40
percent of its sales from the lucrative business of managing
powerful  mainframe computers  from International Business
Machines Corp. Yet it has had a harder time keeping up with
rivals in the market for server software, which is expanding as
companies rely more on programs delivered over the Web, fueling
demand for data centers and the technology that runs them.  “They’ve been outpositioned by some of the growth
companies out there,” said Joel Fishbein, an analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets. “The world’s changed from a technology
perspective very dramatically, and they haven’t been able to
keep up.”  The emergence of software delivered as a service via the
so-called cloud has helped newer competitors such as ServiceNow
Inc. and Splunk Inc. grab market share. BMC is also contending
with traditional rivals CA, Hewlett-Packard Co. and IBM. About a
quarter of new ServiceNow customers are replacing BMC products,
ServiceNow Chief Executive Officer Frank Slootman said in a
recent interview.  Investor Pressure  BMC’s fiscal fourth-quarter sales rose 0.7 percent to
$568.6 million, and profit was 87 cents a share, excluding some
items, the company said in a statement yesterday. Analysts had
projected sales of $592.5 million and profit of 93 cents,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  BMC held talks last year with buyout firms amid pressure
from activist investor Elliott Associates LP, its second-largest
shareholder, which said the company would be worth more in a
sale than as a public entity. It decided to do a $1 billion
stock repurchase instead. BMC attracted renewed interest in
March ahead of the expiration of Elliott’s standstill agreement,
a person familiar with the situation said at the time. The
company said in April that it planned to cut jobs after a review
of its operations, without specifying the number of positions to
be eliminated.  Cloud Computing  BMC is facing “intense competition” from smaller
suppliers and customers have been reluctant to sign contracts,
given the uncertainty about its future,  Abhey Lamba , an analyst
at Mizuho Securities USA, wrote in a research note yesterday. He
has a neutral rating on the shares.  As a private company, BMC plans to become more aggressive
in managing cloud-computing applications and mobile devices, BMC
CEO Bob Beauchamp said in an interview. Cloud bookings rose 35
percent to $100 million in the fiscal year ending in March.  “There’s no guarantee a go-private transaction can make a
company more competitive, but in this case I feel good about
it,” he said. “We have an incredibly strong, profitable,
growing mainframe business.”  While Elliott was pushing for a higher price, BMC’s
struggles made a richer offer unlikely, according to Fishbein.  “We thought the price at most was going to be $48,”
Fishbein said. “They got the lower end because buyers saw the
deterioration of the company.”  Cash Flow  Shares of BMC were unchanged at $45.42 at the close
yesterday in  New York . The software maker had a market value of
about $6.5 billion as of May 3.  BMC sells software that manages fleets of computer servers
and mainframes, configuring new machines and applying updates to
older ones. One of BMC’s business units makes software for
managing server networks and the other is focused on mainframe
products.  “The deal makes sense given how much  cash flow  the company
can manage from its mainframe operations,” said Kirk Materne,
an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York. Bain is paying
about nine times BMC’s projected 2014 cash flow, which Materne
estimates will be $774 million.  Over the past year, there have been about 190 pending or
completed acquisitions announced for U.S. providers of
enterprise software, with an average deal value of $157 million
and a typical premium of 29 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Beauchamp said operating privately would reduce the
quarter-to-quarter “volatility” in BMC’s results.  Private-Equity Deals  The transaction is another indicator of the private-equity
industry’s renewed interest in technology deals, an area that’s
yielded uneven results.  Only two private-equity deals announced so far this year
are bigger than the proposed BMC transaction -- the sale of H.J.
Heinz Co. to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 3G
Capital Inc. for about $23 billion, and the buyout of  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
by co-founder  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management LLC for
$24.4 billion. BMC’s agreement with Bain includes a 30-day
period to solicit alternative proposals, according to the
statement.  From 2005 to 2007, the peak of the buyout boom, private-equity firms completed four technology deals of comparable scale
to Dell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Two of the
LBOs are mired in losses, while the others, including the Silver
Lake-led acquisition of SunGard Data Systems Inc., have produced
minimal gains for the buyers and their investors.  Buyout Firms  The BMC acquisition would be Bain’s biggest since 2007,
when it teamed up with firms including Carlyle Group LP to buy
construction-supply business HD Supply Holdings Inc. from Home
Depot Inc. for $8.5 billion.  Created almost three decades ago by  Mitt Romney , the losing
candidate in the 2012 U.S. presidential race, Boston-based Bain
oversees about $70 billion in managed assets, according to its
website. The private-equity firm struck its largest deal in 2006
with the $33 billion takeover of hospital operator HCA Inc.
Romney retired from Bain in 1999.  Golden Gate, a San Francisco buyout firm with more than $12
billion under management, is led by David Dominik, a former Bain
Capital managing director.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Bank of America Corp.  are serving as
financial advisers to BMC, while Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
is providing legal counsel.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,  RBC Capital Markets  and Barclays
Plc are serving as financial advisers to the buyout group and
have agreed to provide debt financing in connection with the
transaction. Qatalyst Partners LLC is also advising the buyers.
Kirkland & Ellis LLP is serving as legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  