-- BofA Settles ‘Big Kahuna’ Mortgage Lawsuit as Another Case Looms
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-05-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/bofa-settles-big-kahuna-mortgage-lawsuit-as-another-case-looms.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , who once vowed to wage “hand-to-hand
combat” in lawsuits over faulty mortgages, settled one big
fight with  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  yesterday as another remains unfinished.  The $1.7 billion agreement, which ends a five-year legal
tussle with the bond insurer, removes another hangover from Bank
of America’s 2008 takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp. While
a separate $8.5 billion proposed settlement over claims tied to
bad mortgages is awaiting court approval, it shows Moynihan’s
strategy is working, analysts said. The lender’s shares climbed
5.2 percent, the most in five months.  “Bank of America had to get this done,” said Pri de Silva, senior banking analyst at CreditSights Inc. Among the
bond insurers bringing claims against the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank, MBIA was the “big kahuna. That leaves the
private-label one as the last remaining,” he said, referring to
the pending deal that’s being challenged in court.  The MBIA settlement moves Moynihan, 53, one step closer to
breaking free of the toxic assets that he inherited with Bank of
America’s purchase of Countrywide, whose lax standards and
subprime loans led to claims of misconduct by investors who
bought mortgage-backed bonds. The agreement limits the bank’s
liability from bond insurers, one of three broad groups that
sought to force it to buy back faulty mortgages, de Silva said.  Drop Demands  Bank of America agreed to pay the equivalent of $1.7
billion to MBIA and take a 5 percent stake in the bond insurer,
the companies said yesterday in separate statements. The lender
also will provide a $500 million line of credit to an MBIA unit,
while MBIA agreed to drop demands that soured home loans it had
guaranteed be repurchased.  Bank of America also agreed to remit to the insurer $137
million of MBIA’s bonds that it bought in December during a
tender offer. The lender bought the debt during an attempt to
block bondholder consents to amendments that would have shielded
MBIA from being dragged into bankruptcy by its cash-strapped
insurance unit. A default notice filed by Bank of America was
dropped as part of the settlement.  MBIA first sued Countrywide in 2008 in New York state
Supreme Court in  Manhattan  for fraud and breach of contract
related to the securitized home loans.  In January, the company signed an $11.7 billion deal with
Fannie Mae, ending claims from government-backed mortgage
finance firms, another of the three groups, said de Silva, whose
firm is based in New York.  The bank already had settled with bond insurers Assured
Guaranty Ltd. for $1.6 billion and Syncora Holdings Ltd. for
about $400 million.  ‘Legacy Issues’  Moynihan said in November 2010 that the firm will engage in
“hand-to-hand combat” to fend off demands before agreeing to a
string of settlements.  The settlements contributed to the more than $40 billion
that Bank of America has disbursed to satisfy claims stemming
from faulty mortgages and foreclosures, which Moynihan calls
“legacy issues.” The expenses have hobbled the bank’s profits,
and investors have pressed him to say when they’ll end.  “Each time we can get past this, put a number on it, lock
it up and throw away the key and move forward, it’s a positive
for investors,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at
New York-based Susquehanna International Group LLP, said in a
phone interview. “There’s more certainty about the future.”  Pimco Group  The unresolved $8.5 billion settlement remains the largest
facing the bank, said Paul Miller, an FBR Capital Markets
analyst. The proposed deal, filed almost two years ago by an
investor group that includes Pacific Investment Management Co.
and represented by Bank of New York Mellon Corp. as trustee, is
set to be considered by a judge at a hearing starting May 30.  Miller, who has a market perform rating on Bank of America
shares, said the MBIA settlement isn’t “very meaningful”
because the stakes were smaller.  “They weren’t going to lose $20 billion in this case, they
weren’t going to lose $5 billion,” he said. “Don’t get me
wrong. I like the fact that you’re starting to clean some of
these hurdles up, but the big one I want them to get rid of is
this Bank of New York one.”  Separately, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman
said yesterday that Bank of America and Wells Fargo & Co., the
biggest U.S. home lender, violated terms of a nationwide
mortgage settlement reached last year. Schneiderman said he
plans to sue the banks unless a committee set up to monitor the
settlement’s terms takes action.  Profit Revision  Bank of America will revise its first-quarter earnings to
book $1.6 billion in additional pretax charges, of which $1.3
billion stems from the MBIA settlement, the lender said
yesterday. That will slash the period’s net income to $1.5
billion, or 10 cents a share, from the $2.6 billion, or 20
cents, reported last month.  The bank struck a smart deal in that providing funds to
MBIA helps protect some of the lender’s bond investments
guaranteed by the insurer, said Bill Smead, CEO of Seattle-based
Smead Capital Management Inc., which oversees $430 million
including Bank of America shares. MBIA contracts protected Bank
of America and its subsidiaries from losses on commercial-
mortgage debt.  “It appears that Brian Moynihan shrewdly, in the
negotiation, the legal wrangling, has addressed that quite
successfully,” Smead said in a phone interview. “He’s
endorsing the viability of MBIA. They’re taking a  stake  in the
company and they’re putting color in the cheeks of MBIA existing
insurance that’s floating around out there.”  Going Concern  MBIA’s viability has been in question. The bond insurer
said in February that there was “substantial doubt” about the
ability of its MBIA Insurance Corp. unit, which backed some of
Wall Street’s most toxic mortgage debt, to continue as a going
concern unless it reached a deal with the bank.  Bank of America climbed 5.2 percent yesterday to $12.88,
the most since Dec. 5 and the highest since April 2011. The
stock gained 11 percent this year on top of its 109 percent
advance in 2012, when it led the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
MBIA rose  45 percent  to $14.29 after climbing as high as $15.45,
the biggest intraday jump ever.  “This comprehensive and important settlement is a very
positive step forward for both Bank of America and MBIA,”
 Benjamin Lawsky , New York’s superintendent of financial
services, said in a statement. “It resolves significant
exposure and expensive litigation for Bank of America.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  