-- Brazilian WTO Chief Has Leverage on BRICS in Global Trade Talks
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-05-08T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/brazil-s-azevedo-defeats-mexican-to-succeed-lamy-as-head-of-wto.html
The selection of Brazil’s Roberto Azevedo as the next head of the  World Trade Organization  may
help ease  emerging markets ’ resistance to removing barriers as
part of global trade talks.  Azevedo, who is now Brazil’s ambassador to the Geneva-based
WTO, defeated former Mexican Trade Minister Herminio Blanco in
the final round of closed-door consultations among the WTO’s 159
members, putting him in line to become the first director-
general from  Latin America .  “ Mexico  may be the darling of the West but it lacks
widespread support across the developing world” and is seen as
too close to the U.S., said  Kevin Gallagher , a Boston University
professor of international relations who researches issues of
global economic governance. “A deal endorsed by Brazil would
trigger support from emerging markets” including peers China
and India in the increasingly assertive BRICS group.  As Brazil’s envoy to the WTO since 2008, Azevedo attacked
 farm subsidies  in Europe and the U.S. on behalf of developing
nations while defending Brazil’s use of higher tariffs to aid
manufacturers hurt by the global financial crisis. In his new
post, he’ll have to distance himself from those policies while
engaging his doubters among rich nations, said Felipe Berer, a
trade lawyer who has known Azevedo for almost a decade.  “He will have to show very quickly that he is there to
represent everyone, and doesn’t only represent  Brazil  or the
developing world,” said Berer in a phone interview from Miami,
where he’s an attorney at the firm Akerman Senterfitt.  ‘Honest Broker’  The 55-year-old Azevedo, in an interview last week, cited
his insider’s experience trying to forge global trade deals for
the past 15 years as a difference from Blanco, who negotiated
the North American Free Trade Agreement with  Canada  and the U.S.
two decades ago. He vowed to be an “honest broker” among WTO
members, who reach most decisions by consensus.  “Either you can be perceived like that by the membership,
or you’re not going to be effective,” he said by telephone from
Geneva on May 4. “We have to be looking at how to make the
organization move forward, and that has nothing to do with the
particular policies of one country or another.”  Azevedo on Sept. 1 will succeed France’s Pascal Lamy, who
as director-general since 2005 failed to overcome differences on
agricultural, antitrust and intellectual property issues needed
to conclude the decade-old  Doha Round . Policy makers are trying
to strike a less ambitious, partial deal at a conference
scheduled to take place in December on the island of Bali.  BRICS Power  Azevedo’s selection was celebrated by Brazil’s government,
which lobbied on his behalf in  Africa  -- which has the most
 members  by continent -- and was also backed by the BRICS, who’ve
been fighting at the  International Monetary Fund  and elsewhere
for a bigger say in how the global economy is run.  “Today is a victory for Brazil,” Foreign Minister Antonio Patriota said at a news conference yesterday. “It reflects the
transformation underway in the global order.”  While Brazil’s diplomatic clout has been rising in recent
years in tandem with the strength of its economy, now the
world’s sixth largest, its trade policies have come under attack
since the global financial crisis.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office last year threatened
to retaliate against what it called “protectionist” push by
Brazil that led to tariff increases on more than 100
manufactured goods.  At the WTO, Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government
has also been fighting charges by a group of nations including
South Korea, Japan and Australia that its 2011 decision to raise
taxes on imported cars violates trade rules requiring equal
treatment for foreign and domestic producers. Patriota yesterday
dismissed the accusations as unproven.  Currency War  In line with Brazilian policy against what it calls a
“currency war” being waged by rich nations, Azevedo has also
tried to initiate debate at the WTO over what it sees as unfair
trade advantages created by aggressive monetary easing.  As director-general, he’ll be able to bring that issue
front and center, though consensus is likely to remain elusive
with the U.S., Japan and the  euro zone  committed to keeping
 interest rates  near-zero to prop up economic growth, said
Barbara Kotschwar, a trade specialist at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in  Washington .  Most European Union nations had agreed to support Blanco,
Bloomberg BNA reported, while the U.S. didn’t announce which of
the initial nine candidates or two  finalists  it would support.  The U.S.’s failure to endorse Blanco suggests that it may
have realized that further trade liberalization requires someone
with more traction among free-trade skeptics than a candidate
from Nafta partner Mexico, said Kotschwar.  “From a U.S. perspective, it might make sense to have a
WTO chief not so traditionally tied to its trade agenda,”
Kotschwar said in a phone interview from Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Brasilia at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  