-- Brazil Swap Rates Decline Before Inflation Report; Real Advances
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-05-07T21:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/brazil-swap-rates-decline-before-inflation-report-real-weakens.html
Brazil ’s swap rates fell before a
report forecast to show annual inflation slowed in April,
encouraging speculation that the central bank will limit
increases in borrowing costs.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 declined
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.19 percent,
matching the lowest level on a closing basis since Feb. 14. The
real advanced less than 0.1 percent to 2.0078 per dollar after
earlier falling as much as 0.3 percent.  “With inflation lower here and central banks easing around
the world, it will be difficult for Brazil’s central bank to
have a tightening cycle of more than one percentage point,”
Luis Otavio de Souza Leal, the chief economist at Banco ABC
Brasil in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  The Reserve Bank of  Australia  lowered its main rate by a
quarter-percentage point to 2.75 percent a day after European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi said further cuts in rates
are possible following a reduction to a record low last week.  Brazil’s annual inflation slowed to 6.42 percent in April
from 6.59 percent in the prior month, according to the median
forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The statistics
agency is due to release the IPCA inflation data tomorrow.  The central bank board voted 6 to 2 last month to increase
the target lending  rate  to 7.50 percent from a record low 7.25
percent, saying in its statement that the “resilience of
inflation” required action.  Industrial Output  The national statistics agency reported last week that
industrial production expanded 0.7 percent in March, missing the
1.3 percent median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Output contracted 3.3 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
drop since December 2012.  Vehicle sales rose to 333,738 in April from 283,912 in the
prior month, the National Vehicle Manufacturers Association
reported today in Sao Paulo.  The real has rallied 2.2 percent against the dollar this
year, the most among 16 major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
after  Mexico ’s peso. The currency tumbled 9 percent in 2012 and
11 percent in 2011.  Foreign investors bought about 67 percent of  BB Seguridade
Participacoes SA (BBSE3) ’s 11.5 billion-real ($5.7 billion) initial
public offering, according to a person with direct knowledge of
the matter. The rest was purchased by Brazilian investors, the
person said, asking not to be identified because the information
isn’t public yet. The IPO is the biggest in Brazil since July
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While foreign demand for share sales may become a
“tailwind” supporting the real in the future, the currency
won’t start appreciating unless the economy picks up, according
to  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin America foreign-exchange strategist
at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto.  “We must first see the economic recovery gain traction,”
he wrote in an e-mailed research report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  