-- Britain’s Auto Sales Surge Set to End as Economy Softens
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2013-05-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/britain-s-auto-sales-surge-set-to-end-as-economy-softens.html
For the past year, automakers such as
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  have banked
on bargain-hunting Britons to buy as demand elsewhere in Europe
tumbles. The strategy is poised to encounter headwinds as
slowing growth and concerns over inflation threaten momentum.  “We’ve just about reached the zenith” of growth in
Britain, Tony Whitehorn, head of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s U.K.
operations, said in a telephone interview. “The second half of
the year will become much tighter.”  The U.K. Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders is
forecasting growth of 3 percent for 2013, less than half the
pace of the first four months. With the pound down 8.6 percent
against the euro since July despite a recent rally, foreign
automakers are making less money on cars sold there and may be
forced to reduce the generous discounts they’re offering.  “While we are seeing strong growth from a fairly low base,
the economic backdrop remains challenging,” said  Jonathon Poskitt , an analyst with researcher LMC Automotive in Oxford,
 England . He forecasts that U.K. car sales, pegged at 2.1 million
this year, won’t return to their 2007 peak of 2.4 million until
around 2018.  The U.K. was the only major European auto market to grow in
2012 and is climbing again this year, with registrations up 8.9
percent through April, trade association SMMT said yesterday.
Ford’s Fiesta and Focus compacts have been the best-sellers,
followed by the Corsa and Astra from GM’s Vauxhall unit and VW’s
Golf, the SMMT said.  Britain’s growth is largely due to zero-percent financing,
rebates and other incentives, according to Garel Rhys, head of
the Center for Automotive Industry Research in Cardiff, Wales.  Anemic Europe  “Because the rest of Europe is so anemic, Britain has
become a dumping ground,” Rhys said. “Pushing deals elsewhere
in Europe would be chucking money down a black hole.”  Discounts in the U.K. averaged 16.9 percent in April for
mass-market cars, with  Renault SA (RNO) , Vauxhall,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
and Ford the most generous, according to JPMorgan.  The incentives are even causing some consumers to trade up
as low interest rates makes buying a car an alternative putting
money in the bank.  Lyubomir Merdzhov was looking at a VW Golf hatchback but
opted instead for a navy blue Audi A6 two months ago after
securing a 10 percent discount.  “This was a much better deal, and it basically works out
to be equivalent to a zero-percent financing offer” over four
years, said the 34-year-old from  London .  German Discounting  Across Europe the slowdown has accelerated this year,
dropping 9.7 percent in the first quarter after a 7.8 percent
decline in 2012. Once-stalwart  Germany  has become part of the
drag, with sales down 8.5 percent in the first four months of
2013. JPMorgan says discounts in Germany were even steeper than
in the U.K., an average of 23.7 percent in April.  The trend-bucking growth in the U.K. --  Europe ’s second
biggest auto market since it passed  France  last year -- is out
of step with the underlying economy.  The European Commission lowered its growth forecast for the
U.K’s gross domestic product last week to an increase of 0.6
percent this year from a February estimate of 0.9 percent
because of concerns about inflation. In the first quarter,
Britain narrowly avoided an unprecedented triple-dip recession.  The car industry has countered that with deals. Volvo Cars
is promoting the XC90 sport-utility vehicle with zero-percent
financing and rebates totaling 7,500 pounds ($11,700), or 21
percent off the 36,065-pound list price.  A Mercedes-Benz GL-Class SUV with leather seats,
entertainment system and panorama sunroof can be had for 57,789
pounds, 15 percent off, according to  Drivethedeal.com , a
discount car site.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  and GM’s Vauxhall are each
 offering  zero-percent financing and as much as 2,500 pounds in
rebates.  “Carmakers are simply bribing U.K. car buyers,” said
Simon Empson, managing director of Broadspeed, an online auto
broker. “As a rule, Brits will buy anything that’s decent and
cheap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  