-- Brotherly Love Means $3.5 Billion Value Boost at Reliance
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-05-08T10:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/brotherly-love-means-3-5-billion-value-boost-at-reliance.html
Anil Ambani’s first cooperation with
his older brother Mukesh after eight years meant more than
family peace. It has also added  $3.5 billion  to the market value
of the younger brother’s listed companies in five weeks.  The combined market capitalization of Anil’s six companies
rose to $12.1 billion as of yesterday, up from $8.6 billion on
April 1, a day before  India ’s richest brothers announced a deal
and said more partnerships would follow.  Mukesh Ambani  agreed to pay for using  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) ’s fiber-optic network, helping Anil’s
flagship company generate additional income after its profit
fell in 13 of the last 14 reported quarters. The pact was the
first after they scrapped a non-compete accord three years ago,
following the 2005 feud that split the group.  “The market is hoping that big brother can support
Reliance Communications by providing some meaningful business to
younger brother,” said Walter Rossini, who manages about $200
million in Indian assets including Reliance Communications at
Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan. “The first deal was a
symbolic one. Now let’s see if the commitment to support the
business continues.”  Shares Surge  Shares of Anil’s six companies have advanced since April 1.
Mumbai-based Reliance Communications has almost  doubled ,
 Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  has surged 22 percent,  Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT) 
climbed 18 percent,  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  has risen 17
percent,  Reliance Mediaworks Ltd. (RMW)  has gained 13 percent and
 Reliance Broadcast Network Ltd. (RBN)  has advanced 16 percent.  In contrast, Mukesh’s Reliance Industries has risen 6.5
percent, and the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  is up 6 percent.
Reliance Communications fell 0.7 percent to close at 111.95
rupees in Mumbai, while Reliance Industries rose 0.2 percent to
829.65 rupees.  Reliance Industries spokesman Tushar Pania and Reliance
Communications spokesman Rajeev Narayan both declined to comment
on the share price moves and on any new deals between the two
companies.  Mukesh’s net worth yesterday rose 1.9 percent to $23.8
billion, ranking him the 26th richest in the world, according to
Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index. Anil’s net worth gained 2.3
percent to $8.3 billion.  Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd., a unit of  Reliance Industries (RIL) ,
will pay 12 billion rupees ($222 million) to share the fiber
optic network of Reliance Communications to start a fourth-
generation broadband service, the two companies said on April 2.
Reliance Communications will have “reciprocal access to optic-
fiber infrastructure” to be built by Reliance Jio and the two
will share telecommunications towers in the future.  Business Split  The 2005 battle over control of Reliance left Mukesh, 56,
with the petrochemicals, oil and natural gas businesses. He
ceded ownership of telecommunications, a business started by
him, to Anil, 53, who also took over power, financial services
and entertainment. Both retained the rights to the Reliance
name. The company was founded by their father  Dhirubhai Ambani 
to trade spices and yarn in 1959. He died intestate in 2002.  The first indication of a rapprochement came in 2010 when
the brothers scrapped an agreement that prevented them from
competing in each others’ businesses. A year later they danced
and prayed in their ancestral village on the eve of their
father’s 80th birth anniversary along with their families.  Reliance Communications will  probably  post its third
consecutive decline in quarterly profit when it reports on May
10 results for the three months ended March, according to
analyst estimates. Net income may fall to 1.27 billion rupees in
the fourth quarter from 3.32 billion rupees a year earlier,
according to the median of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Burden  “The way the stock has run up has been excessive because
nothing has really changed,” said Harit Shah, an analyst with
Nirmal Bang Equities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Maybe it would be
justifiable if they were to successfully list a unit or make a
deal that would resolve their balance-sheet problems, the things
they’ve been promising for years.”  Reliance Communications’ total  debt  rose more than
threefold to 385.6 billion rupees on Dec. 31 from 119.1 billion
rupees in June 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Third-quarter profit fell 44 percent after interest costs surged
60 percent.  The mobile-phone operator’s attempts to reduce debt by
selling its telecommunications tower unit Reliance Infratel Ltd.
have proven unsuccessful. A planned $2 billion share sale of its
submarine cable assets in  Singapore , hasn’t taken place after it
was announced last year. The company signed two $1 billion deals
with Alcatel-Lucent SA and Ericsson AB this year to lower the
cost of running its networks.  Tariffs Raised  Reliance Communications this week raised tariffs by 20
percent and cut promotional and concessional offers by as much
as 65 percent. The tariff changes come as the company added
subscribers in February after two months of declines.  With some of the smaller operators shutting down or scaling
down operations, competitive pressure is easing, Gurdeep Singh,
chief executive officer, wireless at Reliance Communications,
said on May 6. It is will also help “pricing power move back to
serious, long-term and pan-Indian scale operators and positively
impact profitability,” Singh said.  Other Alliances  Reliance Communications last month also forged a roaming
agreement with competitor Aircel Ltd. to expand its network
footprint without any upfront costs and said this was the first
of more similar pacts it plans with other operators.  Mukesh’s Reliance Jio is also forming alliances with others
including billionaire Sunil Mittal’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  Reliance
Jio will use dedicated capacity on Bharti’s i2i submarine cable
to extend its network to customers in the Asia Pacific region,
they said on April 23.  The deal with Mukesh could help Anil attract investments,
said Raj Kothari, a London-based fixed-income trader at Sun
Global Investment Ltd., which holds three of Reliance
Industries’ bonds.  “Mukesh’s promise has been a kind of bailout for Anil’s
business,” Kothari said. “With Reliance Industries coming in,
a world of options are opening up for Reliance Communications.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  