-- Bulgaria’s Gerb Leads in Opinion Survey Before May 12 Elections
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-07T14:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/bulgaria-s-gerb-leads-in-opinion-survey-before-may-12-elections.html
Bulgaria’s former ruling Gerb party of
Boyko Borissov leads in opinion polls ahead of May 12 elections,
even though it falls short of outright majority needed to form a
government.  Gerb will get 28.3 percent of the votes according to an
April 27-28 survey of 555 people by MBMD polling agency. The
Bulgarian Socialist Party led by Sergei Stanishev trails with
18.7 percent, according to the survey, which didn’t indicate an
error margin. The nationalist Attack party and the ethnic Turk
Movement for Rights and Freedoms each get the backing of 5.2
percent, according to MBMD.  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest member in terms of
per-capita output, faces early elections after Borissov’s
government resigned on Feb. 20 amid rallies against poverty and
high utility bills that turned violent.  “Gerb is the favorite to win the elections, but it will
fall short of an overall majority,” Otilia Simkova, an analyst
in Eurasia Group in  London , said in an e-mailed note today.
“Renewed public protests could make coalition formation more
difficult because the key concerns of protesters have not yet
been sufficiently addressed and the public views coalitions with
suspicion.”  An April 4-9 survey of 998 people by the polling company
Gallup BBSS showed 22.8 percent support for Gerb and 19.9
percent for the Socialists. The survey had a margin of error of
3 percent.  The nationalist Attack party ranked third with 5.7 percent
and the ethnic Turk Movement for Rights and Freedoms trailed
with 4.9 percent support, Gallup said on its website.  Anti-austerity protests have toppled prime ministers across
 Europe  and forced out Borissov, whose administration focused on
budget cuts to ward off bailouts and turbulent bond markets,
boosting unemployment to the highest in eight years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  