-- Cadwalader, Kirkland, Wachtell, Sidley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/cadwalader-kirkland-wachtell-sidley-business-of-law.html
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP
bankruptcy co-chairmen are leaving to go to O’Melveny & Meyers
LLP, according to a person familiar with the move. Cadwalader
said it is also expanding the practice in  London  with two new
hires.  Gregory M. Petrick, head of the firm’s European and Asian
restructuring practice and managing partner of the London
office, and  Washington  partner Mark C. Ellenberg, were named co-
chairman of Cadwalader’s financial restructuring department.  They replace John J. Rapisardi and George A. Davis, who
handled clients including the U.S. Department of Treasury in the
restructuring of Chrysler, General Motors and Delphi as well as
the Chapter 11 cases involving LyondellBasell Industries.
Rapisardi in a phone interview declined to name the firm where
he, Davis and another partner are headed.  “We have been talking to another firm for some time and we
will be making an announcement shortly about that firm and our
new position at that firm,” Rapisardi said.  The person familiar with the move wasn’t authorized to
speak for the new firm and asked not to be identified.  Cadwalader added Holly Neavill from Latham & Watkins LLP,
and Louisa Watt, from Richards Kibbe & Orbe LLP, to the
financial restructuring team as partners in the London office.  Cadwalader declined to comment in an e-mail about the next
move for Rapisardi and Davis.  Instead, the firm said in a statement through spokesman
Adam Segall that “Cadwalader’s financial restructuring practice
is a vibrant component of the firm future strategy. The
appointment of Greg Petrick and Mark Ellenberg is reflective of
their long standing leadership in the United States and  Europe ,
the vital role they have played in successfully guiding the
practice over the years and the skills and expertise to respond
to the anticipated demand for our services going forward.”  Petrick has led cross-border restructurings in Europe,
 Indonesia  and  Australia . He currently represents the Joint
Provisional Liquidators of Lehman Re, bank lenders in the
reorganization of TBS and Marco Polo Shipping, and MBIA in
connection with the reorganization of Punch Taverns and the A13
Toll Road, according to his firm bio.  Ellenberg advises debtors and creditors in restructuring,
workout, and bankruptcy matters. In the Lehman bankruptcy cases,
he represented Morgan Stanley, which had more than $1 billion in
claims related to the closeout of derivative and commodities
contracts, according to his firm bio.  New addition Neavill has experience with the legal systems
and workout procedures across Europe and in the U.S. She most
recently led the ad hoc committee of bondholders in the
restructuring of SEAT Pagine Gialle, a publicly listed Italian
directories business, Cadwalader said in a statement.  Watt joins the firm as a debt and claims trading partner in
the restructuring practice. She has experience in transfer of
distressed debt matters and claims in the secondary market
within Europe, Asia and the U.S., the firm said.  “The European market continues to present its challenges,
with creditors looking for practical and innovative solutions
for cross-border restructuring,” Petrick said in a statement.
“Holly and Louisa have proven track records. They have built
strong and unique practices representing a range of institutions
facilitating restructurings, distressed M&A and trading
transactions and are leading authorities in this area.”  Last year, Cadwalader’s financial restructuring co-chairman
also left the firm. Deryck Palmer left for Pillsbury Winthrop
Shaw Pittman LLP in January 2012 along with two other bankruptcy
partners.  Cadwalader has more than 500 lawyers at eight offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Deals  Kirkland, Wachtell Advised on BMC Purchase for $6.9 Billion  Bain Capital LLC and Golden Gate Capital agreed to acquire
 BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , a struggling technology provider that failed
to find a buyer last year, for $6.9 billion in the third-largest
private-equity deal of 2013. Kirkland & Ellis LLP is advising
the buyers. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is providing legal
counsel to BMC.  The buyout investors, which also include GIC Special
Investments Pte Ltd. and Insight Venture Partners, agreed to pay
$46.25 a share in cash, BMC said in a statement. That’s a 13
percent premium over the closing price on March 4, before
Bloomberg reported that BMC had drawn renewed takeover interest.
Sidley Austin LLP represented GIC Special Investments.  The Kirkland team for Bain Capital and Golden Gate Capital
was led by partners Sarkis Jebejian, who joined the firm in
December 2012, and Matthew Steinmetz. Additional Kirkland
partners included Matthew O’Brien, Jeff Richards and Claire
Sheng on M&A matters and Linda Myers and Michelle Kilkenney on
financing matters.  Wachtell didn’t respond to requests for partner names.  Sidley partners included Asi Kirmayer, M&A, Laura Barzilai,
tax; Susan Lewis, corporate; and Joel Mitnick and David Went,
antitrust.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, led by New York corporate
Chairman Michael Aiello, represented Morgan Stanley, a financial
adviser to BMC.  BMC, a maker of software that manages corporate computer
networks, held talks last year with buyout firms amid pressure
from activist investor Elliott Associates LP, its second-largest
shareholder, before deciding to do $1 billion stock repurchase
instead. While Elliott was pushing for a higher price, BMC’s
struggle to expand in software and services delivered over the
Internet made a richer offer unlikely, according to Joel Fishbein, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets.  Only two private-equity deals announced so far this year
are bigger than the proposed BMC transaction -- the sale of H.J.
Heinz Co. to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 3G
Capital Inc. for about $23 billion and the buyout of  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
by co-founder  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management LLC for
$24.4 billion. BMC’s agreement with Bain includes a 30-day
period to solicit alternative proposals, according to the
statement.  The acquisition would be Bain’s biggest since 2007, when it
teamed up with firms including Carlyle Group LP to buy
construction-supply business HD Supply Holdings Inc. from Home
Depot Inc. for $8.5 billion.  Inergy to Acquire Gas Processor Crestwood for $1.25 Billion  Vinson & Elkins LLP advised  Inergy Midstream LP (NRGM) , the
pipeline partnership that began trading publicly 18 months ago,
which agreed to buy  Crestwood Midstream Partners LP (CMLP)  for $1.25
billion in stock and cash, adding natural gas processing
capabilities as it seeks to capitalize on rising U.S. output of
the fuel. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP served as Crestwood’s legal counsel.  Vinson & Elkins corporate partners Mike Rosenwasser and
Gillian Hobson advised Inergy LP and Inergy Midstream. They were
assisted by tax partner John Lynch.  The Simpson Thacher team is led by New York mergers and
acquisitions partner Bill Curbow. Additional partners included:
Alden Millard, credit; Ed Tolley, capital markets; Brian Robbins, executive compensation and employee benefits; and John Creed, tax.  Akin Gump’s partners on the deal included John Goodgame,
energy and Thomas Weir, tax.  Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP advised Crestwood
Midstream’s board. Richards, Layton & Finger PA and Potter
Anderson & Corroon LLP also advised on the deal.  Crestwood Midstream holders will get 1.07 Inergy Midstream
units for each unit they own and a one-time cash payment of $35
million, according to a statement yesterday from the two
companies. The cash portion wouldn’t be paid for units held by
Crestwood Holdings LLC. For the other holders, the deal values
Houston-based Crestwood at a 14 percent premium to the May 3
closing price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Crestwood Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert G. Phillips will run the combined company from Houston, with
operations in Kansas City, Missouri, where Inergy is based. Upon
the deal’s closing, current  Inergy LP (NRGY)  unit holders will own 56.4
percent of the new Inergy LP, Crestwood Holdings LLC will own 29
percent and Inergy management will own 14.6 percent.  For more, click here.  Moves  DOJ Deputy Assistant Attorney General Weinstein Joins Steptoe  Jason Weinstein, former deputy assistant attorney general
of the U.S. Department of Justice’s Criminal Division, joined
Steptoe & Johnson LLP as a partner in Washington. He will be a
member of both the firm’s white-collar criminal defense practice
and the privacy and data security practice.  Weinstein, who led violent and organized crime enforcement
efforts, resigned last April in the wake of a federal operation
designed to track guns illegally shipped to  Mexico , known as
Operation Fast and Furious, that went awry. Guns from the
program were found at the scene of an  Arizona  U.S. Border Patrol
agent murder in 2010.  During his time in the Justice Department, Weinstein
supervised the Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section,
the Organized Crime and Gang Section, and the Human Rights and
Special Prosecutions Section, Steptoe said in a statement. He
also worked on compliance issues relating to U.S. law and the
EU’s data protection requirements, and worked to resolve issues
faced by U.S. companies, the firm said.  Steptoe has more than 500 lawyers and other professionals
in nine offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Sidley Austin Adds M&A/Private Equity Lawyer in Singapore  Sidley Austin LLP announced that Gregory Salathe joined the
firm as a partner in the mergers and acquisitions practice and
will reside in the Singapore office after a transition period in
 Tokyo . He was a partner at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP, where he
was co-managing partner of the firm’s Tokyo office.  Salathe focuses on cross-border mergers and acquisitions,
representing private equity and hedge funds in their downstream
investments. Salathe will continue to be actively involved with
Japan-related matters.  The firm has almost 1,750 lawyers in 18 offices worldwide.  Morrison & Foerster Adds Real Estate Finance Partner Ceriello  Real estate finance lawyer Lawrence A. Ceriello has joined
Morrison & Foerster LLP in New York as a partner. He joins the
firm from the New York office of Nixon Peabody LLP, where he was
a partner.  Ceriello advises commercial lenders, investment banks, life
insurers, hedge funds and others in real estate transactions,
particularly those involving complex debt financings and
securitizations. He also has experience with large loans
destined for the commercial mortgage-backed securities market,
the firm said. He has handled transactions involving mezzanine
debt and workouts of distressed real estate, as well as equity
investments and the purchase, sale, restructuring and
foreclosure of performing and non-performing commercial mortgage
and mezzanine loans.  Recent significant transactions handled by MoFo’s real
estate group include the representation of Union Bank in its
acquisition of PB Capital Corporation’s institutional commercial
real estate lending portfolio and platform valued at more than
$3.7 billion and Bank of America in a $700 million syndicated
construction loan to Extell Development Co. for One57, the 90-
story Park Hyatt Hotel and residential condominium tower on West
57th Street across from Carnegie Hall, the firm said.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers at 16
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Video  Mother-at-Law: Cravath’s First Woman Partner  Back in the “Mad Men” days -- 1964, to be precise --
there were hardly any female lawyers at major New York firms.
That’s when Christine Beshar joined prestigious white-shoe firm
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP. She became the firm’s first female
partner in 1971. Today, in her 80s, Beshar still works as senior
counsel. Her son, Peter Beshar, is general counsel of Marsh &
McLennan, one of the world’s largest insurance brokerage firms.
Peter and Christine recount the story of Christine’s rise from
operating a law firm switchboard to passing the bar without
attending law school, and then eventually becoming the only
woman partner in any corporate law firm in New York all while
managing work-life balance long before the phrase was commonly
used.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  