-- Canadian Natural Plant Fix Signals Stock Gains
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-05-07T20:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/canadian-natural-plant-fix-signals-stock-gains.html
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
country’s third-largest energy company by market value, is
forecast by analysts to rally further after fixing a problem-
plagued oil-sands plant.  The Calgary-based oil and gas company has emerged from its
first winter in three years without a major shutdown at its
110,000 barrel-a-day Horizon upgrader in Fort McMurray,  Alberta .
The repairs to the equipment, which turns heavy oil into higher-
priced light oil, helped send the stock 3.1 percent higher this
year through yesterday, second-best after  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) 
among eight Canadian producers with a market value greater than
C$10 billion ($9.9 billion).  Canadian Natural is investing C$2 billion a year to more
than double Horizon’s size by 2017, and says the project’s
reliability will be improved further after maintenance this
month.  “It’s been a huge overhang on the stock, especially
because they are investing so much money on the Horizon
expansion,”   Michael Dunn , analyst with FirstEnergy Capital
Corp. in Calgary, said by phone yesterday. “The stock is
cheaper than it otherwise would be, and we do see quite a bit of
upside.”  Eighteen of 25 analysts  rate  the company a buy while seven
say hold. The mean of 20 analyst price targets puts the
company’s stock at C$38.02 a share 12 months from now, or 29
percent more than the closing price of C$29.52 in Toronto
yesterday. The shares rose 1.2 percent to C$29.88 at 4:22 p.m.
today.  Shorts Decline  Fixing the mechanical issues at Horizon has been a “very
high priority”  Steve Laut , the company’s president, said in a
phone interview May 3. “I think we’ve seen reliability increase
dramatically and I expect it to continue to increase.”  Canadian Natural, which has a market value of C$32.3
billion, has dropped 36 percent over the five years through
yesterday, compared with a 30 percent fall in the 58-company
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Energy Index and a 14 percent decline in
the broad S&P/TSX Composite index.  Short-interest in the stock has  dropped  after rising to
23.2 million shares on April 15, the highest in at least 10
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Short sellers
borrow a stock in anticipation of a price decline so they can
buy it back at a lower price, repay the loan and pocket the
difference.  The Horizon upgrader was damaged in January 2011 after a
fire broke out in a coker used to process oil-sands bitumen. As
the company revealed that plant would be down for an extended
period, Canadian Natural’s shares  sank  44 percent to a low of
C$27.96 on Oct. 4 from March 2. The plant was ultimately shut
down from Jan. 6 to Aug. 16.  Production Rises  Another breakdown occurred in February last year in a
fractionator, a large steel tower used to separate crude oil
into various products.  With those mechanical issues behind it, first-quarter
production of 109,000 barrels a day at the upgrader this year
was near the top of its guidance and more than double year-
earlier levels. Combined with a recovery in prices for Canadian
heavy oil from record lows in December, Canadian Natural’s
shares have risen, Dunn said.  “Execution is vital with resource companies,” Sadiq Adatia, Toronto-based chief investment officer with Sun Life
Global Investments Inc., said by phone yesterday. His firm
manages C$6.4 billion and he owns shares of Canadian Natural
through  Exchange Traded Funds . “If you’re not performing well
on execution, you’re not participating in any run up in
commodity prices.”  Export Bottleneck  Oil prices  have been volatile. Western  Canada  Select, the
Canadian benchmark, narrowed to a discount of about $12 a barrel
below U.S. prices in mid-April from a record low $42.50 on Dec.
14 as U.S. refineries restarted after maintenance and demanded
more crude imports. Canadian output also dipped during spring
maintenance and the so-called spring breakup, when drilling and
equipment transportation are slowed by mud.  The discount widened again to $24.25 a barrel yesterday, as
more production comes back online.  One risk to Canadian Natural’s future performance will be
the fate of new export pipelines out of Canada. Laut said
Canadian Natural will benefit when  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Flanagan
South pipeline from  Illinois  to  Oklahoma  is complete next year,
allowing it to send more heavy oil to refiners on the U.S. Gulf
Coast. Beyond that, Canadian Natural will need a new export
pipeline like  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL, or a Canadian
export pipeline to the coast, Laut said.  Low Expectations  Dunn also warned that Horizon could experience problems
again. “The proof will still be in the pudding,” Dunn said.
“I suspect myself and others are still not willing to assume it
will be producing 110,000 barrels a day on an average annual
basis.”  Canadian Natural reported fourth quarter profit dropped 58
percent to C$352 million or 32 cents a share from C$832 million
or 76 cents a share a year earlier on lower crude prices and a
foreign-exchange loss. The stock carries a price-earnings ratio,
a measure of a stock’s price compared with its earnings, of 19
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The stock continues to look really cheap,” said Lanny Pendill, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co.  “As a whole, market expectations for Canadian Natural are
pretty low and the slight pop we’re getting is partly due to the
overall market but also due to the fact that there is light at
the end of the tunnel and this company is executing,” Pendill
said by phone from  St. Louis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  