-- Cantab to Shut UCITS Fund After Restrictions on Commodity Bets
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-05-07T10:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/cantab-to-shut-ucits-fund-after-restrictions-on-commodity-bets.html
Cantab Capital Partners LLP, the $5.5
billion hedge-fund firm led by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
quantitative traders, will shut a pool that is regulated like
mutual funds because of restrictions on commodity investments.  Investors in the CCP Quantitative UCITS fund, which has
more than $320 million in assets under management, will be given
the option of redeeming their money or moving to the firm’s
hedge funds, Cambridge, England-based Cantab said in a statement
today. The UCITS fund will be closed at the end of June.  Cantab, started in 2006 by former Goldman Sachs traders
Ewan Kirk and Erich Schlaikjer, said it’s no longer possible to
invest in commodities “within a UCITS wrapper.” Its decision
follows guidelines published by the European Securities and
Markets Authority last year to restrict the funds from trading
indexes made up of multiple assets that are derived from a
single commodity, such as oil.  UCITS, which are regulated by the European Union, allow
 hedge funds  to raise money from individual investors. The
structure places restrictions on leverage, gives clients details
of holdings in a similar way to mutual funds and allows
investors to withdraw their money in as little as a day. The
name stands for Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities.  The Cantab UCITS fund is designed to track the performance
of its main hedge fund, the CCP Quantitative fund, with less
volatility.  The CCP Quantitative fund  has gained 3.2 percent
through April after rising 15 percent in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Other hedge funds that use computer algorithms to spot
profitable trends in the prices of commodities, currencies and
stocks rose 7.7 percent on  average  through April after falling
3.5 percent last year, according to Newedge Group SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  