-- China Said to Tighten Approvals for Local Government Bond Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-07T05:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/china-said-to-tighten-approvals-for-local-government-bond-sales.html
China has ordered greater scrutiny of
bond sales by local government finance vehicles with higher
levels of debt, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The  National Development and Reform Commission , which
approves bond sales by companies that local governments set up
to finance projects, will more strictly review applications for
debt with credit ratings below AA+ sold by issuers with debt-to-
asset ratios exceeding 65 percent, said the people, who asked
not to be identified as they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly about the order.  China’s central government has sought to rein in borrowing
by local governments on concerns that slowing economic growth
could result in some financing vehicles being unable to repay
debt, saddling banks with bad loans. The ruling Communist
Party’s Politburo Standing Committee, the nation’s top decision-
making body, said last month the country must guard against
financial risks as growth moderates.  The NDRC,  China ’s top economic planning agency, will also
tighten approval for other companies seeking to sell bonds with
credit ratings below AA+ if the issuers have debt-to-asset
ratios exceeding 75 percent, the people said.  The agency shares oversight of China’s debt markets with
the People’s Bank of China and the China Securities Regulatory
Commission. The NDRC is responsible for approving bond sales by
companies that aren’t publicly traded. About 63 percent of such
bonds sold in China last year had credit ratings below AA+,
according to a report by the National Association Financial
Market Institutional Investors.  Local Debt  China’s central bank estimated in 2011 that local
governments, barred from directly selling bonds or taking bank
loans, had set up more than 10,000 financing arms to fund the
construction of roads, bridges and sewage plants. The nation’s
provinces and cities may have more than 20 trillion  yuan  ($3.25
trillion) of debt, former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said
last month.  Separately, stricter approval criteria will also be applied
to industries the agency identifies as having overcapacity, or
as being heavy polluters or high users of energy, the people
with knowledge of the matter said.  The NDRC will support bond sales that finance the continued
construction of infrastructure identified by the government as
key state projects, the people said. Support will also be given
for issuances funding the building of affordable housing and
projects supporting agricultural production.  Bond sales by companies with AAA credit ratings will be
supported, as will sales of debt backed by collateral from
issuers with ratings of AA+ and above, the people said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  