-- Chinese Cyber-spying on QinetiQ Probed by Pentagon
-- B y   B e n   E l g i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2013-05-07T12:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/chinese-cyber-spying-on-qinetiq-probed-by-pentagon.html
The U.S. Defense Department is
investigating intrusions by Chinese cyber-spies into the
computer systems of defense contractor QinetiQ North America,
the Pentagon said.  For three years, hackers linked to  China ’s military
infiltrated QinetiQ’s computers and compromised most if not all
of the company’s research, which includes work on secret
satellites, drones and software used by U.S. special forces in
 Afghanistan  and the  Middle East ,  Bloomberg News  reported May 2.  “We are working very closely with QinetiQ to determine
exactly the scope and breadth of this incident,” Pentagon
spokesman Army Colonel Steve Warren told reporters on May 3.  Warren wouldn’t say whether national security had been
compromised. “That’s an assessment we are not prepared to
announce yet,” he said. “We are looking closely at a number of
different levels to determine exactly what happened and when.”  Jennifer Pickett, a spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-based
QinetiQ  North America , didn’t immediately respond to e-mail and
phone messages seeking comment about the Pentagon’s probe.
Pickett declined to comment on Bloomberg’s May 2 story, citing a
company policy to not discuss security measures.  QinetiQ is only one target in a broader online campaign.
Beginning at least as early as 2007, Chinese computer spies
raided the data of almost every major U.S. defense contractor
and made off with some of the country’s most closely guarded
technological secrets, according to two former Pentagon
officials who asked not to be named because damage assessments
of the incidents remain classified.  New Accusations  Chinese cyber-spying appears even broader. The Pentagon
released a report yesterday accusing China’s military of
targeting U.S. government computers to bolster its defense and
technology industries and to support military planning.  “China is using its computer network exploitation
capability to support intelligence collection against the U.S.
diplomatic, economic, and defense industrial base sectors that
support U.S. national defense programs,” the report said.  In the QinetiQ case, investigators eventually identified
the Shanghai-based hackers that broke into QinetiQ as a crack
team, nicknamed the Comment Crew by security experts. That team
has also hit major corporations and political figures. At least
one other Chinese hacking team also may have been involved,
according to a person familiar with the investigation.  In a Feb. 18 report, Mandiant, an Alexandria, Virginia-
based security firm, attributed 141 major cyber-attacks to the
Comment Crew without naming the targets. Mandiant identified the
Comment Crew as the People’s Liberation Army Unit 61398, which
is similar in some respects to the U.S. National Security
Agency. Mandiant’s report prompted Tom Donilon, President
Obama’s national security adviser, to call on China to stop the
hacking of U.S. companies.  Jeopardized Secrets  The spying operation on QinetiQ jeopardized the company’s
sensitive technology involving drones, satellites, the U.S.
Army’s combat helicopter fleet and military robotics, according
to internal investigations.  “Cyber-activities are becoming increasingly something that
we need to worry about,” said the Pentagon’s Warren, who
declined to elaborate further on the investigation into QinetiQ.  Federal agencies have known for years that QinetiQ was
losing confidential data. In December 2007, the Naval Criminal
Investigative Service informed QinetiQ that employees in McLean
were losing confidential data from their computers. In September
2010, the FBI called QinetiQ with evidence that its information
was being stolen.  NCIS and FBI representatives have declined to comment on
QinetiQ.  The QinetiQ intrusions haven’t affected the company’s
ability to win government contracts or provide cyber-security to
federal agencies.  In May 2012, QinetiQ received a $4.7 million cyber-security
contract from the U.S. Transportation Department, which includes
protection of the country’s critical transport infrastructure.  For Related News and Information:
China Cyber-spies Outwit U.S. Stealing Vital Military Secrets
{NSN MM6XEQ0D9L35}
Coca-Cola Hacked Doesn’t Get to Shareholders as Firms Won’t Say
{NSN MCZAA50D9L35}
Obama Orders Cyber-security Standards for U.S. Infrastructure
{NSN MI51QQ6K50YK}  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Golden at   dlgolden@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  