-- CIA’s Brennan Picks New Spy Chief Passing Over a Woman
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-05-08T04:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/cia-s-brennan-picks-new-spy-chief-passing-over-a-woman.html
John Brennan , director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, picked an undercover officer as the new
head of the agency’s national clandestine service, passing over
a woman who had been serving as the acting chief.  The new head of the clandestine service, which oversees
covert operations and recruits foreign spies, is a man who has
been a long-serving officer with “rich, substantive and
operational experiences worldwide” during his almost 30-year
CIA career, agency spokeswoman Maria Escalante said yesterday in
an e-mail. This is the first time since 2007 that a serving
officer rather than a retired spy has been named to the job,
Escalante said.  The woman who held the job in an acting capacity also
remains undercover and is a “highly valued officer,” Escalante
said. Both people remain undercover so they weren’t identified
by the agency.  The acting chief wasn’t chosen because she was associated
with the CIA’s interrogation program, which is said to have
resorted to torture to elicit information from al-Qaeda
suspects, said Reuel Marc Gerecht, a former CIA case officer
who’s now a fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies.  The CIA’s Escalante disputed that view, saying the woman
wasn’t overlooked because of that past association.  “The assertion that she was not chosen because of her
affiliation with the CT mission is absolutely not true,”
Escalante said referring to counterterrorism.  Gerecht said he didn’t know the woman involved “but I’ve
spoken to two active officers and both have nice things to say”
about her.  Senate Democrats  Because the job of the spy division chief involves working
with Congress, Brennan probably didn’t want a person that Senate
Democrats don’t like, Gerecht said.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , chairman of the Senate
Intelligence committee, had spoken with Brennan about the woman
who was under consideration for the spy chief’s job, “but
hasn’t spelled out what her concerns were,” the senator’s
spokesman Brian Weiss said in a phone interview.  Feinstein, a California Democrat, is “supportive of the
appointment” announced yesterday by Brennan, Weiss said.  In December, the committee headed by Feinstein completed a
a three-year investigation into the CIA’s detention and
interrogation program that followed the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks.  The 6,000-page report, which remains classified, uncovered
“startling details” about the agency’s operations and “raises
critical questions about intelligence operations and
oversight,” Feinstein said in  a statement  at the time.  Brennan also announced two other top appointments at the
CIA, both of them women, Escalante said. Meroe Park, who is
currently head of the agency’s human resources, will become the
 executive director , and Deb Bonk will be the next chief of
staff, Escalante said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  