-- Citigroup Names Wieting Chief Strategist for Private Banking
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-05-07T16:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/citigroup-names-wieting-chief-strategist-for-private-banking-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S.
lender, named Steven Wieting global chief strategist of its
private bank, the unit that claims relationships with a third of
all billionaires.  Wieting will provide views and investing ideas to the
business and its clients, the New York-based bank said today in
a statement. Wieting, 42, a managing director and U.S. economist
in the Citi Research unit, will report to Eduardo Martinez Campos, the private bank’s global head of investments, according
to the statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  and private bank
head Jane Fraser oversaw a January shakeup in how the firm
crafts investing ideas for its wealthiest clients. The lender
fired Richard Cookson, the unit’s chief investment officer, and
told employees that it would no longer rely on one person for
“investment strategy and asset allocation,” Fraser wrote at
the time.  “Steven is an economist, investment professional and
thought leader of the highest caliber, and we are happy to bring
his extensive experience at Citi and elsewhere to this pivotal
role,” Martinez Campos said in the statement. “Our clients
around the world will benefit from his investment views and
strategies on both a macro basis and across asset classes.”  Wieting’s position is a new role, said Natalie Marin, a
spokeswoman for Citigroup. He joined the Smith Barney brokerage
unit in 1996 and was appointed as lead economist for the bank’s
U.S. institutional-equities business in 2000, according to the
statement.  Citigroup’s private bank advises some of the world’s most
affluent families on “how to create, manage and enhance their
wealth,” according to its  website . The unit had revenue of $629
million in the first quarter, a 5 percent increase from a year
earlier, according to a financial supplement. The bank doesn’t
disclose the division’s profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  