-- Weatherproofing Cities to Face Future Sandys
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-05-07T22:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/cities-need-the-resilience-to-face-future-sandys.html
Whether or not  Hurricane Sandy  had a
connection to climate change, climate change will make future
Hurricane Sandys more common, imposing enormous costs on cities.  Since we seem to lack the will to reduce this threat by
cutting greenhouse-gas emissions, we should at least make
ourselves more resilient to severe weather.  So it’s encouraging to see cities and states worldwide work
on better protecting themselves from storms. Rotterdam, for one,
has set a goal of being “ climate-proof ” by 2025. It is, among
other things, building climate-proof architecture. One example
of what this city is aiming for is the already-existing  Floating
Pavilion  -- three bubble-like hemispheres that, as the name
implies, float on the river, making it impervious to flood
surges. Many other such structures are in the planning stages.  Rising water caused by increased rainfall is one of the
main threats that climate change poses to cities. Increasing
concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere could raise
water-vapor levels by as much as 30 percent, new  research  from
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has found.
As a result,  says  Kenneth Kunkel of the National Climatic Data
Center, “We have high confidence that the most extreme rainfalls
will become even more intense, as it is virtually certain that
the atmosphere will provide more water to fuel these events.”  Polluted Runoff  Heavy rains in cities whose stormwater and sewage systems
are linked, in turn, can overwhelm water-treatment capacity,
causing flooding and contamination. When rains are heavy in
Philadelphia, for example, the runoff from roads and buildings
 overwhelms  the city’s water-treatment facility. This is why,
each year, 13 billion gallons of a nasty mix of polluted water
and untreated sewage flow into the city’s waterways.  Philadelphia is responding with a new set of incentives.
Most cities charge each property a stormwater fee based on
potable water usage -- even though usage has little or nothing
to do with how much the property contributes to stormwater
runoff. A building with a hard parking lot contributes much more
to stormwater runoff than a green property with swales and
infiltration trenches does, regardless of how much water is used
by the occupants.  So Philadelphia is moving toward a  fee  based on the
stormwater attributable to a property. The city will use
software that enables it to map a property’s area and measure
how much of it is “impervious” to stormwater, in that it
prevents the water from soaking into the ground. The larger the
share of impervious area, the higher the fee.  This should give fee payers an incentive to make their
properties more absorbent and to adopt other strategies to
reduce runoff. And there is much more that can be done.  A recent brief published by the Natural Resources Defense
Council, Eko Asset Management Partners and the Nature
Conservancy proposes that cities aggregate retrofitting projects
into bundles for financing, to bolster the attractiveness of the
individual projects. It also proposes a trading system -- so
that if I’m willing to reduce the runoff from your building, I
can finance that improvement and get credit for it on my own
stormwater charge.  These ideas are all worth trying. Many of them have been
discussed this week at a conference of mayors and private-sector
leaders, convened by President Bill Clinton and  New York  Mayor
Michael Bloomberg, focused on how to build resilient urban
infrastructure.  Making our cities more resilient to stormwater is the type
of “no regrets” effort that would make sense even in the absence
of climate change. At the same time, as we work to manage the
risks, we shouldn’t lose sight of the need to also reduce the
threat of climate change itself. Attaching a price to carbon --
through either a national carbon tax or a permit-trading system
-- could raise hundreds of billions of dollars a year while
cutting greenhouse-gas emissions. And some of the revenue could
be invested in making U.S. cities more resilient.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  