-- CMIA Targets $150 Million for New China Private-Equity Fund
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-05-07T02:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/cmia-targets-150-million-for-new-china-private-equity-fund.html
CMIA Capital Partners Pte, run by
former bankers at Cargill Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc, plans to
raise $150 million for a private-equity fund by the end of the
year to invest in Chinese agricultural businesses.  About 20 percent, or $30 million, of CMIA  China  Fund IV LP
has already been invested in three companies, including
Zhongtian Longzhou Agricultural Equipment Co., a farming machine
maker, and Lvya Mushroom Co., producers of king oyster
mushrooms, Co-Founder Lee Chong Min said. The fund will focus on
agricultural, agribusiness and food industries that are expected
to benefit from the country’s growing middle class, he said.  China’s domestic consumption is expected to grow as the
Communist Party leadership is seeking to maintain a six-decade-
long grip on power and sustain the nation’s expansion by
boosting domestic demand. The government in February approved an
income distribution plan as part of its efforts to boost minimum
wages to at least 40 percent of average salaries.  “Our investments are all related to China’s consumption
story,” Lee said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.
“Domestic spending will be the big theme over the coming years
after the expansion of the industrial sector.”  The fund, which is the company’s fourth, targets an
internal rate of return of between 25 percent and 30 percent,
said Lee. Singapore-based CMIA plans the fund to be fully
invested by 2015 and hold each investment for between four and
five years, he said.  Including the new pool, CMIA will have raised about $500
million since its inception in 2003, Lee said. Of the four
funds, the first two have been fully divested and returned, he
said, adding that the average gross internal rate of return of
CMIA’s investments so far is 24 percent.  CMIA was founded by Anson Wang, who previously worked as a
regional managing director at HSBC Asset Management in  Hong
Kong , and Lee, formerly the head of equity investment and
trading for the Asia-Pacific region at commodity-trader Cargill
in Singapore, according to CMIA’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  