-- Coal Mines’ Methane Curbs Fall Victim to EPA Budget Cuts
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-07T19:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/coal-mines-methane-curbs-fall-victim-to-epa-budget-cuts.html
Methane emissions from coal mines
escaped being curbed by the Environmental Protection Agency,
which said mandatory U.S. budget cuts didn’t leave it with the
resources to determine if the pollution is a significant risk.  The EPA rejected a petition from environmental groups,
which three years ago asked the agency to limit the  greenhouse
gases  released from the mines.  “The agency must prioritize its regulatory actions. This
is especially the case in light of limited resources and ongoing
budget uncertainties,” acting EPA Administrator Bob Perciasepe
wrote in a letter to Edward Zukoski, a lawyer for the
environmental group Earthjustice. “In the future, the EPA may
initiate the process for such a determination, but the agency
has decided that it will not do so now.”  The denial, set to be published tomorrow in the Federal
Register, is at least the fourth category of emitters the agency
has refused to regulate, disappointing groups and some lawmakers
who say that EPA needs to take bolder, quicker action to combat
the threat of global warming. EPA turned down a petition to curb
emissions from aircraft, ships and off-highway trucks in June.  “The threat of  climate change  is so large and the window
for action is so narrow that we do not have the luxury of
ignoring any significant source of emissions,” Representative
 Henry Waxman  of  California  and Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse  of
 Rhode Island , both Democrats, wrote today in a letter to
Perciasepe, protesting the coal-mine decision on coal mines.  2010 Request  Earthjustice and other groups asked the EPA in 2010 to
mandate cuts in methane emissions from coal mines. After carbon
dioxide, methane is the most prevalent greenhouse gas and is a
more potent trigger for global warming, although it dissipates
in the atmosphere quickly. Methane is also an explosive hazard
and can cause ground-level smog, the groups said in their filing
with the agency.  The EPA has already set vehicle standards that will double
the fuel-efficiency of automobiles by 2025. The EPA missed the
deadline to issue the first rules for carbon-dioxide emissions
from new  power plants . Critics say the standard would prevent
construction of coal-fired plants. Environmental groups and
utilities are preparing for the EPA to issue rules to limit such
gases from existing plants, a rule the agency said yesterday it
is  “not currently developing .”  Together vehicles and coal plants account for 60 percent of
U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions, according to Perciasepe.  In contrast to the electricity-generating companies, the
coal mines category represents about 1 percent of total
emissions, according to EPA data.  “The EPA believes that a step-by-step approach, starting
with these largest sources and sectors, such as transportation
and electricity systems, is the most appropriate course to
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions,” he wrote in his letter, dated
April 30.  In the June statement, the EPA said it had no plans to
regulate emissions from ships or mining vehicles. For aircraft,
a review of whether to regulate emissions might take years, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  