-- Colorado Theater Killing Suspect Holmes to Plead Insanity
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2013-05-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/colorado-theater-shooting-suspect-holmes-to-enter-insanity-plea.html
James Holmes, facing a death penalty
trial on charges that he murdered 12 people in a shooting
rampage at a  Colorado  movie theater in July, will plead not
guilty by reason of insanity, his lawyers said.  Holmes’s attorneys, in a filing yesterday in Colorado state
court in Centennial, held out the possibility that he will raise
constitutional objections to the state’s capital punishment law
as the case heads towards trial.  Judge Carlos A. Samour Jr. said in an order yesterday that
he will consider whether there is “good cause” to let Holmes,
25, enter an insanity plea based on arguments from both defense
lawyers and prosecutors at a May 13 hearing.  Given Holmes’s previous claims that the death penalty law
is unconstitutional, his lawyers decided “they are going to go
ahead and enter the plea with the understanding that they are
not giving up the right to challenge the statute at a later
time,” Karen Steinhauser, a former Denver prosecutor now in
private practice, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Holmes will probably be the first defendant in a Colorado
capital case to challenge the constitutionality of the state’s
insanity-defense laws, and such a challenge will delay a trial,
Steinhauser said in a previous interview.  Mental Health  “In this type of case, the defenses to homicide are either
‘I didn’t do it,’ or ‘I did it but it was justified,’ or ‘I did
it but I was insane at the time,’” Steinhauser said yesterday.
In light of Holmes’s mental-health history, “I don’t think it’s
a surprise that the defense has entered a plea of not guilty by
reason of insanity,” she said.  Lisa Pinto, a spokeswoman for the Arapahoe County District
Attorney’s office, said in an e-mail yesterday that a pretrial
order from the court bars prosecutors from commenting on the
case.  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado, Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder
and attempted murder. In addition to the 12 people killed, 70
were injured in the July 20 shooting spree at a midnight
screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in a  Cinemark Holdings
Inc. (CNK)  theater in Aurora, Colorado, a suburb of Denver.  Prosecutors in March rejected an offer from Holmes to plead
guilty and spend his life in prison without any chance of parole
in exchange for sparing him from the death penalty.  Public Defenders  Public defenders representing Holmes have already objected
to a provision blocking Holmes from calling witnesses to present
evidence about his mental condition if he doesn’t cooperate with
court- appointed psychiatrists. Under Colorado law,
psychiatrists are permitted to require Holmes to submit to
interviews under the influence of a so-called truth serum,
according to Steinhauser.  The judge who previously handled the case, William
Sylvester, entered a not guilty plea on Holmes’s behalf at his
March arraignment. Sylvester also ruled that prosecutors may
require Holmes to submit to a “narcoanalytic interview” under
the influence of “medically appropriate” drugs. Such drugs can
enable a person to recall something they’re having difficulty
remembering, Steinhauser said.  Sylvester last month reassigned the case to Samour, who
scheduled the trial for Aug. 5, saying it will last four months.
Holmes’s lawyers sought a trial date in the summer or fall of
2014, arguing it will last nine months.  There are currently three men on Colorado’s death row,
according to the state’s corrections department.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  