-- Commerzbank Posts Second Quarterly Loss on Staff Reductions
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-05-07T08:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/commerzbank-posts-second-straight-quarterly-loss-on-staff-cuts.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the German bank that
got 18.2 billion euros ($23.8 billion) in state aid, reported a
loss for the second consecutive quarter after booking costs
associated with firing staff.  The net loss of 94 million euros in the first three months
of the year compared with a profit of 355 million euros a year
earlier, the Frankfurt-based bank said in a statement today.
That beat the average estimate for a 153.7 million-euro loss of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg as the lender’s corporates
and markets unit boosted earnings.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  is reducing
employees across the firm and asking shareholders to contribute
to a 2.5 billion-euro capital increase to repay the German
government and insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)  Blessing said today that the
reorganization will start bearing fruit in 2014 as the bank sees
revenue pressure, higher provisions and costs this year. He
hasn’t paid a dividend since the financial crisis.  “The company is essentially doing the right things given
the circumstances,” Otto Waser, chief investment officer at
Research & Asset Management AG in Zurich, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television, adding that he’s uncertain about the
quality of Commerzbank’s assets and capital position. “This is
a difficult story.”  Strategic Agenda  Commerzbank rose 1 percent to 10.92 euros by 10:09 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading, valuing the company at 6.4 billion euros. The
stock has slumped 24 percent this year compared with an 8.4
percent gain in the 40-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index . Five capital increases since 2008 have
erased more than 93 percent of the bank’s share price, making it
the worst performing financial company in  Europe  outside of
Ireland and  Greece .  In addition to cutting as many as 6,000 jobs by 2016,
Blessing, appointed five years ago, is shutting unprofitable
shipping and real estate units to help reverse the company’s
fortunes. Commerzbank said it booked a 493 million-euro charge
in the first quarter for restructuring such as cutting staff.  The bank made “considerable progress in the consistent
reduction of our non-strategic activities,” Blessing said in
the statement. “The clear focus this year lies on the
implementation of the strategic agenda. The positive effects
from this should increasingly become visible from the coming
year onwards.”  Divisional Earnings  Operating profit at the corporate clients unit, known as
the Mittelstandsbank, fell 33 percent to 325 million euros on
lower revenue and higher loan-loss provisions. The private
customers unit saw earnings slump 49 percent to 70 million euros
as revenue fell and provisions rose. The corporates and markets
division reported a ninefold jump in operating profit to 271
million euros as the market environment improved and customer
activity increased. The company also booked a gain of 25 million
euros at the securities unit related to the valuation of its own
debt.  “The drastic decline in earnings at the Mittelstandsbank
is disappointing as this is the business that people own
Commerzbank for,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst
at Kepler Cheuvreux with a reduce rating on the stock.
“Commerzbank managed to build up an investment banking business
that works for them, but that’s not a reason to buy the
shares.”  Angry Shareholders  The firm’s non-core assets unit, where it bundles public
and commercial real estate and ship financing, had an operating
loss of 87 million euros, compared with a loss of 454 million
euros in the first quarter of 2012. Total non-core assets were
lowered by 7.3 billion euros since the end of 2012 to about 143
billion euros.  Angry shareholders criticized Blessing at an annual general
meeting on April 19, saying their investments had all but
evaporated. Several called on the management to resign.
Blessing’s predecessor Klaus-Peter Mueller, who made investments
in property and shipping that later turned sour, is still
employed by the bank as chairman of the supervisory board,
responsible for overseeing operations and making changes to the
executive board.  “Capital is improving with the proposed rights issue, but
the ensuing dilution further pressures earnings,” Francesca Tondi, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London  who has an
underweight recommendation on the stock, said in an e-mailed
report before the earnings were released. “There is a large de-
leveraging still to execute.”  Capital Ratio  The company’s common equity ratio under fully applied Basel
III capital rules, a benchmark measure of financial strength,
was 7.5 percent compared with 7.6 percent on Dec. 31, it said.
Commerzbank is using the capital increase to boost this ratio by
about 1 percentage point and help it reach a target of 9 percent
by the end of 2014.  Shareholders will be able to subscribe to the new shares
from mid-May to early June, according to Commerzbank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  