-- Commodity Slump Clouds Outlook for African Policy Makers
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-05-08T05:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/commodity-slump-clouds-outlook-for-african-policy-makers.html
Sliding prices for the commodities
that have underpinned Africa’s expansion for more than a decade
are threatening to check economic progress in the world’s
poorest continent.  African leaders including  South Africa ’s Jacob Zuma and
Nigeria’s Goodluck Jonathan, policy makers and executives of
companies such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  are meeting
in  Cape Town  at the  World Economic Forum  at a time when slowing
global demand curbs a rally in commodities from gold to  oil .
Talks on ways to diversify African economies and increase
investment will top the agenda at the two-day summit that begins
tomorrow.  “We are entering a period of sustained uncertainty for
commodities,” Claude Baissac, the founder of country-risk
consultants Eunomix, said in a May 6 interview from
Johannesburg. “Africa is extremely vulnerable. The commodities
boom has helped underpin a broader expansion in retail,
financial services and telecommunications. A sustained decline
in prices could see growth stall across the board.”  The size of sub-Saharan Africa’s economy has more than
tripled since 2000 to about $1.33 trillion last year, spurred by
increased demand for its minerals and oil from Asia, according
to accounting firm Ernst & Young. Growth is forecast to
accelerate to 5.6 percent this year, the fastest pace of any
region in the world after countries in “emerging Asia,” and
reach 6.1 percent in 2014, the  International Monetary Fund  said
on April 16.  Oil Slump  Gold fell 7.8 percent last month, including the biggest
two-day drop in more than three decades, while prices of metals
ranging from copper to platinum slid. Oil has declined 9.9
percent in London since Feb. 1, while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 commodities is down 6.8 percent over the
period.  The spot price of gold was at $1,453.58 an ounce as of 6:40
a.m. in London.  While natural resources accounted for an average 14 percent
of sub-Saharan Africa’s gross domestic product between 2000 and
2011, according to the  World Bank , economies in countries such
as Nigeria, Zambia, Botswana and Angola are dominated by
commodities. Oil accounts for about 80 percent of government
revenue in Nigeria, while diamonds make up about 40 percent of
Botswana’s income.  A sustained slump in gold prices threatens to shut down
mines and curb investment in Tanzania, Africa’s fourth-largest
producer of the metal, Ally Samaje, the country’s acting mineral
commissioner, said on April 16.  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG) , the
biggest producer of the metal in Tanzania, operates four mines
in the country, while  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  has one.  Mining Dependents  African mining should survive the metal price slump,
provided governments resist adopting a short-term approach of
extracting as much as they can from their minerals through
taxes, discouraging investment, said Alan Bird, head of Bain
Consulting’s global mining practice.  “You have to think long term,” he said in a phone
interview from London yesterday. “You can’t just look at what
you are getting from mining itself. There are about two or three
separate studies that say for every person who is directly
employed in mining, you are probably supporting 26 or 27
ancillary workers or dependents.”  Zimbabwe is considering imposing a resource rent tax, a
draft of a new minerals policy obtained by Bloomberg this week
shows.  Global FDI  Companies and investors are increasingly looking for
opportunities in Africa beyond its mineral endowment.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, and
 Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-largest private-equity firm, are
among those who have bought stakes in businesses with potential
to tap rising wealth and  consumer spending  among Africa’s one
billion people.  “The opportunities for investment are huge,” South
African President  Jacob Zuma  said in an April 24 interview in
Cape Town. “We are opening up massive infrastructure programs
that need investment. We are integrating the economic regions
and creating a bigger kind of market to operate in.”  South Africa is spending about 800 billion rand on
infrastructure including  power plants , rail and ports.  Africa is attracting a greater share of global foreign
direct investment, amounting to 5.6 percent last year from 3.2
percent in 2007, Ernst & Young said in its 2013 Africa
Attractiveness Survey, released on May 6. Companies initiated
764 new projects on the continent last year, down from 867 in
2011, a decline in line with global trends, it said.  “Sub-Saharan Africa’s resilience and growth are not simply
a matter of rising commodity exports,”  David Lipton , the IMF’s
first deputy managing director, said in a May 6 speech in
Maputo, Mozambique. “With rising educational standards, young
populations increasingly are taking advantage of the new
economic opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  