-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Increases Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-07T20:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-increases-less-than-forecast.html
Consumer borrowing  in the U.S. climbed
less than projected in March as Americans reduced credit-card
purchases for the first time this year.  The $7.97 billion increase followed an $18.6 billion
advance the previous month that was the biggest since May 2012,
Federal Reserve figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a $15.6 billion rise.
Revolving credit, which includes credit-card spending, fell,
while  non-revolving  borrowing rose.  The tempering of credit-card use coincides with a slowdown
in March consumer spending amid higher payroll taxes and limited
 income growth . At the same time, rising stock prices and home
values are enabling households to repair finances, putting them
in a position to take advantage of low borrowing costs for
purchases such as new cars.  “The month-to-month volatility doesn’t change the
picture,” Sam Coffin, an economist for UBS Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said before today’s report. “Household
balance sheets have been improving quite a bit. Gains in home
and equity prices are helping.”  Estimates of the 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from gains of $11 billion to $20 billion.  Stocks climbed, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
its fourth-straight record close, on optimism over global
central bank stimulus and better-than-estimated corporate
earnings. The S&P 500 increased 0.5 percent to 1,625.96 at the
close in New York.  Credit Cards  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, decreased by
$1.71 billion following a $452.7 million increase.  Personal spending in March rose 0.2 percent after a 0.7
percent gain in the prior month, the Commerce Department said on
April 29. Incomes increased 0.2 percent following a 1.1 percent
advance.  Non-revolving debt, such as that for college tuition and
the purchase of vehicles and mobile homes, increased $9.68
billion, today’s report showed.  Lending to consumers by the federal government, which is
mainly for student loans, rose by $3.9 billion before adjusting
for seasonal variations.  Americans returning to school are relying on student loans
as job opportunities remain restrained. A Labor Department
report today showed the number of  positions  waiting to be filled
fell to 3.84 million in March from a revised 3.9 million the
prior month that was the most since May 2008. The report also
showed hiring decelerated and firings climbed.  Auto Sales  Demand for automobiles remains an area of strength for the
economy. Cars and light trucks sold at an average  15.3 million 
annualized rate in the first quarter, the most since the same
period in 2008, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.
In April, vehicle sales cooled to a 14.9 million pace.  “We’re seeing this continued strength of full-size pickup
sales, particularly supported by the housing recovery and also
the boom in the energy sector,” Jenny Lin, Dearborn, Michigan-
based Ford’s senior U.S. economist, said on a May 1 conference
call. “The housing sector recovery is in full-swing.”  The Fed’s consumer credit report doesn’t track debt secured
by real estate, such as home-equity lines of credit and home
mortgages.  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, is being underpinned by the recovery in housing and
stock market gains. Residential  real-estate prices  increased in
February by the most since May 2006, with the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities up 9.3 percent from a year
ago.  Consumer wealth is also getting a lift as U.S. stocks are
in the fifth year of a bull market amid better-than-estimated
corporate earnings and three rounds of bond purchases by the
Fed. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  has advanced 13.4 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  