-- Copper Declines as German Manufacturing Orders May Have Dropped
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-07T06:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/copper-declines-as-german-manufacturing-orders-may-have-dropped.html
Copper fell for a second day in  New
York  before a report that may show a decline in manufacturing
orders in Germany, the third-largest user of the metal.  Orders dropped 0.5 percent in March from a 2.3 percent gain
the month earlier, a report at 11 a.m. London time may show.
Australia reduced its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of
2.75 percent in an economy where inflation is contained, mining
spending is predicted to crest and credit growth remains
subdued.  “Aggregate economic momentum is still generally soft,”
Andrew Shaw, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group in  Singapore ,
said by e-mail today. “The markets seem to be swinging gently
from one news point to another.”  Copper for delivery in July fell 0.9 percent to $3.2805 a
pound by 2:54 a.m. on the Comex in New York after falling 0.1
percent yesterday. Prices on the London Metal Exchange, which
was closed for a holiday yesterday, were down 0.6 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that further interest-rate cuts are possible after reducing them
to a record low last week.  China’s customs department will release April trade data
tomorrow and the statistics bureau will announce consumer and
producer price growth on May 9.  “Base metals remain highly leveraged to China demand, but
rising inventory levels have increased the influence of supply
conditions lately,” Mark Parvan, an analyst at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , wrote in a report today.  On the LME, aluminum, zinc, nickel, lead and tin also fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  