-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Drop for Fourth Day; Hyatt Issues Bonds
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-07T21:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-for-fourth-straight-day.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
fell for a fourth straight day as investors speculated company
profits are strong enough to prevent default rates from rising.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.7 basis points to a mid-price of 68.9 basis points at 4:11
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure is at its lowest level since November 2007, as
about 72 percent of companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
that have posted earnings since April 8 exceeded profit
projections,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The results are
buoying investor confidence that company default rates will hold
below historical averages.  “Corporate credit has the advantages of strong balance
sheets,”  Michael Kraft , a  money manager  at Vanderbilt Avenue
Asset Management LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“You’ve still got very healthy U.S. companies and
multinationals. The jury’s still out on whether this is a
temporary euphoria or a permanent return to tighter levels.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Hyatt Offering  The speculative-grade default rate in the U.S. fell to 2.9
percent in the first quarter from 3.4 percent the previous
quarter, Moody’s Investors Service said April 8. The New York-
based ratings company said it expects the figure to fall to 2.6
percent by year-end.  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , the lodging chain controlled by the
Pritzker family, issued bonds to help pay down debt in its first
sale since 2011.  The company sold $350 million of 3.375 percent senior notes
due July 2023 to yield 165 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, according data compiled by Bloomberg.
Proceeds will be used to redeem $250 million of 5.75 percent
bonds due August 2015 and to fund a tender offer for $250
million of 6.875 percent securities due August 2019, Chicago-
based Hyatt said in a regulatory  filing . Any remaining proceeds
will be used for general corporate purposes.  The new bonds are  rated  Baa2 by Moody’s, the credit grader
said in a statement today.  Frontier Swaps  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index declined 4 basis points to 337.2 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show. The measure is the lowest since September
2007, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw
Hill Financial and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The cost to protect against a default by  Frontier
Communications Corp. (FTR)  dropped as the phone, Internet and
television provider booked more broadband subscribers and posted
higher residential and business revenue per customer in its
first quarter.  Five-year credit  swaps  tied to Frontier declined 25.9 basis
points to a mid-price of 348.3 basis points as of 5:01 p.m.,
Bloomberg prices show. That means it would cost the equivalent
of $348,300 annually to protect $10 million of obligations for
five years. The contracts are trading at their lowest level
since July 2011 after falling for 13 straight days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  