-- Credit Agricole First-Quarter Net Rises 51% After Greek Exit
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-05-07T07:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/credit-agricole-first-quarter-profit-rises-51-after-greek-exit.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-
largest bank, said first-quarter profit climbed 51 percent,
helped by the disposal of its unprofitable Greek division.  Net income  rose to 469 million euros ($613 million) from
311 million euros a year earlier, the bank, based in Montrouge
near Paris, said in an e-mailed statement today. That topped the
374.4 million-euro average estimate of eight analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Credit Agricole, led by Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, completed the sale of its Greek consumer-banking unit
Emporiki in February and shut its riskiest investment-banking
businesses. The company now is struggling to contain rising bad-
loan provisions at its unit in Italy, the lender’s biggest
market outside of France.  The first-quarter results showed the “stability” of the
bank’s key businesses following the Emporiki sale, Chifflet, 63,
said on a call with journalists. The CEO reiterated the firm
aims for “significantly positive” net income in 2013 following
two consecutive years of annual deficits.  Credit Agricole  rose 1.1 percent to 7.28 euros by 9:01 a.m.
in Paris trading. The shares have gained 19 percent this year,
giving the bank a market value of about 18.1 billion euros. That
compares with a 7.3 percent increase in the 40-member Bloomberg
 Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index.  Cost Cuts  Credit Agricole, like larger French rivals  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
and  Societe Generale  SA, is pushing through cost cuts as
Europe’s economic crisis threatens to bite into profit. The
lender said in February that it expects to reduce expenses by
650 million euros by 2016 via changes to information-technology
resources, real estate and procurement.  Net income at the corporate and investment bank fell 50
percent to 238 million euros in the quarter, beating analysts
estimates of 193 million euros. Revenue from  capital markets 
fell 31 percent, while corporate-lending sales dropped 14
percent, it said.  Credit Agricole aims to reach a 12 percent return on
equity, a profitability measure, at the corporate and investment
bank over the “medium term” by cutting fixed costs by about 15
percent compared with 2011, the firm said in March.  Credit Agricole Group, the entity regulators look at to
gauge capital and liquidity, had a Basel III core Tier 1 ratio
of 9.6 percent as of March 31. The bank maintained its year-end
goal of a 10 percent ratio.  Economic Slump  The company, like BNP Paribas and Societe Generale, started
trimming its balance sheet in 2011 after French lenders had
access to U.S. dollar funding and European debt markets blocked.
Last year,  France ’s three largest banks shrank risk-weighted
assets by a combined 128 billion euros and cut thousands of
investment-banking jobs.  Now French banks are counting the cost of the economic
slump at home. The economy has barely grown over the past two
years and joblessness is at a record high. The total retail-
banking revenue of the country’s five largest lenders --
including Groupe BPCE and Credit Mutuel-CIC -- last year
declined for the first time in two decades and it will probably
keep falling 1.2 percent annually through 2015, according to
Munich-based Roland Berger Strategy Consultants.  Profit from Credit Agricole’s French regional banks
networks fell 7.7 percent to 343 million euros in the quarter,
while profit at the LCL French consumer-banking  division  dropped
15 percent, the lender said. Bad-loan provisions from the
regional banks was 404 million euros, up 21 percent compared
with a year earlier, LCL’s provisions rose 14 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the company said.  In  Italy , Credit Agricole’s largest market outside of
France, the Cariparma consumer-banking unit had a 28 million-
euro profit, down 9.8 percent from a year earlier. The French
lender also booked 232 million euros in first-quarter bad-loan
provisions at its Italian personal-finance unit Agos Ducato, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  