-- Czech Output Decline Signals Prolonged Recession
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-05-07T10:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/czech-output-decline-signals-prolonged-recession.html
Czech March industrial  output (CZIPITYY)  dropped
more than economists forecast as car production declined, a sign
the longest recession on record is stretching into 2013.  Output fell 6 percent in March from a year earlier after a
5.7 percent decline in the previous month, the statistics office
in Prague said in a statement today. The median  forecast  of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 4.5 percent
contraction.  The $217 billion  economy  has shrunk in five consecutive
quarters through the end of last year, the longest streak since
records began in 1996, as households and businesses spend less
because of  Europe ’s debt crisis and government austerity
measures. The central bank is in uncharted territory after
cutting  interest rates  to effectively zero last year and policy
makers are debating whether currency sales are needed to meet
their inflation goal.  “Czech industry continues to be covered by heavy clouds,”
Patrik Rozumbersky, an analyst at UniCredit Bank  Czech Republic 
AS said in a note today. “The biggest burden is undoubtedly the
situation in the car industry, which is facing the consequences
of declining demand on a pan-European scale. The numbers have
further decreased hope that the recession in the Czech economy
ended in the first quarter.”  The Czech koruna weakened 0.3 percent to 25.757 per euro as
of 11:06 a.m. in Prague today. It has lost 4.8 percent to the
euro since Sept. 17, the day before central bank Governor
Miroslav Singer first said policy makers may sell the currency
to meet their inflation goal. That’s the fourth-worst
performance in that period among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Argentine peso and the
South African rand.  Car Production  Automotive production, the Czech Republic’s largest
manufacturing industry, fell 15.4 percent from a year earlier
and was the biggest contributor to the total output decline, the
statistics office said.  While the foreign trade  surplus  widened to 32.3 billion
koruna ($1.6 billion) in March from 32.1 billion koruna in
February, the result was worse than the median forecast of 36.5
billion-koruna surplus estimated in a Bloomberg  survey  of 13
economists. Exports fell 7.1 percent, declining faster than the
6.5 percent slump in imports, according to the statistics
office.  Worsening forward-looking indicators in  Germany  indicate
weakening demand on the Czech Republic’s largest export market,
according to Jiri Skop, an analyst at Komercni Banka AS in
Prague.  ‘Downward Direction’  “The risks for the second and third quarter are in the
downward direction and they’re stemming from external
environment,” Skop said in a note to clients.  March production data showed a 0.9 percent increase in
foreign orders, which was “good news,” according to Radomir Jac, chief analyst at Generali PPF Asset Management AS in
Prague.  “Let us hope that this indeed represents some silver
lining for performance of Czech industry in the spring months,
that is in the second quarter of the year,” Jac said in an e-
mailed comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  