-- Dangote Secures $4.25 Billion for Nigeria Oil Refinery
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e ,   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-08T09:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/dangote-secures-4-25-billion-for-nigeria-oil-refinery.html
Aliko Dangote,  Africa ’s wealthiest
man, says he has negotiated loans of $4.25 billion from banks to
build a refinery to help the continent’s largest crude oil
producer reduce gasoline imports.  Refining “is an excellent business to get into,” Dangote
said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg TV’s Ryan Chilcote
in Cape Town, where he was attending a business forum. “We have
already secured $4.25 billion -- two offshore banks and the rest
are Nigerian banks.”  Nigeria, a member of the Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries, imports about 70 percent of the oil
products it needs to meet domestic requirements. The nation’s
four refineries process less than the 445,000 barrels a day of
capacity because of aging infrastructure and poor maintenance.
The country exports about four times that volume in crude oil.  “Moving into the oil refinery business is smart as there
is a clear need for investments in this sector to help the
country achieve its GDP growth potential,” Andy Gboka, an
analyst at investment bank Exotix Ltd., said by phone from
 London  today. “The country relies on imports for its own oil
consumption while the country is an oil producer. This is
something which is quite weird if you’re to look on a world-wide
basis.”  Dangote is Africa’s richest person, with an estimated
wealth of $20 billion, and the 34th wealthiest person globally,
on the Bloomberg Billionaires’ Index. Dangote controls  Dangote
Cement Plc (DANGCEM) , Africa’s largest producer of the building material,
through  Dangote Group .  Cement Production  The refinery would be located in the southwest of Africa’s
most populous nation and would be able to process 400,000
barrels of crude a day, Sani Dangote, vice president of the
Dangote Group, said in an interview on April 17.  Dangote Cement will probably list shares in London in the
fourth quarter of 2014 or first three months of 2015, Dangote
said. The share sale would dilute Dangote Industries Ltd.’s
ownership in Dangote Cement to about 70 percent to 75 percent,
he said. Dangote Industries is controlled by Aliko Dangote.  “The company doesn’t need money,” Dangote said. “There
is quite a lot we would leave on the table” if the shares were
sold today, he said.  Dangote Cement is the biggest company by market value in
Nigeria. It  closed trade yesterday  at 175.06 naira in Lagos,
giving it a market value of 2,983 billion naira ($18.9 billion).
The stock has gained 37 percent this year.  Visible Projects  The company plans to boost cement production to about 65
million metric tons to 70 million tons annually by 2015 from
about 20 million tons now, he said. Operations will start in
Cameroon, Zambia and South Africa in 2014, and in the Democratic
Republic of Congo in 2015, Chief Executive Officer Devakumar Edwin said on April 25.  Dangote Cement will boost its total annual output to 55
million tons by 2015 based on its visible projects in Africa,
Edwin said April 25.  “I think 65 to 70 million tons is a bit optimistic,” said
Gboka. “You also have countries like South Africa,  Ethiopia  and
 Tanzania  where Dangote doesn’t really talk about the competition
on the ground and you can be sure in these countries you have
strong competitors which are also strengthening their production
capacity.”  A new plant in  Senegal  was unable to start production as
scheduled in the first quarter because of a dispute over the
land title, Dangote Cement said last week. The company said it’s
working on an “acceptable solution” to the dispute that would
allow the site to begin operations within weeks.  Dangote said he will announce an additional $350 million
investment in Zambia today, raising the investment in a cement
plant there to about $750 million. The plant will produce about
1.5 million tons a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Chilcote in Cape Town at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Cape Town at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  