-- Debt-Repair Firm Charged in First CFPB Criminal Referral
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-05-07T13:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/debt-repair-firm-charged-in-first-cfpb-criminal-referral.html
A debt-settlement company was accused
by the U.S. of defrauding more than 1,200 people struggling with
credit-card debt, in the first criminal referral from the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office today
announced the unsealing of an indictment against Mission
Settlement Agency, its manager, Michael Levitis, and three
employees. Prosecutors said the defendants “systematically
exploited and defrauded” people across the country.  “Preying upon the financial desperation of individuals
struggling to pay their credit card debts, the defendants
falsely and fraudulently tricked over a thousand such
individuals into becoming Mission’s customer with significant --
but false -- assurances about Mission’s ability to help,”
according to the indictment.  The case against Mission is the first criminal referral
from the CFPB, according to the U.S. attorney’s office. In
December, a Florida debt-relief company, Payday Loan Debt
Solution Inc., was ordered to pay as much as $100,000 in refunds
to customers under the first joint enforcement action between
the agency and states.  No Work  Mission and its employees lied about its fees, taking
thousands of dollars from funds that its customers had set aside
because they believed the money would be used to pay creditors,
according to the indictment. For the majority of customers,
Mission did little or no work and failed to reduce debt,
prosecutors said.  Levitis spent money from Mission on the expenses of a
nightclub he controlled, lease payments for two Mercedes-Benz
cars and credit-card bills for his mother, according to the
indictment.  A woman who answered the phone at the number listed on
Mission’s website declined to comment on the charges. The
company operated out of offices in Manhattan and  Brooklyn ,
according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Mission Settlement Agency, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  