-- Dijsselbloem Says EU Needs Common Deposit Backstop in Long Run
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-05-07T12:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/dijsselbloem-says-eu-needs-common-deposit-backstop-in-long-run.html
Common deposit guarantees will be
necessary to complete the European banking union project, Dutch
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said.  “That will be the final building block of the banking
union, a necessary block,” Dijsselbloem, who heads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said at a conference in Brussels
today. Precursors include new rules on bank resolution, common
standards for national deposit guarantees and a European bank
resolution scheme that is due to be proposed in June, he said.  The euro area needs to press ahead with creating new tools
to recapitalize banks, such as rules for when the European
Stability Mechanism can provide direct aid, Dijsselbloem said.
“We need to have the instruments to deal with the problems,
because just exposing problems in banks and not having an
answer” for recapitalizing them “would be very dangerous.”  European Union leaders began work on a banking union last
year to break the cycle of contagion between nations and their
banks that has plagued the euro area in the past three years.
Leaders started by giving the European Central Bank bank
supervision powers throughout the euro area.  The next step will be a June proposal for a single
resolution mechanism, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today. Common  deposit insurance 
isn’t out of the question, he said.  “‘We are ready to contemplate what kind of proposal for a
single deposit guarantee scheme we will make,’’ once bank
resolution plans have advanced, he said.  EU Treaties  EU leaders have set a June deadline for governments and the
European Parliament to agree on a bank failure law that lays the
groundwork for the forthcoming Europe-wide bank resolution
scheme. In the absence of common rules, European Commission data
show the bloc’s governments have injected 1.7 trillion euros
($2.2 trillion) into their banks since 2008.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today that
the EU must press ahead with banking union as much as it can
under the bloc’s current treaties.  Germany  has been one of the
leading skeptics on the next steps in the project, saying EU
treaties don’t offer enough of a legal framework for some of the
proposed common elements.  ‘‘We can’t wait, given the inertia we have in  Europe , until
we achieve treaty changes to solve current problems,” Schaeuble
said in Berlin. “Therefore we need to do the best we can on the
basis of the existing treaties.”  ‘Risk of Contamination’  EU lawmakers and national governments agreed on March 19 to
a provisional deal to turn the Frankfurt-based ECB into the
euro-area bank supervisor. Dijsselbloem said today that the ECB
will need to review asset quality as soon as it takes up its new
duties, noting that there is “still the risk of contamination
between banks.”  The ECB has said if depositors are protected consistently
across the  euro zone , including guarantees for small accounts
and preference for uninsured depositors over other types of
unsecured creditors, further measures aren’t needed for now.  The current EU deposit-guarantee proposal “provides a
harmonized framework and should help shore up confidence in
national schemes,” said ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  in
a  March speech . “This means that a single European scheme is
not an essential component of banking union in the short term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  