-- Disney’s Second-Quarter Net Rises 32% as Park Guests Splurge
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-08T13:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/disney-s-second-quarter-net-rises-32-as-parks-films-spur-gains.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest
entertainment company, said fiscal second-quarter profit rose 32
percent, beating analysts’ estimates as guests splurged at theme
parks in  California  and  Florida .  Net income grew to $1.51 billion, or 83 cents a share, from
$1.14 billion, or 63 cents, a year earlier, Burbank, California-based Disney said yesterday in a  statement . Excluding items,
profit of 79 cents beat the 77-cent average of 27 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  New features at Disney parks, such as the Cars Land
attraction based on Pixar movies, delivered 73 percent higher
profit for the division and the fastest revenue growth for the
company at 14 percent. Higher attendance and guest spending,
along with the addition of the Disney Fantasy cruise ship,
spurred the gains, the company said.  “The Disney machine is churning out the benefits which
come from courageous capital investments in the difficult
stretch from 2008 to 2011,” William W. Smead, chief executive
officer of Smead Capital Management Inc., a shareholder in
 Seattle , said in an e-mail.  Operating profit at the namesake theme parks soared to $383
million, Disney said. Revenue totaled $3.3 billion. The  company 
has spent $9.45 billion expanding and improving its parks,
resorts and other properties over the past three years,
financial reports show. First-half outlays declined 47 percent
to $1.12 billion, the company said.  Film Division  Disney fell 1.3 percent to $65.23 at 9:52 a.m. in  New York .
The stock reached $66.07 yesterday, an all-time closing high.
Before today, it had gained 33 percent this year, the second-best performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , which had
increased 15 percent.  Disney’s film studio posted profit of $118 million,
compared with an $84 million loss a year ago after writing down
the theatrical flop “ John Carter .” Revenue increased 13
percent to $1.34 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger ’s film unit led the
industry with the top-grossing movie for the three months ended
March 31, “Oz the Great and Powerful,” and is building
momentum now with Marvel’s “Iron Man 3,” already at the top of
the worldwide box office after just days in theaters.  “Iron Man 3” kicked off the summer movie season on May 3,
registering $174.1 million in domestic weekend ticket sales,
according to Hollywood.com Box-Office, a haul bested only by
last year’s “Marvel’s The Avengers,” also from Disney.  Disney’s Networks  Disney’s  media  networks division, ABC, ESPN and the Disney
channel, registered a 7.7 percent gain in profit to $1.86
billion as revenue increased 5.6 percent to $4.96 billion. ABC’s
profit fell 40 percent while earnings from cable networks grew
15 percent.  In consumer products, profit rose 35 percent to $200
million on sales of Disney and Marvel branded merchandise that
boosted divisional revenue 12 percent to $763 million.  Disney’s resorts in  Orlando , Florida, and Anaheim,
California, set attendance records in the quarter, Iger said
yesterday on a conference call, benefiting from improvements at
Fantasyland in Walt Disney World and at California Adventure.
Attendance at the parks rose 8 percent in the quarter, while
spending increased 10 percent.  “I don’t think there’s any other way to describe the
results at parks and resorts than it was a tremendous quarter,”
Iger said.  ‘Wallet Share’  The parks should show more improvement in fiscal 2014 as
Disney rolls out a new system to let tourists book rides and
other attractions in advance, Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo
said. That will let guests spend more time at Disney properties,
and less at competitors’, Rasulo said.  “We get more time with them, we get a bigger share of
their wallet,” Rasulo said.  The company’s ESPN unit also prospered in the quarter,
Rasulo said on the call, with advertising up 4 percent and on
pace to rise 10 percent in the current quarter.  “There’s probably more certainty as it relates to ESPN
than almost any other business we’re in,” Iger said, citing
long-term contracts with sports leagues and cable operators.  The decision to delay introduction of Disney’s Infinity
video-game system to August from June will mean less revenue
this year for the company’s interactive division and less chance
of a profit for the year, a goal Iger previously set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  