-- Dotcom Accused of Crimes Nonexistent Under U.S. Law, Lawyers Say
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-07T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/dotcom-accused-of-crimes-nonexistent-under-u-s-law-lawyers-say.html
The U.S. is accusing Kim Dotcom, the
founder of the cloud-storage service Megaupload.com, of crimes
that don’t exist under U.S. law, his lawyers said.  Dotcom, 39, was indicted in January last year in Virginia
on charges of racketeering,  money laundering , copyright
infringement and  wire fraud  through the website. The Internet
entrepreneur is scheduled in August to face an extradition
hearing to the U.S. from New Zealand, where he is a resident.  “The United States has charged Kim Dotcom with criminal
liability for the acts of his Megaupload cloud storage users, a
form of secondary copyright infringement,” according to a
statement from Dotcom’s attorneys. “But no criminal statute for
secondary copyright infringement exists.”  The statement and a white paper from Dotcom’s lawyers
Robert Amsterdam and Ira Rothken, were released to coincide with
a meeting today in Auckland of  attorneys general  from the U.S.,
Canada, Australia, England and New Zealand.  Eric Holder, the U.S. attorney general, and his foreign
counterparts are also scheduled to meet with the Strategic
Alliance Group. The group comprises the five countries’ federal
policing agencies: the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation,
Australian Federal Police, the U.K. Serious Organised Crime
Agency,  New Zealand  Police and Royal Canadian Mounted Police.  The attorneys general and agencies will discuss the
Megaupload case, according to Michael Gillies Smith, a spokesman
for Dotcom.  Campaign Contributors  The U.S. is accusing Dotcom of running the website to
profit from piracy and is fighting Megaupload’s attempt to have
the case thrown out in Virginia.  A dismissal “would harm (perhaps fatally) the government’s
ability to fully prosecute serious criminal conduct of the
corporate defendant Megaupload, the ability of victims to obtain
justice, and the public’s interest in resolving the case
efficiently,” U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride said in a filing
May 2.  Dotcom and Megaupload were indicted in Virginia because
they leased servers in the state. MacBride has said that was
enough to go ahead with a seizure of Megaupload’s servers and
Dotcom’s assets.  The U.S. government’s attack on Megaupload and Dotcom is
largely influenced by the  Motion Picture Association  of America,
which is headed by former Senator  Chris Dodd  and is a major
campaign contributor to the Democrats, Amsterdam and Rothken
wrote in their report.  The New Zealand case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General. CIV2012-404-001928.  High Court  of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is: USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  