-- Dresser-Rand Seen Luring Suitors Like Siemens: Real M&A
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-05-07T20:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/dresser-rand-seen-luring-suitors-like-siemens-real-m-a.html
Dresser-Rand Group Inc. (DRC) , with one of
the best sales outlooks among makers of oilfield equipment, is
turning into a takeover candidate for buyers such as  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
National Oilwell Varco Inc. and  Cameron (CAM)  International Corp.  Higher  oil prices  and growing global energy needs are
driving greater demand for Dresser-Rand’s equipment. The
Houston-based maker of compressors and turbines used to extract,
move and process oil and gas is projected to increase revenue by
58 percent in the next three years, faster than 86 percent of
U.S. peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Siemens is a logical buyer as it seeks to keep up with
 General Electric Co. (GE) , which agreed to purchase Dresser-Rand
rival Lufkin Industries Inc. for about $3.3 billion in April,
Eagle Asset Management Inc. said. Siemens has evaluated Dresser-
Rand as a takeover candidate for as many as two years, according
to three people familiar with the situation.  National Oilwell
Varco (NOV)  may also be interested, said Capital One Financial Corp.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. sees Cameron as a potential suitor, while
William Blair & Co. said GE could even be lured by the $4.6
billion company.  “It’s without a doubt an acquisition target,” J.  David Anderson , an analyst at JPMorgan in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “This is a great little company that
really should not be a stand-alone company,” said Anderson, who
has followed Dresser-Rand since its initial public offering in
2005. “It probably should be within a more diversified capital-
equipment company or an investor conglomerate.”  GE’s Deal  Blaise Derrico, vice president of  investor relations  at
Dresser-Rand, didn’t respond to phone or e-mail messages
requesting a comment on the company’s takeover prospects.
Representatives of Siemens, GE and Cameron declined to comment.
National Oilwell Varco Chief Operating Officer Clay Williams
didn’t return requests for comment.  Today, shares of Dresser-Rand rose 6.6 percent, the most in
20 months, to $60.35. The gain was also the second-biggest among
73 stocks in the Russell 1000 Energy Index.  Dresser-Rand makes compressors, turbines, rotators and
other equipment for oil and natural-gas producers. GE’s decision
to buy Lufkin this year at the highest multiple to profit on
record signaled an appetite for takeovers in the industry, and
Dresser-Rand could be next on the shopping list, said Eric Mintz
of  St. Petersburg , Florida-based Eagle Asset Management.  Sales Growth  “The number of takeout candidates in this energy
infrastructure space is rapidly diminishing,” Mintz, a  fund
manager  who helps oversee more than $9 billion, including
Dresser-Rand shares, said in a phone interview. Dresser-Rand
would be among “the remaining very logical bolt-on acquisitions
for somebody.”  Dresser-Rand offers buyers one of the industry’s fastest
growth rates through sales of new equipment and providing
maintenance for already installed products. The company, with a
 history  that stretches back to 1840, is poised to boost revenue
by 58 percent from 2012 to $4.3 billion in 2015, a faster pace
than 86 percent of U.S. oil and gas services companies valued at
more than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That expansion is being fueled by customers boosting
 capital spending  for exploration and production, with worldwide
expenditures projected to climb 5.5 percent this year to a
record $645 billion,  James Crandell , an analyst at Cowen Group
Inc. in New York, wrote in January in a note to investors.  Given the industry boom, industrial conglomerates are
looking to increase their presence in the oilfield-equipment
group, JPMorgan’s Anderson said.  Installed Base  For interested buyers, Dresser-Rand offers the largest
installed base of compressors in the  energy industry , said Robin Shoemaker, a New York-based analyst at Citigroup Inc. The
business that services existing equipment produces a long-term,
reliable stream of cash, according to Joseph Gibney, an analyst
at Capital One.  Siemens, based in Munich, is a logical buyer for Dresser-
Rand as  Europe ’s largest engineering company vies with stiffer
competition from GE in the energy equipment market, said Mintz
of Eagle Asset.  “From an M&A perspective, oil and gas is an attractive
environment for us,” Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said in a May 2 interview with Anna Edwards on
Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.”  High Valuation  Siemens has been looking at Dresser-Rand as a possible
acquisition target on and off again for as many as two years,
according to three people familiar with the situation. The
engineering firm has been working with investment bank Lazard
Ltd. to examine the feasibility of a takeover, said two of the
people, who asked not to be identified because talks are
private.  Judi Mackey, a spokeswoman for Lazard, declined to comment.  While Siemens is interested in adding Dresser-Rand’s
equipment for oil and natural-gas producers, the company is
concerned about the high valuation of the target, making a
takeover agreement unlikely, one of the people said.  Dresser-Rand’s turbines are used in floating production
storage and offloading, or FPSO, vessels, which are deployed
when pipelines from shore cannot reach. The equipment needed for
the vessels, which can span the length of three American
football fields and cost as much as $1 billion each, has been an
area of growth for National Oilwell Varco, the largest U.S.
maker of oilfield gear.  National Oilwell Varco’s push to sell more FPSO equipment
makes the Houston-based company a “logical strategic
candidate” to buy Dresser-Rand, said Gibney.  ‘Home Run’  “It’s a home run” for National Oilwell Varco, Gibney said
in a phone interview. “It checks the box on everything Varco
looks for in an acquisition. The revenue mix is split pretty
evenly between new units and after-market. It’s a real after-
market-driven profitability model.”  Cameron, based in Houston, also makes sense as a potential
buyer because both companies have relatively little overlap in
what equipment they make while sharing exposure to the
industry’s three broad categories of production, pipelines and
refineries, Anderson of JPMorgan said.  Even after its deal for Lufkin, Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE could be interested in buying Dresser-Rand to further
expand its energy equipment  assets , according to  Nick Heymann , a
New York-based analyst at William Blair.  A takeover of Dresser-Rand is “certainly a possibility,”
Heymann said in a phone interview. “Their interest in that
space is very tangible and one that they have had certainly good
success building out a strong presence in.”  Price Obstacle  The biggest obstacle to any deal getting done is the price
that Dresser-Rand CEO Vincent Volpe Jr. will probably require,
according to JPMorgan’s Anderson.  “Vince has a pretty big number in his head,” the analyst
said. “He sees a tremendous amount of earnings growth in the
next two to three years. He doesn’t want to sell himself
short.”  Mintz of Eagle Asset estimated that Dresser-Rand could
fetch about $100 a share in a sale, or 77 percent more than
yesterday’s closing price of $56.63. A deal at that price, which
would value the company at $7.6 billion, would represent the
biggest premium on record among oilfield machinery and equipment
deals exceeding $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still, Dresser-Rand is a digestible target for large
industrial companies, said Shoemaker of Citigroup. Among
potential buyers of the company, GE has a market capitalization
of $235 billion while Siemens and National Oilwell Varco are
valued at $93 billion and $29 billion, respectively.  “Some industrial companies are looking to get more
involved in energy, particularly in the manufacturing of
oilfield equipment,” Shoemaker said in a phone interview.
“It’s pretty clear that Dresser-Rand is the No. 1 company in
its market niche of high-end compressors and turbines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  