-- Dubai Mulls Bond Sale Amid IPO Prospect as Property Rebounds
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-05-08T14:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/dubai-mulls-next-2013-bond-sale-ipo-amid-real-estate-recovery.html
Dubai’s government is considering
issuing bonds again this year and selling stakes in its
companies to the public as the real estate industry spurs an
economic recovery, the emirate’s top finance official said.  The government, which was on the brink of defaulting in
2009, reduced its borrowing costs by 40 percent when it sold
$750 million of 10-year Islamic bonds in January, in addition to
its first-ever 30-year bonds. Investor confidence in the emirate
has improved after three state-linked companies paid or
refinanced $3.75 billion of debt in 2012, in addition to a 3.3
billion dirham ($898 million) liability that matured in April.  “We did the sukuk a couple of months ago and I’m sure
people were surprised to see that it was a 30-year unrated,”
Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , head of the emirate’s Supreme
Fiscal Committee, said in an interview in Dubai yesterday.
“People have trust and we’ll always keep our word.”  Issuers in Dubai, one of seven sheikhdoms in the  United
Arab Emirates , have stepped up bond sales this year as the
city’s credit risk tumbled to 187 basis points yesterday, the
lowest since at least the start of the global financial crisis
in 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors also piled
into Dubai stocks, helping the measure  rally 33 percent  in 2013,
the world’s third-best performer after gauges in Ghana and
 Argentina  among 94 indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Potential IPOs  Even after this year’s rally, the DFM General Index’s
market value of 157 billion dirhams is less than half the value
at the start of 2008. The stock exchange requires new listings
for a boost, according to  Sheikh Ahmed .  “Another big company is needed on the stock market,”
Sheikh Ahmed said, declining to specify a time frame. “Many
companies” that fall under the umbrella of Investment Corp. of
Dubai, the emirate’s main state-owned holding company known as
ICD, would be candidates for initial public offerings, he said.
ICD was set up in May 2006 and holds stakes in more than 30
companies, including Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by
international passenger traffic.  “The profile of ICD is big,” said Sheikh Ahmed, who is
also a board member of the company. “It will good for the stock
market here in Dubai and the UAE.”  Quicker Recovery  Dubai’s equities and bonds have advanced as the city
witnesses a pick up in its property industry, which suffered
from a 65 percent slump in  home prices  in the aftermath of the
2008 crash. The average price of a mid-range villa in Dubai
increased 44 percent in the year to April to the highest since
November 2008, according to Cluttons LLC data on Bloomberg.  “Real estate has recovered a lot quicker than people
thought,” Sheikh Ahmed said. “People were expecting 10 years
or so. I think the market will continue like it is.”  Repeated pledges by policy makers in Dubai has also helped
lure investors in the past year. The government has $26 billion
of principal payments outstanding on Islamic and non-Islamic
bonds, including $17.93 billion maturing next year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s said in March that Dubai
faces a “pivotal year” in 2014.  Debt Repayment  The emirate is committed to repaying its debts, and will do
“whatever we have to do,” Sheikh Ahmed said. Issuers in Dubai
sold about $5.8 billion of securities so far in 2013, up 81
percent from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on Dubai’s 5.591 percent bonds due in 2021 has
fallen 107 basis points, or 1.07 percentage points, in the past
year to 3.94 percent at 6:35 p.m. in Dubai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The emirate’s economy is set to expand
4.6 percent, on average, between 2012 and 2015, more than twice
the average of the previous four years, according to government
forecasts.  “I’m very confident because of what is happening in Dubai
at the moment,” Sheikh Ahmed said. “The interest is very much
like before the real estate slowdown. It has picked up very
quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  