-- Le Carre Tangles Texan Mercenaries With British Spies
-- B y   A l e c   D . B .   M c C a b e
-- 2013-05-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/le-carre-tangles-texan-mercenaries-with-british-spies.html
In “ A Delicate Truth ,” John le Carre
plunges us into Operation Wildlife, a secret anti-terrorist
strike being staged in Gibraltar by an odd mix of British
Special Forces and American mercenaries.  The British diplomat on the ground is a curious choice:
aging, well-traveled Kit Probyn, surprised to have been summoned
after a career in mundane economic roles.  Wildlife is a success, flawless, Probyn is told. Unless of
course it isn’t. This being le Carre, nothing is ever simple.  Three years later, Probyn, now comfortably retired to the
countryside, is drawn back to Wildlife by a chance encounter
that probably wasn’t. All didn’t play out as it seemed, he’s
told by a relic from the past. Innocents may have died.  Onstage steps “compulsively ambitious” civil servant Toby
Bell. Blithe and earnest, he’s startled to learn that he didn’t
know about the operation even though he served at the time as
private secretary to a certain overbearing Minister Fergus
Quinn, a “marooned Blairite of the new Gordon Brown era.”  Tea Party  Bell is drawn to Probyn’s amateur investigation, the heart
of the book. More shady characters emerge: Quinn’s best friend,
the nefarious defense contractor Jay Crispin, and Crispin’s
moneyed American protectress Miss Maisie (“friend of the  Tea
Party , scourge of Islam, homosexuals, abortion and, I believe,
contraception”).  Soon Bell will face career- and health-humbling choices,
and will have to figure out what to make of Probyn’s alluring
daughter, Emily. Will Toby and Kit uncover the truth, bring the
duplicitous to justice, throw wide the dusty curtains of
avaricious corporate abomination?  It’s all an entertaining mix, and  le Carre  gives himself
plenty of openings to sound off on the politically suspect and
morally dangerous failings of Americans, as is his wont of late.  Yet this small book requires, at times, a stupefyingly
large suspension of disbelief. Not only is a British minister in
cahoots with a private military contractor, the exquisitely
named Ethical Outcomes Inc., but that contractor has the heads
of foreign intelligence agencies in its pocket, too. Really?  Nor does it seem likely -- although here perhaps I give too
much credit to my journalistic brethren -- that no reporter has
thought to look into that minister, or a certain top-secret
military operation conducted on British soil.  Deft Characters  Le Carre is, as always, a lyrical writer. He tosses off
character sketches with precision. Of an Englishman, he writes,
“The demeanour -- he cannot say quite why -- unmistakably
British, perhaps because the hand gestures, while brisk and
economic, are in some way inhibited.”  And he leavens this dark tale with humor. After Emily’s
partner dumped her for someone new, she tells Toby, “Dad went
and laid siege to their flat.”  “Then what did he do?”  “It was the wrong flat.”  In the end, though, I was left wondering whether there could
have been a bigger palette for le Carre, now 81, to display his
considerable talents. I left “A Delicate Truth” informed by
the banality of evil, intrigued by a story that flops, Mobius
strip-like, into and onto itself and yes, eagerly turning pages
to find out what happens next.  But it’s like  Daniel Craig  tooling down an Alpine byway at
the wheel of a lime-green Prius. Something doesn’t quite fit.  “A Delicate Truth” is published by Viking in the U.S. and
U.K. (311 pages, $28.95, 18.99 pounds). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  (Alec D.B. McCabe is an editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Katya
Kazakina  on auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alec D.B. McCabe in  New York  at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 