-- Obama Vows Action After Air Force Officer Assault Arrest
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-07T21:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/head-of-air-force-sex-assault-prevention-arrested.html
President  Barack Obama  vowed to
“exponentially step up our game” to combat military sexual
assaults after the Air Force’s top officer for sexual-assault
prevention was arrested on charges of sexual battery.  As the Pentagon today estimated there were 26,000 sexual
assaults in the armed services last year, a 35 percent increase
from two years ago, Obama promised at a White House news
conference to “do everything we can to root this out.”  Violators should be “prosecuted, stripped of their
positions, court-martialed, fired, dishonorably discharged,”
the president said. “Period.”  Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey Krusinski, 41, was arrested on
May 5 in the Washington suburb of Arlington,  Virginia , where he
allegedly “approached a female victim in a parking lot and
grabbed her breasts and buttocks,” according to an Arlington
County  police report . Efforts to locate Krusinski for comment
weren’t successful.  “We’re all outraged and disgusted over these very
troubling allegations,” Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said at a
Pentagon news conference, where he announced a series of
measures that he said would help combat the problem.  Hagel said he would hold military commanders accountable
“at every level,” improve the treatment of assault victims and
conduct regular inspections of military workplaces to guard
against “materials that create a degrading and offensive work
environment.”  Legislation Sought  On  Capitol Hill , lawmakers used a hearing today to promise
new legislation, from providing better counsel to victims to
prosecuting sexual-assault cases outside of the military chain
of command.  Krusinski’s arrest in the Washington suburb where the
Pentagon is located provides ‘dramatic evidence of the need for
the  Department of Defense  to act swiftly and decisively to
address the plague of sexual assaults in the military,’’ Senate
Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, said today at a hearing he held with Air Force
leaders.  The Krusinski case gave added urgency and attention to the
release today of the Pentagon’s report on sexual assaults, an
event that each year prompts criticism from lawmakers and
victims’ advocacy groups and pledges by the Pentagon to do
better.  Anonymous Survey  An anonymous survey of active-duty troops found that 26,000
reported experiencing unwanted sexual conduct last year,
amounting to an average of 71 incidents per day. A survey two
years earlier estimated 19,300 such incidents. In 2006, the only
other time the survey was conducted, there were an estimated
34,200 incidents.  About 6.1 percent of active-duty women and 1.2 percent of
active-duty men surveyed said they experienced unwanted sexual
contact within the previous 12 months.  Those estimates dwarf the number of cases reported each
year. Victims have said they’re afraid of coming forward, partly
because they feared a risk their career.  There were 3,374 reported cases of assault in 2012, a 5.7
percent increase from the previous year, according to the
Pentagon.  “This report tells us we’ve got more work to do,” said
Major General Gary Patton, director of the Pentagon’s Sexual
Assault Prevention and Response Office.  Chain of Command  Figuring out what to do quickly became a divisive issue
today.  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a  New York  Democrat on the
Armed Services Committee, said she will push to prosecute sexual
assault cases outside the military’s chain of command so that
victims will feel more free to come forward.  Such a move would “create real accountability for
assailants and justice for victims,” Gillibrand said in a
statement.  Hagel resisted that idea, saying, “The ultimate authority
has to remain within the command structure.”  Senators  Kelly Ayotte , a New Hampshire Republican, and
 Patty Murray , a Washington Democrat, introduced legislation that
they said would make it easier to prosecute assault cases. It
includes a procedure already used by the Air Force to provide a
Special Victims’ Counsel who can assist assault victims
throughout the legal process.  Levin, the committee chairman, said he plans to include
legislation on sexual assault as part of this year’s annual
defense authorization bill, as early as next month.  Posted Bond  Krusinski, who had served as chief of the  Air Force ’s
Sexual Assault Prevention and Response branch since February,
was removed from the job pending an investigation, according to
an Air Force statement. He was released after posting a $5,000
bond, according to Dustin Sternbeck, an Arlington County police
spokesman.  “It is unacceptable that this occurs anywhere at any time
in our Air Force and we will not quit working on this problem,”
General Mark Welsh, the Air Force chief of staff, said today at
Levin’s hearing.  Nancy Parrish, president of Protect Our Defenders, a
victim-support group, said in a statement that Krusinski’s
arrest “is one more example on a long list of how fundamentally
broken the military justice system and culture are.”  Lackland Case  The Air Force is still reeling from a scandal in which at
least five military instructors were convicted of sexual
assaults or unprofessional relationships with trainees or
students at Lackland Air Force Base in  San Antonio ,  Texas .  An investigation of the Lackland case identified 23 alleged
offenders and 48 alleged victims.  Hagel last month proposed barring military commanders from
overturning court-martial convictions of sexual assault and
other major crimes.  The proposal, which requires legislation from Congress,
follows lawmakers’ protests over a case at Aviano Air Base in
 Italy , where an aggravated sexual-assault conviction in a court-martial last year was overturned by Air Force Lieutenant General
Craig Franklin, the so-called convening authority who oversaw
the case.  Franklin’s decision fueled debate about whether the
military acts forcefully enough to prosecute wrongdoing.  In a potentially similar case, Air Force Lieutenant General
Susan Helms, selected to become vice commander of the Air
Force’s Space Command, had her nomination blocked by Senator
 Claire McCaskill , a member of the Armed Services Committee.  McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, wants to examine Helms’s
previously unpublicized decision to overturn an aggravated
sexual-assault conviction for a captain at Vandenberg Air Force
Base in  California . Welsh confirmed the reversal at today’s
hearing, saying Helms didn’t think the evidence to reach the
verdict met the “burden of reasonable doubt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  