-- EasyJet Plans August Test of Volcanic Ash-Cloud Detection System
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-05-07T13:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/easyjet-plans-august-test-of-volcanic-ash-cloud-detection-system.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  Europe ’s No. 2 discount
carrier, plans to create an artificial  ash cloud  with partners
Airbus SAS and Nicarnica Aviation in August to trial a detection
system designed to help jets avoid volcanic dust.  The test, to be carried out at 30,000 feet, will involve
one jet releasing dust gathered from Icelandic volcanoes into
the atmosphere. A second plane will then use the new Airborne
Volcanic Object Identifier and Detector to avoid the artificial
cloud, Luton, England-based EasyJet said in a statement today.  The AVOID system detects particles as far as 100 kilometers
(62 miles) away, making it possible for pilots to adjust flight
paths around dangerous particle clouds. European airline traffic
slumped 12 percent in April 2010, exceeding the worst declines
of the latest recession, as ash from Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull
volcano grounded 100,000 flights. Carriers lost at least $1.7
billion in the first six days of the event, according to
industry figures.  “Finalizing the approval of the AVOID technology is as
crucial now as ever to ensure we never again see the scenes of
spring 2010,” EasyJet Engineering Director Ian Davies said in
the statement. The airline said it transported a ton of ash from
Iceland to use for the test.  Abrasive, silica-based material from volcanoes can clog
engines and scar windshields. Similar to weather radars already
in use, the infra-red AVOID system EasyJet is testing dates from
1993 and was developed by the U.S. military. On the ground the
technology could be used to map a cloud, making it possible for
air controllers to limit disruption.  Dust Density  Whereas the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration imposes a
120 mile-buffer zone around areas of visible ash, Eurocontrol,
which governs Europe’s flight paths, based no-fly areas on
models from the U.K. Met Office’s  Volcanic Ash Advisory Center 
that assesses dust density according to  weather forecasts .  When Eyjafjallajökull erupted, authorities ordered pilots
to avoid all ash. The threshold was later changed so that they
could fly through plumes where 0.002 grams of ash was present
per cubic meter of air, and that limit was later doubled,
subject to an airline getting approval from the engine maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  