-- ECB’s Parking Fees Show Its Weakness
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-05-07T13:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/ecb-can-t-fix-europe-s-growth-problems-on-its-own.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  surprised markets and analysts last week by saying the
central bank is open to an unconventional stimulus tactic:
pressuring banks to lend by charging them a fee for parking cash
at the ECB.  The development does more to highlight the limits of the
ECB’s powers than to demonstrate its boldness in dealing with
the euro area’s economic slump.  The euro immediately slumped against the  U.S. dollar  after
Draghi’s statement. This might have been his aim: A weaker
currency can help euro-area countries trying to export their way
out of the crisis. But it is also possible that Draghi was doing
something unusual for a central banker: being candid about the
tools under consideration for unblocking the flow of credit in
the region.  Most of the euro area’s businesses are small and medium-sized enterprises,  responsible  for about 60 percent of gross
value added and from 60 percent to 80 percent of employment in
the European Union in 2012. In the few years leading up to the
global financial crisis in 2008, borrowing costs for such
businesses rose and fell roughly in line with the ECB’s short-term target interest rate and differed only slightly from one
country to the next.  Excess Reserves  More recently, the ECB’s control over credit has weakened
in peripheral euro-area countries such as Spain and  Italy . In
these countries, borrowing costs for small and medium-sized
businesses, which are entirely dependent on banks for funding,
have risen significantly over the past few years even as the
policy rate has dropped. Meanwhile, bank lending has contracted
throughout the euro area as financial institutions deleverage
and shy away from risk.  In its efforts to get banks lending again, the ECB is
looking at excess reserves -- some 120 billion euros ($157
billion) the banks have been holding on deposit at the central
bank for safekeeping. If the ECB were to introduce a negative
interest rate on deposits, effectively charging a fee, the banks
might choose to lend the money out rather than watch it lose
value.  This logic is far from ironclad. Instead of lending the
money to businesses and individuals, the banks could simply park
it elsewhere -- for example, in the sovereign bonds of  Germany 
and other countries perceived to be financially healthy. This
might benefit Germany by further pushing down its borrowing
costs, but would do little to unblock credit to businesses.
Banks might even try to cover their losses on the ECB deposits
by charging higher  interest rates  on business loans, precisely
the opposite of the desired outcome.  Even if negative deposit rates did spur more business
lending, that’s not necessarily good. If it prompts banks to
make risky investments at a time when most of them already have
a number of bad loans on their books, it could damage their
balance sheets further.  There are better ways for the ECB to encourage banks to
lend. Banks might make more business loans, for example, if the
ECB made it easier to use those loans as collateral for cheap
central-bank credit. The ECB could do so by loosening
requirements for the amount and type of business loans that it
accepts in exchange for liquidity, and by lending more against a
given value of loans.  The central bank could go a step further and agree to
purchase business loans in the secondary markets. Banks would be
more willing to accept the risk of lending to small and medium-sized enterprises if they knew they could turn around and sell
those loans to the ECB. For now, the ECB is unwilling to accept
this degree of risk on its own balance sheet. That could change
as the recession in the euro area deepens further.  Beyond Remit  Even if the ECB could encourage banks to lend, though, that
doesn’t mean businesses will borrow. The primary issue in the
euro area isn’t the cost of funding. The main problem is that
few businesses want to borrow at any cost. According to a recent
ECB  study  on access to financing in the euro area, “finding
customers” is the No. 1 concern for businesses in the region. If
businesses are worried about demand, they will not seek loans to
grow.  Reviving consumer demand and business confidence in the
euro area falls beyond the ECB’s remit. That’s up to government
policy makers, and would probably require real progress toward
establishing an effective banking, political and fiscal union.
Unfortunately, market calm has inspired complacency, and there
currently  seems  to be little political will to take the steps
necessary to achieve a more viable union.  The ECB is, without a doubt, the most powerful institution
in the euro area. But it can’t fix bank lending and stimulate
growth on its own.  ( Megan Greene  is a Bloomberg View columnist and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. She is also a senior fellow
at the Atlantic Council. Follow her on Twitter at  @economistmeg .
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  