-- Egypt to Replace Finance Minister in Cabinet Reshuffle
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-05-07T12:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/egypt-to-replace-finance-minister-in-cabinet-reshuffle.html
Egypt  replaced two key economic
ministers and boosted Islamists’ strength in the Cabinet, in an
overhaul that fell short of opposition demands as the country
struggles to obtain an International Monetary Fund loan.  Nine new Cabinet members, including the finance and
planning ministers, were sworn in by President Mohamed Mursi
after he pledged changes last month. Prime Minister Hisham Qandil, targeted by Mursi’s critics, keeps his job while three
new ministers have ties to Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood.  “The reshuffle won’t change anything in terms of the
country’s political, economic or security crisis,” Abdel-
Ghaffar Shukr, a member of the National Salvation Front
opposition alliance, said by phone. “The regime once again
chose ministers who are either members of the Muslim Brotherhood
or affiliated with the group, while ignoring the opposition
demand of appointing independent ministers capable of dealing
with the economic, political and security issues.”  Mursi’s secular and youth activist opposition accuses his
government of failing to stabilize the nation or realize the
goals of the 2011 uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak . Since
then, Egypt has become mired in a polarizing battle between
secularists and Islamists, while its economy has grown at the
slowest pace in two decades.  ‘Limited Impact’  Fayad Abdel-Moneim, a 56-year-old professor at Azhar
University’s Faculty of Commerce, replaced Finance Minister El- Morsi Hegazi, according to a Cabinet statement. Ahmed Amr
Darrag, a 54-year-old official in the Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice Party, took over the Planning and International
Cooperation Ministry from Ashraf El-Arabi, who has played a key
role in talks with the IMF on a $4.8 billion loan. Seven other
ministers were also changed, including oil, justice and culture.  There will be no impact on the IMF discussions or “change
in the announced government program,” Cabinet spokesman Alaa
El-Hadidi said in an e-mailed statement.  The changes will probably “have a limited impact on IMF
talks since the Cabinet is likely to be short-lived,” Jean- Michel Saliba, London-based economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, said by e-mail. “But the reshuffle tells you that the
Muslim Brotherhood sees value in deepening its reach in key
ministries that control IMF and multilateral lending. They were
probably unhappy with the way the deal was being negotiated.”  Elections Due  Egypt is due to hold elections in October, delayed from
last month, and it’s not clear if an IMF accord can be signed
before the vote.  Egypt’s currency has weakened as the country ran short of
foreign exchange. The pound has dropped more than 10 percent
since the central bank started dollar auctions aimed at halting
a plunge of more than 60 percent in currency reserves since the
end of 2010.  Qandil, appointed premier after Mursi’s election in June,
has already changed the finance minister once before, and
brought in a new interior minister.  The moves have done little to ease political tensions or
concerns about the widening fiscal deficit, cited by Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings as they lowered Egypt’s
credit grade this year.  Three of the new ministers come from the Brotherhood or
Freedom and Justice. Yehia Abdel-Samie Hamed, a founding member
of the FJP’s external relations committee, takes over at the
Investment Ministry, according to the state-run Ahram Gate.
Ahmed Mahmoud Ali El-Gizawy, 35, who takes over the  Agriculture
Ministry , was head of the party’s agriculture committee and is a
professor of agriculture at Cairo’s Ain Shams University.  Sherif Haddara, 60, who becomes oil minister in place of
Osama Kamal, was head of the Egyptian General Petroleum Corp. He
inherits a ministry which is struggling to cope with a fuel
shortage and trying to push ahead with subsidy cuts that could
further inflame tensions.  List of new ministers:
*Ahmed Mohamed Seliman: Minister of Justice
*Hatem Abdallah Bagato: Minister of Parliamentary Affairs
*Sherif Hassan Ramadan Haddara: Minister of Petroleum
*Ahmed Eissa: Minister of Antiquities
*Ahmed Mahmoud Ali El-Gizawy: Minister of Agriculture
*Fayad Abdel-Moneim Hassanein Ibrahim: Minister of Finance
*Ahmed Mohamed Amr Darrag: Minister of Planning and
International Cooperation
*Alaa Abdel-Aziz El-Sayed Abdel-Fattah: Minister of Culture
*Yehia Hamed Abdel-Samie Hamed: Minister of Investment  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  