-- Egypt Shares Rise Most in 2 Months as New Cabinet Spurs IMF Bets
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-05-07T14:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/egypt-shares-rise-most-in-2-months-as-new-cabinet-spurs-imf-bets.html
Egypt ’s benchmark  stock index  surged
the most in two months on investor bets a Cabinet change will
boost the nation’s prospects of finalizing a loan agreement with
the  International Monetary Fund .  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE, the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, gained the most in almost five
months. Telecom Egypt Co., the monopoly fixed-line phone
company, advanced 3.1 percent. The EGX 30 Index increased 1.8
percent, the most since March 7, to 5,372.63 at the close in
Cairo. The markets regulator said today it will allow investors
to sell shares bought in the same session after a two-year halt.  Nine new Cabinet members, including the finance and
planning ministers, were sworn in by President Mohamed Mursi
today after he pledged changes last month. The North African
nation has struggled for two years to obtain a $4.8 billion IMF
loan amid violent protests and government instability in the
fallout of the revolt that toppled  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011.  “Market sentiment has improved after the cabinet
reshuffle, especially with the replacement of the finance
minister,” Mohamed Radwan, head of equities at Cairo-based
Pharos Holding for Financial Investments, said by phone. “There
are hopes this government will do a better job of securing an
IMF deal.”  Lower Volatility  Mursi’s opposition accuses his Muslim Brotherhood
government of failing to stabilize the nation or realize the
goals of the revolt two years ago. Since then, Egypt has been
mired in a polarizing battle between secularists and Islamists,
while its economy has grown at the slowest pace in two decades.  Egypt’s bourse will restart same-session equity trading on
May 23, the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority said today.
All  members  of the EGX 30 excluding Eastern Tobacco are
eligible, the bourse said last month. The halting of same-
session trading was among measures taken by the regulator to
curb volatility following the uprising two years ago.  The EGX 30’s  10-day volatility,  a measure of price swings,
dropped to the lowest level since 2004 on April 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commercial International climbed 4.2 percent to 32.44
Egyptian pounds. The lender will probably post a 20 percent
increase in first-quarter profit when it releases results next
week, according to the average of four  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecom Egypt  rose the most since Dec. 27
to 13.04 pounds.  Pound-denominated government debt gained, with the mid-
yield on one-year treasury bills losing 10 basis points, or 0.1
of a percentage point, in the secondary market to 13.85 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level
in six weeks. The yield on the government’s benchmark $1 billion
of 5.75 percent Eurobonds retreated two basis points to 7.17
percent at 3:18 p.m. in Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  