-- Einhorn Boosts Apple Stake, Praises Capital-Return Plan
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-05-07T20:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/einhorn-boosts-apple-stake-praises-capital-return-plan.html
Hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  said
he increased his bet on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and that the iPhone maker
took a “major step forward” by issuing  debt  so it could return
cash to investors.  Einhorn anticipates more innovations from the Cupertino,
California-based technology company, he said on a conference
call today held by his  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE)  reinsurer.  “Our thesis remains that Apple has a terrific operating
platform,” he said. “Its loyal, sticky and growing customer
base will make repeated purchases of a growing portfolio of
Apple products.”  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  announced the
largest stock-repurchase program in history last month amid
mounting pressure from Einhorn, 44, and other investors to
return more cash to shareholders. Apple posted its first  profit
decline  in a decade last quarter as the iPad maker faced
accelerating competition from rivals including Samsung
Electronics Co.  “This is a vastly more shareholder friendly capital-allocation policy than where Apple stood a few months ago,”
Einhorn said. “We’ve added to our Apple position. Now we just
wait for the release of Apple’s next  blockbuster product .”  Apple’s stock  slumped  17 percent in the three months ended
March 31, pressuring returns for Einhorn’s hedge fund Greenlight
Capital Inc. Einhorn is chairman of Cayman Islands-based
Greenlight Re and oversees its investment portfolio. Primary
carriers share risks and premiums with reinsurers.  Dividend Increased  Apple last month raised its quarterly  dividend  15 percent
to $3.05 a share, from $2.65, and boosted its share-repurchase
program to $60 billion from $10 billion. Cook said that new
products will come later this year and throughout 2014. The
company is working on television products and a watch that’s
connected to other Apple devices, people with knowledge of the
plans have said.  The iPhone maker has jumped 13 percent since announcing the
new capital plan on April 23. The company slipped about 0.5
percent to $458.66 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The reinsurer advanced
1.3 percent and is up 8.4 percent this year.  Einhorn’s hedge fund held more than  1.3 million Apple
shares  as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Earlier this year, he had urged Apple to issue high-yielding
preferred stock to carve out more cash for investors. He
successfully sued to block a vote at Apple’s annual shareholder
meeting in February that would have required the company to seek
investors’ approval for creating preferred stock.  Thorn Removed  Einhorn’s comments are probably welcome at Apple, because
the hedge-fund manager had called for more payouts, said  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. A Greenlight Re
spokesman declined after the conference call to disclose the
size or dates of Einhorn’s most recent purchases.  “He’s been the thorn in Apple’s side when it comes to
capital distribution,” Munster, who rates the company
overweight, said in a phone interview. “He’s putting his money
where his mouth is and endorsing the current capital-distribution plan.”  Apple issued a record $17 billion in bonds last week to
fund the return of cash to shareholders. The offering included
$3 billion of floating-rate notes and fixed-rate securities in
six parts with maturities from three to 30 years.  Greenlight Re said yesterday that first-quarter profit fell
13 percent to $56.7 million from a year earlier. The reinsurer’s
investment portfolio gained 5.8 percent in the period, compared
with 6.5 percent in the first quarter of 2012.  Gold, Yen  Einhorn said that about a quarter of the investment result
came from a bet on a decline in the yen, which had been his most
unprofitable wager in 2010 and 2011. Haruhiko Kuroda, who was
confirmed as  Bank of Japan  governor in March, last month began a
campaign to end falling prices by doubling monthly bond
purchases in a bid to reach 2 percent inflation in two years.  “The Bank of Japan officially joined the global monetary
printing race,” Einhorn said. “It seems that every time a
central banker takes a more aggressive action, without short-term negative consequences, it reinforces the behavior of other
central bankers.”  The hedge-fund manager previously criticized central bank
policy in the U.S., where the  Federal Reserve  has kept its
target interest rate for overnight loans among banks near zero
since December 2008 and embarked on a bond buying program that
has expanded its balance sheet to more than  $3 trillion . Actions
by central banks affirm his view that gold prices will rise,
even after the metal’s price decline in April, he said.  “Recent events, including the regime change at the Bank of
 Japan , support our long-term thesis of both a weaker yen, and
stronger gold,” Einhorn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  