-- Telecom Italia Panel Is Said to Be Divided Over Hutchison
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-05-08T08:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/telecom-italia-panel-is-said-to-be-divided-over-hutchison-linkup.html
A group of directors appointed by
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  to review a potential merger with  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s local unit remain divided as the Italian
company’s board heads into a meeting today, according to five
people familiar with the matter.  Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe, who was asked last
month to head a panel to explore a combination of Telecom
Italia’s mobile-phone business with Hutchison’s 3 Italia, will
brief the board on its findings today in Milan. Some members are
skeptical about a deal because of differences in valuation for 3
Italia, the people said, asking not to be named because the
discussions are private. Shareholder  Telefonica SA (TEF)  is concerned
about potential losses in a transaction, two people said.  Bernabe is betting on a linkup with Hong Kong billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison to revive a stock that hit a 15-year low
last month. Today, the shares fell as much as 4.7 percent in
Milan for its steepest decline in a month. Telecom Italia,
scheduled to report earnings today, may say first-quarter
revenue slumped 8 percent to 6.8 billion euros ($8.9 billion) as
consumers cut spending on phone services, according to the
 average  of seven analysts’ estimates complied by Bloomberg.  Valuation Gap  “I don’t think current shareholders want to give ownership
of the company away,” said Andres Bolumburu, a Madrid-based
analyst at Banco de Sabadell. “A potential deal with Hutchison
isn’t entirely clear due to regulatory barriers and the terms
that are being discussed.”  Telecom Italia is 22.4 percent owned by Telco SpA, whose
investors include Telefonica,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and investment bank  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)  The
shareholders have written down the value of their stakes several
times and have considered using Hutchison’s possible entry as
new shareholder to facilitate their exit, people familiar with
the matter have said.  Complicating the discussion is the valuation of 3 Italia.
While the division has a so-called fair value of 1.5 billion
euros, the actual figure could differ widely because of
accumulated losses amounting to as much as 8 billion euros and
the lack of clarity of how much of that can be used to offset
taxes, a person familiar with the matter said.  3 Italia had 2012 revenue of about 1.5 billion euros and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of about 90 million euros, another person said, adding that the
numbers were restated to meet Italian accounting rules.  Shareholder Pact  A merger would combine  Italy ’s biggest wireless carrier
with the No. 4. Telecom Italia said April 11 that Hutchison
wants to become a  leading shareholder  in the Milan-based carrier
in any deal. Bernabe will need approval from Telecom Italia’s
board to carry out due diligence and pursue formal negotiations
with Hong Kong-based Hutchison.  Representatives for Telecom Italia, Telefonica, Generali,
Intesa Sanpaolo and Mediobanca all declined to comment.  Telco’s partners, which agreed in February 2012 to renew
their shareholding agreement for three years with an exit option
in September 2013 and August 2014, may use the first window in
September to revoke the accord, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Generali CEO  Mario Greco , who is reviewing the insurer’s
strategy, has repeatedly said the company should focus on its
core business. Mediobanca CEO Alberto Nagel has said he wants to
cut the bank’s equity investments as part of a business plan to
be unveiled in June.  ‘Exploratory Nature’  Hutchison reiterated today that “contacts between Telecom
Italia SpA and 3 Italia SpA on possible business combinations
are still very preliminary and of an exploratory nature.”  For Hutchison,  Asia ’s biggest investor in European wireless
networks, Telecom Italia’s high net debt -- which reached 28.3
billion euros at the end of 2012 adjusted for some items -- is a
concern, a person familiar with the matter has said.  Telecom Italia  shares  sank as low as 54 cents last month,
the lowest level since August 1997. They traded at 62.5 cents,
or 2.6 percent lower, at 10:36 a.m. in Milan. Hutchison closed
0.4 percent lower at HK$85.35 on the Hong Kong exchange.  Other panel members evaluating the possible linkup with
Hutchison are Telefonica’s Julio Linares, Elio Cosimo Catania
from Intesa Sanpaolo, Gabriele Galateri from Generali and
independent director  Luigi Zingales .  Italy’s former phone monopoly is divesting assets, cutting
jobs and is reviewing a possible spinoff of its fixed-line
telephone network in Italy, a move that could generate cash to
reinvest in expanding coverage.  That project isn’t expected to be discussed at today’s
meeting, two people said. Telecom Italia is considering a sale
of an initial 30 percent stake in a new company to state lender
Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which may invest about 2 billion
euros, people familiar with the matter said last month. Telecom
Italia could also consider an initial public offering of the
division in the future, another person said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  