-- Telefonica Czech Net Falls on Overhaul Costs, Lower Spending
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-05-07T12:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/telefonica-czech-net-declines-on-overhaul-costs-lower-spending.html
Telefonica Czech Republic AS, the
country’s largest phone company, said first-quarter profit fell
because of one-time costs linked to a business overhaul and a
drop in spending on phone calls.  Net income declined to 1.05 billion koruna ($53 million)
from 1.62 billion koruna a year earlier, the Prague-based
company said in a statement. Revenue declined 4.4 percent to
11.9 billion koruna.  Telefonica Czech and its rivals in the country slashed
charges and offered bundles of unlimited calls and some data
last month after the Czech regulator proposed new terms for a
radio-spectrum auction. The Czech Telecommunication Office
unexpectedly canceled the previous sale of frequencies over
concerns that excessive bids of over 20 billion koruna would
result in higher prices for customers and slower investment.  “The results were roughly in line,” Erste Group Bank AG
analyst Vera Sutedja wrote in a note to clients. “We would put
more focus on results from the second quarter onwards after the
launch of new cheaper tariffs. We remain cautious on Telefonica
due to the possible impact of the price war, the high costs of
the spectrum and the possible entry of a fourth player.”  Sutedja recommends investors to “reduce” the stock.  Guided oibda, or operating income before depreciation and
amortization, fell 14 percent to 4.35 billion koruna, it said.
The results were impacted by a gain of 220 million koruna from
the sale of non-core assets a year earlier and by higher
restructuring costs of 354 million koruna booked in the past
quarter, Telefonica said.  Spectrum Auction  Czech Telecommunication Office prolonged a public
discussion for a new mobile-spectrum auction until May 22 on
requests from prospective participating companies. In proposed
terms, the office set aside two blocks of 10 MHz in the 800 MHz
band for a new operator and increased the size of the new
operator’s block in the 1800 MHz band to two blocks of 15.8 MHz
from two blocks of 15.6 MHz.  Telefonica, which considers the rules discriminatory, has
been giving its feedback to the government as well as political
authorities in  Europe , Chief Executive Officer Louis Antonio
Malvido said in a conference call with analysts.  Mobile operating revenue in the Czech Republic fell 6.9
percent to 5.68 billion koruna from a year earlier, mainly on
mobile termination rate cuts and competitive pressure, it said.
Fixed operating revenue declined 5.4 percent to 5 billion koruna
from a year ago, it said.  Telefonica reiterated its full-year guidance for a
“limited” erosion in margins and capital expenditure of less
than 6 billion koruna, excluding business acquisitions and
potential costs of spectrum license.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  