-- Elliott’s Singer Joins Spanx’s Blakely in Buffett Pledge
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s   a n d   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2013-05-07T18:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/elliott-s-singer-joins-spanx-s-blakely-in-buffett-pledge-1-.html
Hedge-fund manager  Paul Singer  and
hosiery tycoon Sara Blakely promised to donate at least half of
their fortune to charity as part of the initiative started by
 Warren Buffett  and Bill and Melinda Gates.  The two were joined by Lord Michael Ashcroft, Monica and
David Gelbaum, Craig and Susan McCaw, Stephen M. Ross, Mark and
Mary Stevens, Tad Taube and Samuel Yin, according to a statement
today from the Giving Pledge campaign. With Joe Craft, who
signed on last year, the Giving Pledge now has 114 signatories.  “Since I was a little girl I have always known I would
help women,” Blakely, the founder of Spanx Inc., said in a
letter posted on the Giving Pledge website. “In my wildest
dreams I never thought I would have started with their butts.”  Bill Gates  and Buffett, who are the world’s second- and
third-richest people, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , started the campaign in 2010 to encourage philanthropy
among the rich.  Buffett, now valued at $58.8 billion, gives about 5 percent
of his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  shares to the Bill &  Melinda
Gates  Foundation and other groups each July. Gates, with a net
worth of $71.7 billion, has gifted $28 billion to his and his
wife’s organization.  “As a self-made man, I am determined that when I donate to
charitable causes, the donation should not be frittered away or
lay stagnant in a bank account,” Michael Ashcroft, who sold his
cleaning and security business ADT to Tyco Electronics Ltd. in
1997 for more than $6.7 billion, said in a letter to the pledge.
“I also prefer to donate to subjects close to my heart: for
example, to fighting crime, to supporting education and to
championing the military, in general, and gallantry, in
particular.”  ‘Strategic Individuals’  Singer, whose Elliott Management Corp. hedge fund had
assets under management of $21.6 billion at the end of 2012,
said philanthropists can nurture “good-but-neglected ideas”
until politicians steps in.  “There is something about the power of creative, strategic
individuals and groups to make a difference through targeted,
timely interventions and actions that government simply cannot
replicate,” he said in a letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  