-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 8-Week High as India Flows Climb
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-07T21:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/emerging-stocks-advance-for-third-day-as-malaysia-extends-rally.html
Emerging stocks rose to an eight-week
high, almost erasing this year’s drop, as foreign inflows
boosted Indian shares and homebuilders paced gains in  Brazil .  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  advanced the most in two weeks as overseas
mutual funds extended this year’s record purchases of Indian
equities. Malaysian shares extended yesterday’s gains after
Prime Minister Najib Razak’s electoral victory. OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s largest lender, surged to the highest price in almost
two months, while builder Gafisa SA helped send Brazil’s
 Ibovespa (IBOV)  to a six-week high. The  yuan  gained the most this year.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.6 percent to
1,052.48, the highest level since March 12. The gauge trimmed
this year’s decline to 0.3 percent after data showed German
factory orders unexpectedly jumped for a second month in March,
suggesting  Europe ’s largest economy is starting to grow again.  “Today’s news from  Germany  could help stem the tide, if
not reverse the trend, of falling growth expectations,” James Gaul, a portfolio manager at Boston Advisors LLC, which oversees
about $2.5 billion in assets, said by phone. “That could have
an impact on sentiment in the markets.”  Gauges of financial and energy companies on the emerging-
market index rose at least 1 percent, the most among 10 groups.
The broader measure trades at 11 times 12-month  projected
profit , compared with the MSCI World’s valuation of 14.5, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  exchange-traded fund rose
0.7 percent to an eight-week high of $43.89. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, dropped 1.3 percent to 17.77.  The Ibovespa added 1.5 percent on speculation that
Brazilian policy makers will limit interest-rate increases this
year. Gafisa jumped 4.1 percent. Banco do Brasil SA rose the
most among financial stocks as concern eased that government
pressure on banks to reduce loan rates will curb earnings.  Mexico’s IPC index rose 0.5 percent. Grupo Financiero
Santander Mexico SAB, a unit of Spain’s biggest bank, jumped the
most in seven months after the local stock exchange said it will
be added to its benchmark equity index.  Russia ’s Micex Index rose 1.2 percent to the highest level
since April 2. OAO Sberbank and VTB Group, the nation’s two
biggest lenders, climbed at least 2.4 percent.  Benchmark gauges in  Hungary , Czech Republic and  Poland 
gained, while Turkey’s Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National
100 Index snapped a 10-day rally.  Immofinanz AG (IIA) , based in
Vienna, added 0.6 percent in its first day of trading on the
Warsaw Stock Exchange, becoming the biggest property developer
listed on central Europe’s fastest-growing equity market.  Indian Shares  India’s S&P BSE Sensex rose 1.1 percent to the highest
level since Jan. 31. ICICI, India’s largest private lender,
rallied 1.9 percent, the most since April 22.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index rallied 1.4 percent to a
record. Thailand’s SET Index added 1.4 percent, while the  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 1 percent. Data tomorrow may
show that Chinese exports grew at the slowest pace in five
months in April.  China  Shipping Container Lines Co., the
country’s second-biggest shipping company, surged 11 percent,
posting the biggest gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and
the iShares ETF.  The yuan strengthened 0.2 percent as Premier Li Keqiang
pledged to come up with a plan that would allow investment
capital to move more freely in and out of China.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 268 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  