-- Tencent Finds ‘Preliminary’ WeChat Solutions for Carriers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-07T16:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/tencent-works-out-preliminary-solution-with-carriers-on-wechat.html
Billionaire Ma Huateng, chairman of
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , said China’s largest Internet company has
“preliminary solutions” for state-owned carriers concerned
that Tencent’s instant messaging app is hurting their profits.  Tencent worked with operators for the past month to resolve
the situation, Ma said at the Global Mobile Internet Conference
in Beijing yesterday without providing details. Tencent’s move
comes as the popularity of its WeChat service eats into the
text-messaging revenue of carriers including  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ,
the world’s largest phone company by subscribers.  “‘With rapid development of the mobile Internet, we are
now facing a big issue, which is the relationship between mobile
Internet companies and the traditional wireless carriers,’’ Ma
said. ‘‘They should work together for mutual benefit.’’  Shenzhen-based Tencent is counting on the free app’s more
than 300 million users to open doors to consumers who are
spending more time on their smartphones and tablet computers.
The company is planning to introduce lifestyle and interactive
entertainment services on WeChat and is studying ways to
commercialize the app to generate revenue.  Tencent shares have gained 11 percent in Hong Kong trading
this year, compared with a 1.7 percent increase for the
benchmark Hang Seng Index.  China Mobile  WeChat poses a challenge for  China  Mobile, where revenue
for text messaging, its most profitable business, fell 4.8
percent to 44.2 billion yuan ($7.2 billion) last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘‘Today’s environment is very different from the past,”
China Mobile Chief Executive Officer Li Yue said after the
company announced 2012 financial results in March. “Today, you
have companies like Tencent.”  While China Mobile’s wireless data volume almost tripled
last year to 1.04 trillion megabytes, sales only rose 54
percent. Unlike traditional texts, where the carrier charges the
user per message, WeChat and other messaging apps ride on top of
a user’s Internet connection.  China’s three largest wireless operators are competing for
third-generation network subscribers and run the risk of losing
customers to their rivals if they charge clients for WeChat,
Alicia Yap, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Hong Kong, said in a
report last month.  “In the past month, we worked with the operators and
figured out a lot of preliminary solutions,” Ma said. “I don’t
think this is a big issue.”  Alibaba, Sina  The company has yet to make money from the app amid new
competition from Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which last month
bought a stake in  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Weibo, China’s largest Twitter-like service, to boost popularity on mobile devices.  Tencent’s net income is  projected  to rise 22 percent to
15.5 billion  yuan  this year, according to the average of 19
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s less than half
of the 56 percent growth in 2010 and would be the slowest pace
since a 10 percent gain in 2005, according to  data compiled  by
Bloomberg.  The mobile app is projected to have at least 400 million
users by the end of this year, according to Barclays’s Yap. If
WeChat provides gaming services, it could produce annual revenue
of as much as 2.16 billion yuan, she wrote.  WeChat’s core functions allow users to send text, image or
audio messages. The audio message function is similar to an
application from WhatsApp Inc. WeChat’s photo-sharing function
called “Moments” operates with a timeline and cover-photo
layout similar to that of Facebook Inc.  Hangzhou-based Alibaba, China’s largest e-commerce company,
agreed to buy an 18 percent stake in Sina’s Weibo unit last
month, with an option to increase its holding in the message
service to 30 percent. The companies also agreed to cooperate on
online payments and marketing.  Alibaba could use Weibo’s popularity with mobile users to
expand its mobile e-commerce business, said Thomas Chong, an
analyst at Bank of China International Holdings Ltd. in Hong
Kong.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  