-- Ence Said to Study Acquisitions Abroad After Cash Increases
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-05-07T20:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/ence-said-to-study-acquisitions-abroad-after-cash-increases-3-.html
Ence Energia & Celulosa SA (ENC)  is
considering acquisitions abroad after profit and cash jumped and
regulatory changes in Spain deterred the paper-pulp maker from
investing at home, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Ence’s cash surged to 141.1 million euros ($184.5 million)
at the end of the first quarter from 47.8 million euros on Dec.
31, the company said today in a filing. The Madrid-based maker
of pulp from eucalyptus trees, which has expanded into biomass
energy, has studied and ruled out three target companies in
countries including the U.K. and  Italy , the person said, asking
not to be identified because the deliberations are private.  Ence, which boosted cash after selling Uruguayan assets and
delaying biomass-fueled power projects in Spain, is looking into
foreign acquisitions until renewable-energy regulations at home
become more clear, the person said. The company sold 250 million
euros of senior secured notes and signed a 90 million-euro
revolving credit facility earlier this year.  Spain’s government, struggling to curb deficit spending and
cap increases in power bills, has reduced aid to renewable-
energy producers, including by ending all subsidies for new
projects in January 2012.  Ence is studying several alternatives to expand in  Europe ’s
biomass industry, according to a Madrid-based company official
who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the
information.  Profit Gains  First-quarter net income almost doubled to 13.1 million
euros from 6.6 million euros a year earlier as earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization climbed 42 percent
to 43.5 million euros. That beat the 43.3 million-euro average
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Ence  shares  rose 3.1 percent to 2.15 euros at the close in
 Madrid , the biggest gain in three months. That valued the
company at 559.6 million euros.  Earnings were driven higher by lower production costs,
while cellulose prices were buoyed by demand from countries
including  China , the person said. Revenue from cellulose
advanced 5.2 percent to 150.6 million euros, while adjusted
energy sales fell 2.5 percent to 386,326 megawatt-hours.  The company closed its sale of assets in Uruguay on March 7
to a U.S. investment fund for $77.3 million, according to
today’s earnings report. They included forest land with
eucalyptus plantations and facilities for processing the wood.  Spain remains an important market for biomass producers,
Ence said yesterday, citing the industry’s future role in energy
production and its potential to create jobs in rural areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  