-- Merkel’s Distaste for Austerity Causes French Misunderstanding
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-05-07T15:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/merkel-s-distaste-for-austerity-causes-french-misunderstanding.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
condemned using the term austerity to describe government
efforts to cut deficits, saying that it sounds “aggressive”
and doesn’t rule out parallel moves to spur growth.  “It’s not about the choice between austerity” and growth,
Merkel told members of the regional trade and industry chambers
today at Rostock’s Laage airport, in northern  Germany . Austerity
is “a word that I only came to know as translated from the
English,” she said. “Until three years ago I never used it in
Germany, we called it budget consolidation. That’s already a
mouthful. Austerity somehow sounds even more aggressive.”  Merkel’s distaste for the word doesn’t signal agreement
with French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici’s weekend
announcement of an “end of the dogma of austerity” as pushed
by Germany. While her government has shown it’s ready to stand
back as the European Union grants governments more time to meet
deficit targets, she is holding to demands for economic
overhauls across  Europe  to beat recession and the debt crisis.  That can lead to false public perceptions of Germany’s
attempts to tackle the root cause of the crisis while seeking to
make Europe more competitive, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said separately.  “The public debate -- one side for austerity and the other
for growth -- is a pure misunderstanding,” Schaeuble told
reporters in Berlin today after meeting with Moscovici. “We
have always said we want to work together for sustainable
growth. Sound finances are a necessary precondition for that.”  ‘Inciting Laziness’  Moscovici too sought to avoid any German confusion over his
government’s aims, saying that the European Commission “didn’t
invent a new text” when granting  France  a two-year extension to
meet deficit rules.  “This isn’t inciting laziness, or being lax,” he said.
While France doesn’t favor “austerity plans that go further
than necessary,” he pledged that “we won’t break with budget
seriousness.”  In any case, Moscovici’s declaration of an end to austerity
was a misunderstanding too, according to Schaeuble.  “Probably due to my command of the French language, I did
not understand  Pierre Moscovici  to have said that this was a
change of course,” said Schaeuble, who hails from Freiburg near
the French border and who has delivered speeches in French. “I
had said earlier that the commission has the leeway for such
decisions and we’re supporting it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Rostock Laage, northern Germany via
   aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  