-- EU Ministers to Grapple Over Bank Creditor Loss Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-07T10:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/eu-ministers-to-grapple-over-bank-creditor-loss-rules.html
Finance ministers will hold talks next
week on proposed European Union rules for writing down failing
banks’ creditors, amid splits over the status of insured
depositors and the powers that should be handed to national
regulators.  “The treatment of uninsured depositors remains a key issue
particularly after recent events,” according to a document
prepared by Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the
EU. Options being weighed by national officials include granting
these deposits a preferred status compared with other senior
creditors, meaning that “in many instances,” they would not
face losses.  EU leaders have set a June deadline for governments and the
European Parliament to agree on the text of a bank-failure law,
aimed at taking taxpayers off the hook for rescues. In the
absence of such a system, nations have injected 1.7 trillion
euros ($2.2 trillion) into their banking systems since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to European
Commission data.  Under the plans, unsecured creditors at a crisis-hit bank
would face losses in order of seniority before recourse is made
to public funds.  Ministers will also discuss whether state-guarantee systems
used to protect insured depositors should be expected to
contribute funds at the same time that unsecured senior
creditors face writedowns, according to the document, dated May
6 and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Insured Depositors  EU law requires nations to put in place programs, known as
deposit-guarantee schemes or DGS, to protect savings of as much
as 100,000 euros. Depending of the final design of the EU rules,
these programs may be asked to take losses in a bail-in
situation, effectively standing in place of the insured
depositors.  Nations are split over whether the deposit protection
programs should only be tapped after other senior creditors,
according to the document.  The bail-in rules may be potentially “unusable” if the
protection programs aren’t granted preferred status, Ireland
said in the paper.  “The low size of DGS funds compared to insured depositors
balances means that the funds would not be able to cover the
losses in the event of a bail-in of a large bank,” if they are
tapped at the same time as senior creditors, according to the
document.  ‘Harmonized Approach’  National officials clashed on the design of the writedown
rules at a meeting of ambassadors last week, according to a
European official.  While governments including the U.K. and  France  argue that
the writedown rules will be ineffective unless regulators have
the power to adjust them according to circumstances, some other
nations are concerned that this discretion could fuel
uncertainty and lead to a patchwork of approaches across the 27-
nation bloc.  “Many member states consider that the major drawback to
the harmonized approach is the inability to deal with unforeseen
events and that the absence of flexibility may result in the
resolution authority avoiding or being unable to use the bail-in
tool,” according to the document.  Ireland is also seeking guidance from governments on what
rules should govern the use of national, bank-financed funds,
which would be set up under the law to help cover costs at
failing lenders.  While provisional versions of the legislation would only
allow these so-called resolution funds to be tapped after
creditors have been written down, “there are a small number of
member states who would like a greater flexibility in the use of
the resolution fund to allow it to be used for direct solvency
support,” according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  