-- Europe’s Carbon Market Fix Set for July Second-Chance Vote
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-05-07T14:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/europe-s-carbon-market-fix-to-be-voted-in-parliament-in-july.html
The European Parliament will hold a
second plenary vote in early July on a stopgap plan to bolster
prices in the world’s biggest carbon market after it rejected
the draft measure last month.  Representatives of political groups in the Parliament’s
environment committee agreed today that the panel will give its
verdict on the proposal on June 19, before a vote by the full
assembly during the July 1-4 session, lawmaker Matthias Groote
said. The plan to curb the oversupply of carbon permits, meant
to prevent further price drops before a deeper overhaul of the
cap-and-trade system, must be approved by the Parliament and
national governments.  “I’ll work very closely with coordinators from political
groups to bring it to success,” Groote, who heads the
environment committee and oversees the carbon proposal in the
Parliament, said in an interview in Brussels.  The emergency carbon market fix designed by the European
Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory arm, has divided
 member states , industry and the Parliament. The assembly on
April 16 sent it back to the environment committee for further
debate, reflecting concerns that higher energy prices would
deepen the euro-area recession and that intervention would be
against the market nature of the program.  Cleaner Technologies  EU carbon permits for delivery in December slumped a record
44.8 percent following the vote and extended losses the next
day, falling to an all-time low of 2.46 euros a metric ton. The
contract lost 6.4 percent to 3.66 euros on the ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange as of 2:49 p.m. in  London  today. That compares
with 25-30 euros expected by European lawmakers when they were
setting up the bloc’s emissions trading system, or EU ETS, which
started in 2005.  Low carbon-permit prices reduce the incentive for polluters
to invest in cleaner technologies needed to meet the EU’s long-term climate ambitions, according to the commission. The ETS
ensures a 21 percent reduction of emissions in 2020 by imposing
a cap on discharges by about 12,000 factories and power plants.
EU leaders have declared the bloc should aim to cut  greenhouse
gases  by at least 80 percent by 2050.  The stopgap plan would help prices rebound by delaying
auctions of some permits from 2013-2015 to 2019-2020 after an
economic crisis caused a record glut of permits. It includes a
change to the EU emissions trading law to confirm the
commission’s right to postpone the sale of allowances, which the
Parliament is currently considering, and a separate measure to
set out the details of delaying, or backloading, the auctions.  ‘Market Interference’  Environment and energy ministers from nine countries,
including  Germany ,  France  and the U.K., called on the Parliament
to support backloading by July at the latest and urged the
commission to present legislation on a deeper overhaul of the
ETS by the end of 2013.  “Although we are clear that market interference should be
kept to a minimum, a one-off and targeted intervention now would
minimize market uncertainty and distortions, and also promote
investment in low carbon technologies,” they said in a joint
statement. “A delay could lead to greater costs in the long
term to meet EU 2050 objectives.”  The joint statement was also signed by ministers from
 Denmark ,  Finland ,  Portugal , Slovenia,  Sweden  and the
Netherlands.  The  Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group on Climate
Change , which brings together companies including  Alstom SA (ALO) ,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Coca Cola Enterprises Inc. and  Unilever
NV (UNA) , backed the ministers’ call.  ‘Future Investments’  “Our investments and business plans for Europe have all
been made on the basis that there would be a credible CO2
price,” the companies said in an e-mailed statement. “The fact
there isn’t undermines current investments as well as the huge
volume of future investments Europe needs to make to ensure its
energy security and efficiency, modernize its infrastructure and
boost its competitiveness.”  The voting schedule agreed by parliamentarians today allows
the assembly and member states to work along a similar timeline
to make progress on the measure, said Bas Eickhout, a Dutch
member of the Greens group in the Parliament. Representatives of
national governments are due to meet in Brussels on May 27 for
the next round of talks about backloading.  ‘Good Majority’  “We have a chance of getting a good majority in both
institutions in favor of the proposal,” Eickhout said in an
interview.  Negotiations with member states on the final wording of the
proposal in the process known as trilogue would start after the
plenary vote, Groote said. Environment Minister Phil Hogan of
Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, said last
month that Groote could urge some changes to the carbon-fix plan
to help salvage it.  Parliamentarians agreed today to set May 27 as the deadline
for proposing amendments to the draft measure.  Potential options to allay the concerns of those who
opposed it in the first vote could include some restrictions on
the frequency of intervention in the carbon market, volumes of
permits to be delayed or circumstances under which sales could
be postponed, an EU official said on April 30.  Wider Struggle  While most member states favor backloading, they are short
of the 255 votes needed in the EU weighted-ballot system to
approve the proposal because several nations, including Germany,
remain undecided.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday she
hoped Germany would be able to tackle the plan no later than the
autumn. Poland, Greece and Cyprus are opposed to the proposal.  The spat over backloading heralds a wider struggle to set
new climate protection and renewable energy policies after 2020
and threaten to keep emission prices near historic lows. The
commission intends this year to propose a new set of goals to
reduce greenhouse gases and boost the share of clean
technologies in its energy consumption by 2030.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  