-- Euro Pares Gain Amid ECB Readiness to Act on Economic Weakness
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-07T21:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/euro-strengthens-as-german-factory-orders-jump-aussie-weakens.html
The euro pared a gain against the
dollar amid concern the region’s economy may struggle to grow a
day after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he’s
ready to cut interest rates again if needed.  The 17-nation shared currency strengthened earlier after
German factory orders unexpectedly increased in March. The yen
gained versus the majority of its 16 most-traded peers on haven
demand.  Australia ’s dollar fell to a two-month low against the
greenback after the central bank cut interest rates to a record
low. Sweden’s krona strengthened as industrial production
exceeded economists’ forecasts.  “The euro, going forward, we think it’s going to be very
data sensitive,” Sireen Harajli, a currency strategist in New
York at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said in a telephone interview.
“There’s going to be a big focus on the data in  Europe  and how
that comes out, and based on that markets will try to assess
whether the ECB is going to become more aggressive.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3079 as of 5 p.m. New
York time after climbing to $1.3243 on May 1, the highest since
Feb. 25. The single currency declined 0.3 percent to 129.48 yen
after rising as much as 0.4 percent. The yen gained 0.3 percent
to 99 per dollar.  ‘Too Expensive’  “You’re not breaking out of the ranges and so people give
up fairly brutally,”  Sebastien Galy , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s too expensive to hold a position
because they’re overbought.”  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $33.3 billion, compared with turnover of $21.3 billion
yesterday, according to data reported by U.S. banks to the
Depository Trust Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg.  Volume in options on the dollar- yuan   exchange rate  amounted
to $9.2 billion, the largest share of trades at 28 percent.
Dollar versus Japanese yen options were the second most-actively
traded, at $6.7 billion, or 20 percent.  Dollar-yuan options trading was more than three times more
than the average of the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in
the day, and yen trading fell 36 percent, according to Bloomberg
analysis.  China ’s currency strengthened the most in 2013 as Premier
 Li Keqiang  pledged to come up with a plan this year that would
allow investment capital to move more freely in and out of
China. The yuan rose 0.2 percent, this year’s largest one-day
gain, to 6.1537 per dollar, following a 0.17 percent decline
yesterday that was the largest of 2013.  Aussie, Krona  Australia’s dollar fell for a second day after the  Reserve
Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage
point to 2.75 percent. The decision was predicted by eight of
the 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “They have a good case for a cut, as data in Australia has
been coming in slightly weaker,”  Credit Agricole ’s Harajli
said. “Our view is that they’re going to wait. We don’t think
they’re going to be very aggressive going forward,” she said of
further  interest-rate  reductions.  The so-called Aussie slid 0.7 percent to $1.0185 after
declining to $1.0155, the weakest level since March 4.  The krona strengthened against the majority of its 16 major
counterparts as the industrial-production data reduced pressure
on the central bank to lower interest rates.  Production was unchanged in March from a year earlier,
compared with an estimated 0.5 percent decline in a Bloomberg
survey. Orders jumped 11.2 percent from a year earlier. The data
support the central bank’s economic growth forecast of 0.3
percent in the first quarter, according to Nordea Bank AB.  The krona appreciated 0.2 percent to 6.5342 per dollar and
gained 0.2 percent to 8.5453 per euro.  Gain ‘Overdone’  The euro climbed as much as 0.4 percent earlier as German
factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 2.2 percent from February, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists was for a 0.5 percent decline.  “The bounce that we saw in the euro overnight as a result
of the German data was largely overdone,”  Omer Esiner , chief
market analyst in  Washington  at the currency brokerage
Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “The justification for the run-up wasn’t quite
there.”  The shared currency dropped 0.3 percent yesterday after
Draghi said, during a speech in  Rome , “we will be looking at
all the data that arrives from the euro-area economy in the
coming weeks and, if necessary, we are ready to act again.” The
ECB last week reduced its key interest rate to an all-time low,
and Draghi said policy makers had an open mind on a negative
deposit rate.  The euro has risen 4.2 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar gained 1.2 percent
and the yen slid 21 percent, the worst performer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  