-- Evernote Says Cyber Breach Which Cost Millions Wasn’t From China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-07T07:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/evernote-says-cyber-breach-which-cost-millions-wasn-t-from-china.html
Evernote Corp., an online note-taking
and document storage service, said a March cyber attack that
obtained usernames and encrypted passwords cost “many millions
of dollars” and didn’t come from China.  The attack wasn’t state-sponsored and appears to have come
from identity-theft groups, Chief Executive Officer Phil Libin
said in an interview in Beijing today. An investigation with the
help of U.S. security firm Mandiant Corp. is nearly finished and
details will be available in a few weeks, he said.  Mandiant in February said China may be behind a group that
has hacked at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006. Evernote
has fully recovered from the March attack, which cost “many
millions of dollars,” and the  Redwood City , California-based
company is growing faster than before the breach as it adds
100,000 new users per day, Libin said.  “The recovery is very expensive and will be ongoing for a
long time,” he said. “Because our promise is we want people to
trust us with their lifetime memories, we had to overreact.”  Evernote, like Dropbox Inc., lets users store documents,
images and other content in remote data centers, accessible from
mobile devices including smartphones and tablet computers. The
company said in August it planned to delay holding an initial
public offering until at least 2015 as it works to convert users
of its free product into paid subscribers.  Libin reiterated the company will not rush into an IPO, and
that a sale will take “a couple of years.”  Evernote today released a Chinese version of its software
aimed at corporate clients that was released in the U.S. in
December. The company’s  China  service, which started one year
ago today, is adding more than 10,000 users a day, accounting
for more than 10 percent of global user growth.  The company makes money by using a so-called freemium
model, offering a free version that can be upgraded to a paid
membership with more perks. Evernote in March said it had 50
million users around the world, a third of which are in the U.S.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  