-- Lew Urges Tax Changes, Investment in Research to Boost Growth
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-05-07T20:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/lew-urges-tax-changes-investment-in-research-to-boost-growth.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
called for changes in the  tax code , more investment in
technology and stronger manufacturers to accelerate the growth
of the world’s largest economy.  “To expand our country’s manufacturing base, we will make
our tax code more competitive,” Lew said in remarks prepared
for a meeting at the City Club of Cleveland today. “We are
calling on Congress to make the research and experimentation tax
credit permanent. This tax credit propels private investment in
research and technology, and it helps unleash innovations in our
country that lead to future industries, future jobs, and future
breakthroughs in production.”  Lew earlier toured a manufacturing plant of blender maker
Vita-Mix Corp. in Strongsville, Ohio, and met local business
leaders to discuss President  Barack Obama ’s strategy to bolster
the  U.S. economy  and reduce  unemployment . He held talks
privately last week on similar issues with economists and Wall
Street executives including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  and billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson .  The U.S. growth outlook improved after a stronger-than-
forecast gain of 165,000 workers in April pushed the
 unemployment rate  to a four-year low of 7.5 percent. Last week’s
jobs data help lift stocks and Treasury yields, and the Dow
Jones Industrial Average closed above 15,000 today for the first
time.  ‘Much Stronger’  “Our economy is much stronger today than it was four years
ago, but we must continue to take action to help speed up growth
and put more people to work,” Lew said.  Closely held Vita-Mix, which makes blenders used to make
shakes and smoothies, vegetable soups and cheese fondues, plans
to hire more than 200 people in the U.S. in 2013 after boosting
sales by 52 percent last year, Anthony Ciepiel, chief operating
officer, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The company, based in suburban  Cleveland , benefits from the
shift toward healthier diets and sells its products in 100
countries at retailers including Harrods Ltd., the luxury
department store, and Union, New Jersey-based  Bed Bath & Beyond
Inc. (BBBY) , according to Ciepiel.  “Smoothie consumption in the U.S. is going up
dramatically,” Ciepiel said. “In the last 12 months, there
were 2.8 billion smoothies made at home.”  Shale Boom  Vita-Mix makes all its blenders in Ohio, where the
unemployment rate fell to 7.1 percent in March from a 26-year
high of 10.6 percent in February 2010. The recovery was driven
by rebound in auto production and demand for workers from oil
companies including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  that started
exploring underground shale formation known as Utica.  “This could be a real game changer for Ohio,” said  Ken Mayland , president of ClearView Economics LLC in Pepper Pike,
Ohio. “You look at what happened in North Dakota and how North
Dakota has so greatly benefited from its energy resources and
there is a lot of hope that to some degree that’s going to be a
major influence with the Ohio economy.”  While oil and gas exploration in North Dakota pushed its
unemployment rate to the lowest in the nation at 3.3 percent, in
Ohio mining represents 0.25 percent of overall employment.
Manufacturing employs 12.8 percent, according to the Federal
Reserve Bank of Cleveland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  