-- Feudal Bonds Grip Pakistan Rural Vote in Bar for Landowner Tax
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-05-07T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/feudal-bonds-grip-pakistan-rural-vote-in-bar-for-landowner-tax.html
Villagers fell at Syed Qutab Ali
Shah’s feet as he emerged from the shrine complex in  Pakistan 
dedicated to his ancestors, seeking blessings they believe can
cure the sick or bring prosperity.  The 30-year-old Sufi mystic’s following gives him a head
start in his run for a seat in the May 11 national election. If
he wins, he’ll join a parliament where his grandfather served
and which in 2008 appointed his uncle, Yousuf Raza Gilani, prime
minister. Two of Gilani’s sons and a brother are also
candidates.  “I’d vote for this family even if they put up a thief as a
candidate -- they see what we can’t,” said Ghulam Sarwar among
the Sandhilianwali tombs in Punjab. “My pir is everything,” he
said, using a term for a revered figure in the Sufi Muslim sect.  With rural areas accounting for two thirds of seats, the
devotion of villagers like Sarwar to clans and local landowners
has generated policies eschewing higher taxes on the wealthy --
even in an economy where government revenue is less than half
that of global peers. About 80 percent of lawmakers in the last
parliament owed their office to votes based on control of land
or business, religious devotion or family group, the Pakistan
Institute of Legislative Development and Transparency estimates.  “Corruption, foreign policy and the economy” aren’t
issues in villages and small towns, said Ahmed Bilal Mehboob,
chief executive of the Islamabad-based institute, an independent
research group known by its acronym PILDAT. “Get somebody a
job, get him released from police custody and his family will
become your voters. That’s what the feudal is good at.”  Feudals’ Sway  In Pakistan, the term “feudal” refers to a person who is
a major landowner or local power broker. The sway of the feudals
reflects an uneven distribution of wealth, with two thirds of
village households landless, while 2 percent of landowners
control 45 percent of the cultivated acreage, according to a
2012  report  prepared for the U.K. parliament.  The average declared assets of members of the lower house
of parliament elected at the last poll in 2008 was $1 million, a
three-fold increase in six years, an  analysis  by PILDAT showed.
The government estimates annual per capita income at $1,200.  The ruling class “appropriate most of the resources to
their own advantage and exclude the masses from the benefits of
the economy,” even if their influence has been reduced by
urbanization, said  Rashid Khan , who teaches politics at the
University of Sargodha in central Pakistan. Frequent military
coups have stunted the growth of democracy, thwarting efforts to
make parliament more representative, he also said.  Civilian Handover  This month’s election marks the first time a civilian
administration has finished a full five-year term and handed
power to a successor government elected through a ballot. The
army has ruled Pakistan for about half its history since
independence in 1947.  As Pakistanis head to the polls amid escalating Taliban
violence, one group is attempting to break the dominance of
Pakistan’s two big parties -- President Asif Ali Zardari’s
Peoples Party, and former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif ’s Pakistan
Muslim League, which is leading in polls.  Ex-cricket star  Imran Khan  has energized young voters with
his slate of largely first-time politicians. Khan has vowed to
create a  task force  to recover money linked to corruption and
use it to fund education projects. He also aims to raise tax
collections by ensuring the wealthy make payments, and extending
levies to all parts of the economy, including agriculture and
the stock market.  Revenue Gap  Almost 70 percent of federal legislators failed to file
income tax returns in 2011, according to a study compiled by the
Center for Investigative Reporting in Pakistan in Islamabad.
Pakistan’s government revenue amounted to less than 13 percent
of gross domestic product last year, compared with 28 percent
for emerging market and developing economies as a group,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  About 800 kilometers (500 miles) south of the Sufi shrine,
the grip of the landowning class is evidenced in a Sindh
province area where tenant farmers say they pay three-quarters
of their annual profits to estate owners -- and vote the way
they are told.  Where villagers have shown defiance, cattle have been
stolen, debts doubled and women harassed, the tenant farmers
said in interviews, asking that neither they nor their
settlement be named to avoid retribution. The worst punishment
is eviction, they said.  The breaking up of estates has been stymied by lawmakers
and a 1989  Supreme Court  judgment that said capping holdings was
un-Islamic. The then-ruling Peoples Party, whose Sindh bastion
is a stronghold of big landowners, blocked a June proposal for a
nationwide tax on agriculture, which represents a fifth of the
economy. It said the levy was the preserve of state governments.  Free Vote  One Sindh landowner says he gives tenants free rein on
voting.  “My farmers have the right to vote for whoever they
believe is good for them,” Sardar Kamal Khan Chang, standing
for parliament on behalf of Zardari party’s in Badin, where his
family owns 5,000 acres, said April 15. “Not all the landlords
are like this though.”  In Khairpur, 300 kilometers north of Karachi, Syed Pervez
Ali Shah is seeking a fourth election victory in state assembly
polls that will be held alongside the national ballot. During
visits to 11 villages on a single day, Shah delivers speeches,
requesting the support of clan elders over snacks and soft
drinks served at their guesthouses.  Elders’ Choice  If a candidate is convincing, he’s typically promised the
community’s ballots on polling day -- a tally possibly running
into the thousands. If not, the elders stay silent, enabling a
face-saving exit.  “As an independent, I can’t promise treasures,” Shah said
April 28. “But win or lose, I will be here year-round to help
people,” he said, promising to ease a confrontation with a
neighboring village over the killing of four people -- after the
elections.  In Sandhilianwali, the family of Pir Ali has been in
politics for decades, switching allegiances to boost its
chances. His grandfather was a member of Pakistan’s upper house
of parliament for Sharif’s Muslim League. The current pir is
standing for Zardari’s party.  “Politics is just like worship for us,” he said of the
willingness to jump parties if it delivers benefits to
supporters. “We have to take care of our people. The school,
the dispensary, and post office you see are built on our land.”  Sufi saints were at the forefront of Islam’s spread through
 South Asia . Former premier Gilani, found guilty of contempt and
ousted by the Supreme Court in 2012 over corruption charges
facing Zardari, a conviction that bars him from the election,
claims descent from one such holyman. Sharif has allied with Pir
Pagara, the head of a Sufi order in Sindh, to wrestle seats away
from the Peoples Party.  Bashir Ahmed, a follower of Pir Ali, isn’t surprised. “Who
can defeat a pir?” he said. “Imagine those million people who
have been blessed by this family. Do you think they will ditch
him?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  