-- Fink Says U.S. Workers Need Mandatory Retirement Savings
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-05-07T17:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/fink-says-u-s-workers-need-mandatory-retirement-savings.html
BlackRock Inc.’s (BLK)  Laurence D. Fink,
head of the world’s largest asset manager, said U.S. employers
should be required to put money aside for their employees’
retirement, similar to  Australia ’s superannuation system.  “The current system is not working and we need a
comprehensive approach that includes some form of mandatory
savings in addition to  Social Security ,” Fink, chief executive
officer of New York-based BlackRock, said today at New York
University’s Stern School of Business. “The longer we wait to
fix it, the tougher the task becomes.”  In Australia, employers must contribute at least 9 percent
of part-time and full-time employees’ income into accounts that
belong to workers. In the U.S., Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa
Democrat and chairman of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions Committee, plans to introduce legislation this year to
require businesses that don’t offer a pension or 401(k) plan
with a company match to automatically enroll workers in a so-called USA Retirement Fund.  BlackRock, which manages $3.94 trillion in assets, started
a five-year branding campaign last year urging investors to buy
higher-yielding assets such as stocks. Fink and other BlackRock
executives have said that clients need to diversify and can be
harmed by staying in cash-like products.  A mandatory retirement savings system would have to be
phased in gradually and would relieve pressure on the  federal
budget , Fink said today.  DOL Proposal  The U.S. Department of Labor said today it’s seeking
comments on a proposed rule that would require 401(k) plan
sponsors to include in workers’ quarterly or annual statements
an estimate of what their current or projected savings looks
like as a monthly stream of payments. The government is trying
to keep people from outliving their savings as employers have
shifted to 401(k)-type plans, where workers are responsible for
investing their contributions, from traditional pension plans,
which guarantee income after retirement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  