-- Fire Sales Risk Requires Repo Market Reform, N.Y. Fed Paper Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-05-07T17:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/fire-sales-risk-requires-repo-market-reform-n-y-fed-paper-says.html
The over $2 trillion-a-day repurchase
agreement market requires changes to cut risks related to sales
of assets triggered by a dealer default or lenders’ perceptions
that it may, according to the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  The potential for so-called “fire sales,” or rapid
selling of assets at reduced prices, remains a source of
financial instability,  New York  Fed economists Brian Begalle,
Antoine Martin, James McAndrews and Susan McLaughlin wrote in a
paper posted today on the bank’s website. Since the 2008
financial crisis that caused a near global credit freeze and
disruptions in repo funding, global policy maker have sought to
increase bank capital and mitigate side-effects of bank defaults
to prevent the need for future government bailouts.  “Limited tools are available to mitigate the risk of pre-
default fire sales and no established tools currently exist to
mitigate risk of post-default sales,”  Begalle, Martin,
McAndrews and McLaughlin wrote. “The risk of post-default fire
sales in the tri-party repo market cannot be eliminated
altogether,” unless before such an event there is a “mechanism
that provides for the orderly liquidation of tri-party
collateral.”  The Fed has been seeking to strengthen the tri-party
repurchase agreement market, which near collapsed in 2008 amid
the demise of Bear Stearns Cos. and bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. during the financial crisis.  The central
bank took over efforts to improve functioning of the market for
in 2012 after the private-sector Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure
Reform Task Force, sponsored by the Fed in 2009, disbanded.  Liquidity Facilities  The Fed created liquidity facilities to prevent fire sales
and support its primary dealers in 2008. The central bank
backstopped the market through the Term Securities Lending
Facility, for loans of Treasuries to Wall Street dealers, and
the Primary Dealer Credit Facility for cash loans to the firms.  “The resiliency of dealers could be enhanced by reducing
their reliance of short-term funding, or through additional
capital and liquidity regulation,” the Fed staffers wrote. The
risk of dealer pre-default asset sales is heightened by the
practice of maturity transformation, when repos have a shorter
maturity than the securities that serve as collateral, as well
as liquidity transformation, the report said.  While, the risk of post default sales, from money market
mutual funds and other counterparties that hold the securities
used as collateral for the repos, is primary because such
transactions are exempt from a bankruptcy regulation that
typically prevents creditors from immediately taking possession
of assets. These investors would likely quickly sell the
securities, according to the Fed report.  Money Funds  Repos are transactions used by the Fed’s primary dealers
for short-term funding and typically involve the sale of U.S.
government securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held
as collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender,
typically a money-market mutual fund.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank
of  New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  serve as the industry’s clearing banks.  “The risk of fire sales would be mitigated if the assets
serving as repo collateral were sold by an institution, or a set
of institutions, that has incentives and the ability to maximize
the value of these assets,” the Fed economists wrote. “It
could be the clearing bank of the defaulting dealer, a large
asset manager, or a consortium of asset managers, a dealer, or a
consortium of dealers, or a special-purpose entity created
specifically for that role.”  Resolution Authority  A so-called resolution authority for the repo market, to
orderly liquidate repurchase agreements and prevent fire sales
of underlying assets during periods of financial stress, was
proposed as a way to reduce risks in March 2012 by New York
University Stern School of Business professors Viral Acharya and
T. Sabri Oncu in a paper presented at a Federal Reserve
conference in  Washington .  Laws and regulations including Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III
are focused on systemically important financial companies. What
has yet to be fully addressed is systemic risks associated with
certain assets and liabilities, such as  repurchase agreements ,
Acharya and Oncu wrote in the report.  ‘In the absence of a mechanism or process for ensuring that
private-market participants have proper incentives to engage in
orderly liquidations of assets as needed, the official sector
will likely have to resort to emergency measures in order to
limit the disruptions to the financial system that fire sales
would create,” the Fed economists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  