-- FBN of Nigeria’s CEO Plans $500 Million Eurobond Sale
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-05-08T10:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/first-bank-of-nigeria-to-offer-500-million-eurobond-this-year.html
FBN Holdings Plc (FBNH) , owner of First Bank
Nigeria, plans to raise $500 million by selling a Eurobond this
year after abandoning a similar offering in 2012.  The money “is needed to finance investments in loans and
infrastructure,” Chief Executive Officer Bello Maccido said
yesterday by telephone from Lagos, the country’s commercial
capital. “The bank intends to expand its investment banking and
commercial business as well as insurance.”  First Bank, the West African nation’s third-largest lender
by market value, suspended plans to issue the bond last year
because of market conditions, Maccido said. “We believe
conditions will be favorable this year,” he said.  The lender is joining other Nigerian banks seeking to raise
dollars to finance oil, power and infrastructure projects in
Africa’s top oil producer. Nigerian banks are returning to
profit after the industry came near to collapse in a debt crisis
in 2008 and 2009, with many boosting capital levels.  Fidelity
Bank Plc (FIDELITY)  sold a $300 million five-year bond May 2.  Diamond Bank
Plc (DIAMONDB)  plans to offer as much as $750 million this year, while Skye
Bank Plc wants to raise $150 million.  First Bank, which has offices in six countries outside
Nigeria, does not plan to enter new foreign markets this year,
Maccido said. The  lender  is focusing on Nigeria for growth, with
17 branches opened in the first quarter, bringing its branch
network in the country to 807, he said.  The stock rose 0.5 percent to 19.71 naira at the close of
Lagos trading yesterday. FBN Holdings has gained 25 percent this
year, beating the 19 percent increase in the Nigerian SE Banking
Index, which tracks Nigeria’s 10 biggest banks.  Record Sales  Nigerian banks are following African governments outside of
South  Africa  that plan to sell $7 billion of sovereign debt
sales this year, more than in the past five years combined, as
yields more than double those of Treasuries lure investors
repelled in the past by violence and corruption.  Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s most populous nation and
second-largest economy, is selling majority stakes in power
plants and letting private investors acquire as much as 60
percent in six transmission and 11 power distribution companies
spun out of the former state-owned utility.  Banks have also increased lending to the oil industry as
smaller producers expanded drilling to boost output. Companies
including London-based Heritage Oil Plc and Lagos-based Neconde
Energy Ltd. bought stakes in fields owned by Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, Eni SpA and Total SA.  Yields Drop  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index (NGSEINDX)  has advanced 23
percent this year, the third-best performance in Africa,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on the West
African nation’s Eurobonds have fallen five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, this month to 4.05 percent by 10:16 a.m.
in  London .  Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi fired the
chief executive officers of eight of the country’s 24 lenders in
2009 and the government set up the Asset Management Corp. of
Nigeria in 2010 to buy bad debts from the country’s banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  