-- First Solar Seeks 5.5 Gigawatts of Sales to Fill Pipeline
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-05-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/first-solar-seeks-5-5-gigawatts-of-sales-to-fill-pipeline.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest U.S.
solar manufacturer by shipments, said it’s pursuing as much as
5.5 gigawatts of prospective sales, mainly in the Americas,
after its pipeline of orders was unchanged in the first quarter.  The company reported $8 billion in expected revenue at the
end of the first quarter, unchanged from the end of December,
Chief Executive Officer Jim Hughes said during a conference call
yesterday.  The company expects results in the second half of the year
to be better than in the first half, reversing an earlier
forecast, as it acquires new solar farms that will use its
panels. Of the 5.5 gigawatts of potential orders, about 700
megawatts comes from mid- to late-stage projects that are
nearing construction, Hughes said.  “We are focusing on replenishing our pipeline in 2014 and
beyond,” Hughes said.  That includes projects in  Chile ,  Canada  and a “steady
diet” of stranded solar projects that developers can’t complete
in  California  and elsewhere in the U.S. Southwest, he said. The
company forecasts its results using expected revenue from panels
it will install at solar farms it’s developing and contracted
sales to other developers.  Sales Increase  Net income in the quarter was $59.1 million, or 66 cents a
share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $449 million, or
$5.20 a share, the Tempe, Arizona-based company said in a
statement after the close of regular trading yesterday. Sales
climbed 52 percent to $755.2 million. Excluding some one-time
expenses related to restructuring, earnings of 69 cents a share
were six cents less than the average of 17 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The shortfall in the quarter isn’t as important as the
company’s long-term prospects, said  Sanjay Shrestha , an analyst
at Lazard Capital Markets LLC in  New York .  “We weren’t so focused on the quarter, as numbers will be
lumpy due to the nature of project development,” Shrestha said
in an interview. “The big story here really is, they continue
to execute.” He has a buy rating on the shares and a $60 price
target.  First Solar shares climbed 3.7 percent to $47.69 at the
close in New York yesterday. They have gained 55 percent this
year.  Expanding Pipeline  Hughes, who joined the company a year ago, is seeking to
expand its pipeline of utility-scale solar farms under
development. First Solar’s shift to building and selling large
projects is driving profits while most of its competitors are
losing money by focusing on selling panels.  The company reiterated its forecast of sales of $3.8
billion to $4 billion this year. That will generate 2013 income
of $4 to $4.50 a share.  Hughes is also steering the company into new regions
including  Japan , which is expected to become the second-largest
solar market this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
First Solar agreed in April to acquire TetraSun, a startup
developing high-efficiency solar panels designed for rooftop
systems on homes and businesses. Initial sales are expected to
begin next year in Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  