-- Florida Bonds Prone to Default Proving Most-Wanted: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/florida-bonds-prone-to-default-proving-most-wanted-muni-credit.html
Bonds sold to finance  Florida  housing
developments are being issued at the fastest rate in six years
as investors seek extra yield from the municipal debt even as 85
percent of such securities have defaulted since 2008.  Known as dirt bonds, the borrowings are sold by districts
set up by builders to finance roads and utility lines on raw
land for housing. Jurisdictions in Florida have sold $273
million of the debt this year in 25 issues, on pace for the most
since 2007 in terms of dollar amount and number of issues, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The securities are benefiting from  home prices  in Florida
that rose at the end of 2012 to a 21-month high, data from the
Federal Housing Finance Agency show. At the same time, investors
are hunting for speculative-grade munis, which have earned 3.1
percent this year, compared with 1.5 percent for the broader
local market, Barclays Plc data show.  The jump in issuance shows “that many of those housing
markets have stabilized,” said  Peter Hayes , head of munis at
New York-based BlackRock Inc. He oversees $114 billion of local
debt, including land-development obligations.  “That helps dirt bonds, along with the fact that they
offer more income and more yield than some other sectors,” he
said.  Bubble Burst  Before the 18-month recession that started in 2007,
developers in states such as Florida took advantage of rising
home prices to sell tax-exempt securities. They were dubbed dirt
bonds because they were secured by levies and special
assessments on land. Defaults on the debt soared when home
purchases dwindled as the housing bubble burst. New single-family home sales fell six straight years starting in 2005,
Census Bureau  data show .  The obligations are among the riskiest in the $3.7 trillion
municipal market, with much of the debt offered without a
rating.  Fiddler’s Creek Community Development District 1, a 1,390-acre (563-hectare) community near Naples, Florida, sold about $6
million of unrated bonds last week to refinance securities even
after it defaulted on some debt issued in 2002 and 2005.  About 600 such districts exist in Florida and have issued
about $6.5 billion in munis, according to  Richard Lehmann ,
publisher of the Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter in  Miami
Lakes , Florida. Since 2008, 183 have defaulted on about $5.5
billion.  Refinancing Rebound  Lehmann’s default definition includes bankruptcy, missed
payments or breaking bond covenants by using reserves to cover
debt service.  For the more than 400 communities that remained solvent,
interest rates near generational lows and  housing starts  at the
highest since 2008 will bring them back to the market to
refinance debt or restart work, Lehmann said.  “These new issues are for a lot of older, viable projects,
and projects in the second and third stage of their development,
which are perfectly solid investment opportunities,” said
Lehmann, who runs a website about the districts.  In the case of Fiddler’s Creek, proceeds from last week’s
deal will refund bonds sold in 1999, according to offering
documents. The original developers filed for bankruptcy in
February 2010.  ‘Nightmare Credits’  The case is the first in Florida where a development
district settled debts with a builder under Chapter 11
bankruptcy procedures over bondholders’ objections, according to
Lehmann.  “There are still credits that are nightmare credits, so
you have to be able to parse the good from the bad,” said Terry O’Grady, senior vice president of muni trading at FMS Bonds Inc.
in  North Miami Beach , Florida.  The refunding for Fiddler’s Creek is an example of a safer
credit, O’Grady said. It has sold about two-thirds of its 1,852
units to residents, including all 780 multifamily homes,
offering documents show.  That progress made  John Miller  at Nuveen Asset Management a
potential buyer. Miller, who oversees about $95 billion of munis
as co-head of fixed income in  Chicago , holds some Florida dirt
bonds that were issued this year in his  Nuveen High Yield
Municipal Bond Fund. (NHMRX)  Last quarter, his fund beat all other open-ended, national muni funds that are at least three years old.  ‘Tainted’ Name  “The name has been tainted by its history in the bond
world, but I don’t think it’s tainted at the ground level in
terms of people wanting to live there,” Miller said. “This
particular phase is heavily developed and that makes it a more
secure” community development district.  Fiddler’s Creek sold about $6 million of debt maturing in
May 2021 that was priced to yield 4.25 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. That’s about 2.8 percentage points more than
benchmark munis.  Some of the communities coming to market are even viewed by
rating companies as on par with  Illinois  in their ability to
repay bondholders. The Double Branch district in Florida’s Clay
County sold bonds this year to refund debt from 2002 and 2005,
earning  Standard & Poor’s  seventh-highest grade because of its
“largely built-out nature.”  Bonds maturing in May 2031 were priced below par to yield
4.23 percent when sold in February. Three weeks later, the debt
traded at a premium, yielding 4 percent.  ‘Credit Risk’  “Investors want tax-free income and they’re willing to
take on a little bit of credit risk,” Miller said. “This
structure has an excellent overall track record if you look
broadly across the entire country over the last 20 to 30
years.”  States and cities are scheduled to sell about $5.5 billion
of long-term debt this week, the least since March. Illinois
leads issuers with a $300 million offer of sales-tax bonds on
May 9.  At  1.74 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
below the 1.76 percent level for similar-maturity Treasuries.
Local  interest rates  exceeded those on federal securities for 35
of the past 38 trading sessions.  The  yield ratio  of the two securities, a gauge of relative
value, is about 99 percent, down from as high as 113 percent
last month. A lower value means munis are more expensive
compared with Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  