-- Forint Gains on European Industry Recovery Signs: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-07T13:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/forint-gains-on-european-industry-recovery-signs-budapest-mover.html
The forint advanced, extending the
biggest appreciation among emerging-market currencies this
quarter, as data signaled that the economy in Hungary and its
main trading partner,  Germany , may be closer to a recovery.  German factory orders unexpectedly jumped for a second
month in March, suggesting  Europe ’s largest economy is starting
to grow again. In Hungary, whose recovery from recession is
dependent on boosting exports to Germany and the wider euro
area, industrial production rose 0.4 percent in March from
February, compared with a 0.7 percent decline from a year
earlier. Production starting at a  Daimler AG (DAI)  car plant in
Hungary improved the data, statistician Miklos Schindele told
reporters in Budapest today.  The third consecutive month-on-month advance in Hungary’s
industrial output “obviously helped” the forint, as did the
better-than-expected German data, Karoly Bamli, a Budapest-based
trader at Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mail.  Hungary’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 296.16 per
euro by 2:33 p.m. in Budapest. The forint has advanced 2.7
percent so far this quarter, the largest gain among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds dropped one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 5.086 percent.  The European Commission last week cut its projections for
the euro area, predicting the 17-nation economy will shrink 0.4
percent this year after a 0.6 percent contraction in 2012. The
European Union’s executive arm sees  Hungary ’s gross domestic
product growing 0.2 percent in 2013 after shrinking 1.7 percent
last year.  Today’s output figures showed the “rebound in industry
continues,” Zoltan Arokszallasi and Orsolya Nyeste, Budapest-
based analysts at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in an e-mailed
report.  While industry may have a positive contribution to
Hungary’s first-quarter gross domestic product, “no spectacular
turnaround is expected in the near future,” Arokszallasi and
Nyeste said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  