-- Former Chancellor Nigel Lawson Calls for U.K. Exit From EU
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-05-07T09:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/former-chancellor-nigel-lawson-calls-for-u-k-exit-from-eu.html
Former Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Nigel Lawson  called for the U.K. to leave the European Union,
saying it is no longer in the country’s economic interest to
remain in the bloc.  Lawson said he would vote for Britain’s exit in a
referendum that may be held in 2017, arguing that the costs of
remaining part of the union outweigh the “transitional” costs
of leaving. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said the former
chancellor was rehearsing arguments that are part of an
“anguished debate” in the  Conservative Party .  “The heart of the matter is that the very nature of the
European Union and of this country’s relationship with it had
fundamentally changed after the coming into being of the
European monetary union and the creation of the euro bzone, of
which, quite rightly, we are not part,” Lawson, who was
chancellor from 1983 to 1989 under  Margaret Thatcher , wrote in
the  Times newspaper  in London today. “That is why, while I
voted ‘in’ in 1975, I shall be voting ‘out’ in 2017.”  Lawson, a lawmaker in the upper chamber of Parliament, is
the most senior Conservative to say Britain should leave the EU
and his intervention comes days after the party lost seats in
local elections to the U.K. Independence Party, which campaigns
for Britain to pull out of the 27-nation bloc.  Lawson compared Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s promise of a
plebiscite by late 2017 on whether to remain in the EU on new
terms or leave with Harold Wilson’s 1975 referendum on
membership of the then European Economic Community. He said any
changes secured by Cameron with the EU would be
“inconsequential.” Cameron says he will argue for Britain to
stay inside the EU.  Exit Costs  Clegg, whose Liberal Democrat party is the junior partner
in the governing coalition, told BBC Radio 4 that British exit
from the EU would cost 3 million jobs and lead to a loss of
influence in Washington, Beijing and  Tokyo .  Peter Kellner, president of polling company  YouGov Plc (YOU) ,
said an April 21-22 survey showed 43 percent of voters want to
leave the EU compared with 35 percent who say the U.K. should
stay in. When asked whether the U.K. should stay in under new
terms, a majority favors remaining part of the bloc.  Cameron’s pledge to hold a referendum on EU membership if
the Tories are re-elected in the 2015 general election has
earned rebukes from across  Europe  and within his own coalition
for creating greater uncertainty at a time of economic turmoil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  