-- French Industrial Output Drops as Hollande Aims to Revive Growth
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-05-07T06:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/french-industrial-output-drops-as-hollande-aims-to-revive-growth.html
French industrial output fell in March
as President Francois Hollande struggled to keep  Europe ’s
second-largest economy from falling into recession for the third
time in four years.  Production (FPIPMOM)  dropped 0.9 percent after climbing a revised 0.8
percent in February, national statistics office Insee said in
Paris today. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent decrease,
according to the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  France’s economy remains under pressure from a domestic
budget squeeze and weak euro-area demand at a time when
President Francois Hollande is trying to revive economic growth
and his own slumping popularity. At the same time, business
confidence is weakening.  “Business surveys continue to point to a contraction in
industrial activity,” said Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief
economist at Exane BNP Paribas in  London . “Investment is due to
decline further given poor confidence and low corporate
margins.”  In France,  confidence  among manufacturing executives fell
to 88 in April from 91 in March, according to Insee.  With joblessness at a record 3.22 million after the economy
shrunk in the fourth quarter, Hollande is trying to trim the
budget deficit and revamp the economy without further damaging
growth.  The European Commission last week said that Hollande needs
to make overhauling France’s labor laws and the pension system a
priority. The Commission said last week that it expects the
French economy to shrink 0.1 percent this year and allowed
Hollande’s government more time to eliminate its budget deficit.  For  France  “it is very obvious that it is more reasonable
to have an extension of the correction of the excessive deficit
over two years,” Economic Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn told
reporters in Brussels May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  