-- Gasoline Gains to 7-Month High in Portland on Tesoro Work
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-05-07T20:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/gasoline-gains-to-7-month-high-in-portland-on-tesoro-work.html
Gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
strengthened to a  seven-month high  against futures as  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO)  conducted unscheduled maintenance at its Anacortes
refinery in Washington.  The  125,000-barrel-a-day plant  began idling a fluid
catalytic cracker yesterday after discovering a catalyst leak on
a slide valve, according to a person familiar with operations.
The extent and duration of repairs on the cracker, which turns
fuel from the crude unit into lighter products such as gasoline,
are being determined, the person said.  Tina Barbee, a company spokeswoman based in San Antonio,
confirmed today that unscheduled work is under way on an
unspecified unit. The company doesn’t expect the maintenance to
affect supply commitments, she said.  The premium for conventional, 84-octane gasoline in
Portland widened 13 cents to  55 cents a gallon  versus  New York 
Mercantile Exchange futures at 4:09 p.m., the highest level
since Oct. 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Low-
sulfur diesel  in the region was unchanged at 4.5 cents a gallon
above Nymex ultra-low-sulfur diesel futures.  Supplies of motor fuel on the West Coast, known as the PADD
5 region, dropped 112,000 barrels to  25.9 million  in the week
ended April 26, according to Energy Information Administration
data. That’s the 12th consecutive weekly decline, the  longest
string of losses  since at least 1990, when the EIA began
tracking data. Refinery utilization in the region was 78.1
percent.  The Anacortes plant ships gasoline,  jet fuel  and diesel by
pipeline to western  Washington  and Oregon and delivers products,
including California-blend gasoline, by ship and barge,
according to Tesoro’s website.  Los Angeles  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles 
strengthened 14 cents to 44.5 cents a gallon versus Nymex
futures, the  highest level  since Oct. 9, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Carbob in  San Francisco  gained 14.5 cents
to a premium of 36.5 cents a gallon.  Stockpiles of California-blend gasoline are at a record low
as scheduled refinery repairs and unplanned unit shutdowns cut
production. Inventories declined 11 percent in the week ended
April 26 to 4.01 million barrels, according to data compiled by
the state Energy Commission.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is conducting a turnaround at its
Torrance refinery.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is working to restart a crude
unit that has been shut since a fire in August at the Richmond
plant. The sites can process a total of 390,000 barrels a day,
or nearly 13 percent of U.S. West Coast  refining capacity ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles widened for a
sixth day, advancing $2.37 to $26.30 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  