-- GFI Hires Phoenix Partners Co-Founders in 32-Broker Acquisition
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-05-08T14:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/gfi-said-close-to-hiring-phoenix-co-founders-amid-30-broker-move.html
GFI Group Inc. (GFIG)  hired 32 inter-dealer
brokers from rival Phoenix Partners Group LP, including the
firm’s co-founders.  GFI, which arranges trades between banks in credit,
commodity and fixed-income markets, “agreed to acquire certain
assets” of Phoenix, including 32 brokers in New York and  London 
and operational and management staff, the company said in a
statement today. That includes Phoenix co-founders Nicholas Stephan, the broker’s chief executive officer, and Marcos Brodsky.  “This transaction presents numerous synergies and
opportunities that we look forward to executing alongside our
new colleagues,” Colin Heffron, chief executive officer of GFI,
said in the statement.  The defections come as firms in the $639 trillion  over-the-counter derivatives  market adjust to regulations under the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act. GFI has said it intends to register as a swap-execution facility under Commodity Futures Trading Commission
rules, though those regulations for how swaps can be traded
haven’t been completed. In March, the company applied with the
CFTC for approval to create a derivatives exchange.  Phoenix was co-founded in 2005 as trading in the privately
negotiated credit-default swaps market was surging. The New
York-based firm started an electronic trading system for the
derivatives in March 2011 and has said it was seeking to become
a swap-execution facility as U.S. regulators push more of the
business away from transactions over the telephone and onto
computer systems.  Swaps Competition  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , has also said
it plans to register as a swap-execution facility and could
compete with GFI for transaction business. Other firms that have
said they plan to register as SEFs include Tradeweb LLC, ICAP
Plc, and Creditex, a unit of Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  GFI, which is hosting presentations for investors today in
New York, named Heffron CEO on Feb. 15, replacing Michael Gooch,
who will remain the company’s executive chairman of the board.  Volumes in credit swaps have diminished, with outstanding
contracts shrinking 61 percent to $24.5 trillion from a peak of
$62.2 trillion in 2007, according to data from the  International
Swaps & Derivatives Association  and the  Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp.  Banks often use inter-dealer brokers to lay off
the risk of a transaction they have done with a customer, using
firms such as Phoenix and GFI to arrange the opposite trade with
another lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  