-- Gold’s Peak Seen Over by Coutts on Dollar, Inflation Outlook
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-05-07T10:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/gold-s-peak-seen-over-by-coutts-on-outlook-for-dollar-inflation.html
Coutts & Co. scaled back gold holdings
as prices fell through $1,600 an ounce, saying that a return to
the peak isn’t likely unless there’s a crisis in the  Middle East ,
a weaker dollar or a jump in inflation.  The private-banking division of  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  holds about 1 percent to 2 percent in its portfolios,
compared with 6 percent to 7 percent at the end of the third
quarter, according to Gary Dugan, chief investment officer for
 Asia  and the Middle East. Bullion dropped through the $1,600
level in February as prices retreated for a fifth straight month.  Gold fell into a  bear market  in April as investors sold the
metal in favor of riskier assets, spurred by expectations that
the global economy was recovering and stimulus programs would be
reduced. Holdings in exchange-traded products slumped by the
biggest amount ever last month as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index reached an all-time high. Dugan said in August that gold
would extend its rally as weaker currencies boosted demand, with
his comments preceding an advance to an 11-month high in October.  “To suggest the gold price makes a lot of upside from here
requires either a global crisis or a re-emergence of
inflation,” Dugan said in an interview in Singapore yesterday.
“I can’t see in the next 12 months, a significant upside
surprise on inflation, other than a geopolitical risk that leads
to the oil price going up. We still have all the makings of a
potential crisis in the Middle East.”  Print Money  Gold is 13 percent lower this year, after rallying for 12
years, even as central banks around the world including the U.S.
Federal Reserve print unprecedented amounts of money to
strengthen their economies. Bullion for immediate delivery was
at $1,461.75 an ounce at 6 p.m. in Singapore. Prices have
retreated 24 percent from the record $1,921.15 in 2011.  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp. and  John Paulson ’s
Paulson & Co. are among investors sticking with bullish bets
even after they lost money on the metal. Paulson has said gold
is the best protection against currency debasement and inflation,
while Elliott said it remains the best store of value and will
rebound as governments haven’t found a solution to their debt.  The Fed said on May 1 that it will keep the monthly pace of
bond purchases at $85 billion, a third round of so-called
quantitative easing known as QE3. Still, Deutsche Bank AG,
Citigroup Inc., UBS AG and Barclays Plc -- the biggest currency
dealers -- predict the dollar will gain as much as 9 percent
versus the euro by Dec. 31 as the U.S. economy outperforms.  Unprecedented Easing  “If everyone’s doing quantitative easing, then every
currency is under the same pressure from QE, and therefore
there’s no relative winners or losers,” said Dugan. “Before,
everyone’s view was it was going to be the U.S. that was doing
the massive quantitative easing, which undermined  the dollar ,
and therefore that led people to want to own gold.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  cut the euro
area’s benchmark interest rate to a record low on May 2 as the
region’s recession deepened, and said yesterday policy makers
are ready to reduce rates even more if needed. The  Bank of Japan 
in April announced unprecedented monetary easing aimed at
delivering a 2 percent inflation rate within two years.  Gold plummeted 14 percent in the two days through April 15,
the worst decline since 1983. While the price has rebounded from
a two-year low on April 16 as coins and jewelry demand from the
U.S. to  China  and  India  increased, bullion is about 6 percent
below the level that preceded the rout.  ‘Tactical Buyers’  “Immediately after that setback, we became tactical buyers
below $1,400 for a recovery up to $1,550,” Dugan said. “As
soon as we got below $1,400, there’s a lot of jewelry demand and
investment demand, particularly in India and China.”  In August, Dugan said in an interview that gold would climb
further as emerging-market central banks and investors
accumulated the metal to protect against weakening currencies.
Gold traded at about $1,640 at that time, and reached $1,796.05
in October. ETP holdings expanded to a record in December.  U.S. consumer prices rose 1.5 percent in March from a year
earlier, the lowest since July. The difference between yields on
 10-year notes  and similar maturity Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, used to gauge traders’ inflation expectations, is
near the lowest since September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  