-- Libya Defense Chief Agrees to Stay After Premier’s Plea
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-05-07T15:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/libya-defense-chief-agrees-to-stay-after-premier-s-plea.html
Libya ’s defense minister withdrew his
resignation hours after saying he was leaving office in protest
at armed groups blockading ministries to force political change.  Mohammed Al-Barghathi, a Qaddafi-era air force officer, had
announced he was quitting in a video posted on the Defense
Ministry website earlier today. Prime Minister Ali Zaidan
rejected the resignation and asked Al-Barghathi to stay
“because of situation Libya finds itself in,” according to  a
statement  on the premier’s website.  Heavily armed militiamen blockaded the foreign and interior
ministries April 28, demanding parliament pass the so-called
Isolation Law. The siege was lifted May 5 as Libya’s parliament
backed the bill, which bars Muammar Qaddafi-era officials from
office for at least 10 years. Gunmen extended their blockade to
other ministries yesterday, saying the measure was inadequate.  Libya is mired in unrest two years after Qaddafi’s removal,
with militias across the country refusing to disarm and
Islamists on the rise in the oil-producing east. The ability of
the gunmen to lay siege to state institutions highlights the
weakness of the central government and its security forces.  A draft version of the Isolation Law showed it would affect
about 30 lawmakers, and anyone who served as a minister,
ambassador, university dean or head of faculty, or as the head
of a student union, local council, security agency or media
organization. The state-owned oil industry may also be included.  Standards Authority  The General National Congress appointed the Political
Positions Standards Implementation Authority to spell out which
individuals are affected, and implement the legislation. The law
comes into effect on June 5.  “The full implications for the transition will only emerge
once the new authority has agreed the parameters for
exclusion,” London-based  Control Risks Group  said in a note
today. “If the law is implemented in its most extensive form it
would prevent the security and operational environments from
being stabilized over the next year, and possibly beyond.”  In any case, the passage of the law in itself will probably
embolden militias, it said.  “Breaking into the ministries dressed in military uniform,
and carrying guns, represents a flagrant attack on democracy and
the elected authority, which I swore to protect,” Barghathi, a
Qaddafi-era air force officer, said his resignation video.  Tripoli Demonstrations  Streets leading to the Foreign Ministry were closed
yesterday and employees could not enter their offices.  “Protesters are not satisfied with the Isolation Law
because it doesn’t ensure a 100 percent exclusion of ex-Qaddafi
officials,” said a gunman, who identified himself only as Ali
for fear of being arrested.  The militiamen outside the justice and foreign ministries
are also calling for the removal of the government. “It has
failed to meet the aspirations of the Libyan people,” Ali said.  Demonstrations in central Tripoli on April 30 and May 2-3
for and against the purge law descended into clashes between
supporters and opponents, though no casualties were reported.  A total of 169 of 200 lawmakers participated in the
televised vote on May 5, with 164 supporting the bill and five
opposed.  Congress speaker Mohammed Magariaf and his first deputy
Guma Ataiga will probably lose their jobs under the law. The
head of the state-run  oil company  and the Central Bank governor
may also be affected. Qaddafi ruled from 1969 to 2011.  Libyan ‘Shame’  The Muslim Brotherhood’s Justice and Construction party,
the second-largest in congress, have said they support the law.
So did members of the largest party, the National Forces
Alliance, even though their leader Mahmoud Jibril may be forced
to resign because he was an economic adviser under Qaddafi.  “It is a shame for the new Libya that it makes a decision
under the threat of weapons and as government institutions are
besieged,” Abdel Hafiz Ghogha, who served in the previous
transitional government and resigned after protesters stormed
government offices in Benghazi in January 2012, told Libyan
state television.  Ghogha said he is affected by the purge law, even though he
was among the first to join the revolution that ousted Qaddafi
in 2011. Barghathi was also an early revolutionary, having
joined the uprising in February 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Sami in Cairo at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  