-- Libya Defense Chief Quits as Gunmen Extend Ministry Siege
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r
-- 2013-05-07T11:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/libya-defense-chief-quits-as-gunmen-extend-ministry-siege.html
Libya ’s defense minister resigned as
gunmen extended their siege of ministries in Tripoli for a
second day, demanding the government’s resignation and tougher
rules to bar Muammar Qaddafi-era officials from state jobs.  Mohammed Al-Barghathi, a fighter pilot during the Qaddafi
era, quit because of events during the past two days, the
official Libya News Agency reported, without giving further
details. On May 5, Libya’s parliament passed the so-called
Isolation Law, which bars from office senior officials who
served under Qaddafi for at least 10 years. The law comes into
effect on June 5.  Militiamen with machine guns and anti-aircraft weapons
began blockading the Foreign and Interior ministries on April
28, demanding that parliament pass the law. The siege was raised
on May 5, then resumed and extended to other ministries after
gunmen rejected the measure.  Libya is mired in unrest two years after the ouster of
Qaddafi, with militias across the country refusing to disarm and
Islamists on the rise in the oil-producing east. The ability of
the gunmen to lay siege to state institutions highlights the
weakness of the central government and its security forces.  A draft version of the Isolation Law showed it would affect
members of the civil service, the security services and
judiciary, as well as the state-owned oil industry, along with
about 30 lawmakers. A parliamentary committee is to spell out
which professions and individuals are affected.  ‘Not Satisfied’  Streets leading to the Foreign Ministry were closed
yesterday and employees could not enter their offices.  “Protesters are not satisfied with the Isolation Law
because it doesn’t ensure a 100 percent exclusion of ex-Qaddafi
officials,” said a gunman, who identified himself only as Ali
for fear of being arrested.  The militiamen outside the Justice and Foreign ministries
are also calling for the removal of Prime Minister Ali Zaidan’s
government. “It has failed to meet the aspirations of the
Libyan people,” Ali said.  Demonstrations in central Tripoli on April 30 and May 2-3
for and against the purge law descended into clashes between
supporters and opponents, though no casualties were reported.  A total of 169 of 200 lawmakers turned up for the televised
vote on May 5, with 164 supporting the bill and five opposed.  Congress speaker Mohammed Magariaf and his first deputy
Guma Ataiga will probably lose their jobs under the law. The
head of the state-run  oil company  and the Central Bank governor
may also be affected. Qaddafi ruled from 1969 to 2011.  Libyan ‘Shame’  The Muslim Brotherhood’s Justice and Construction party,
the second-largest in congress, have said they support the law.
So did members of the largest party, the National Forces
Alliance, even though their leader Mahmoud Jibril may be forced
to resign because he was an economic adviser under Qaddafi.  “It is a shame for the new Libya that it makes a decision
under the threat of weapons and as government institutions are
besieged,” Abdel Hafiz Ghogha, who served in the previous
transitional government and resigned after protesters stormed
government offices in Benghazi in January 2012, told Libyan
state television.  Ghogha said he is affected by the purge law, even though he
was among the first to join the revolution that ousted Qaddafi
in 2011. Barghathi was also an early revolutionary, having
joined the uprising in February 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleh Sarrar in Tripoi at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  