-- Microsoft CFO Search Said to Pit Reller Against Hood
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-05-08T14:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/microsoft-cfo-search-said-to-pit-reller-against-hood.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s search for a new
chief financial officer is pitting Tami Reller and Amy Hood --
the top finance executives at the company’s two most profitable
divisions -- against each other, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Reller , CFO of the Windows unit, and Hood, her counterpart
at the business division, are front-runners to succeed Peter Klein, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the search is private. Rik van der Kooi, chief operating officer
for the Online Services unit, is also a leading candidate, one
of the people said. A replacement could be named as soon as next
week, this person said.  The new CFO will play a key role in overseeing Microsoft’s
$74.5 billion in cash and investments and its stock buybacks and
dividend payouts. The executive will also help Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer  cope with plunging demand for personal
computers and investors’ concerns over the company’s struggle to
keep pace with rivals in phones and tablets. Reller or Hood
would be Microsoft’s first female CFO.  Klein said last month he’s stepping down to spend time with
his family, and the company said he would be replaced by an
internal candidate.  Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment.  Microsoft fell less than 1 percent to $33.04 at 10:49 a.m.
in New York. It has climbed 25 percent this year through
yesterday.  Reller’s Responsibilities  Of the three, Reller would be the hardest to replace if
promoted, one of the people said. The Windows unit hasn’t had a
president since the departure of Steven Sinofsky in November.  Reller, who also handles marketing, has her hands full
seeking to boost the reception of Windows 8, which has failed to
revive a moribund PC market since its release in October.  Reller joined Microsoft with the 2001 acquisition of Great
Plains Software, where she served as CFO. As a marketing chief,
Reller has a more public-facing role than Hood and does frequent
interviews. Both have significant experience talking to
investors and analysts.  Hood began working at Microsoft in 2002 in investor
relations and then worked under Klein, handling business
strategy when he served as CFO of the Office unit. She played a
key role in the $1.2 billion acquisition of Yammer Inc. last
year and worked closely with Ballmer on the 2011 purchase of
Skype Technologies SA, Microsoft’s biggest deal.  Van der Kooi, who joined Microsoft in 1999, served as CFO
of the online unit before overseeing the unit that makes
software for advertisers and publishers. He became COO for the
entire online business in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  