-- Tilden Park Hires Ex-Deutsche Bank Mortgage Trader Nam
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-05-07T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/tilden-park-hires-ex-deutsche-bank-mortgage-trader-nam.html
Keeyeol Nam, former head of structured
products in a proprietary trading unit at Deutsche Bank AG,
joined Tilden Park Capital Management LP to expand the hedge-
fund firm’s trading in government-backed mortgage bonds.  Nam joined the $1.6 billion New York-based firm founded by
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader Josh Birnbaum last week
as managing director, Tilden Park said yesterday in a letter to
investors obtained by  Bloomberg News . Nam will also help the
firm increase its trading in mortgage derivatives.  He was a director at Deutsche Bank Capital Management, the
proprietary trading unit that wound down at the end of last
year, where he focused on mortgage derivatives, Tilden Park
said. His appointment follows that of Michael Boyle, who traded
commercial mortgage securities at the Deutsche Bank unit and
started at the hedge fund in March, two people familiar with the
move said at the time.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, closed the
proprietary unit, which took market positions with the bank’s
money, as it faces rules curbing risk-taking, three people
familiar with the matter said in March.  Catherine Jones, a spokeswoman for Tilden Park at ASC
Advisors LLC, declined to comment on the hire, as did  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank.  Goldman Alumni  Before spending more than seven years at the bank, Nam was
a senior vice president at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
RBS Securities unit, formerly RBS Greenwich Capital, where he
was responsible for homeowner prepayment modeling, mortgage
analytics and trading research, according to the letter.  Birnbaum and Jeremy Primer, who had worked together at
Goldman Sachs, founded Tilden Park in 2008. Birnbaum, a trader
at the time, was instrumental in the bank’s profitable bet
against the U.S. subprime mortgage market in 2007.  Tilden Park’s fund, which invests in non-agency and agency
residential mortgage securities, commercial mortgage bonds and
asset-backed securities, rose 11 percent this year through April
26 and 41 percent in 2012, the firm said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  