-- Illinois Republican Chief Out After Backing Gay Marriage
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-05-07T14:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/illinois-republican-chief-out-after-backing-gay-marriage.html
The chairman of the Illinois
Republican Party resigned today, four months after angering
conservatives by supporting gay marriage.  The exit of Pat Brady, who had served in the post since
2009, had been expected after he narrowly survived an effort by
party officials to oust him in March. His departure comes as the
Illinois  House of Representatives  considers a Senate-passed bill
to legalize gay marriage and make the state the first in the
Midwest to endorse same-sex unions with a legislative vote.  Brady said in January he was putting his “full support”
behind the bill, saying it “strengthens families and reinforces
a key Republican value -- that the law should treat all citizens
equally.”  The view put Brady at odds with the party’s platform that
said marriage should be between a man and a woman only. His
statement, which he described as a personal position, provoked
an immediate response from gay-marriage opponents, including the
 National Organization for Marriage , which pledged to defeat any
Republican legislator voting for such a law. The group also
called Brady “unfit” to continue as chairman.  In his  letter  of resignation to the party’s State Central
Committee, Brady didn’t mention gay marriage. He said it was
“an honor and a privilege” to lead the party.  Rhode Island  became the 10th U.S. state and the final one
in  New England  to make gay weddings legal, after its House of
Representatives passed a bill May 3 expanding marriage rights to
homosexuals. Governor Lincoln Chafee, a 60-year-old Republican-turned-independent, had pushed the change since taking office in
2011.  Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn  has promised to sign the gay
marriage bill if the House sends it to him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  