-- Time Warner, TJX Cos. Attract Scot Funds
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/time-warner-to-tjx-cos-lure-scot-funds-on-u-s-consumer-demand.html
Scottish managers of U.S. stock funds
are counting on companies such as  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ,  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  and  TJX Cos. (TJX)  to tap recovering consumer demand in
the world’s largest economy.  Producers of consumer essentials have posted the highest
proportion of  earnings surprises  of any industry in the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  during the current reporting season,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jeff Morris, head of
U.S. equities at  Standard Life Investments , said his biggest
retail holding is TJX, owner of TK Maxx stores.  “Normally when you have bullish market conditions it is
cyclical stocks that are pushing to new highs,” Morris, 45,
said by telephone from his office in  Boston . “Now defensives,
consumer staples and health care are doing well. The market
doesn’t really look like it should do.”  The strongest consumer spending in two years helped the
U.S. economy expand at an annualized rate of 2.5 percent in the
first quarter, up from 0.4 percent in the previous three months.
The unemployment rate reached a four-year low of 7.5 percent in
April and existing-home prices jumped the most since 2005.  Karolina Noculak, a global equities manager at Scottish
Widows Investment Partnership, the fund unit of Lloyds Banking
Group, said the U.S. recovery is “real” and “sustainable.”  Disposable Income  “We are very excited about the U.S. equities market,”
Noculak, 30, co-manager of the 29 million-pound ($45 million)
SWIP North American Fund, said in an interview at her Edinburgh
office. “Debt servicing relative to disposable income is at an
all-time low and people feel more comfortable.”  Household debt as a proportion of personal income was at
its  lowest  since 2003 at the end of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Noculak’s fund has had more invested in
durable and discretionary consumer stocks for the past two years
relative to benchmarks, she said.  The fund ranks second over three years among 146 similarly
managed funds, with an annualized return of 12.8 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. She recently sold  Brunswick Corp. (BC) , a
Lake Forest, Illinois-based maker of high-performance boats
whose shares have surged nine-fold since July 2009.  Noculak bought Kraft Food Groups Inc., the North American
grocery business that split from its snacks business on Oct. 1.
Kraft, which owns Jell-O, has risen 25 percent since the
separation. She also owns shares in motorcycle maker Harley-Davidson, which has risen more than six times since March 2009.  Generating Cash  So-called discretionary consumer stocks such as  Time
Warner (TWC) , the owner of cable networks TNT and  HBO , are attracting
Marcus Chandler, head of U.S. equities at Kames Capital, the
Edinburgh-based fund unit of Aegon NV.  “The companies that generate value for you in the long-run
are those with cash generation,” Chandler, 36, said in a
telephone interview. “Time Warner is one of the companies that
has seen a material change in its fortunes in the past two
years. It has very high operational returns and the management
understands which levers to pull.”  Time Warner  gained  68 percent in the two years to May 6 as
Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes focused on its TV
business, which accounts for 70 percent of sales. He announced
plans in March to spin off magazine publisher Time Inc., its
worst-performing division.  Standard Life’s Morris also recently added Time Warner to
his fund in the belief the company will be able to push
profitability higher than the market is expecting.  Chevron, Emerson  The other four companies where Chandler has invested most
relative to benchmarks include  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the world’s third-biggest energy company by market value,  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR) , a
maker of air conditioner compressors,  United Technologies (UTX)  Corp.,
owner of the Pratt & Whitney aero engine maker, and  Marathon
Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  Chevron and United Technologies rose 14 percent
this year as of May 6, while Emerson gained 8.2 percent.  Chandler took over managing the 25 million-pound Kames
American Equity Fund in December after several years of
underperformance. It has risen 15.3 percent this year as of May
3, compared with the 14.8 percent average for competing funds, 
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It advanced 2.6 percent over 
the past five years, half the average return of its peer group.  Noculak has a stake in Marathon, a Findlay, Ohio-based
refiner, to take advantage of the U.S. shale-energy revolution.
Refiners account for three of the top 10  performers  in the S&P
500 Index in the past year, with Marathon more than doubling.  Ford Motors  Morris at Standard Life has his 45 million-pound  American
Equity Unconstrained Fund (STAEGIR)  invested in stocks such as  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and  Borg-Warner Inc. (BWA) , the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based maker
of turbochargers that he expects to benefit from structural
improvements in vehicle fuel efficiency, as well as TJX.  The fund rose 13 percent in the past year, compared with
the average 15 percent return of similarly run funds, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Recent purchases include  Dick’s
Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS) , Morris said in an e-mail.  “One of our most overweight positions is consumer
discretionary,” he said. “The consumer area offers a lot of
stock-specific opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  