-- IMF Won’t Discuss New Loan With Serbia in May, Lissovolik Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-07T14:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/imf-won-t-discuss-new-loan-with-serbia-in-may-lissovolik-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  won’t
discuss a new loan with  Serbia  during talks this month and will
focus on the state of the Serbian economy and measures required
for a new loan deal.  The two-week IMF mission, led by Zuzana Murgasova, will
hold discussions for two weeks starting May 8 on the 2013
Article IV consultation, which “represent a health check of
Serbia’s economy,” Bogdan Lissovolik, the IMF resident
representative in Serbia, said in e-mailed answers today. The
IMF last held Article IV consultation for Serbia in 2010.  Meetings “may offer a useful opportunity to reflect on the
reform agenda and discuss what may be needed for a potential
program,” Lissovolik said.  The IMF suspended a $1.3 billion precautionary loan with
Serbia in February 2012 on evidence the previous government was
slipping on deficit and debt targets. It told Serbia in November
to cut debt without choking economic growth, citing an
unsustainable fiscal gap, volatile inflation and high
unemployment.  Serbia had two months to agree on fiscal policy goals that
would have paved the way for the start of talks on a new loan
with the IMF. Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, in office
since last July, needs to curb budget spending to keep its
fiscal deficit broadly within target. The IMF loan would have
unlocked budget support loans from the World Bank and  Russia ,
worth a combined $600 million.  Fiscal Gap  Serbia aims for a fiscal gap of 3.6 percent of economic
output in 2013. The Fiscal Council, appointed by parliament to
oversee the government’s compliance with fiscal rules, sees the
gap of at least 4.5 percent of gross domestic product. The
 budget deficit  hit 50 billion dinars ($592 million) in the first
three months of 2013, against a full-year target of 122 billion
dinars.  “I expect great pressure on the fiscal side,” Nebojsa Savic, founder and economy professor at the Faculty for
Economics, Finance and Administration, or FEFA, in Belgrade,
said in a phone interview. Serbia needs the IMF for lower
borrowing costs, greater foreign investment and as a proof the
government is pursuing reforms, he said.  Junk-rated sovereigns, including Serbia and  Hungary , have
tapped foreign debt markets this year to take advantage of low
borrowing costs as central banks from the U.S. to  Japan  buy
bonds to boost liquidity. Serbia sold $3.25 billion in foreign-currency bonds since September, equivalent to 8 percent of GDP.  ‘Blind Eye’  “The IMF may turn a blind eye to some slippage on the
deficit target, but they will certainly not tolerate the trend
established in the first quarter,” said Savic, who also chairs
the central bank’s Council of the Governor. “If you don’t offer
a credible plan to cut spending, the IMF may advise Serbia to
raise taxes, but that’s not a solution either because higher
taxes force companies into the shadow economy.”  The  Finance Ministry  in Belgrade declared “a formal end to
recession” in its May 6 statement after the economy showed a
“modest 1.9 percent expansion” in the first quarter when car
output almost tripled and crude oil derivatives, chemicals,
pharmaceuticals, tobacco, textile and furniture industries all
posting “high growth rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  