-- India to Close Solar Import Loophole in Energy Auction
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-05-07T06:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/india-to-close-solar-import-loophole-in-energy-auction.html
India  plans to close a loophole before
its next solar-power auction to stop companies from importing
thin-film panels from overseas suppliers like  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) 
for projects that otherwise must be built with local equipment.  The government will invite developers by the end of May to
bid for 750 megawatts of solar capacity, Tarun Kapoor, joint-secretary at the Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy , said in a
telephone interview. About 300 megawatts of that will be
required to use locally made solar cells and panels, and may not
import thin-film photovoltaic devices, he said.  Developers previously were able to skirt local sourcing
rules on a portion of auctioned projects by opting for thin-film
technology. Those devices, which tend to be cheaper, were exempt
from the import restrictions on crystalline silicon panels made
by companies such as  China ’s  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) 
Traditional crystalline panels are silicon-based, while thin-film technology coats panels with materials such as cadmium
telluride.  “This time domestic content requirement will also include
thin film,” Kapoor said on May 3.  The government will also extend grants to the solar
industry for the first time, offering as much as 18.75 billion
rupees ($348 million) to cover 30 percent of upfront project
costs. Previously, it supported the solar industry by buying
power at above-market rates.  The government is offering 25 million rupees per megawatt
to projects that will range in capacity from 10 to 50 megawatts,
according to  auction guidelines  released last month. Developers
will submit bids specifying the amount of funds they seek, and
those needing the least will win.  National Mission  Since India began auctioning licenses through its National
Solar Mission in 2010, developers including  Leon Black ’s Apollo
Global Management LLC-backed Welspun Group and billionaire Vinod Khosla’s Sunborne Energy Holdings LLC have built  1,686 megawatts 
of solar capacity and cut average costs of photovoltaic power by
about 51 percent. The program seeks to reduce solar power’s cost
to the level of other forms of grid-supplied electricity by
2017.  India aims to add 9,000 more megawatts of solar by 2017. By
around September, it expects to hold another auction to award
800 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity, Kapoor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  