-- Israel’s Syria Strikes Undercut U.S.Caution on Airpower
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-07T05:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/israel-s-syria-strikes-undercut-u-s-caution-on-airpower.html
Israel ’s airstrikes against targets in
 Syria  undercut U.S. military warnings about the risks of using
American air power against forces loyal to President Bashar al- Assad.  The attacks -- which haven’t been officially acknowledged
by Israel -- add to evidence that Syria’s air defense system has
been “substantially” degraded during two years of civil war,
according to  Jeffrey White , a defense fellow at the  Washington 
Institute for Near East Policy.  Syria’s “sophisticated” air defenses have been cited by
U.S. General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, as a concern in assessing options for U.S. military
intervention. Israel’s raids may increase pressure on President
 Barack Obama  to go beyond helping arm the rebels -- an option
now being considered -- to authorizing limited use of U.S. air
power to help speed Assad’s fall.  “Those people making the argument that the Syrian air
defense system is some kind of formidable barrier, their
argument is weakened by the Israeli actions,” said White, a
former Defense Intelligence Agency official who favors a no-fly
zone and other U.S. military measures.  Enforcing areas where Syrian planes and helicopters would
be subject to attack would be more difficult than Israel’s
individual strikes, according to a Pentagon official who asked
not to be named because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.
A no-fly zone would require disabling Syria’s combat aircraft
and its air defenses and establishing a continuing operation
that includes the capability to rescue any downed pilot, the
official said.  ‘Sustained Presence’  A no-fly zone “would take a major U.S. air effort to
accomplish quickly,” according to  Anthony Cordesman , a military
analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington. “The U.S. might well take some losses if Syria
fought back, and would have to have a sustained presence if
Syria chose not to fight.”  Joshua Landis , who runs the Middle East studies program at
the University of Oklahoma in Norman and opposes U.S. military
intervention, said that once a no-fly zone is established Obama
would likely face pressure to go further and launch air strikes
against Assad’s forces on the ground.  Obama has been reluctant to have the U.S. drawn into the
conflict, although he has said the use of chemical weapons by
Assad’s regime would cross a “red line.” The administration
has stepped up its review of options as it assesses intelligence
that Assad’s forces may have used small amounts of the chemical
weapon sarin against the opposition.  Conflicting Claims  The United Nations yesterday failed to clear up conflicting
claims about chemical weapons after a former war-crimes
prosecutor said there were signs that rebels, not Assad forces,
had used sarin gas. The UN Human Rights Council said a
commission investigating violations in Syria “has not reached
conclusive findings as to the use of chemical weapons in Syria
by any parties to the conflict,” according to an e-mailed
statement.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said last week no decision
has been made on whether to help arm the rebels. The U.S. is
providing non-lethal equipment to the groups as well as
humanitarian aid.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  flew to Moscow for talks
today on Syria and other issues, including steps to expand
counterterrorism cooperation after the April 15  Boston Marathon
bombings . Russia has opposed any U.S. intervention in Syria, and
has joined  China  at the  United Nations Security Council  to block
U.S.-led efforts to pressure Assad to quit.  Defending Airspace  Syria has threatened to retaliate against Israel after an
airstrike on the outskirts of Damascus caused explosions that
rocked the capital. A May 3 airstrike was also attributed to
Israel. Israeli officials who weren’t named said the attacks
were meant to prevent advanced Iranian weapons from reaching
Lebanon’s Hezbollah militia, rather than to weaken the Assad
regime, the  Associated Press  reported.  Christopher Harmer, a naval analyst at the Institute for
the Study of War in Washington, said the Israeli raids
demonstrate weaknesses in Syria’s air defenses. “It shows the
Syrians are either incapable of defending their airspace against
the Israelis or they’re unwilling,” he said.  Richard Murphy , a former U.S. ambassador to Syria and  Saudi
Arabia , said there’s little chance Assad can use Israel’s
actions to gain support from Arab countries.  ‘No Audience’  “There’s no audience in the region waiting to be rallied
by Syria,” he said in a phone interview. Some Arab states, such
as Saudi Arabia, oppose Assad, and others, such as  Egypt , aren’t
interested in increasing tensions with Israel, he said.  The administration has looked at a no-fly zone as a form of
intervention that would draw on superior U.S. capabilities
without putting American troops on the ground and, by giving the
opposition areas to operate free from government air assaults,
reduce the civilian toll in a civil war that has claimed more
than 70,000 lives.  While the Syrian  air force  uses helicopters and light
aircraft to strike rebel targets, there’s no evidence it has
flown its larger Soviet-era MiG fighters in the past two years,
said Harmer.  Slippery Slope  U.S. military officials such as Dempsey have questioned the
value of a no-fly zone. Only about 10 percent of the casualties
among the Syrian opposition are due to the use of air power by
Assad’s forces, Dempsey told reporters April 30. The rest are
from direct fire or artillery, he said.  “So the question then becomes, you know, if you eliminate
one capability of a potential adversary, will you be inclined to
find yourself in a position to be asked to do more against the
rest?” he said.  The U.S. military leadership has reason to be concerned it
will find itself on a slippery slope after the experience of the
United Nations-authorized no-fly zone during the uprising
against Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , said Landis.  “In  Libya , the no-fly zone turned into the no-Qaddafi zone
in one short day because, if you go in for humanitarian reasons,
you have to go kill the source of the killing -- which is the
evil dictator,” he said.  The Syrian air defense system is five times more extensive
than was Libya’s, said Dempsey, including equipment designed to
be effective at higher altitudes and longer ranges.  “The United States military has the capability to defeat
that system, but it would be a greater challenge, take longer
and require more resources,” he said.  Cordesman said it isn’t clear whether Syria tried to
counter Israeli air force attacks.  “It is possible that the Syrian air force has rules of
engagement that preclude the use of fighter aircraft for
anything other than all-out war, given the massive losses they
suffered fighting” the Israeli air force in 1982, he said in a
 paper  yesterday on Syrian air defenses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  