-- Italian Aristocrat’s Fund Sues After Soccer Investment Flops
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-07T23:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/italian-aristocrat-s-fund-sues-after-soccer-investment-flops.html
Global Eleven, a soccer investment
fund whose backers include the son of an Italian count, sued
Swiss sports marketer Kentaro, saying it failed to return
profits from matches played by five-time world champion  Brazil .  “The company is currently in litigation with Kentaro for
breach of contract and for non-payment of amounts due and
ongoing under those contracts,” Global Eleven’s administrator
Nick Hoskins, a lawyer with Bermuda-based Wakefield Quin, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Until this matter is resolved, it
isn’t possible to comment any further.”  Global Eleven raised as much as $20 million to invest in
marketing rights for exhibition games played by Brazil that
Kentaro held until last year. The fund also bet on the transfer
rights of players from  South America  where groups lend money to
teams in return for a stake in the sale price of athletes. The
sport’s governing body is mulling whether to ban the practice.  Global Eleven’s suit against Kentaro of Wil,  Switzerland ,
seeks about $8 million in damages, said two people familiar with
the matter. Most of the claim is linked to Brazil’s exhibition
games, which Kentaro began promoting in 2006. The rest is tied
to loan fees the fund allegedly should have been paid after
players were placed with European teams, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because of the pending case.  Kentaro Chief Operating Officer Jonathan Hill and company
spokesman Johannes Berendt declined to comment.  Syrian Businessman  Global Eleven was set up by Indoo Sella Di Monteluce, an
Italian aristocrat, and Kentaro Chief Executive Officer Philippe
Huber, whose company is an investor. Iveagh Ltd., a London-based
firm created to oversee the wealth of the Guinness brewing
dynasty, was hired as investment manager in return for 2 percent
of the fund’s net asset value. Iveagh spokesman Paul Wynne
declined to comment. Sella Di Monteluce’s father, Count Nicolo
Sella Di Monteluce, is a non-executive director at Iveagh, which
also manages his family’s money.  London-based Syrian businessman Khaled Chehabi, a former
Iveagh employee, helped double the fund’s size by attracting
investment from the Abu Dhabi-based Baniyas Sports Club and
Qatar-based conglomerate  Ghanim Bin Saad Al Saad & Sons Group
Holdings , two of the people said. The sports club’s president is
United Arab Emirates Deputy Prime Minister Sheikh Saif bin Zayed
 Al Nahyan .  GSSG, named for its chairman Ghanim Bin Saad, the CEO of
state-owned Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co., is the
fund’s biggest investor after providing as much as $10 million.  Lost Contract  Huber, Sella Di Monteluce and Chehabi sit on Global
Eleven’s investment committee. GSSG became involved after
Chehabi helped broker a 2010 exhibition match between Brazil and
 Argentina  played in Doha, Qatar, which was sponsored by GSSG.
Kentaro lost its rights to Brazil games last year to London-based  Pitch International .  Chehabi, whose family also is a small investor in the fund,
declined to comment when contacted by telephone. Barclay
Saastad, head of GSSG’s European office, and Baniyas spokesman
Nader Saleh Abuhayyeh didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Kentaro, which sells broadcast rights to international
soccer matches for more than 20 European federations, has
struggled to pay rightsholders on time, according to one of the
people familiar with its situation.  In March, Kentaro lost its contract to broadcast a World
Cup qualifier between England and Montenegro days before the
game over a dispute over payments, according to one of the
people. U.K. broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV)  has been negotiating with
Kentaro to recover the money paid under the original deal.  Financial results for the company’s U.K. subsidiary,
Kentaro Ltd., carry a note from its auditor Rawlinson & Hunter
saying there was “material uncertainty which may cast
significant doubts about the group’s ability to continue as a
going concern.”  No Profits  Global Eleven’s player-investment business, which aimed to
profit from betting on the increase in value for South American
players, failed to make a profit from its investments, according
to company documents obtained by Bloomberg.  Buying player rights carries significant risks, said Jochen
Loesch, president of international business at Traffic Sports,
one of soccer’s biggest investment funds. It spent more than $75
million on purchasing stakes since 2007.  “We have huge downside,” he said. “If the player isn’t
sold, we don’t get a penny.”  Nine Players  According to Global Eleven documents, the fund has invested
in nine players and has an agreement with  Africa Soccer
Developments , a youth academy in  Cape Town , for a 50 percent
share of any profits from player sales.  The biggest outlay was on Paraguayan attacking midfielder
Rodrigo Rojas, 25. The “all-in cost” to acquire a 40 percent
stake in Rojas was $909,000, with the remainder shared between
his first team Club Olimpia and Argentine sports agency Full
Play, according to company documents.  The fund’s minimum acceptable transfer price for Rojas was
$2,775,974, according to the 2012 papers. Rojas now plays for
Chilean team O’Higgins, which is paying $40,000 for the
remaining 18 months of his contract. In 2011, he spent a few
months with a lower-ranked team in  Belgium , an entrance point
for more lucrative European leagues for players from outside the
continent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  