-- Jewish Group Apologizes to Orban After Criticism: MTI
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-05-07T16:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/jewish-group-apologizes-to-orban-after-criticism-mti.html
Ronald S. Lauder, the newly re-elected
president of the World Jewish Congress, apologized to Hungarian
Prime Minister Viktor Orban days after saying he failed to draw
a “clear line” between his government and the radical
nationalist Jobbik party.  Lauder acknowledged today at the WJC’s closing session in
Budapest that Orban, in a newspaper interview last week, said
Jobbik poses a growing danger to democracy.  “The prime minister really did make a strong statement
against Jobbik,” Lauder said, according to Jake Sharfman, of
Puder Public Relations LLC in  New York  that works for the WJC,
in an e-mailed answer to questions. “I apologize” about “not
knowing that beforehand,” Lauder said.  Orban told Jewish leaders in Budapest on May 5 that “anti-
Semitism is unacceptable and intolerable.” The WJC said in a
statement afterwards that Orban failed to “address any recent
anti-Semitic or racist incidents in the country, nor did he
provide sufficient reassurance that a clear line has been drawn
between his government and the far-right fringe.”  Jobbik is the third-biggest party in the Hungarian
Parliament and held a demonstration on the eve of the WJC
meeting in Budapest to “commemorate the victims of Zionism and
Bolshevism.” One of its lawmakers, Marton Gyongyosi, on Nov. 26
called for a list of Jewish legislators and government members
who pose a “national security risk.” More than 500,000
Hungarians, mostly Jews, were killed in the Holocaust, according
to the Budapest-based Holocaust Memorial Center.  About 500 delegates representing more than 70 countries at
the World Jewish Congress met for the past three days in
Budapest to draw attention to the rise of anti-Semitism. Hungary
is home to central  Europe ’s largest Jewish population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  