-- Job Openings in the U.S. Drop From Almost Five-Year High
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-05-07T20:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/job-openings-in-the-u-s-decrease-from-almost-five-year-high.html
Job openings in the U.S. eased in
March from the highest level in almost five years, indicating
employers are waiting to see how the economy performs as  federal
budget  cuts take effect.  The number of  positions  waiting to be filled declined by
55,000 to 3.84 million from a revised 3.9 million the prior
month that were the most since May 2008, the Labor Department
said today in  Washington . The report also showed hiring
decelerated and firings climbed.  Companies may be reluctant to add staff amid signs the
expansion is slackening this quarter as the January increase in
the  payroll tax  catches up with consumers and across-the-board
reductions curb federal outlays. While hiring accelerated last
month, bigger gains are needed to propel wage gains and revive
economic growth in the second half of 2013.  “Job growth is proceeding at a pretty moderate pace,”
said Robert Mellman, a senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in  New York . “The tax hikes went up early in the year, we got
this slowdown in retail sales, this slowdown in manufacturing
output, and that raised the question about whether businesses
would get very defensive or not. It looks like they slowed
payroll growth in March and April.”  Stocks climbed, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
its fourth-straight record close, on optimism over global
central bank stimulus and better-than-estimated corporate
earnings. The  S&P 500  increased 0.5 percent to 1,625.96 at the
close in New York.  Elsewhere, the outlook for the euro area brightened today
after a report showed German factory orders unexpectedly jumped
in March for a second month, indicating  Europe ’s largest economy
is starting to grow again.  Payroll Report  Today’s U.S. job openings report sheds light on the
government’s monthly employment data. Payrolls grew by 138,000
workers in March, a step down from the 332,000 pace in February
that was the fastest in almost three years, the Labor Department
reported last week.   Job creation  accelerated in April, with
payrolls rising by 165,000.  The number of workers hired in March fell to 4.26 million,
pushing the  hiring rate  down to 3.2 percent from 3.3 percent,
according to today’s report.  Job openings  slipped most at professional and business
services, followed by health care and social assistance
agencies. Retailers, hotels and restaurants were among the
employers putting out more help-wanted signs in March.  More Firings  The number of dismissals climbed to 1.69 million in March,
a four-month high, from 1.57 million the prior month. Another
2.16 million workers quit their jobs, down from 2.29 million in
the prior month. The combination kept the total separations rate
at 3.1 percent in March for a third month.  In the 12 months ended in March, the economy created a net
1.7 million jobs, representing 51.8 million hires and about 50.1
million separations, today’s report showed.  Considering the 11.7 million Americans who were  unemployed 
in March, the figures indicated there were about 3 people vying
for every opening, up from about 1.8 when the recession began in
December 2007.  Randy Marek knows how tough it is to compete. The 55-year-
old former account executive and project manager, who lives
north of  San Francisco , lost his job in early 2010 and has since
taken a number of contract jobs after failing to keep full-time
work.  “What I’ve been trying to do is just to keep myself in
front of networking, in front of people that I know,” said
Marek, noting that he spends at least 30 hours each week job
searching. “I just know if I get in the right place, I’ll be a
big asset. I just don’t know why I can’t.”  Fed’s View  Federal Reserve officials have indicated they’re waiting to
see additional evidence that recent employment gains will prove
durable before trimming record stimulus.  Central bankers said on May 1 they plan to keep buying $85
billion of bonds per month to facilitate labor market progress.
They were prepared to raise or lower the pace as the economic
outlook evolves, they also said.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  has said she will monitor
data beyond the Labor Department’s monthly jobs report to
determine whether the job market is strengthening. Some of the
figures she cited come from today’s report on openings.  “Layoffs and discharges as a share of total employment
have already returned to their pre-recession level, while the
hiring rate remains depressed,” Yellen said during a March 4
speech. “Therefore, going forward, I would look for an increase
in the rate of hiring.”  Tracking Quits  A pickup in the rate at which people quit their jobs will
also provide a clue that the labor market is recovering, Yellen
said. More workers leaving their position in search of another
indicates they are confident about prospects and that demand for
labor has strengthened, she said.  With hiring and quits cooling and firings picking up,
today’s report will probably not give Yellen, who is seen as a
possible successor to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  when his term
ends next year, much confidence the job market is on the mend.  Companies that are hiring, such as Burlington Northern
 Santa Fe  LLC, could change that view.  Matt Rose , the railroad’s
chief executive officer, said during a May 6 interview on
Bloomberg Television that his company will increase its staff by
about 1 percent this year to accommodate demand from increased
energy production and  consumer spending .  Help Wanted  Another sign pointing to employment gains is provided by
advertisements for job openings posted online, which are
becoming more plentiful. The number of help-wanted ads rose in
April to 5.1 million, reaching the highest level in records
going back to 2005, according to  data  compiled by the Conference
Board.  At the same time, economists project the pace of economic
growth will cool this quarter, limiting employers’ need to hire.
The nation’s gross domestic product will expand at a 1.5 percent
annualized pace from April through June, down from a 2.5 percent
rate in the prior three months, according to a Bloomberg survey
from April 5 to April 9.  The slowdown comes as higher taxes pinch consumers,
factories reduce inventory building and production and the
government cuts back on planned outlays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  