-- JPMorgan Said to Plan Commodity Trader Job Cuts in London, Dubai
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-05-07T09:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/jpmorgan-said-to-plan-commodity-trader-job-cuts-in-london-dubai.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S.
bank , told about 10 traders in its commodity business that their
jobs may be eliminated, according to two people with knowledge
of the situation.  The bank may dismiss or relocate seven in  London  and one in
Dubai, said the people, asking not to be identified because the
matter is private. A second Dubai-based trader will be relocated
to London, the people said. Patrick Burton, a spokesman for the
bank in the U.K. capital, declined to comment.  JPMorgan had the second-biggest revenue from commodities
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last year, analytics company
Coalition said in March. New York-based JPMorgan has commodity
bankers based in 12 countries, according to its website, though
it doesn’t disclose how many commodity traders it has globally.  Commodities revenue at the 10 largest banks slumped 24
percent last year to $6 billion amid low volatility and reduced
client activity, according to a Feb. 15 Coalition report.
Increasing concerns about regulation and capital sensitivity
also led banks to re-examine commodity strategies, it said.  Low Volatility  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of raw materials
climbed less than 0.3 percent in 2012, the worst performance in
four years. The gauge’s 100-day historic  volatility  fell to as
low as 14.1 percent in May, from as much as 23.8 percent in
January 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  JP Morgan said in February it will eliminate as many as
19,000 jobs in mortgages and community banking through 2014 as
it trims expenses. This year, the bank’s headcount will shrink
by about 4,000 people, mainly through attrition, while some
employees are redeployed to other areas, said  Kristin Lemkau , a
spokeswoman, said at the time.  The bank’s first-quarter profit rose 33 percent to a record
last month as the bank shrank expenses by 16 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  