-- KKR to Goldman Breach Water Deal Dam in U.S.: Commodities
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-05-08T17:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/kkr-to-goldman-breach-water-deal-dam-in-u-s-commodities.html
Brandon Freiman was sizing up water
investments for  KKR & Co. (KKR) ’s $4.6 billion infrastructure fund in
2011 when he came across a debt-burdened  New Jersey  city that
Tony Soprano skirts by to open the Time Warner Inc. HBO series.  By December 2012, Bayonne, KKR and the United Water unit of
 Suez Environnement (SEV) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest water company,
struck a first-of-its-kind deal in what bankers say may become a
U.S. model. Results were almost immediate: Bayonne, at risk of a
credit downgrade, cut debt by more than a third. Moody’s
Investors Service raised its outlook to stable from negative.  Public-private partnerships, or PPPs, are common for
capital-intensive infrastructure projects such as toll roads and
bridges. Government funding lands there too: The nearby Bayonne
Bridge is getting a $1 billion overhaul. Municipalities steered
away for years from private funding for water projects until
Bayonne after failures such as  a decade ago in Atlanta , which
endured surprise rate increases and service complaints.  “It’s just been really, really rare in the water space,”
Freiman, the director who oversaw the accord for KKR’s Energy &
Infrastructure fund, said in an interview. “These are difficult
deals to get done.”  With the U.S. government estimating as much as $1 trillion
in water upgrades needed by 2020, many are reconsidering.
Bayonne’s 40-year, $307 million deal, called a concession
agreement, was followed by another when the California town of
Rialto agreed in January to a 30-year pact with  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Barclays Plc, Table Rock Partners LLC, Ullico Inc.
and Paris-based  Veolia Environnement (VIE) , the largest water company.  Colorado, Florida  Allendale in northern New Jersey is also considering an
agreement with United Water to assume operation and maintenance
of its water department, according to the borough’s website.  Bayonne, which received a $150 million payment upfront, has
since had inquiries from municipalities in Texas, Colorado and
 Florida , said Steve Gallo, executive director of Bayonne’s
municipal water utility and Mayor  Mark Smith ’s chief of staff.  Without the deal, the city was facing rate increases of 24
percent to 30 percent, Gallo said yesterday.  “Nobody likes to pay increased rates on anything,” Gallo
said in an interview. “With this transaction, we were able to
mitigate that down to an 8.5 percent immediate increase, a
couple years of no increase, and then a steady increase of less
than 4 percent. Across the board, it made sense. It insulates
you from huge rate shock.”  Since the Bayonne water pact, inquiries have picked up, KKR
said. “We thought if we can get one done, then that will really
illustrate our ability to demonstrate the concept,” Freiman
said.  ‘Potentially Groundbreaking’  The deal’s “a potentially groundbreaking transaction that
may lead the way for further private equity participation in the
water-system asset class,” Su Gao, an analyst for London-based
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in a report.  Global Water Intelligence, an industry publication, gave
the Bayonne concessionary agreement a “distinction” award at
an April 22-23 water conference in Seville,  Spain .  KKR isn’t only interested in U.S. water, acquiring the
central England water supplier South Staffordshire Plc from the
Greenwich, Connecticut-based infrastructure fund manager Alinda
Capital Partners Plc, the companies announced today. Terms
weren’t disclosed. The deal was agreed to on May 3, they said.  Fewer Missteps  Rialto and Bayonne participants said the two-plus years
needed to work out the contracts ensured fewer missteps.
Municipalities get global water expertise and a capital
injection that spares funding for libraries, police and schools.
Unexpected cost rises that plagued earlier agreements are
tempered by a rate-stabilization fund.  In exchange for the 8.5 percent initial rate increase, or
about $5 a month per Bayonne residence, rates freeze until 2015,
when a 3.5 percent raise is scheduled. After that, rates are
calculated each year at a fixed rate for 70 percent of the water
bill increase with the rest tied to an inflation index.  Private placements, or loans typically in a 5 percent to 6
percent range, help smaller communities that may struggle to
compete with big cities to sell bonds tied to water
infrastructure, said Kathleen McNamara, a municipal strategist
at UBS Wealth Management in  New York , which oversees about $90
billion in local debt.  “When they come to market, they have to issue debt with
higher rates just to sell their bonds,” McNamara said.  Water and sewer project bonds returned 4.59 percent on
average the past 12 months. That compares with an overall muni-bond average of 4.7 percent, according to Barclays index data.  PPP Agreements  These water pacts differ from recent pay-for-performance
PPP agreements in  North America . Deals in Pittsburgh and  New
York with Veolia  that peg performance to peers followed a 2011
agreement in  Winnipeg, Canada . Veolia helps find efficiencies,
such as installing meters. In New York, Veolia identified $108
million to $130 million in annual savings.  “In New York and Pittsburgh, it’s shorter-term
contracts,” Laurent Auguste, who runs Veolia Water Americas,
said in an interview. “We’re not talking about 30 years, we’re
not talking about the private company taking over day-to-day
operations, which are still run by the city.”  Concessionary structures are common outside the U.S. from
Europe to  Asia . Customized arrangements are needed in the U.S.
because each municipality has different rules. Veolia
“absolutely” expects to see more arrangements like Bayonne and
Rialto, Auguste said.  ‘Primary Concern’  Concession agreements, called such because of tax rules,
tend to fall apart in the first two years and  raise rates more ,
said  Mary Grant , a researcher at the Washington-based advocacy
group Food & Water Watch. In operating deals, a municipality
keeps responsibility for improvement funding. Private agreements
often put the burden on companies.  “Our primary concern is the loss of local public control
over water resources and management,” Grant said. “That
affects the cost of service and the quality of service.”  Gary La Pelusa, a former Bayonne councilman and
commissioner for the city’s previous water authority, opposed
the deal and rate increases, saying Bayonne gave up too much.  “The city could have done all these things on their own,”
he said in an interview. “I live in this town, I get a water
bill just like everybody else. I just felt like it wasn’t worth
it.”  Allentown Deal  The water-advocacy group opposed a measure in Allentown,
 Pennsylvania , that on April 2 awarded a 50-year, $220 million
water-system lease to Lehigh County Authority, a nonprofit that
outbid United Water and American Water Works Co., the largest
publicly traded water company in the U.S. Allentown sought to
 plug a $170 million budget hole  from underfunded pensions, not
an overhaul.  “We looked at a lot of things, and I thought, ‘OK, here’s
an asset we can actually monetize,’” Mayor  Ed Pawlowski  said in
an interview. “And we’re doing profit-sharing on any future
expansion of water sales.”  Concession agreements don’t offer the 20 percent-plus
annual returns of typical corporate private equity deals,
unappealing for short-term investors, said  Megan Matson , a Table
Rock partner who negotiated the Rialto transaction. Her firm
wants to do more and is talking with several cities.  “Long-term secure returns are really difficult to find
right now,” Matson said in a phone interview. “The overall
equity returns are in the 15 to 19 percent range, which isn’t
wild, but we understand it, it’s solid for the long term. It
might be harder up front than a lot of companies want to pursue
but for us it’s really satisfying.”  The private sector has shouldered more responsibility in
recent years, executives, city officials and bankers said. With
all the calls to upgrade U.S. water and water-treatment systems,
firms see potential for annuity-type cash streams.  Investor Interest  Municipalities also have much to gain from pursuing such
agreements, said  Lewis D. Solomon,  a George Washington
University professor who wrote “America’s Water and Wastewater
Crisis” and gave public testimony on Allentown’s deal.  “There’s a lot of capital available, with private equity,
infrastructure funds, there’s a lot of investor interest,”
Solomon said in an interview. Since Atlanta, “a decade has
passed. People have learned. Municipalities are more
sophisticated. The private partners are more sophisticated.”  For Bayonne, the deal already eased one concern: Moody’s on
March 6 raised  the city’s debt outlook to stable.  Bayonne’s
$262.3-million general obligation bonds are rated Baa1, the
third-lowest investment grade.  That’s boosted the interest level, said Hadley Peer
Marshall, a Goldman banker who worked on the Rialto transaction.  “Private placement is investing more time in this asset
class,” Marshall said in a phone interview. “There are more of
these opportunities popping up.”  New Model  Private-equity funds have been used to build new
facilities, including a wastewater plant in Santa Paula,
 California . The Bayonne pact is significant “because one of the
biggest issues with water systems in the U.S. is that there’s
been a lot of deferred maintenance,” BNEF’s Gao said in an
interview. “It was really interesting to see a new model of
investment on the O&M side.”  In the  Bayonne arrangement , KKR made 90 percent of the
equity investment via its infrastructure fund and United Water
the remainder for a total initial investment of $172.5 million.
 Bayonne owns the assets , with the new venture leasing them.  Agreement Details  The agreement also commits to capital investment in the
water, sewer and stormwater system of about $110 million over 40
years, a  slide presentation  from KKR, Bayonne and Suez shows.  According to the agreement filed with  New Jersey Board of
Public Utilities  and Gao’s report, about $125 million of the
upfront payment went to extinguish debt owned by the old Bayonne
Municipal Water Authority, backed directly by the city.  About $7 million will be used for capital improvements
within two years, up to $2.15 million in each of the next two
years and about $2.5 million for additional improvements yearly
after that if needed.  The intricate structures and negotiations in the Sopranos’
home state show water companies learned from past mistakes,
mostly around funding mechanisms and initial  capital investment ,
United Water Chief Executive Officer Bertrand Camus said.  “They want to have control over rates,” Camus said in a
phone interview. “This is what we tried to bring to the table
with this model.”  ‘Revenue Stream’  “We didn’t guarantee anything other than a revenue
stream,” said Joseph P. Baumann Jr., a lawyer who worked on the
transaction for Bayonne’s municipal water utility. That helped
assure city officials investors weren’t getting “a windfall.”  Robb Steel,  Rialto’s redevelopment director , said city
officials realized they needed help running and funding their
system, which had lost about half its employees without
replacing them. And Veolia already ran Rialto’s wastewater
system.  “Most cities have a certain amount of bravado that they
want to manage these things themselves,” Steel said. “Water
and sewer is something that we didn’t view long-term as
something we were very good at. That’s why we cut and run.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  