-- Napier Park Investing in Railcars Joins Icahn to Buffett
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/napier-park-investing-in-railcars-joins-icahn-to-buffett.html
Napier Park Global Capital, the $6.8
billion hedge fund spun out of Citigroup Inc., is investing $362
million in a railcar leasing venture, betting on an industry
favored by billionaires  Carl Icahn  and Warren Buffett.  Napier Park is forming a partnership with  Trinity
Industries Inc. (TRN)  to acquire about $1 billion of railcars by the
end of 2014, according to a statement. Napier Park also will
provide financing to a second entity that owns an additional
14,455 cars, Dallas-based Trinity said yesterday.  Demand for new rolling stock to carry railroads’ rising
crude-oil shipments is benefiting Buffett and Icahn. Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. owns railcar maker Union Tank Car Co.,
while Icahn controls 56 percent of manufacturer  American Railcar
Industries Inc. (ARII)   New drilling technology is unleashing crude from difficult-to-reach rock formations, sending U.S. oil production to
records. Carriers such as Berkshire’s Burlington Northern  Santa
Fe  LLC are carrying more crude to refineries from fields beyond
the reach of existing pipelines.  Trinity captured 61 percent of first-quarter North American
railcar orders, Michael Baudendistel, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, wrote in a May 2 note to clients.  Trinity climbed 19 percent this year to $42.52 through
yesterday,  compared with  a 17 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s Midcap Industrials Index. Saint Charles, Missouri-based
American Railcar gained 14 percent in 2013.  Railcar manufacturing is Trinity’s largest business,
accounting for $2 billion of the company’s $3.81 billion in 2012
revenue. The leasing unit was the third-biggest segment last
year, behind the inland barge group, at $647 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  