-- Neon Energy Plans to Seek Indonesia Partner After Eni Accord
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-07T00:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/neon-energy-plans-to-seek-indonesia-partner-after-eni-accord.html
Neon Energy Ltd. (NEN) , the explorer that
formed a partnership in Vietnam last year with  Eni SpA (ENI) , plans to
look next for a company to help fund the development of its
natural gas prospects off  Indonesia .  Neon expects to decide this year whether to proceed with
drilling at the Tanjung Aru block in Indonesia’s Kutei Basin,
where it has two gas finds, Ken Charsinsky, managing director of
the Perth-based company, said yesterday by phone.  “With two discoveries already on the block, and prospects
that look like those discoveries, we think there’s a pretty good
chance we’ll be able to go to the next level, the drilling
phase,” Charsinsky said. “There have been some inquiries in
joining us on that one.”  Neon is focused on Indonesia, California and  Vietnam , where
it reached an agreement last June to bring in Eni,  Italy ’s
biggest oil company, on a project. The areas off the coast of
Vietnam that Neon is exploring are near  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
natural gas discoveries, according to Neon’s website.  Neon, whose shares closed yesterday at 25.5 cents in Sydney,
valuing the company at A$140 million ($143 million), has six buy
ratings from analysts, without any hold or sell ratings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It traded at 26 cents
at 10:30 a.m. local time.  California Partner?  The equivalent of more than 12 billion barrels of oil has
been discovered in Indonesia’s Kutei Basin, according to Neon’s
website. Neon has a 42 percent stake in the project in the basin,
while KrisEnergy Ltd. has 43 percent and Natuna Ventures Pte Ltd.
has 15 percent, according to Neon’s website.  Neon expects drilling of the Cua Lo prospect off Vietnam to
start in June and drilling at a second field in the country to
go-ahead in August, the company said earlier this month. Neon
holds 25 percent of the Vietnamese permits, while Eni owns 50
percent and KrisEnergy has 25 percent.  The Australian explorer also may bring in a partner in
 California  and has started giving companies access to the data,
according to Charsinsky, a former Noble Energy Inc. executive.
Costs to develop assets there have been higher than the company
had anticipated, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  