-- Netanyahu Affirms Israel Right to Self-Defense in China Trip
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-05-07T09:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/netanyahu-affirms-israel-s-right-to-self-defense-in-china-trip.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  affirmed his country’s right to self-defense after
 China  expressed concern over airstrikes on Syria attributed to
the Jewish state.  Netanyahu visited a Shanghai synagogue and thanked China
for sheltering Jews during World War II, saying such aid is no
longer needed. He flew into Shanghai yesterday and meets Premier
 Li Keqiang  in Beijing tomorrow.  “Today we have a state of our own, an army of our own,”
Netanyahu said at the Ohel Moishe Synagogue, which once served
30,000 Jewish refugees who found shelter in the city during the
war. “We need not beg to be saved. We can defend ourselves.”  Netanyahu didn’t mention Syria and declined to answer
questions about the airstrikes while traveling to  Shanghai 
yesterday. Syria threatened retaliation after an aerial strike
on the outskirts of Damascus on May 5 and another two days
earlier.  The airstrikes prompted China to call for restraint.
Chinese leaders have resisted U.S.-led efforts to unite world
powers against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  ‘Gravely Concerned’  “China is gravely concerned about the issue and calls for
the involved parties to remain restrained and avoid any actions
that might escalate the tension,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Hua Chunying said at a briefing yesterday.  Israeli officials who asked not to be identified said the
attacks were meant to prevent advanced Iranian weapons from
reaching Lebanon’s anti-Israel Hezbollah militia, rather than to
weaken the Assad regime, The  Associated Press  reported.  Netanyahu is in China until May 10 on a trip that’s meant
to open the Chinese market to Israeli companies and press for
tougher action over Syria and on Iran’s disputed nuclear
program. The Israeli leader has set a goal of bringing trade
with China to $10 billion within three years, from about $8
billion today.  Netanyahu’s arrival in Shanghai yesterday coincided with a
visit by Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  to Beijing the same
day. Chinese President Xi Jinping called for Palestinians and
Israelis to renew peace negotiations that have been stalled
since 2010.  Abbas said he was not scheduled to meet with Netanyahu in
China. “The Chinese side said it would convey our concerns to
the Israeli side, evaluate the consensus we share with Israel,
and continue paying attention to the Palestinian issue,” Abbas
said in an interview today in the  China Daily .  Netanyahu focused on economic issues today, pressing his
case for Israeli business in a visit with executives of Shanghai
Pharmaceuticals Holding Co., China’s second-largest drugs-
distribution company.  “We want to invest in the Israeli pharmaceutical industry
and its R&D,”  Shanghai Pharma (2607)  Chairman Zhou Jie said, citing
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  as an example of Israel’s
innovative drugs industry.  “We both need R&D. We lack scale. Together we can bring
both R&D and scale,” Netanyahu replied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  