-- New Regulations Are Strangling Community Banks
-- B y   C a m d e n   R .   F i n e
-- 2013-05-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/new-regulations-are-strangling-community-banks.html
The wave of new banking regulations
that Congress created to deter and punish  Wall Street ’s misdeeds
is landing with much greater impact on the U.S.’s almost 7,000
 community banks  than on the too-big-to-fail lenders.  Community banks didn’t cause the financial crisis; they
played by the rules. Because of their time-tested business
model, one based on customer relationships rather than
transaction volumes, community banks aren’t a threat to the
financial system. Yet they are being forced to pay a penalty in
regulatory costs -- to comply with rules aimed at preventing the
bad behavior on Wall Street from happening again.  Community banks are also disproportionately affected by the
new rules. Right now, banks with  less than $10 billion  in assets
control only 20 percent of total U.S. banking assets. Washington
lawmakers and regulators are holding back community banks from
devoting their full attention and resources to making more loans
and fueling a more robust economic recovery.  The effect of these regulations is that Congress has added
insult to injury for community banks while rewarding the real
villains. The megabanks are benefiting from what  Bloomberg View 
calculated is an $83 billion annual taxpayer subsidy, the value
of implicit guarantees by the  U.S. Treasury . Bloomberg View was
correct to characterize the too-big-to-fail subsidy as “a major
driver of the largest banks’ profits.”  Credit Quality  Perversely, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  data  show that
large banks have both the lowest credit quality and the lowest
cost of funds in the industry. Community banks rank the highest
in both categories even though they have had to compete for
years against the megabanks’ access to cheaper money in pricing
loans. In addition, community banks must compete against the big
lenders’ lower comparative costs in handling regulatory
paperwork.  This is morally wrong -- and bad economic policy.
Community banks should be putting their capital to work in the
small towns, rural communities and middle-class urban enclaves
they know well. Instead, they are focusing too many of their
precious human resources on onerous paperwork and time-consuming
compliance measures.  Community banks are the source of almost 60 percent of all
 small-business  loans of less than $1 million, as well as
mortgage and consumer loans tailored to the needs of their local
communities. Large banking organizations with more than $50
billion in assets hold almost 40 percent of  outstanding small
loans  to businesses, according to the  Federal Reserve , but loans
to small businesses aren’t a significant portion of large-bank
lending. Small-business loans represent less than 5 percent of
the large banks’ total domestic lending.  Five Steps  Lawmakers should rethink the regulations aimed at the
megabanks. Here are five steps Congress can take now to
rebalance the regulatory burden and give Main Street businesses
greater access to loans:  -Exempt small banks from certain mortgage rules. Provide
“qualified mortgage” safe-harbor status for all home loans
originated and held in portfolio by community banks, including
balloon mortgages and interest-only loans, and exempt these
banks from mandatory requirements to maintain cumbersome escrow
accounts for the same class of loans.  -Cut red tape in small-business lending. Waive the new
requirement to report information on every new small-business
loan application. It falls disproportionately on community banks
that lack the back-office expertise and other resources to
comply.  -Require cost-benefit analyses by regulators. Prevent
regulators from proposing new rules before they have determined
that costs won’t exceed benefits. This step must recognize the
disproportionately higher cost of compliance on small banks, and
ensure new rules are consistent with existing regulations,
written in plain English and easy to interpret. More broadly,
new rules should reduce the threat to society of future crises,
and the resulting economic damage from a recession and high
unemployment.  -Waive certain audit rules. Increase to $350 million from
$75 million the market-capitalization threshold requiring
outside auditing of internal controls. Bank examiners
continually monitor these systems at smaller banks. Waiving the
audit requirement for small, publicly traded local banks would
reduce their expenses substantially without creating more risk
for investors, taxpayers or the deposit-insurance system.  -Eliminate the annual requirement on no-change privacy
notices. Mailing annual notices on privacy policies serves
little purpose when no changes have been made. Keep the
notification requirement for those years when changes are made.  None of these changes would alter the already significant
regulatory tools that provide appropriate oversight of community
banks. But it would be a failure of logic and lawmaking if the
new wave of banking regulations that are meant to stop Wall
Street excesses instead resulted in cutting off one of Main
Street’s economic lifelines.  (Camden R. Fine is president and chief executive officer of
the Independent Community Bankers of America. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Camden R. Fine at  camden.r.fine@icba.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at   pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 