-- New Zealand’s Biggest IPO Tests Key’s NZ$5 Billion Asset Sales
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-07T01:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/new-zealand-s-biggest-ipo-tests-key-s-nz-5-billion-asset-sales.html
The sale of at least NZ$1.6 billion
($1.4 billion) of Mighty River Power Ltd. in  New Zealand ’s
biggest initial public offering will test investor appetite for
state assets as the government seeks to slash borrowing.  The government plans to sell no more than 49 percent of the
utility and last month indicated a price range of NZ$2.35 to
NZ$2.80 a share. A two-day auction to institutions to set the
price begins today and the stock starts trading on May 10.  The sale comes as Prime Minister John Key seeks to raise
NZ$5 billion to NZ$7 billion from selling shares in state-owned
companies to reduce reliance on borrowing and help return to a
budget surplus by 2015. He also plans to offer stakes in
Meridian Energy Ltd., Genesis Power Ltd. and Air New Zealand
Ltd., banking on demand for higher yielding assets as  interest
rates  sit near record lows.  “The government has said they have wanted to make sure
investors have a good experience,” said James Lindsay, a
manager of equities at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd. in
Auckland. “The appetite for new issuance is very strong. It’s a
good business, with a good yield and good management.”  The offer is the largest in  Australia  or New Zealand since
Aurizon Holdings Ltd., the rail company formerly known as QR
National Ltd., raised A$4.05 billion ($4.2 billion) in November
2010. It is New Zealand’s largest, set to exceed the NZ$1.1
billion raised when the government sold 60 percent of Contact
Energy Ltd. in 1999.  ‘Fair Price’  Lindsay said the success of News Corp.’s placement of a 44
percent stake in Sky Network Television Ltd. in March, and the
take up of 202 million shares in Trade Me Ltd. offered by
Fairfax Media Ltd. in December, was evidence of demand among New
Zealand investors. He declined to comment on what price he
expected Mighty River would sell for.  “It’s up to the government to provide a fair price for
what the asset is,” he said.  Key’s divestment program is New Zealand’s biggest since the
government raised about NZ$10 billion between 1988 and 1990,
including the sale of Telecom Corp. of New Zealand Ltd. to U.S.
phone companies, government figures show.  The government is offering as many as 686 million Mighty
River shares. It will offer residents who hold their shares for
two years a 1-for-25 loyalty bonus that will be capped at 200
shares. The government will hold back shares from the initial
sale to issue under the bonus plan, ensuring it retains a 51
percent stake.  Lead Managers  The three-week public offer closed May 3 and the government
was “pleased with the level of engagement from New Zealand
investors,” Key told reporters yesterday. He wouldn’t disclose
details. About 440,000 people pre-registered their interest in
receiving offer documents before the IPO was announced on April
5.  The lead managers of the offer are Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd., and a partnership of Credit Suisse
Group AG and First NZ Capital Securities.  JB Were (NZ) Pty, Craigs Investment Partners Ltd. and
Forsyth Barr Ltd. managed the retail share offer.  Mighty River operates nine hydro plants, five geothermal
stations and the natural gas-fired Southdown plant near
Auckland. It sells power to about 20 percent of the nation’s
homes, mainly through its retail unit Mercury Energy.  Top Price  Based on the top price in the indicative range, Mighty
River would be valued at NZ$3.92 billion, making it the fourth-
or fifth-largest stock on the  New Zealand stock exchange , the
government said last month.  The company projects a dividend of 12 cents a share this
year, which equates to a yield of 4.3 percent should the shares
sell for NZ$2.80. That compares with a yield of 2.9 percent at
Contact Energy Ltd., the largest publicly traded New Zealand
power company.  New Zealand is targeting a return to  budget surplus  by
2015. It forecasts a deficit of NZ$7.34 billion in the year
ending June 30. The country lost its top  credit rating  at
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings in 2011.  Mighty River shares have been promoted to global investors
while Key has pledged that at least 85 percent of the company
will be owned by residents, including the government and fund
managers who handle the nation’s work-based savings program
KiwiSaver.  In  Hong Kong , first-time share sales fell to a four-year
low in the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sinopec Engineering Group Co., a unit of  China ’s
biggest refiner, and China Galaxy Securities Co. are seeking as
much as a combined $3.6 billion in offerings this month.  The Mighty River offer has faced objections from some
indigenous Maori groups, who claimed the sale violated the 173-
year-old Treaty of Waitangi, New Zealand’s founding document,
which gives them rights to land and resources. A court rejected
the claim in February, clearing the way for the IPO to proceed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  