-- North Korea Threatens Retaliation as South’s Leader Visits U.S.
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-05-07T05:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/north-korea-threatens-retaliation-as-south-s-leader-visits-u-s-.html
North Korea  threatened “immediate
counteractions” if shells fired as part of military drills hit
its waters, as the U.S. an South Korea conducted annual anti-
submarine exercises in the region.  U.S. and South Korean forces are trying “to push the
present state of war to an actual war,” the official Korean
Central News Agency said today. The two allies on April 30
concluded the annual two-month Foal Eagle exercises, which
rehearse ground-based operations.  The warning from Kim Jong Un’s regime coincides with a trip
by South Korean President Park Geun Hye to Washington. Park will
meet President  Barack Obama  to discuss ways to end a standoff
with the North that intensified after Kim defied United Nations
sanctions with a nuclear weapon test in February.  The North has warned of atomic strikes against the U.S. and
South Korea, sentenced a U.S. citizen to 15 years of hard labor
and shuttered a factory park run jointly with the South.  “It’s premature to make a judgment about whether the North
Korean provocation cycle is going up, down or zig-zagging,”
Daniel Russel, senior director for Asian affairs at the White
House National Security Council, told reporters yesterday in
 Washington . “It will take some time to play out.”  A “grand fireworks display” by North Korea can’t be ruled
out, Russel said. He declined to comment on a CNN report that
said the North moved two ballistic missiles away from its
eastern coast.  The U.S. and South Korean navies are conducting drills
focused on anti-submarine warfare training, U.S. Seventh Fleet
spokesman Ron Steiner said in an e-mail today. He declined to
confirm a North Korean claim that the nuclear-powered USS Nimitz
aircraft carrier would participate in another round of drills
starting around May 10.  Strengthen Alliance  The Nimitz is in the region and the U.S. routinely seeks
opportunities to train with  South Korea  to ‘strengthen the
alliance,’’ Steiner said. South Korean Defense Ministry
spokesman Kim Min Seok also declined to confirm reports that the
Nimitz would dock in Busan.  North Korean military units stationed on the southwestern
front will respond immediately if a “single shell” drops in
its waters from the U.S. and South Korean drills, KCNA said.  “‘In case the enemies recklessly counter our counter-
strikes, all striking forces will turn the five islands in the
West Sea of Korea into a sea in flames,’’ it said.  Park left  Seoul  for the U.S. on May 5 for her first
overseas trip since taking office in February. Park and Obama
will discuss boosting cooperation after the North last month
refused calls to restart nuclear disarmament talks.  South Korea will issue military response against any future
North Korean provocation to ‘‘make them pay,’’ Park said in an
interview with CBS broadcast yesterday at 6:30 p.m.  New York 
time.  ‘‘North Korea engages in provocations, threats,’’ she said.
‘‘This is followed by negotiations and assistance, and so we saw
an endless continuation of this vicious cycle, and it is time
for us to put an end to the cycle.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  