-- Norway Seen Keeping Rates Unchanged After Stemming Krone Gains
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-05-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/norway-seen-keeping-rates-unchanged-after-stemming-krone-gains.html
Norway ’s central bank will probably
keep  interest rates  unchanged for a seventh meeting after policy
makers managed to weaken the krone with easing signals.  The bank will leave its  overnight deposit  rate at 1.5
percent in a decision due to be announced at 2 p.m. today in
Oslo, according to 18 of 23 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Five economists predict the bank will cut to 1.25 percent.  Governor Oeystein Olsen, who has kept the benchmark
unchanged for more than 12 months, has signaled his readiness to
cut the rate further to stem a currency appreciation that’s
pushed inflation below target and hurt exporters. Since the
comments in March, the krone, which emerged as a haven from
 Europe ’s debt crisis, has dipped 2.5 percent against the euro,
and touched a 15-month low last month.  “It will likely stay on hold at this juncture, given the
significant weakening of the krone, which traditionally has had
a strong impact on the central bank’s monetary policy,” Erlend Loedemel, chief economist at Arctic Securities in Oslo, said
yesterday in an e-mail. “Given that the market seems to
discount at least a significant chance of a rate cut this
summer, the krone will likely strengthen if Norges Bank doesn’t
signal a possibility of a near-term rate cut.”  Norway’s economy is starting to feel the fallout from
Europe’s debt crisis, pushing  unemployment  to the highest level
in more than two years. The government yesterday unveiled its
most expansionary budget in four years, proposing to spend more
oil money that will stimulate the economy by 0.6 percentage
points. Western Europe’s largest oil exporter will use 125
billion kroner ($21 billion) of its sovereign wealth fund to
plug deficits this year, up from 105 billion kroner last year
the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday.  More Expansionary  “It will be hard for Norges Bank to avoid the conclusion
that fiscal policy is slightly more expansionary than
expected,”  Erik Bruce , a senior economist at Nordea Bank AB
said in a note to clients. “It should, however, be yet another
argument to not consider a rate cut as an alternative to
unchanged rates.”  Inflation slowed for a second month in March to the weakest
pace since April last year. Price growth has remained below the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target since mid-2009 and is now at a
“disturbingly low” level, Olsen said last month.  Record-low interest rates in the U.S., a rate cut in the
euro area and stimulus measures in  Japan  are also putting
pressure on Norway to ease policy to avoid currency gains.  Debt Growth  Policy makers have signaled they are reluctant to cut rates
to avoid stoking debt growth. Near record-low borrowing costs
have helped boost  house prices  and will push private debt levels
to about 200 percent of disposable incomes this year, the
central bank estimates.  The government also yesterday cut its forecast for  mainland
economic  growth in 2013 to 2.6 percent from 2.9 percent and
predicted a 3 percent expansion next year. Total sales abroad
will fall 1.3 percent this year as exporters struggle with
falling demand from crisis-stricken trading partners and a krone
that has surged 27 percent versus the euro since the end of
2008.  “Signs for a moderate slowdown in the domestic economy
together with the downgrade of the inflation outlook might be
sufficient for Norges Bank to cut the signal rate to 1.25
percent,” Harald Magnus Andreassen, chief economist at Swedbank
First Securities in Oslo, said in a note to clients. “We think
the bank will wait and see. The economy has not slowed down so
abruptly that a cut is unavoidable or even necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  