-- Norway’s Oil Splurge No Central Bank Handcuff, Johnsen Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-05-08T08:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/norway-commits-to-spending-more-oil-money-on-shielding-economy.html
Norway’s most expansionary budget
since the height of the global financial crisis in 2009 won’t
put any pressure on the central bank to tighten monetary policy,
Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said.  Western  Europe ’s largest crude exporter will use 3.3
percent of its $740 billion oil fund to plug deficits this year,
representing a 19 percent increase from 2012, the Finance
Ministry said yesterday. That will deliver the biggest fiscal
boost to Europe’s second-richest economy per capita in four
years, it said.  “In my view the proposals in the revised budget are more
or less neutral,” Johnsen said in an interview in Oslo
yesterday. “I leave the actual and concrete measures in
monetary policy to the central bank.”  Norges Bank is struggling to combat overheating as property
prices continue to climb from record levels and household
indebtedness swells to twice disposable incomes. Governor
Oeystein Olsen -- who will leave the benchmark deposit rate at
1.5 percent today, according to a Bloomberg survey -- has tried
to design policy to prevent the krone appreciating without
fueling credit growth. Yesterday’s budget will make rate cuts
less likely, according to Nordea Bank AB.  “The central bank had based their forecasts on a slightly
more expansionary budget than last autumn but this is even more
expansionary than Norges Bank’s forecast,” Katrine Boye, senior
economist at Nordea, said by phone. “So this is a strong
argument for Norges Bank not to consider a rate cut.”  September Elections  Of the 23 economists surveyed, five predict a rate cut
today to 1.25 percent. Norges Bank is due to announce its
decision at 2 p.m. in Oslo.  While the government, which is trailing behind the
opposition ahead of September elections, argues its budget is
well within a self-imposed 4 percent cap on oil-fund spending,
that’s left plenty of scope for extra stimulus.  Norway’s oil fund, created in 1996 to prevent the economy
from overheating by investing petroleum wealth abroad, has
quadrupled in size since 2005. It will grow a further 42 percent
by 2020, the government estimates. While the nation’s oil wealth
has shielded it from Europe’s debt crisis, it now risks fueling
a housing bubble as Norwegians look for assets to channel
growing incomes into.  “There are always adjustments,” Johnsen said. “There are
some unexpected expenditure that we didn’t foresee in the
original budget last autumn.”  Outlook Cut  The government yesterday cut its forecast for mainland
economic growth in 2013 to 2.6 percent from 2.9 percent and
predicted a 3 percent expansion next year. Including oil and gas
production, gross domestic product will grow 1.4 percent this
year, slowing from 3.2 percent in 2012. The government sees
total exports falling 1.3 percent in 2013, led by a 5.5 percent
decline in oil and gas shipments.  The krone slid 0.2 percent to 7.6605 against the euro as of
10:40 a.m. in Oslo, the weakest level since April 25.  Near-record low interest rates have boosted consumer
spending in the Nordic region’s second-largest economy, pushing
private debt levels to all-time highs as property prices surge.
Home prices jumped 7.7 percent last year, and the financial
regulator and the government are tightening capital and mortgage
lending rules to cool the market.  The Nordic nation places most of its oil and gas revenue in
a fund that invests abroad to avoid stoking inflation in the
domestic economy. The  Government Pension Fund Global  is Europe’s
largest equity investor. A fiscal spending rule limits the use
of petroleum revenue to 4 percent of the fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  