-- Nyrstar to Decide on Zinc Sales Options in September or October
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-05-07T12:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/nyrstar-to-decide-on-zinc-sales-options-in-september-or-october.html
Nyrstar NV (NYR) , the world’s largest
producer of refined zinc, will decide how to market its future
European output of the metal in September or October as its
purchase agreement with Glencore Xstrata Plc nears an end.  Glencore will stop selling Nyrstar’s zinc produced in
 Europe  by Dec. 31 after agreeing to sell its 7.8 percent stake
in the company to meet antitrust approval for its $29 billion
takeover of Xstrata Plc. Nyrstar is studying options to sell the
metal using its own in-house team or the appointment of a new
trader.  “We would have to probably make that decision by
September-October,” Bob Katsiouleris, Nyrstar’s group general
manager for commercial operations, said in an interview today in
Amsterdam. It’s “too early in the game” to say which option
the company will choose, he said.  Nyrstar will receive a settlement fee of 44.9 million euros
($59 million) to end Glencore’s purchase agreement, it said on
April 16. It also outlined the possibility of “bringing the
marketing and sales of this volume in-house, tendering this
volume to third parties or entering into partnering
arrangements, with numerous enquiries having been made on the
availability of this metal over the past months.”  The zinc producer already has part of an in-house marketing
team to handle sales and “we’re building the team,”
Katsiouleris said. Nyrstar will need a “good-sized” team to
market its own zinc, depending on the region and volumes, he
said.  “We’re running a very closely-knit process right now,”
Katsiouleris said in a speech at the Metal Bulletin’s zinc
conference in Amsterdam today. “We’re trying to keep an open
mind. A lot of people are interested in the business. There are
some excellent potential partners out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  