-- Obama Can Close Guantanamo. Here’s How.
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-05-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/obama-has-leverage-to-get-his-way-on-guantanamo.html
President  Barack Obama ’s renewed
 request  to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, confirms
what the detainees have already shown with their hunger strike:
Permanent detention at the U.S. naval station isn’t viable as a
matter of practicality or conscience.  It’s easy to blame Congress for standing in the way of a
rational solution. But if the  Obama administration  would take
some of the legal ingenuity that it has applied in justifying
indefinite detention and apply it instead to closing the island
prison, maybe something could actually be done, despite the
organized madness that is our constitutional separation of
powers.  Start with the most fundamental reason that Obama should be
able to act unilaterally. The president is commander in chief,
and the Guantanamo detainees were all held pursuant to the
executive power to wage war. The Obama administration says the
detainees are being held as, in effect, prisoners of war
pursuant to the  Geneva Conventions , until the end of hostilities
with al-Qaeda -- whenever that may be. So why doesn’t the
president, who has the absolute power to hold and release the
detainees, have the authority to move them around according to
his sound judgment?  Reputation Cost  To deepen the argument beyond executive power, the
president is also in charge of foreign affairs. Keeping the
detainees at Guantanamo is very costly to international
relations, since most nations see the prison there as a reminder
of the era of waterboarding and abuses at the Abu Ghraib prison
in  Iraq . Surely the president should be able to salvage the
U.S.’s reputation without being held hostage by Congress?  The answer from Congress would have several elements.
First, Congress has the power to enact a law defining who can
come into the U.S., and the American public doesn’t want the
detainees in the country either for trial or in a new Supermax
facility. Second, Congress has the power to declare war and
could conceivably assert that this should include the right to
tell the president how to treat prisoners. Then there’s the
power of the purse: Congress could make things difficult by
declining to authorize funds for a suitable new stateside
detention facility.  Faced with a standoff between two branches, the system
allows an orderly answer: turning to the third branch, the
courts, to resolve the conflict. Since 2003, the  Supreme Court 
has taken an interest in Guantanamo, deciding on the statutory
and constitutional rights extended there, and vetting procedures
for detainee hearings and trials. Along the way, it has shown an
equal-opportunity willingness to second-guess the executive --
as when President  George W. Bush  denied hearings to detainees --
and Congress, which passed a law denying habeas corpus to the
prisoners.  How could the court get involved? The first step would be
for the Obama administration to show some of the legal self-confidence it did in justifying drone strikes against U.S.
citizens or in ignoring the  War Powers Resolution  in the  Libya 
military intervention. Likewise, it could assert a right of
control over where the detainees should be held. And if the
president’s lawyers are worried about Bush-style assertions of
plenary executive power (which, for the record, didn’t concern
them when it came to drones or Libya), there is a path they
could follow that would hew closer to their favored
constitutional style.  Geneva Conventions  The reasoning could look like this: The president’s war
power must be exercised pursuant to the laws of war embodied in
the Geneva Conventions. And though Guantanamo once conformed to
those laws -- as the administration asserted in 2009 -- it no
longer does. The conditions are too makeshift to manage the
continuing prisoner resistance, and indefinite detention in an
indefinite war with no enemy capable of surrendering is pressing
on the bounds of lawful POW detention.  Congress doesn’t have the authority to force the president
to violate the laws of war. Yet by blocking Obama from closing
Guantanamo, that is just what Congress is doing. What’s more, he
has the inherent authority to ensure that we are complying with
our treaty obligations.  This argument isn’t a certain winner. And there would still
be the problem of whether the president could put the detainees
in an existing prison. But at least spelling this out would put
the fear of God into Congress. Continued congressional
resistance would also trigger a court case.  The president could have a tough time convincing five
justices. According to the framework developed by Justice  Robert Jackson  in the Truman-era steel seizure case, and used today by
the courts, the president’s power is at its “lowest ebb” when
Congress has expressly barred him from acting. But even at ebb
tide there is still an ocean, and lots of things Congress can’t
stop the president from doing. Complying with his legal
obligations should surely be at the top of the list.  The Supreme Court might want to duck this controversial
issue. But there is a precedent for the court wading in where
Congress is blocking necessary action. In the  Cold War , lawful
racial segregation in the U.S. became costly as a matter of
foreign relations. President  Harry Truman  desegregated the
military, but he lacked the authority to overturn state-based
discrimination. The Senate filibuster, originally born of
slavery, ensured that Congress wouldn’t pass a civil-rights bill
that could have solved the problem.  That left the high court --
which gave us Brown v. Board of Education. And in that case, the
U.S. -- as friend of the court -- quoted Secretary of State Dean Acheson to the effect that segregation was being used as
propaganda by the  Soviet Union .  It is absurd that the commander in chief can’t do what he
believes is in the country’s national interests when it comes to
detainees. Win, lose or draw, it is time to get around Congress.
And if ordinary politics won’t do the trick, going to the courts
may be the best option -- because it is the only one.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of the forthcoming “Cool War: The Future of Global
Competition,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on
Twitter. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  