-- Hochtief Sells Airports Unit to PSP Investments in Revamp
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-07T15:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/hochtief-sells-airports-unit-to-psp-investments-for-2-billion.html
Hochtief AG (HOT)  agreed to sell its
airports division to Public Sector Pension Investment Board of
Canada as  Germany ’s largest construction company narrows its
focus to building. The stock rose to a 21-month high.  The deal values the business, which has stakes in airports
in  Athens , Budapest, Dusseldorf, Hamburg, Sydney and the
Albanian capital of Tirana, at about 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) and Hochtief will get 1.1 billion euros as some shares
are held by business partners, the Essen, Germany-based builder
said today in a statement.  “The price makes it look more like a gift,” said Marc Gabriel, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe KG. “In the end, there’s
not much left for the shareholders, because no extraordinary
result was achieved with the sale. OK, they managed to sell it
after almost four years, but the price is not sexy.”  Chief Executive Officer Marcelino Fernandez Verdes, who
took over in November and comes from Spanish majority owner
 Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA , is reversing the
German company’s decade-long strategy of expanding into
services. Hochtief is also looking into selling its real-estate
development, facility and energy-management units.  “You can’t generate much margin with infrastructure and
building and you have to take on high risk,” said Bankhaus
Lampe’s Gabriel, who has a hold  recommendation  on Hochtief
stock. “That puts a big question mark on whether it will work
to completely focus on building again.”  Beating Estimates  Hochtief  rose  5.9 percent to 56.51 euros at the close in
 Frankfurt , the highest price since July 27, 2011. The stock has
jumped 29 percent this year in the best performance on the  Stoxx
600 Construction and Materials Index , which has gained 5.8
percent, to value the company at 4.35 billion euros.  PSP Investments, which is based in  Montreal , oversees
pensions of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the country’s
military and some federal civil servants. Assets under
management as of March 31, 2012, totaled C$64.5 billion ($64.2
billion), including C$3.6 billion in infrastructure.  “We’re gaining exposure to a portfolio of airport assets”
with the Hochtief division’s purchase, including management
expertise, Mark Boutet, a PSP Investments spokesman, said by
phone. “Airports are very resilient businesses. They’ve got
attractive cash flow, and we’ve got a long-term horizon in
infrastructure, so it’s really a great fit.”  Revised Forecast  Hochtief  predicts  full-year pretax profit will be in a
range of 600 million euros to 680 million euros, with net income
at 180 million euros to 220 million euros, excluding earnings
from the airports and one-time reorganization costs, the company
said today. Hochtief’s earlier forecast was for net income of
174 million euros to 190 million euros.  The building company will announce any job-cut measures in
the “middle of the year,” CEO Fernandez Verdes said today at
the annual shareholders meeting in Essen.  First-quarter pretax profit was 123 million euros versus a
year-earlier loss of 92 million euros. Earnings exceeded the
average 111 million-euro average of three analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Earlier Effort  In Hochtief’s failed attempt to sell its six airports last
year, bidders including  Vinci SA (DG) ,  Europe ’s biggest builder, and
 China ’s HNA Group offered more than 1 billion euros for the
business, while the German company valued it at as much as 1.6
billion euros, people familiar with the process said at the
time.  The transaction with PSP Investments was “the result of a
very competitive tendering process,” and Hochtief predicts no
significant “extraordinary earnings impact from the
transaction,” it said today. The disposal is subject to certain
conditions and is expected to close in the second half of the
year.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  advised Hochtief on the sale.  Hochtief, the builder of Frankfurt’s Commerzbank tower,
plans to dedicate proceeds from selling divisions to repaying
debt, investing in its infrastructure division and entering new
industries, the German company has said. Hochtief may pay a
special dividend following the disposals, Fernandez Verdes said
when presenting 2012 full-year results in February.  “The reason they give for the sales is to bring down net
debt,” Gabriel said. “The net debt of Hochtief isn’t really
the problem, it’s more the net debt of  ACS. (ACS) ”  While the 140-year-old company is looking at ways to deepen
cooperation with Madrid-based ACS in Asia and North America, it
has no plans to expand in China, Fernandez Verdes said today.  “We are trying to avoid risks,” he told shareholders.
“The Chinese construction market is dominated by large, non-
private Chinese constructors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  