-- Online Collection Gives U.S. Indians Ways to Get Revenue: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-05-07T04:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/online-collection-gives-u-s-indians-ways-to-get-revenue-taxes.html
Indian reservations are close to being
put on a more equal tax footing with states.  The Senate added language to the Internet sales tax bill
that passed yesterday that would expand the plan’s reach to the
nation’s 566 federally recognized Native American tribes, which
would have authority to compel off-reservation retailers to
collect tribal taxes on web-based purchases.  Helping tribes collect sales tax revenue may help reduce
their reliance on federal aid, John Dossett, general counsel for
the National Congress of American Indians, told Bloomberg BNA.
The world of Indian taxation is complicated, and only 30 or so
tribes impose a general sales tax right now, he said.  “It is hugely important that tribes develop non-federal
sources for government operating revenue,” Dossett said.  U.S. states have been pressing Congress without success to
change the law -- which prevented states from applying sales
taxes to transactions with sellers that lacked a physical
presence in their states -- since the late 1990s, during the
early days of the Internet retailing business. States say they
are missing out on $23 billion a year in sales tax.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which is expanding its distribution
network and its physical presence in more states, supported the
bill.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  opposed it and has attempted to rally its users.  Under the legislation, which passed yesterday by a 69-27
vote in the Senate and now goes to the House of Representatives,
a tribal member who lives on a reservation would be expected to
pay sales tax to an online retailer, based on the rate in his or
her jurisdiction.  Tribal Immunity  Sales taxes are more complicated for Indians than for
others. A tribal member who buys an item at an off-reservation
store and has it delivered to the reservation, for instance, may
not be subject to sales tax because of the immunity to which
tribes are entitled as sovereign nations, according to lawyers
who specialize in Indian law. Rules vary from state to state.  How the two issues -- collection of tribal tax, and
collection of state taxes from tribal members -- interact under
the Marketplace Fairness Act isn’t entirely clear, said Kathleen
Nilles, a tax attorney who specializes in Native American tribe
law at Holland and Knight, a Washington law firm.  The language in the legislation, which Nilles helped
advocate on behalf of the National Congress of American Indians,
is one piece of tribes’ long effort to gain more recognition as
the equivalent of states for tax purposes, she told BNA.  Development Projects  Other elements include gaining more ability to issue tax-exempt debt to pay for development projects such as hotels, an
issue raised by tribes in letters to the House Ways and Means
Committee’s working groups on tax reform.  Although some large tribes, such as the Navajo Nation, levy
sales taxes, many do not because of the risk of tribal taxes
being charged on top of state sales taxes, Nilles said. She said
the bill eliminates such dual taxation by clarifying that tribes
are on equal footing with states.  The original proposal recognized U.S. territories as
states. A Senate aide to one of the bill’s sponsors said that in
the process of revising the bill over recent years, the tribes
had been left out.  As with states and territories, tribes would have to meet
the bill’s tax simplification rules or join the Streamlined
Sales and Use Tax Agreement to gain the collection authority in
the bill.  Collection Complicated  If a tribe doesn’t meet those requirements, it doesn’t have
to and can instead work with its state to have its goods and
services incorporated into the uniform tax base for that state,
the Senate aide said.  Adding reservations to the bill makes proper sales tax
collection all the more complicated for remote sellers, Steve DelBianco, executive director of the NetChoice Coalition, which
opposed the measure, told BNA last week.  He complained that tribes, as well as 46 states that have a
sales tax, would still be free to set most of their own rules,
tax holidays, and definitions for sales taxes, which is a
challenge for software producers developing programs that can
seamlessly calculate the correct rate for all jurisdictions on
any given day.  The Senate bill is S.743.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  