-- Online Video-Ad Startups Rivaling Google Seen Near IPOs
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/online-video-ad-startups-seen-near-ipos-challenging-google-tech.html
Demand for Web commercials played
alongside video clips is fueling growth at marketing startups,
putting such companies as Tremor Video Inc., YuMe Inc. and
Adap.tv Inc. on course for initial public offerings this year.  All three have picked bankers or are in discussions to sell
shares to the public, according to people familiar with their
plans, who asked not to be identified because the information
hasn’t been publicly disclosed.  The proliferation of fast connections, whether wireless for
smartphones and tablets, or Web access in homes and offices, has
enabled blogs and media companies to feature more video on their
sites. Amid a boom in online commercials, the video-ad market is
projected to more than double to $9.06 billion in 2017 from
$4.14 billion this year,  according  to researcher EMarketer Inc.  “All of a sudden, a regular cellphone subscription and
cellphone network can really start to handle video,” Daniel Salmon, a media and Internet analyst at BMO Capital Markets in
 New York , said in an interview. As online-ad brokers improve
their technology, the “buying opportunity for video ads is
starting to come to fruition,” he said.  Tremor Video , based in New York, tapped Credit Suisse Group
AG to lead its IPO, according to two people with knowledge of
the deal. YuMe, based in  Redwood City ,  California , picked
Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG, another person said, while
Bloomberg reported in February that  San Mateo , California-based
Adap.tv is in discussion with bankers for a potential IPO. The
Wall Street Journal previously reported on YuMe’s IPO plans.  Web Video  Sally O’Dowd, a spokeswoman for Tremor Video, Scott Lahde,
a spokesman for YuMe, and Adap.tv Chief Executive Officer Amir Ashkenazi declined to comment. Jack Grone, a spokesman for
Credit Suisse, Robert Julavits, a spokesman for Citigroup, and
Mayura Hooper, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, all declined to
comment.  The offerings are poised to bolster returns for venture
investors, who have poured more than $230 million combined into
the three companies over the past seven years, wagering that
Web-video promotions will become as popular as online text and
banner ads.  Video will account for 15 percent of all U.S. digital-ad
revenue in 2017, up from 9.7 percent this year, EMarketer
estimates. Online publishers like AOL Inc.’s  Huffington Post ,
TMZ.com, MSNBC.com and music site Vevo.com use networks to
populate their videos with commercials.  Google Dominant  Appealing to public investors won’t be easy. Few online-marketing companies have held IPOs in recent years, mainly
because  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is so dominant, controlling about half of
the global digital-ad business.  Millennial Media Inc. (MM) , which
sells promotions on smartphones, sold shares to the public in
March 2012 and has since  lost  47 percent of its value. The stock
trades at 1.8 times revenue, compared with a price-to-sales
ratio of 5.2 for  Mountain View , California-based Google.  Tremor and its peers also compete against Google, which
lets content owners sell ads within YouTube clips and operates a
network that lets sites embed promotions in videos. And there
are other rivals including BrightRoll Inc., Videology Inc. and
SpotXchange Inc.  While YouTube has a big business selling ads on user-generated content, smaller companies are doing better at serving
commercials in higher-quality programs, according to Ari Paparo,
an online-ad industry  veteran  and former Google product
director.  Local Promotions  “This market is one where Google has not had a very strong
presence,” said Paparo, who is currently senior vice president
at e-commerce software company  Bazaarvoice Inc. (BV)  in New York.
“This is very much on their radar and they’re looking to
aggressively go into the market.”  According to a report last month from  ComScore Inc. , Google
served the most video ads in the month of March in the U.S.,
followed by BrightRoll and Adap.tv. Tremor is seventh, while
YuMe is not among the top 10, according to the report.  Much of the growth is coming from local advertisers like
restaurants and retailers that want to target nearby consumers,
sometimes by zip code, said Rick Ducey, an analyst at BIA/Kelsey
in Chantilly, Virginia. The local online-video market will more
than triple to $5 billion by 2017, from $1.6 billion this year,
compared with 14 percent growth in the local television ad
market, according to Ducey. A big benefit of online ads is they
can adjust to real-time conditions, he said.  “If the Midwest is getting hit with 15 inches of snow and
you’re running spots there, you may want to recast them around
snow shovels and salt for the driveway,” Ducey said.  Market Consolidation  Some leading providers of video ads may be acquisition
fodder.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , which failed in its attempt to buy a stake
in French video site Dailymotion, may look at Adap.tv or
BrightRoll, according to  Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal
Research Group.  Sara Gorman, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, declined to comment on possible acquisitions.  David Steinberg , chief executive of New York-based XL
Marketing Corp., predicts there will be even more consolidation
within the market.  “If you’re a display network and you plug into hundreds of
thousands of sites, why not offer a video product,” Steinberg
said. “You’ve got to assume that after these guys get public, a
lot of the display networks are going to start buying them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  