-- Moody’s Says ‘Strategic’ Muni Defaults Seen as Less Taboo
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-07T16:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/moody-s-says-strategic-muni-defaults-seen-as-less-taboo.html
The number of defaults from U.S.
municipal issuers rated by Moody’s Investors Service has more
than tripled to an annual average of 4.6 since 2007, showing
willingness to pay can’t be taken for granted, the company said
in a report.  Five municipalities rated by Moody’s defaulted last year,
including Stockton,  California , which became the biggest U.S.
city to seek Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection in June. Wenatchee,
 Washington , failed to honor a guarantee on an interest payment
for a sports arena. The figure doesn’t include issuers such as
Vadnais Heights,  Minnesota , which “selectively defaulted” on
contingent liabilities, the report said.  Last year’s local-government defaults are more examples of
political unwillingness to place payments to bondholders ahead
of essential governmental services amid dwindling cash, New
York-based Moody’s said. The trend hasn’t halted a rally in the
$3.7 trillion municipal market, which has  earned  about 35
percent since the end of 2007, compared with 24 percent on the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  index of stocks.  “Attitudes toward debt and repayment appear to have
changed; ‘strategic default’ may become more acceptable as a
viable government strategy and no longer taboo,” the company
said.  “These factors could contribute to significantly different
credit performance if we were to slip into a second deep
recession or protracted slow recovery,” Moody’s said.  Moody’s has “actively lowered” municipal ratings because
credit risk has increased, the company said. The economic
recovery from the recession that ended in June 2009 may be
uneven because of demographic shifts and different policies
toward taxation and energy development, according to the report.  About 1.3 Moody’s-rated entities failed to pay from
1970-2007, increasing to 4.6 per year from 2008-2012. The jump
represents just a 0.03 percent default rate, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  