-- BofA Traders Have Perfect Quarter as Morgan Stanley Lags
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-05-08T16:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/morgan-stanley-posted-trading-losses-on-8-days-in-first-quarter.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s traders posted
gains every business day during the first quarter as  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s lost money in eight sessions, double the rate a year
earlier.  Bank of America generated more than $25 million of revenue
on 97 percent of trading days, compared with a 76 percent rate
at Morgan Stanley, according to quarterly filings by the
companies.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
posted the unblemished quarter after reining in value-at-risk,
an estimate of potential trading losses, its filing shows.  “If you look at our VAR, and our risk-taking, we’re
keeping it balanced relative to the rest of the company,” Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, said in an April 17
conference call. “We may not roar as much as some people might,
because this is one of the many businesses we have and we drive
it for the benefit of the investing customers and also the
issuing customers.”  While Bank of America avoided losses, its trading revenue
slumped 20 percent, a drop surpassed only by Morgan Stanley
among the five largest Wall Street banks. The decline at Morgan
Stanley was driven by a 42 percent slide in fixed-income and
commodities trading, excluding accounting charges tied to the
firm’s own debt.  Reducing Capital  Morgan Stanley CEO  James Gorman , 54, announced plans in
January to reduce the amount of capital used by the fixed-income
trading business as he seeks to double  return on equity  even
without improvement in markets. The New York-based bank said
last month it had already reached its asset-reduction target for
the end of 2013.  The fixed-income business suffered amid lower commodities
revenue in the first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat
said last month. Revenue also fell in  interest rates , while
credit and foreign-exchange trading were strong, she said.  Morgan Stanley’s trading revenue declined 32 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier. None of its daily losses
exceeded the firm’s value-at-risk. Mark Lake, a spokesman for
the firm, declined to comment.  Trading revenue fell 5 percent at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
12 percent at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Both firms have yet to
release quarterly filings.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which had a 4 percent
decrease in trading revenue, doesn’t disclose money-losing days.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which relies least on trading among the
largest U.S. banks, had at least four days of negative revenue
from those operations during the first quarter, according to a
filing today from the San Francisco-based firm.  Morgan Stanley said in yesterday’s filing it boosted first-quarter legal reserves because of a settlement reached after the
firm reported  results  April 18. The change increased expenses by
$32 million and cut earnings per share by 1 cent.  The bank said last month it settled lawsuits brought by
investors in two structured investment vehicles called Cheyne
and Rhinebridge. The investors, led by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank
and King County, Washington, also agreed to drop their  claims 
against Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and  Standard & Poor’s ,
the world’s largest provider of credit ratings owned by New
York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., the investors said in a notice
filed April 26 in federal court in Manhattan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  