-- Morning-After Pill Judge Criticizes Bid to Delay Ruling
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-07T18:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/morning-after-pill-judge-criticizes-bid-to-delay-ruling.html
A federal judge criticized the
government’s request to delay a ruling allowing girls over-the-
counter access to the “morning after” pill while the
administration appeals the order.  U.S. District Judge Edward R. Korman heard arguments today
in  Brooklyn ,  New York , over the government’s request. Korman
ordered the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to make the
emergency contraception available to all women and girls without
a prescription.  Speaking to a government lawyer, Korman accused the Obama
administration of unfairly burdening consumers by maintaining
age limits for the drug, which would force them to present photo
identification to make a purchase.  “You’re basically disadvantaging poor people, young people
and African Americans,” Korman said, referring to data showing
that those groups might be less likely to have photo IDs.
“That’s the policy of the Obama administration?”  Korman said he expects to issue a decision on a delay by
the end of the week.  Government lawyers have notified the court that they are
appealing the April 5 ruling. The judge’s decision followed a
reproductive-rights group’s request to reopen a lawsuit over
access to emergency contraception using the drug  levonorgestrel .  The morning-after pill is “a powerful systemic hormone, a
metabolic steroid,” said F. Franklin Amanat, a lawyer with the
U.S. Attorney’s Office. “FDA has proceeded with baby steps
instead of a full gallop” in making the drug more accessible.  Secretary’s Decision  The FDA in December 2011 was set to approve sales of Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s Plan B One-Step, a branded
version of the pill, to women of all ages without a doctor’s
prescription. Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  overruled the decision, marking the first time an FDA
decision has been reversed by a presidential administration.  The agency last month approved over-the-counter sales of
Plan B One-Step to girls as young as 15, saying its decision was
“independent” of the court case and wasn’t intended to respond
to the judge’s order. A generic version of the drug, Watson
Laboratories Inc.’s Next Choice, is available without a
prescription to women 17 or older, according a website for the
 drug .  Korman today said the change offered little additional
benefit to women because they would still be subject to age
restrictions, and the youngest would be able to only obtain
Teva’s more expensive branded drug rather than generics.  No Review  The judge said he was unwilling to send the case back to
the agency for further review, since Sebelius is unlikely to
change her mind.  “There’s no way that this could be approved unless the
secretary gets out of the way,” Korman told Amanat.  During the arguments, Korman sat at a long table in his
courtroom with the lawyers, at times raising his voice and
striking the table while speaking to Amanat.  Korman’s ruling expanded on a 2009 decision in which he
ordered that the pill be made available without a prescription
to women as young as 17. The judge said then that the age
restrictions were arbitrary and based more on political pressure
than safety.  The contraceptive, which contains a larger dose of the
hormone levonorgestrel than found in other birth control pills,
prevents pregnancy by inhibiting fertilization.  The drugs are most effective when taken within 24 hours of
intercourse.  Administration Action  Sebelius in 2011 ordered the FDA to reject Teva’s
application because of the “cognitive and behavioral”
differences in girls of the youngest reproductive age.  “I think my own view of what I did will prevail in the
court of appeals,” the judge told Amanat. “Is there a public
interest in unwanted pregnancies, which could often result in
abortion?”  The case is Tummino v. Hamburg, 12-cv-00763, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is
Tummino v. Hamburg, 13-1690,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 