-- Tornos Stock Falls on Delays in New Tool-Machine Orders
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-05-13T08:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/tornos-stock-falls-on-delays-in-new-tool-machine-orders.html
(Corrects story published May 7 to show that Tornos venture
doesn’t represent shift of European production to  China .)  Tornos Holding AG (TOHN)  fell to the lowest
in more than nine years after the Swiss maker of machines for
precision components said customers are postponing orders,
aggravating its loss.  Tornos  dropped  as much as 6.7 percent to 4.02 Swiss francs,
the lowest intraday price since December 2003. New orders fell
32 percent in the first quarter to 43.8 million francs ($46.6
million), according to a  statement  today by the Moutier-based
company, whose products help in the manufacturing of Swiss
watches, aircraft screws and medical devices.  “Tornos is feeling the full impact of the sluggish
European tool-machinery market,” Fabian Haecki, an analyst at
Bank Vontobel, said in a report. He advised investors to “stay
on the sidelines” as an order recovery is unlikely in the short
term while Tornos is expected to announce a share sale.  The company said today that it’s setting up a venture in
China with the owner of local producer Xi’an Kitamura Machine
Works Co. that will broaden its client base in  Asia . Tornos will
end an alliance with Japanese machine toolmaker  Tsugami Corp. (6101) 
next year as products made through that partnership are only for
the European market, it said.  “The new alliance with XKNC is a ray of hope,” Vontobel’s
Haecki said.  The first-quarter net loss widened to 7 million francs from
1.2 million francs a year earlier, the Swiss company said.
Tornos will probably report a full-year adjusted net loss of 3.4
million euros, according to the average of two analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tornos was 6 percent lower at 4.05 francs as of 11:25 a.m.
in Zurich. More than 16,000 shares were traded, almost double
the average daily trading volume of the past three months. The
stock has declined 56 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  