-- Morrison CEO Dalton Philips Misses Out on Bonus, Has 40%
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-05-07T19:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/morrison-ceo-dalton-philips-misses-out-on-bonus-has-40-.html
William Morrison Supermarkets (MRW)  Plc
Chief Executive Officer Dalton Philips didn’t get a bonus and
was paid almost 40 percent less last year as the company failed
to meet targets.  Philips was paid 1.09 million pounds ($1.7 million) in
2012, down from 1.78 million pounds in 2011, the company said in
its annual report published today. Philips’s base salary was
frozen at 850,000 pounds and none of the executive directors
will receive a base pay increase this year, according to the
report.  “Tough conditions resulted in the business missing
performance targets for both the annual bonus plan and long-term
incentive plan,” Johanna Waterous, who heads the remuneration
committee, said in the report.  Morrisons has been losing market share to discounters such
as Lidl and Aldi as the economic slump crimps household
spending. It’s also losing customers because it has fewer
convenience stores and no Internet grocery service, two of the
fastest growing areas in the U.K. supermarket sector.  Underlying pretax profit at the company fell 3.6 percent to
901 million pounds in the year ended Feb. 3, while sales at
stores open at least a year, excluding gasoline and value-added-
tax, fell 2.1 percent.  Philips aims to turn the company around with an emphasis on
fresh produce. After he became CEO in March 2010, he vowed to
lure recession-racked customers away from tonier chains like
Waitrose, part of John Lewis Partnership Plc, and  J Sainsbury
Plc (SBRY)  with lower prices, more attractive stores, and an expanded
presence in the south of the U.K.  Richard Pennycook, who stepped down as finance director in
February, had to take a similar cut when his pay went down to
667,000 pounds from 1.18 pounds. He was also not awarded a
bonus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  