-- How Britain’s Appetite for Beef Influenced American Taste
-- B y   K a r a   N e w m a n
-- 2013-05-07T18:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/how-britain-s-appetite-for-beef-influenced-american-taste.html
Attention, American carnivores: the
next time you pick up your fork and knife at your favorite
steakhouse and dig into that perfectly marbled meat, say a
little thank you to  England ’s “Beef-Eaters.”  Few of us realize the role that England played in the
development of America’s beef trade. As “the great beef-eaters
of Europe” in centuries past, the English (at least the middle
and upper classes) consumed far more beef than their continental
neighbors. Meat, and particularly beef, was believed to ensure
great strength and virility.  Beef wasn’t just part of the meal; it was part of the
lifestyle, too, conveying affluence and contentment. In the late
1700s, “livestock portraits” were favored, and many an English
country estate featured paintings of fat, happy cattle grazing
in a bucolic landscape.  So imagine the panic when an anthrax epidemic on the
European continent spread to Ireland and England in the 1860s,
making British  beef  scarce and expensive. The British turned to
the Americas, and steadily increasing amounts of live cattle and
salted beef were shipped across the Atlantic.  Reaching Markets  Meanwhile, North Americans pushed westward, grazing cattle
on the fertile and abundant grasses of the Midwest. The big
question: How to connect those fields with consumers in the east
-- as well as the famished in England?  The answer came in the 1870s with the westward expansion of
the U.S. railroads, which were critical in shipping goods back
to populous East Coast port cities, as well as transporting
people to the Midwest. And British companies played a major role
in financing the building of those transcontinental railroads in
the 1870s and 1880s.  British and Scottish financiers began to catch the cattle
fever. “In Edinburgh, the ranch pot was boiling over,” recounted
John Clay, an agent for English investors, in his 1924
autobiography, “My Life on the Range.” “Drawing rooms buzzed
with the stories of this last of bonanzas; staid old gentlemen,
who scarcely knew the difference between a steer and a heifer,
discussed it over their port and nuts.” Many an “armchair
cowboy” purchased land in the Midwest for building palatial
vacation homes.  But the most exciting development was the advent of
refrigerated railway compartments. The high cost of shipping
live animals to  Europe  (special shipping decks, damage to
animals, weight losses) encouraged innovations in shipping
dressed meats (the bloodless term for animals after slaughter).  A young inventor from New York, John I. Bates, experimented
with hanging beef carcasses in rooms that were refrigerated with
ice-cooled air circulated by large fans. In June 1875, he
shipped 10 carcasses to England. They arrived fresh and sparked
a flurry of interest among British investors.  Timothy Eastman, a successful packer, bought Bates’s patent
and launched an ambitious campaign to ship refrigerated
carcasses to Britain. By the end of the year, more than 206,000
pounds of beef were shipped; by the following year, he began
shipping 1 million pounds per month. By the end of that year,
the Eastman operation was providing the British Isles with 3
million pounds of fresh beef every month.  Other companies followed Eastman’s lead. Soon, almost every
steamer between  New York  or Philadelphia and England carried
American beef. By the 1800s, the U.S. accounted for 90 percent
of the beef imported to England.  Refrigerated Trains  The advent of refrigerated train cars in the 1870s also
meant that cattle could be slaughtered close to the farm and
that the butchered meat could be transported, eliminating the
need to transport live cattle to market. By 1883-84, the number
of cattle slaughtered in  Chicago  was so significant, the phrase
“meatpacking” replaced “ pork packing ” as the name of the
industry.  The British brought with them more than just their capital.
They also brought their unique taste for “fatted” beef -- heavy,
richly marbled with speckles of fat. In Europe, cattle breeds
fed on cold-weather grasses that are high in protein and low in
fiber, and produce cattle that put on protective fat. But most
of the U.S. is in lower latitude, with extremely hot summers and
acid soil, resulting in lower protein grass.  The British cattle barons developed a new strategy for
achieving fatty beef: feeding them corn.  For the first time in agricultural history, cattle
production and grain production were brought into a symbiotic
relationship. By the turn of the 20th century, it was common
practice to ship cattle from the prairies, where they grazed on
grass most of their lives, to be “finished” or fattened on a
rich diet of corn before being sent to  St. Louis  or Chicago for
slaughter.  Slowly, Americans adopted the British taste for fatty beef.
In 1927, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  codified fatty beef
as the standard for judging the value and price of beef sold to
consumers. Even today, degree of and distribution of marbling is
the primary determinant of quality grade. “Prime,” the highest
quality, signifies abundant marbling; “Choice,” a moderate
amount of marbling; “Select” indicates that the beef is
practically devoid of marbling.  The Brits still love their beef, though these days it’s
less likely to be sourced from across the pond. But ask any
American steakhouse devotee how tender and flavorful that
marbling makes their steak, and it becomes clear: regardless of
origin, that luscious beefsteak is part of our All-American
heritage.  ( Kara Newman  is the author of “The Secret Financial Life of
Food: From Commodities Markets to Supermarkets.” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Kara Newman at  kara@karanewman.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  