-- Pandora Says 40-Hour Mobile Cap Cuts Music Content Costs
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-07T18:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/pandora-says-40-hour-mobile-cap-cuts-music-content-costs.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the biggest online
radio service, said a 40-hour monthly limit on mobile users
imposed earlier this year has cut music streaming and content
costs as intended, while the audience continued to grow.  Pandora streamed 1.31 billion hours of songs in April, the
first full month with the cap in place, a 5.1 percent drop from
February’s 1.38 billion, the Oakland, California-based company
said yesterday in an e-mailed  statement . Adjusting for
February’s fewer days, listeners streamed 10 percent less, Chief
Executive Officer  Joe Kennedy  said in an interview.  “The decline in hours will be very closely mirrored in
content acquisition costs,” Kennedy said, declining to provide
specifics. The company reports fiscal 2014 first-quarter results
on May 23.  Pandora’s results since implementing the cap suggest the
company is starting to contain content costs, its biggest
expense, without alienating listeners. With fewer hours of use,
investors are concerned that the company is also sacrificing
advertising revenue, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with
Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles.  “The hours are down sequentially,” said Pachter, who has
a neutral rating on the shares. “A lot of that has to do with
the mobile cap, which chased away some abusive users, but the
company will still have some explaining to do.”  Pandora fell 4.1 percent to $14.08 at 2:46 p.m. in  New York 
after declining 6 percent, the biggest intraday drop in about a
month. Before today, the  stock  had climbed 60 percent this year,
outperforming the 14 percent gain in the Russell 1000 Index.  Mobile Users  The company in March began targeting the 4 percent of
mobile users who were streaming more than 40 hours monthly, to
stanch royalty payments that had ballooned as the service gained
popularity.  Those who reach the cap can pay 99 cents to continue using
Pandora, switch to a desktop computer or enroll in  Pandora One ,
a $36-a-year commercial-free option that gives more control over
song selection.  Of the users who hit the limit in March, 86 percent
returned in April, Kennedy said. Some coped by switching to
Pandora’s unlimited desktop version, while others chose to pay,
Kennedy said. He declined to provide specifics.  Coping Methods  “People found a way to make it work for them,” said
Kennedy, who resigned as chairman and CEO in March, pending the
selection of a successor. “The vast majority found one or a
combo of those methods worked for them.”  Some went to competitors, Jim Cady, chief executive officer
of smaller rival Slacker Inc., said today in an interview. The
San Diego-based company redesigned its service in February and
ran a marketing campaign aimed at Pandora users, he said. He
declined to disclose market-share figures.  “We’re seeing surges in new listeners coming in toward the
end of the month and that started in March,” Cady said. “Every
new listener, whether free or paid, mobile or web is profitable
for us. We don’t have any interest in capping people.”  Pandora’s active users in April climbed to 70.1 million,
the company said in the statement. That represents about a 3.5
percent increase from February’s 67.7 million and a gain of 0.9
percent from March. Pandora’s share of total U.S. radio
listening declined to 7.3 percent from 8.5 percent in February
and 8.1 percent in March.  Since April 2012, Pandora’s active users increased 35
percent, the company said. Listener hours climbed 24 percent and
radio share rose from 5.95 percent.  Cost Impact  “We are getting what we wanted,” Kennedy said. “We’re
seeing continued growth in subscribers and an impact on a small
percentage of users that’s having a significant effect on
content costs.”  The company said in March it is targeting a reduction of
its content spending to 40 percent of revenue over the next few
years from the current 60 percent.  Content costs for the fiscal year ending in January 2014
will rise 49 percent to $386.5 million from a year earlier,
 Scott Devitt , an analyst with Morgan Stanley in New York,
estimated in an April 18 report. He projects revenue will rise
49 percent as well, to $635.1 million.  Mobile users are more costly for Pandora because some of
the ad inventory goes unfilled, cutting into revenue while music
royalties add up.  “The incremental revenue from the 41st hour of listening
isn’t really something that offsets that additional content
cost,” Kennedy said.  As with most companies that report little profit,  Pandora
trades on revenue, Wedbush’s Pachter said. There is little room
for mistakes, he said.  “Those investors expect perfection,” Wedbush said.
“They’re looking for perfection.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  