-- Paulson Said to Lose 27% in Gold Fund Last Month in Rout
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-05-07T14:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/paulson-said-to-lose-27-in-gold-fund-last-month-in-rout.html
Billionaire John Paulson, the hedge-
fund manager seeking to reverse two years of losses in some of
his strategies, lost 27 percent in his Gold Fund last month
after the precious metal and related securities plummeted,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The loss brings the strategy’s decline to about 47 percent
this year, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public. The fund is made up
primarily of Paulson’s own money, one of the people said. The
strategy has about $500 million, down from about $700 million at
the end of March.  Gold fell 7.8 percent last month, including the biggest
two-day decline since January 1980, as the U.S. economic
recovery gained momentum, the dollar rose and Federal Reserve
policy makers signaled they may scale back asset purchases,
curbing demand for the metal as a haven.  Bullion producers 
slumped 20 percent, including reinvested dividends.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman at Walek & Associates for New
York-based Paulson & Co., declined to comment on the returns.
Paulson’s firm oversees about $18 billion in assets.  The Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and has a
portion invested in gold miners, fell 0.7 percent in April and
rose 3.9 percent this year, one of the people said. The
Advantage Fund, which employs a similar approach without adding
leverage, declined 0.9 percent last month and rose 2.6 percent
in 2013, according to the person. The strategy had $4.5 billion
in assets.  Share Classes  All of the gold-share classes slumped last month except for
Paulson’s Recovery Fund, which makes bets on investments
designed to benefit from a long-term economic advance, the
person said. Investors can choose between gold- and dollar-
denominated versions of most of the firm’s funds. About 97
percent of capital in the dollar-share classes gained this year,
the firm said in a letter to clients yesterday, according to the
person. The firm did not disclose in the letter how much money
is in the dollar- versus gold-share classes.  The gold-share classes, which Paulson started in April
2009, have gained an average 48 percent more than the dollar-
share classes cumulatively since inception, the person said. The
gold-share classes are comprised primarily of Paulson & Co.
employees’ money, according to the person.  Gold Thesis  Gold stocks’ current valuations are at historic lows and
have considerable opportunities to rise, the firm reiterated in
the letter, the person said. Paulson has said gold is the best
protection against currency debasement and inflation, a
sentiment echoed earlier this month by Paul Singer’s Elliott
Management Corp.  In contrast, Coutts & Co. scaled back gold holdings as
prices fell through $1,600 an ounce, saying that a return to the
peak isn’t likely unless there’s a crisis in the Middle East, a
weaker dollar or a jump in inflation. The private-banking
division of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc holds about 1 percent to
2 percent in its portfolios, compared with 6 percent to 7
percent at the end of the third quarter, Gary Dugan, Coutts
chief investment officer for Asia and the Middle East, said in
an interview.  Dollar shares of the Recovery Fund, Paulson’s best-
performing strategy this year, rose 6.6 percent in April and 22
percent in 2013, the person said. The fund gained because of its
stakes in insurance and asset-management companies, the firm
wrote in the letter, according to the person. The strategy had
$1.7 billion in assets at the end of March.  Credit Gains  Paulson’s Credit Opportunities Fund, the firm’s largest
strategy, with about $5.9 billion in assets, rose 1.3 percent in
April and 12 percent this year, the person said. The fund rose
because of investments in bank debt and defaulted, mortgage-
backed and convertible securities, the firm wrote in the letter,
according to the person.  Paulson Partners Enhanced, a merger-arbitrage fund, climbed
3 percent last month and 14 percent this year, the person said.
The firm’s merger strategy had $5.3 billion.  Paulson, who made $15 billion for his investors in 2007 by
betting against subprime mortgages before the housing collapse,
is seeking to rebound from wrong-way bets on a U.S. economic
pickup in 2011 and a worsening  European debt crisis , bullion and
gold stocks in 2012. The firm’s merger strategy is the only one
above its high-water mark, or previous peak value, the person
said. Managers whose funds fall below the mark aren’t able to
charge performance fees until they recoup losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  