-- Pentagon Retracts Statement on Probe of QinetiQ Hacking
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   E l g i n
-- 2013-05-07T22:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/pentagon-retracts-statement-on-probe-of-qinetiq-hacking.html
The Pentagon retracted statements that
it’s probing the multiyear campaign of cyber-intrusions into
defense contractor QinetiQ North America.  The Pentagon today reversed comments made to reporters May
3 by its press director that the U.S. Defense Department was
investigating hacking by Chinese cyber-spies into the computer
systems of QinetiQ.  Bloomberg News  reported earlier today that
Pentagon spokesman Army Colonel Steve Warren had told reporters
that investigators were “working very closely with QinetiQ to
determine exactly the scope and breadth of this incident.”  Warren had said the Pentagon was looking into whether
national security had been compromised.  “That’s an assessment we are not prepared to announce
yet,” he had said. “We are looking closely at a number of
different levels to determine exactly what happened and when.”  The Pentagon now says it “misspoke” and that it isn’t
probing the cyber-intrusions into QinetiQ. Any such
investigation would be outside its range of authority, said
Damien Pickart, a defense department spokesman.  “While the reports of cyber intrusions against QinetiQ are
disturbing, the  Department of Defense  is not in a position to
investigate the security practices of a private company --
including cleared defense contractors,” Pickart said in an e-
mail.  Secret Satellites  For three years, hackers linked to  China ’s military
infiltrated QinetiQ’s computers and compromised most if not all
of the company’s research, which includes work on secret
satellites, drones and software used by U.S. special forces in
 Afghanistan  and the  Middle East , Bloomberg News reported May 2.  QinetiQ said it has properly disclosed all of the breaches
to federal authorities.  “At the time of the original incident, QNA disclosed all
of its breaches to the responsible government agencies and these
were resolved to their satisfaction,” Jennifer Pickett, a
spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-based QinetiQ  North America ,
said in an e-mailed statement. “QNA was, is, and will remain,
vigilant in its commitment to protecting the national security
assets with which it has been entrusted.”  The Naval Criminal Investigative Service, or NCIS, notified
QinetiQ in December of 2007 that it was losing sensitive
information, according to an internal report. NCIS and other
federal agencies investigated the breaches, according to two
people involved, who didn’t know the final outcome of the
probes.  Ed Buice, public affairs officer for NCIS, declined to
discuss the breaches into QinetiQ.  Pickart, the Pentagon spokesman, declined to comment on any
NCIS work on QinetiQ.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Elgin in  San Francisco  at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  