-- Pipeline Wars Seen Spreading After Fight on Keystone XL
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-07T15:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/pipeline-wars-seen-spreading-after-fight-on-keystone-xl.html
The fight over  TransCanada Corp.’s (TRP) 
proposed Keystone XL project probably will be repeated as
companies build more conduits to carry oil and gas to U.S.
markets, the former chief pipeline safety regulator said.  Brigham McCown, who led the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration for President  George W. Bush ,
said the lengthy review for TransCanada’s application to
transport a type of heavy crude from Alberta’s  oil sands  to
refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast will embolden opponents of
fossil fuels.  “I think this is the decade of pipelines, fighting
pipelines,” McCown, managing director of United Transportation
Advisors, a Southlake, Texas-based consulting firm, said today
at a Bloomberg Government breakfast. “If you choke off the
supply line, that’s very important. These pipelines have kind of
become our version of the Khyber Pass for people opposed to
doing whatever it is we want to do. So, more to come.”  The Khyber Pass is an important strategic link between
Pakistan and  Afghanistan .  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is weighing whether
the $5.3 billion Keystone project, which crosses the U.S.-
Canadian border at Montana, is in the U.S. national interest.
The State Department issued a draft environmental assessment of
the route in March and may make a decision this year.  Opponents say the pipeline will worsen  climate change  and
put water resources and sensitive habitats at risk.  “I think the people who are opposed to the oil sands and
opposed to hydrocarbons in general are using the pipeline as an
excuse to promote their cause,” McCown said.  McCown was scheduled to testify about Keystone at a House
Science, Space and Technology Committee panel hearing today.  U.S. regulators should spend more time reviewing spill-response plans, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  