-- Portugal Bond Sale Attracts Demand for Three Times Deal Size
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a ,   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-05-07T18:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/portugal-selling-10-year-bonds-for-first-time-since-2011-bailout.html
Portugal ’s first sale of 10-year bonds
since its bailout in 2011 attracted demand for more than three
times the amount the government was seeking to raise.  Investors submitted bids for 10.2 billion euros ($13.3
billion) of the securities due in February 2024 being sold via
banks, compared with the 3 billion-euro target, according to a
person familiar with the deal who asked not to identified as
they are not permitted to speak about it. The sale takes place
as yields on the country’s existing 10-year securities are at
the lowest since 2010 and a decline in  interest rates  worldwide
is leading investors to seek higher returns.  “The demand Portugal got from investors was strong, which
reinforces the positive sentiment,” said Alessandro Giansanti,
a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “In a
low-yield environment, investment is attracted to securities
that offer yield. Portugal is trying to issue bonds all across
the curve to show they can tackle the market and as a
precondition to exit the bailout.”  The sale was arranged by Caixa-Banco de Investimento,
Citigroup Inc., Credit Agricole SA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Societe Generale SA, a person who asked
not to be identified because they’re not authorized to speak
about the transaction said yesterday.  Deal Pricing  The new securities yielded 400 basis points, or four
percentage points, more than the mid-swap rate, according to an
official at the  finance ministry . The coupon is 5.65 percent.  Portugal stopped selling bonds until this year after
requesting a 78 billion-euro bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  in April 2011 following a surge in
debt levels and borrowing costs.  “We are quite happy,” Portugal’s debt chief Joao Moreira Rato said in a telephone interview today. “We have more than
360 investors and the book was three-times oversubscribed. It
was a big worry of ours to price well and to have the right size
so I hope it performs in the next few weeks.”  The nation’s  10-year bond yield  was little changed at 5.52
percent at the 5 p.m. close of trading in  London , after falling
to 5.44 percent, the lowest since August 2010. The  two-year
yield  declined 14 basis points to 2.42 percent, and the  five-
year  rate fell eight basis points to 4.14 percent.  Overseas Investors  “Portugal wants to demonstrate that it is able to stand on
its own two feet, it is clearly very desperate to unshackle
itself from the aid package,” said  Harvinder Sian , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “The market conditions recently have been quite
favorable toward the periphery and Portugal has benefited from
that.”  About 86 percent of the ten-year securities were sold to
overseas investors, including 27 percent to the U.K. and 16
percent to the U.S., a finance ministry official said. About 12
percent were taken up by insurance companies and pension funds,
and 5 percent by central banks.  “It’s particularly worth highlighting the return of
traditional investors to Portuguese government debt, such as
central banks, pension funds and insurance companies,” Maria Luis  Albuquerque , the secretary of state for treasury and
finance, told reporters in Lisbon today.  Last Auction  Portugal’s  10-year yield  fell below 6 percent in January
for the first time since 2010, encouraging the nation to follow
Ireland in selling bonds via banks. The nation last auctioned
 10-year (GSPT10YR)  bonds in January 2011 at a yield of 6.716 percent.  The nation sold 2.5 billion euros of five-year notes at a
yield of 4.891 percent on Jan. 23, the first offering of that
maturity since February 2011.  “We’ve already been able to totally finance our needs for
this year and are starting the pre-financing for 2014 to ensure
that we are in condition to successfully exit the adjustment
program,” Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar told reporters today in
Brussels. “The 10-year maturity is very important because it
completes the yield curve and so completes our process of
returning to bond markets.”  Bailout Program  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in
September that debt purchases may be considered for euro-area
countries currently under bailout programs, such as Portugal,
Greece and Ireland, when they regain bond- market access .
Outright Monetary Transactions “would not apply to countries
that are under a full adjustment program until full market
access will be obtained,” Draghi said Oct. 4.  “Regarding OMT eligibility, I think that Portugal not only
needs to issue in more points of the curve but also more than
one time per point of the curve,” said  Ricardo Santos , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  on May 3
announced measures intended to generate savings of about 4.8
billion euros through 2015 that include reducing the number of
state workers as he tries to meet deficit targets.  The spending cuts will allow Portugal to secure an
extension of rescue loans that was agreed upon in principle on
April 12 by EU finance ministers meeting in Dublin.  Junk Rating  Ireland and Portugal both received rescue loans from two
different programs: the EU-wide European Financial Stabilization
Mechanism and the euro-area’s temporary firewall, the European
Financial Stability Facility. The seven-year extension to
maturities of aid loans implies an increase in the average
maturity of Portugal’s total debt to about 8.5 years from about
seven years, the nation’s debt agency said on April 19.  Portugal’s bonds are ranked junk, or high-yield, high risk,
by  Standard & Poor’s ,  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service. Moody’s is the only one of the three companies to
assess Ireland as below investment grade.  “I think the rating will have to move in the direction of
investment grade at a higher speed than it has been moving,”
Rato said. “We always stress that they are lagging the
market.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds shrank to as narrow as 4.18
percentage points today from a euro-era record of 16 percentage
points in January 2012.  Portuguese bonds returned 5.8 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Spain ’s
rose 8.6 percent and  Germany ’s gained 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  