-- Gilts Yield Climbs to Six-Week High on Job Gauge; Pound Weakens
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-05-07T15:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/pound-is-little-changed-as-employment-confidence-rises-in-april.html
U.K. government bonds fell, pushing
10-year yields to the highest level in six weeks, as an improved
gauge of employment confidence weakened the case for the  Bank of
England  to resume asset purchases.  Two-year gilt yields increased for the third day before the
central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee starts a two-day
meeting tomorrow. Gilts also slipped as German factory orders
unexpectedly jumped in March, sapping demand for the safest
assets. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has been outvoted
in his attempts to expand the central bank’s 375 billion-pound
($581 billion) asset-purchase  target , or quantitative easing, in
the last three policy meetings. The pound weakened.  “Investors might be thinking gilt yields at these levels
look quite rich and we’re seeing a bit of a correction as people
anticipate that the Bank of England will not be extending
quantitative easing,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a strategist at
RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh.  “On top of that equity
markets are incredibly resilient.”  The 10-year yield climbed seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.79 percent at 4:26 p.m.  London  time after
reaching 1.81 percent, the highest since March 26. The 1.75
percent securities maturing September 2022 fell 0.63, or 6.30
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 99.64.  Gilts have lost 0.1 percent since the end of April, paring
their gains this year to 1.6 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  Bonds Volatility  Volatility on the British securities was the second-highest
among 24 developed markets today, according to measures of 10-
year debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-year securities,
and credit-default swaps.  An  index  of employment confidence rose to minus 41 in April
from minus 45 in March, Lloyds Banking Group Plc said. That’s
the highest reading since October. A separate report from the
 British Retail Consortium  showed a gauge of  shop prices  rose 0.4
percent in April after increasing 1.4 percent a month earlier.  U.K. stocks  jumped with their European counterparts,
pushing the FTSE 100  Index (UKX)  to its highest level since December
2007.  Germany ’s DAX Index gained 0.9 percent to an all-time
intraday high.  Sterling weakened 0.6 percent to 84.46 pence per euro after
appreciating to 83.98 pence on April 26, the strongest level
since Jan. 24. The pound dropped 0.5 percent to $1.5456. It
reached $1.5606 on May 1, the highest since Feb. 13.  Currency Indexes  The U.K. currency has appreciated 1.2 percent in the past
month, the second-best performer after the Canadian dollar among
10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes, as data from gross domestic product growth to
construction-industry output boosted bets the nation’s economy
is improving. The euro rose 1.1 percent and the dollar gained
0.4 percent.  “Sterling has been outperforming other major currencies
and overall it’s still in that direction for now,” said  Neil Jones , head of hedge-fund sales a Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “The macro economic data has been more upbeat than the
market has been expecting and this could filter through into the
Bank of England.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, the pound’s most accurate
forecaster, sees the currency’s gains as an opportunity to sell
because the next central bank governor will probably expand
monetary easing to kick start the economy.  While Britain avoided a triple-dip recession in the first
quarter, output remains below its 2008 peak and Bloomberg
surveys show economists predict the country will underperform
its Group of 10 peers over the next two years, according to
Bloomberg surveys of economists. That leaves a challenge for
 Mark Carney , who takes over as governor in July.  “The pound will struggle to sustain these levels,”  Paul Robson , senior currency strategist at RBS, said in a May 1
interview at his office in London. “As we get to the end of the
summer, it’s likely that we’ll have more easing. With the growth
outlook so poor, the Bank of England will have to do more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 