-- Rangers Beat Capitals to Pull Within 2-1 in NHL Playoff Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-07T05:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/rangers-beat-capitals-to-pull-within-2-1-in-nhl-playoff-series.html
The  New York Rangers  avoided falling
behind three-games-to-none in their National Hockey League
first-round playoff series by beating the Washington Capitals 4-
3 on Derek Stepan’s tie-breaking third-period goal.  The Boston Bruins beat the Toronto Maple Leafs 5-2, the
Detroit Red Wings topped the Anaheim Ducks 3-2 in overtime, and
the Los Angeles Kings rallied for a 4-3 win over the St. Louis
Blues in yesterday’s other NHL playoff games.  Stepan scored with six minutes, 25 seconds left to snap a
3-3 tie last night at New York’s Madison Square Garden and help
the Rangers pull within 2-1 in the best-of-seven Eastern
Conference series. The home team has won each of the first three
games and the Rangers will host Game 4 tomorrow.  “A couple times we got the lead, they tied it back up and
it can either make you or break you,” Rangers defenseman Ryan McDonagh told reporters. “We didn’t really change our game too
much. We stayed aggressive. We just continued to play the style
we wanted to play and ended up getting the big fourth goal.”  The Rangers had scored only one goal in losing the first
two games of the series in Washington.  Aaron Asham,  Brian Boyle  and Derick Brassard scored the
first three goals last night for New York, which blew leads of
2-1 and 3-2 before Stepan’s winning goal.  The Capitals had a power play in the closing minutes after
a high-sticking penalty by the Rangers’  Brad Richards , and then
pulled their goalie for a two-man advantage. Rangers goaltender
 Henrik Lundqvist  denied the visitors and finished with 28 saves.  ‘Must-Win’  “There was a lot of determination going into this game,”
Lundqvist said. “It was a must-win. We really stepped up as a
group. They’re a good team and you have to respect that, but we
scored some big goals.”  The Rangers had defenseman  Marc Staal  back in the lineup
for the first time since he suffered an eye injury on March 5.
Staal received a standing ovation from the New York crowd when
he was introduced as part of the starting lineup.  The Bruins took a 2-1 lead in their Eastern Conference
series against the Maple Leafs by spoiling the return of
postseason hockey to Toronto for the first time since 2004. Adam McQuaid,  Rich Peverley ,  Nathan Horton  and Daniel Paille had
goals for Boston before  David Krejci  added an empty-net tally
with 1:17 remaining.  The Red Wings evened their Western Conference series at two
games apiece as Damien Brunner’s overtime goal snapped a 2-2 tie
last night in Detroit. Brendan Smith and Pavel Datsyuk added
goals for the Red Wings, who twice rallied from one-goal
deficits during the third period.  The reigning Stanley Cup-champion Kings got third-period
goals from Anze Kopitar and Justin Williams last night in Los
Angeles to erase a 3-2 deficit against the Blues and tie their
series at two games each.  In today’s NHL playoff games, the New York Islanders host
the East’s top-seeded Pittsburgh Penguins, while the  Ottawa
Senators  are home to the  Montreal Canadiens . Pittsburgh and
Ottawa have 2-1 series leads. In the West, the Chicago
Blackhawks visit the Minnesota Wild, and the  Vancouver Canucks 
visit the San Jose Sharks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  