-- RBA’s Stevens Comments After Cutting Benchmark Rate (Full Text)
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-07T04:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/rba-s-stevens-comments-after-cutting-benchmark-rate-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement published today on the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia’s website, after Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board
cut the overnight cash-rate target to 2.75 percent.  At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash
rate by 25 basis points to 2.75 per cent, effective 8 May 2013.  The global economy is likely to record growth a little
below trend this year, before picking up next year. Among the
major regions, the  United States  continues on a path of moderate
expansion and  China ’s growth is running at a more sustainable,
but still robust, pace.  Japan  has announced significant new
policy initiatives aimed at strengthening demand and ending
deflation. The euro area remains in recession. Commodity prices
have moderated a little in recent months though they remain high
by historical standards.  Financial conditions internationally continue to be very
accommodative, with risk spreads reduced, funding conditions for
most financial institutions improved and borrowing costs for
well-rated corporates and sovereigns exceptionally low.  Growth in  Australia  was close to trend in 2012 overall, but
was a bit below trend in the second half of the year, and this
appears to have continued into 2013. Employment has continued to
grow but more slowly than the labour force, so that the rate of
unemployment has increased a little, though it remains
relatively low.  With the peak in the level of resources sector investment
likely to occur this year, there is scope for other areas of
demand to grow more strongly over the next couple of years.
There has been a strengthening in consumption and a modest
firming in dwelling investment, and prospects are for some
increase in business investment outside the resources sector
over the next year. Exports of raw materials are increasing as
increased capacity comes on stream. These developments, some of
which have been assisted by the reductions in  interest rates 
that began 18 months ago, will all be helpful in sustaining
growth.  Recent data on prices confirm that inflation is consistent
with the target and, if anything, a little lower than expected.
The CPI rose by 2½ per cent over the past year, and measures of
underlying inflation gave a broadly similar outcome. These
results have been pushed up a little by the impact of the carbon
price. Growth of labour costs has moderated slightly over recent
quarters while productivity growth appears to be improving. This
should help to lessen increases in prices for non-tradables. The
Bank’s forecast remains that inflation over the next one to two
years will be consistent with the target.  Over recent meetings, the Board has noted that interest
rates have already been reduced substantially, with borrowing
rates approaching previous lows, and that the effects of this on
the economy are continuing to emerge. Savers have been changing
their portfolios towards assets with higher expected returns,
asset values have risen and some interest-sensitive areas of
spending have increased.  The  exchange rate , on the other hand, has been little
changed at a historically high level over the past 18 months,
which is unusual given the decline in export prices and interest
rates during that time. Moreover, the demand for credit remains,
at this point, relatively subdued.  The Board has previously noted that the inflation outlook
would afford scope to ease further, should that be necessary to
support demand. At today’s meeting the Board decided to use some
of that scope. It judged that a further decline in the cash rate
was appropriate to encourage sustainable growth in the economy,
consistent with achieving the inflation target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  