-- RBNZ Tightens Lending Rules to Counter House Price Increases
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-07T22:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/rbnz-tightens-rules-to-counter-problematic-house-price-rises.html
New Zealand’s largest banks will be
required to hold more capital against risky home lending because
rising property prices may be “problematic” for the financial
system, central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said.  The nation’s four biggest banks must increase the levels of
capital they hold to cover high loan-to-value ratio lending from
Sept. 30, the Reserve Bank said in its  Financial Stability
Report  released in Wellington today. The move will lead to an
average increase in capital held for housing of about 12
percent, it said.  “This will strengthen the capacity of the banking system
to weather a housing downturn and should also lead the banks to
review the riskiness of the loans they are currently writing,”
Wheeler said.  Wheeler is concerned that household finances are becoming
stretched as low interest rates and competition between banks
stokes borrowing and home prices. The central bank has kept the
official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent since March 2011
and is reluctant to increase it because there is a risk higher
borrowing costs will further boost the New Zealand currency,
damaging exports.  Today’s report doesn’t discuss interest rates. Wheeler last
month said he expected to keep the official cash rate unchanged
through the end of the year, citing benign inflation, the impact
of a summer drought and the strong New Zealand dollar, which has
gained 7 percent the past 12 months.  Currency Problems  “The relative strength of the New Zealand economy, in a
period where the global outlook is quite uncertain, has pushed
the New Zealand dollar to new highs that will be problematic for
some firms that compete in international markets,” the RBNZ
said in the report.  The New Zealand dollar bought 84.45 cents at 10 a.m. in
Wellington.  Household debt is rising from a level that is already high
relative to disposable income and property prices appear over-valued, Wheeler said.  House prices  rose 6.5 percent in March from a year earlier,
the fastest annual pace since 2008, according to Quotable Value
New Zealand, a government owned property researcher. House sales
in March were the highest in almost six years, the Real Estate
Institute said on April 11  “The recent growth in house prices is problematic from a
financial stability perspective,” Wheeler said. “Further price
escalation will worsen the potential damage that could result
from a housing downturn following an economic or financial
shock.”  Price Pressure  The pressure on prices arises from pent-up demand, limited
supply and the lowest home-loan interest rates in 50 years,
particularly in Auckland and Christchurch where the supply
constraints are greatest, he said.  “Demand is being underpinned by easier credit conditions,
both in terms of lower mortgage rates and an increased
willingness by banks to lend at high LVRs,” he said. About 30
percent of all home loans have deposits of 20 percent or less of
purchase prices, the central bank said.  Rapid increases in house prices should make banks more
careful about high LVR lending, it said.  Wheeler is considering raising home buyers’ minimum
deposits and tightening restrictions on bank balance sheets to
ward off the risk of a property bubble. The so-called macro-prudential tools include proposals to mandate funding ratios,
capital buffers, and specify minimum loan-to-property value
levels.  New Zealand’s four biggest lenders -- ANZ Bank New Zealand
Ltd., Westpac Banking Corp., Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and ASB
Bank Ltd. -- are all units of Australian banks. BNZ is owned by
National  Australia  Bank Ltd. and ASB is a unit of Commonwealth
Bank of Australia.  The Reserve Bank will soon be signing a memorandum of
understanding with the finance minister to confirm the key
elements of the policy, Wheeler said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  