-- Russian Inflation Quickens to 7.2% in April After March Slowdown
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-05-07T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/russian-inflation-quickens-to-7-2-in-april-after-march-slowdown.html
Russian inflation accelerated in April
after slowing a month earlier, strengthening arguments to delay
easing monetary policy.  Consumer prices  rose 7.2 percent from a year earlier after
a 7 percent advance in March, the Federal Statistics Service in
Moscow said by e-mail today. That matches the median estimate of
24 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices increased 0.5
percent in the month, also in line with economist forecasts.  Policy makers led by outgoing central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev are waiting to see a sustained slowdown in inflation
before cutting their main  interest rates . Restraining inflation
remains a priority and the government won’t compromise efforts
to subdue price growth with economic stimulus, First Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said April 18 in Moscow. The
economy grew 2.1 percent in the last three months of 2012 from a
year earlier, the slowest rate since a 2009 contraction.  “The trend of declining inflation may not continue in
April,” Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for Russia at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said by phone before the release. “The
central bank may postpone cutting rates for one month.”  The ruble in April weakened 1.6 percent against the central
bank’s target basket of dollars and euros, its worst monthly
performance since August 2012. It traded little changed at
35.3502 as of 3:19 p.m. in Moscow.  A weaker currency was the main reason for faster inflation
last month by making foreign goods more expensive, according to
Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie Financial Corp.
in Moscow.  Import Costs  “Consumer prices probably grew in April due to the import
component,” Tikhomirov said by phone yesterday. “The share of
import products increases in the consumer basket in the spring,
especially in the food basket.”  A seasonal increase in the cost of vegetables came earlier
this year than in 2012 and may fan price growth in April while
leading to a “stronger decline” in May, VTB Capital analysts
Oreshkin and Daria Isakova said in an e-mailed note today.  Food inflation accelerated to 8.8 percent in April from a
year earlier, compared with 8.3 percent the previous month,
according to the statement.  Core inflation , which excludes
volatile costs such as energy, remained unchanged at 0.4 percent
from a month earlier.  Bank Rossii last month took the biggest step toward easing
monetary policy since raising all rates in September by cutting
some borrowing costs on less frequently used credit instruments.
The central bank may lower its main interest rates before price
growth decelerates to within its range of 5 percent to 6 percent
and expects to contain inflation below the top of its target
band, Ignatiev said last month.  ‘Declining Trend’  Speaking at an economic-policy meeting with President
 Vladimir Putin  and senior officials April 22, Ignatiev said he
saw a continued “declining trend” for interest rates, with
inflation remaining a key consideration for policy makers.  The central bank may cut the refinancing rate in the second
quarter by a quarter point to 8 percent, according to the median
forecast of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  While government members including Economy Minister Andrei Belousov remain critical of the central bank’s restrictive
stance, partially blaming high rates for Russia’s economic
slowdown, tight monetary policy is “largely justified because
it’s aimed at subduing inflation,” Putin said during a live
televised call-in show April 25.  Russians rank inflation as their second-biggest concern
behind housing and access to utilities, according to a March 15
poll by the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public
Opinion .  “Inflation will remain a priority as consumer-price growth
significantly exceeds target,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief
economist at  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s investment-banking unit in Moscow,
said by phone yesterday. “We see arguments that interest rates
shouldn’t be touched due to concerns over inflationary
expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  