-- Assad Opponents Rebuff U.S.-Russia Call for Syria Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-05-09T14:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/russia-u-s-to-seek-transition-talks-by-syria-rebels.html
Syria ’s opposition is spurning efforts
by the U.S. and Russia to convene talks between Bashar al-Assad’s regime and his opponents in an effort to end two years
of warfare and empower a transitional government.  The Syrian National Coalition said any political solution
“should start with the departure of Bashar al-Assad and the
pillars of his regime,” according to a statement yesterday on
its Facebook page that cast doubt on prospects for new talks.  Seeking to assuage such concerns, Secretary of State John Kerry said today that Assad won’t be part of any transitional
government. Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
agreed May 7 to press for an international conference seeking a
negotiated settlement to the conflict, which the United Nations
says has claimed more than 70,000 lives since March 2011.  Assad’s government welcomed the joint initiative. Syria
believes  Russia  will maintain its opposition to interference in
Syrian internal affairs and the use or threat of force, the
Foreign Ministry said in a statement, according to the official
news agency SANA. The “credibility” of U.S. backing for a
political solution depends on “working seriously with its
allies to halt the violence and terrorism,” it said.  Kerry, speaking during a visit to Rome, said that
conversations yesterday with the opposition and other nations to
prepare the ground for the U.S.-Russian initiative have been
productive. The U.S. ambassador to Syria, Robert Ford, arrived
in Istanbul yesterday to meet with opposition leaders in a bid
to persuade them to participate.  ‘Mutual Consent’  Seeking Russian support, Kerry had earlier softened the
U.S. public demand that Assad must go, saying a decision on
Syria’s leadership transition must be made by “mutual consent”
of the current regime and the opposition. Russia says Assad’s
resignation can’t be a precondition for talks.  The U.S.-Russian proposal is short on details and
circumvents the future status of Assad should talks get under
way. At the White House yesterday, spokesman Jay Carney said the
U.S. hasn’t shifted it basic view. Syria’s future “cannot
include” Assad, he said.  Opposition officials expect that the U.S. will try to use
the influence from friendly nations, such as Saudi Arabia, to
get them to attend a conference where Assad and his government
are represented, Samir Nashar, a member of the Syrian National
Coalition, told Al Arabiya TV. The starting point for any
negotiation is Assad’s departure, he said.  ‘Hopeful News’  The U.S.-Russia initiative “is the first hopeful news
concerning that unhappy country in a very long time,” Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN special envoy for Syria, said in a statement.  Russia, whose ties with the Assad dynasty date back to the
Soviet era, has vetoed three European-drafted UN Security
Council resolutions condemning the Syrian government’s crackdown
and threatening to impose economic sanctions. Russia has
defended its actions, saying the opposition was equally to blame
for the violence and that Western powers were seeking a Libya-style regime change.  In Geneva last year, Russia and anti-Assad nations agreed
in principle to UN-brokered guidelines to bring the conflict to
a close. Still, difficulties arose when it came down to details
and bringing about a transition.  Kerry met May 7 with Lavrov and Russian President Vladimir Putin amid calls from some Democrats and Republicans in the U.S.
Congress for American intervention in the civil war.  ‘Certain Persons’  During the news conference with Kerry, Lavrov faulted the
rebels for impeding talks, saying he’d talked the previous day
by telephone with Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem, who
confirmed the Assad government’s readiness for dialogue.  Lavrov said Russia feels strongly that it’s “up to the
Syrian people” to decide the fate of its current leaders and
the composition of a future government. He added that Russia
isn’t “interested in the fate of certain persons” -- a
reference to Assad.  Kerry said opposition leaders have expressed their
commitment to holding talks, issuing a declaration in Istanbul
last month supporting a transition proposal. The Geneva
communique called on all parties to cease violence and
participate in a Syrian-led political process to create a
transitional government.  “The alternative is that there’s even more violence,”
Kerry said. “The alternative is that Syria heads closer to an
abyss, if not over the abyss and into chaos.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Rome  at  ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  