-- TSA’s $800,000 Bill for Empty Storage Space Scrutinized
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-05-07T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/tsa-s-800-000-bill-for-empty-storage-space-scrutinized.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  is warehousing $119 million worth of screening
equipment in space including an unneeded area the size of an
American-football field, the Homeland Security Department’s
inspector general said.  TSA is renting 72,074 square feet (6,696 square meters)
worth of unneeded space in three Texas warehouses to store some
of the gear, at a cost of about $800,000 a year, the inspector
general said.  One set of machines sat in storage so long that they became
obsolete before they were ever used, the inspector general said.  “This report highlights serious deficiencies in TSA’s
method for managing the storage of screening equipment,”
Representative Bennie Thompson, a Mississippi Democrat, said in
a statement. “Every dollar wasted is a dollar that is not spent
on protecting this nation and fixing known security
vulnerabilities.”  The report came out of a hearing by the House Oversight and
Government Reform and Transportation and Infrastructure
Committees last May. Republican staff from the two panels found
the agency, created after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks
to take over airport security, hadn’t purchased or deployed
screening equipment in a cost-efficient manner and blocked
congressional investigators when they tried to visit the sites.  The agency has been holding 22 percent of the items in the
warehouse, or 3,824 pieces of equipment, for more than two
years, the inspector general said. One hundred of those machines
are security-related, including explosive trace detectors, x-
rays and a bottle-liquid scanner.  Explosive Detectors  As of May 2012, TSA had 12 automated explosive-detection
systems in the warehouse, three of which had been there more
than three years, the report said. A TSA official told
investigators the agency will no longer deploy so-called Auto
EDS units because newer machines do the job faster and take up
less room at the airport.  In its written response, TSA’s deputy administrator, John Halinski, agreed with some of the inspector general’s
recommendations on how to improve deployment of screening
equipment. The agency has been improving inventory management
for several years, he said.  Photos in the report of unused storage space are misleading
because the agency was intentionally reducing the equipment
stored at the location with the lease expiring, Halinski said.  The TSA must be able to rapidly deploy technology to the
450 airports it’s responsible for in response to changing threat
information, agency spokesman  David Castelveter  said in an e-
mailed statement.  “In the past few years, TSA has reduced the annual cost
for its warehouse leases and related expenses by working
directly with warehouse owners,” Castelveter said. “TSA
understands the need to reassess warehouse space requirements
and will do so on an annual basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  