-- SAC Gains While Greenlight Drops as Hedge Funds Rise 0.5%
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-05-07T19:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/sac-gains-while-greenlight-drops-as-hedge-funds-rise-0-5-.html
Hedge funds  returned 0.5 percent in
April, lagging behind global stock markets for the sixth
straight month.  Firms including SAC Capital Advisors LP and Jana Partners
LLC posted gains, while Renaissance Technologies LLC and
Greenlight Capital Inc. funds declined. Long-short equity, macro
 hedge funds  and multistrategy managers rose.  Hedge funds trailed equities as managers took few risks,
said Donald Motschwiller, chief executive officer at Discovery
Capital Management LLC, a New York-based firm that runs a fund
of separately managed accounts. Global stocks gained 2.9
percent, including dividends, as new U.S. home sales climbed and
earnings from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  to Johnson & Johnson beat analysts’
estimates. Equities returned 9.7 percent this year through last
month, compared with hedge funds’ advance of 3.2 percent.  “Hedge funds continue to be cautious in this market,”
Motschwiller said. “Until the market corrects and sells off,
hedge funds are just going to continue to underperform.”  The Bloomberg Hedge Funds Aggregate Index still is down 3.1
percent from its July 2007 peak. The index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,457 funds, 1,219 of which have
reported returns for April. The index, with annual data dating
to 2006, has fallen short of the MSCI benchmark each year except
for 2008 and 2011.  SAC, Jana  Long-short equity  funds, whose managers can bet on and
against stocks, rose 0.1 percent in April and 3.9 percent this
year. Multistrategy funds advanced 0.3 percent last month and 2
percent in 2013. Macro funds, whose managers make investment
decisions based on their reading of economic and political
events, climbed 0.7 percent in April and 1.4 percent this year.  Steven Cohen ’s SAC Capital International rose 1 percent in
April and 5.6 percent this year, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The fund is run by SAC Capital Advisors, the
$15 billion  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm at the center of a
multiyear federal insider-trading investigation.  The Jana Partners fund rose 0.8 percent in April and 7
percent year to date, according to a performance update to
investors, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The
$5 billion New York-based firm’s Jana Nirvana fund returned 1.2
percent last month and 10 percent this year.  Barry Rosenstein  is
the firm’s managing partner and co-portfolio manager, along with
David DiDomenico.  Renaissance, Greenlight  Renaissance Technologies, the $22 billion investment firm
founded by  Jim Simons  based in New York, fell 2.4 percent in
April in its Renaissance Institutional Diversified Alpha Fund,
paring this year’s gain to 6.6 percent, according to a person
briefed on the returns.  Greenlight Capital, the $8.8 billion hedge-fund firm run by
 David Einhorn , posted a 0.6 percent April decline in its main
Greenlight Capital LP Fund, paring 2013’s increase to 5.5
percent, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Billionaire  John Paulson , the hedge-fund manager seeking to
reverse two years of losses in some of his strategies, lost 27
percent in his $500 million Gold Fund last month as the precious
metal and related securities plummeted, and 47 percent this
year, according to two people familiar with the matter. The
firm’s Recovery Fund, its best-performing strategy this year,
rose 6.6 percent in April and 22 percent in 2013, one of the
people said. The $18 billion New York-based Paulson & Co.’s
credit and merger strategies also gained last month and this
year, while its event-driven funds fell in April, paring yearly
advances.  Pine River Capital Management LP, the $14 billion firm
based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , posted a 0.6 percent April
return in its Pine River Fund run by Aaron Yeary and James Clark, bringing this year’s advance to 7 percent, the firm said
in an e-mail to clients obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Chriss, Och  Hutchin Hill Capital LP, the $1.1 billion New York-based
firm founded by Neil Chriss, jumped 4.7 percent in April and 8.8
percent this year, according to a person briefed on the returns.  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC, the $35.6 billion
New York-based firm run by Daniel Och, rose 1.4 percent in April
and 5.5 percent this year in its OZ Master Fund, the firm said
last week in a regulatory filing. The OZ Europe Master Fund lost
0.4 percent last month and advanced 3.5 percent in 2013. The OZ
Asia Master Fund climbed 4.9 percent in April and 11 percent
year-to-date.  Spokesmen for the firms declined to comment on the returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  