-- Samsung Heavy Gets Permission to Erect Test-Turbine Off Scotland
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-05-07T14:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/samsung-heavy-gets-permission-to-erect-test-turbine-off-scotland.html
Scotland  approved construction of a 7-megawatt wind turbine by  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140) , allowing
the South Korean manufacturer to test different offshore models
at a site north of Edinburgh.  Samsung Heavy will get 6 million pounds ($9.3 million) in
funds for the project at Fife Energy Park in Methil, Scotland’s
government said today in a statement to coincide with a visit by
Finance Secretary John Swinney to the Seoul-based company.  “Today’s announcement marks a significant step forward in
establishing a globally competitive supply chain for the
offshore wind industry,” Swinney said in the statement.  Scotland has a target to install 10,000 megawatts of
offshore wind power to cut emissions from electricity output by
more than four-fifths to 50 grams of carbon dioxide a kilowatt-hour in 2030. It’s aiming to meet all its power needs from
renewables by 2020, and export any surplus to  England .  Incentives to expand clean-energy in the U.K., the world’s
largest offshore wind market, have attracted companies including
Spain’s  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM)  and Paris-based  Areva SA (AREVA)  to
Scotland. The British government has pledged to triple
renewable-energy subsidies to 7.6 billion pounds by 2020.  The permit granted today allows Samsung Heavy to construct
a single three-bladed turbine as high as 196 meters (643 feet)
tall, as well as offshore cabling and a bridge to the turbine
tower, according to the statement. The company can have one
turbine at the site at any one time, and operate the machine for
as many as five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  