-- Samsung, CinemaNow Will Stream With DTS Enhanced Sound
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-05-07T11:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/samsung-cinemanow-will-stream-with-dts-enhanced-sound.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Best Buy
Co. (BBY) ’s CinemaNow will adopt DTS Inc.’s surround-sound technology
for streaming of movies and television shows this month to
provide more cinema-like audio with Web-delivered content.  Service will begin as Web-enabled Samsung TVs, coded for
the DTS-HD audio, arrive in U.S. stores, Brian Towne, chief
operating officer of DTS, said in an interview. More than 4,000
movies and TV shows available on CinemaNow’s service will
feature the enhanced sound, he said.  DTS is seeking to tap growing home and mobile markets by
providing sound that comes closer to the theater experience. It
said in January that Samsung planned to adopt the streaming
technology. Home-entertainment providers are increasingly
competing for viewers with cinema chains, which have spent
millions on digital technology, 3-D projection and advanced
sound systems.  “We are facing perhaps the single biggest change in the
entertainment business we have seen in the past few decades,”
DTS Chief Executive Officer Jon Kirchner also said in an
interview. “We feel very, very strongly there is a tremendous
opportunity lying ahead.”  The technology, DTS-HD, is designed to provide more
precise, immersive sound for Web-connected devices. The software
can adjust delivery to meet the specifications of different
devices, a feature that uses less bandwidth than other systems,
Towne said.  Samsung plans to offer the technology on its Blu-ray
players, he also said.  Subscription Streaming  Rovi Corp. (ROVI) , a provider of digital home-entertainment
products, is providing the streaming technology to CinemaNow for
the service.  CinemaNow, which offers movie rentals and downloads, is the
first provider to adopt the system.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , one of the
biggest online players, offers subscription streaming services
that allow consumers to watch as many movies or television shows
as they want for a fixed monthly price.  DTS is pursuing licensing agreements to offer its
technology to other online movie providers as well as makers of
smartphones, tablets and other devices, Kirchner said.  Online sales of digital copies of movies rose 52 percent to
$231.2 million during the first quarter and digital rentals, or
video-on-demand, increased 16 percent to $614.9 million,
industry researcher  Digital Entertainment Group  said in a May 1
statement. Subscription streaming through services such as
Netflix also rose, jumping 29 percent to $709.6 million.  DTS, based in Calabasas,  California , was founded in 1990 to
provide audio formats for cinemas and initially showcased its
technology in  Steven Spielberg ’s 1993 hit “Jurassic Park,”
according to the company’s website.  DTS fell 1.5 percent to $16.94 at the close in  New York 
yesterday, taking its gain this year to 1.4 percent. The company
reports first-quarter earnings tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  