-- SAP Shifts Major Programs to Web to Win Buyers With Price, Ease
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-05-07T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/sap-shifts-major-programs-to-web-to-win-buyers-with-price-ease.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of business-
management software, plans to offer even its largest programs
via the Web in an effort to lure customers with easier
deployment and lower installation costs.  SAP will offer to manage applications such as its mainstay
enterprise-resource planning, customer-relationship management
and analytics software in the cloud, Vishal Sikka, executive
board member in charge of technology and innovation, said on a
conference call today.  “We believe this will change the way that enterprises do
their computing,” Sikka said in Palo Alto,  California , ahead of
the presentation of the Hana Enterprise Cloud product, based on
SAP’s fast Hana database. “Everything can be executed in less
than a second, no matter where it runs.”  SAP, whose sales have  grown  faster than  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s in
recent quarters, is trying to maintain momentum with revenue
from new products including Web-based software and Hana. The two
companies are the largest makers of enterprise-management
applications and are releasing more of their software as online
services as they compete with each other and cloud operators
such as  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and  Workday Inc. (WDAY)   SAP aims to lift sales to more than 20 billion euros ($26
billion) in 2015 from 16.2 billion euros last year.  By managing even the largest programs for clients at its
centralized locations, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP will be able
to lower the costs of running software, for instance by removing
and adding computing power as needed, and by purchasing servers
in large quantities, Sikka said.  The company is working with Intel Corp. to develop servers
optimized to run the software in the cloud on a large scale.  Demand for Hana Enterprise Cloud has exceeded SAP’s
expectations, with almost 60 customers currently working on an
implementation compared with a target of 12, Sikka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  