-- Saudi Arabia Seeks to Lure Institutional Money to Bourse
-- B y   D a l e   C r o f t s ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-05-07T14:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/saudi-arabia-seeks-to-lure-institutional-money-to-stock-market.html
Saudi Arabia, home to the biggest Arab
bourse, seeks to boost institutional investments in its $387
billion stock market as the top OPEC producer weighs plans to
allow foreigners to buy shares directly.  While foreign investments are welcome, they’re not crucial
to liquidity, Mohammad Al-Sheikh, chairman of Capital Market
Authority, said at the Euromoney conference in  Riyadh  today. The
market is now dominated by individual investors, he said.  “The Saudi financial market doesn’t need any liquidity,
but the market might need professional foreign investors that
will add a lot of value to the financial market with their
knowledge and experience,” he said. “Therefore if we do open
the Saudi market to foreign investors, it will only be done
after intensive study and gradually.”  Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc are among banks that
have predicted Saudi Arabia’s market may open to foreigners as
early as next year amid rising demand for assets in the largest
Arab economy. Such a move may attract as much as $30 billion of
inflows, John Burbank, founder of $3.7 billion San Francisco-
based hedge fund Passport Capital LLC, said in February.  Saudi Arabia only allows non-resident foreigners outside of
the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council to invest through equity
swaps and exchange-traded funds. The benchmark  Tadawul All Share
Index (SASEIDX)  has gained 5.6 percent this year.  Investors are seeking access to Saudi Arabia as the
government pursues a spending plan of more than $500 billion in
an effort to boost the non-oil economy.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , whose gauges
are tracked by investors managing about $7 trillion, last year
resumed Saudi coverage and said it would consider including the
nation in frontier or emerging-market indexes if it allows
direct access to foreigners.  Al-Sheikh, a World Bank executive representing Saudi
Arabia, replaced Abdulrahman A Al Tuwairji at the helm of the
kingdom’s regulator in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dale Crofts in Dubai at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  