-- HSBC Sees 2013 Sukuk Sales Doubling to $3 Billion: Turkey Credit
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-05-07T10:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/hsbc-sees-2013-sukuk-sales-doubling-to-3-billion-turkey-credit.html
Islamic bond sales in  Turkey  may
double to $3 billion this year as companies join the government
in accessing Shariah-compliant investors, according to  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the world’s biggest underwriter of sukuk.  Sales reached about $1 billion this year, led by banks
including Turkiye Finans Katilim Bankasi AS, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on March 2018 notes, which
Turkey sold for the first time in September, fell six basis
points this year to 2.68 percent, seven basis points below the
global average, the data show.  “We’ll see it across corporates, we’ll see it across the
government” as well as state-related entities,  Mohammed Dawood ,
a Dubai-based managing director of debt capital markets at HSBC
Amanah, the bank’s Islamic finance unit, said in an interview
May 1. “Arguably we can double from last year. That’s a market
we’re very excited about.”  The government of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who
heads the Islamic-rooted Justice and Development Party, is
promoting Shariah-compliant finance as it boosts ties with the
Arab world. Issuance of Islamic bonds in the Gulf Cooperation
Council, which includes the United Arab Emirates and Saudi
Arabia, tripled to about $21 billion in 2012 from the previous
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors from
the oil-rich region have an “increased appetite” for Turkey,
Dawood said.  ‘Prolong Maturities’  Turkiye Finans raised $500 million on April 24 in the
country’s biggest sukuk sale since last year’s $1.5 billion
sovereign issuance, paying a rate of 3.95 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank said yesterday it received
$1.9 billion in bids, with the Middle East accounting for 51
percent of demand.  Albaraka Turk Katilim Bankasi AS, the Istanbul-based unit
of Bahrain’s Albaraka Banking Group, sold $200 million on April
29, paying a profit rate of 7.75 percent. Asya Katilim Bankasi
AS, an Islamic lender, sold $250 million of 10-year notes at 7.5
percent a month earlier.  “We prefer sukuk issues to other methods of funding as it
enables us to prolong maturities and bring down costs,” Turkiye
Finans Chief Executive Officer Derya Gurerk, said at a
conference yesterday in Istanbul.  Global Sales  Global sales of notes that comply with Islam’s ban on
interest rose 4 percent this year to $14.8 billion, led by
offerings from Saudi Arabia and Dubai, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average yield on sovereign sukuk rose 10 basis
points, 0.10 percentage point, to 2.75 percent as of yesterday,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Sovereign US Dollar Sukuk
Index. The rate closed at 2.56 percent on Jan. 23, the lowest
since at least 2009, the index shows.  The Turkish government may sell more than 1 billion lira-
denominated sukuk in August and a dollar offering of Islamic
bonds this year, Dunya newspaper reported May 2, citing people
it didn’t identify.  The yield on Turkey’s two-year note fell two basis points
to 5.12 percent yesterday, extending the decline in the past 12
months to 432 basis points, the most among 17  emerging markets 
tracked by Bloomberg. The rate dropped to a record 4.96 percent
on May 3 and was at 5.08 percent at 1:50 p.m. in Istanbul today.  “You certainly see the sovereign being more regular,”
HSBC’s Dawood said. “The government is very actively involved
in promoting  Islamic finance .” HSBC helped advise on last
year’s sovereign debut, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tax Exempt  The government plans to grant Islamic-banking licenses to
state-owned lenders, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said
March 29. Sukuk sales outside the country are exempt from income
and corporate tax, according to the Official Gazette, a
government publication, on April 27.  While the tax law will act as an “incentive” for Turkey’s
banks to sell more sukuk, funding costs “are in general on a
decreasing trend,” Ovunc Gursoy, an analyst at  Yapi Kredi (YKBNK) 
Yatirim Menkul Degerler, an Istanbul-based broker owned by
UniCredit SpA, said in e-mailed comments on May 3.  “Unless Islamic banks see a notable decrease in the cost
of sukuk, they may opt for using other low-cost alternative
funding sources such as deposits or syndicated loans,” Gursoy
said.  The interest rate Turkish banks pay for three-month
deposits dropped to an all-time low of 5.73 percent yesterday,
down from 10.33 percent a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The lira fell 0.1 percent to 1.7993 against the dollar
today, leaving it 0.9 percent lower this year.  Falling Risk  The cost of insuring Turkey’s dollar-denominated bonds for
five years using credit-default swaps fell four basis points to
114, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They have fallen 45 basis
points since Fitch Ratings gave the country its first
investment-grade ranking in 18 years in November.  The contracts, which decline as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve, pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Turkey’s economy, the biggest in eastern  Europe  and the
Middle East behind  Russia , may expand 4 percent this year after
growing 2.2 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of
28 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Economic growth may help propel Islamic bond sales beyond
the government and banks this year, Martin Spurling, chief
executive officer of HSBC’s Turkey unit, said at a conference in
Istanbul yesterday.  “We see Turkish non-bank corporates definitely coming into
the sukuk market this year as investor demand for Turkish assets
increases,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  