-- Schaeuble Signals Willingness to Listen as German Image Suffers
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-05-07T10:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/schaeuble-signals-willingness-to-listen-as-german-image-suffers.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said he’s worried about Germany’s image in  Europe , as
he signaled a readiness to listen to others on efforts to
overcome the region’s economic troubles.  Schaeuble, addressing students in Berlin today alongside
French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici, said they both agree
on the need to hasten banking union and that no one country has
a monopoly on how to resolve Europe’s woes. It’s “good” that
Germans show compassion for countries in southern Europe that
are shouldering record youth unemployment, Schaeuble said.  “It’s not the case in Europe, never, that some know it all
and the others don’t,” Schaeuble said. “That is all wrong.
Germany can learn a lot from other countries and we have to.”
He and Moscovici “work on how we can benefit from the
experiences of each other,” Schaeuble said.  The ministers spoke at an event on German-French economic
collaboration as part of ceremonies to mark 50 years of the two
countries’ post-World War II reconciliation. Moscovici, while
saying that policies during the debt crisis must tilt toward
bolstering growth and away from austerity, said that Europe is
founded on compromise and rejected “caricatures” of  Germany .  Schaeuble said that banking union is a “priority project”
for the coming months “and we’ll quickly move it forward,” as
Moscovici had advocated. While closer economic and political
integration may ultimately require changes to the European
Union’s treaty, that’s not the case for now, he said.  “Of course we also need institutional changes in the
medium term,” Schaeuble said. “But of course we can’t wait,
given the inertia we have in Europe, until we achieve treaty
changes to solve current problems. Therefore, we need to do the
best we can on the basis of the existing treaties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  