-- SEC Sues Four People Over Bribes for Venezuelan Bond Trades
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-05-07T20:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/sec-sues-four-people-over-kickbacks-for-venezuelan-bond-trades.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued four people with ties to brokerage Direct Access
Partners LLC over claims they paid millions of dollars in bribes
to a Venezuelan finance official to secure the bond-trading
business of a state-owned bank.  A DAP unit generated more than $66 million for the New York
brokerage from 2009 through at least June 2010 in transaction
fees on riskless principal trades in Venezuelan sovereign or
state-sponsored bonds for Banco de Desarrollo Economico y Social
de  Venezuela , the SEC said in a complaint filed today in U.S.
District Court in  Manhattan . A portion of that revenue was paid
to the Venezuelan official, the SEC said.  Tomas Alberto Clarke Bethancourt, an executive vice
president at DAP, was responsible for executing the fraudulent
trades and maintaining spreadsheets tracking illegal markups and
markdowns, according to the SEC. Jose Alejandro Hurtado was an
intermediary between DAP and the Venezuelan official and got
more than $6 million in kickbacks disguised as salary payments
from DAP, some of which he gave to the official, the SEC said.  “These traders triggered a fraud that was staggering in
audacity and scope,” Andrew Calamari, head of the SEC’s  New
York  regional office, said in a statement. “They thought they
covered their tracks by using offshore accounts and a shadow
accounting system to monitor their illicit profits and bribes,
but they underestimated the SEC’s tenacity in piecing the scheme
together.”  Funneling Bribes  The SEC also sued Iuri Rodolfo Bethancourt over his role in
funneling bribes to the Venezuelan official, who wasn’t sued by
the SEC, and Haydee Leticia Pabon, who received about $8 million
in sham finders’ fees, according to the complaint.  Phone calls to Henry Bell, an attorney for Clarke, and
Frank Rubino, a lawyer representing Hurtado, weren’t immediately
returned. Bethancourt and Pabon have no known defense counsel,
the SEC said.  A press official for the bank, who declined to be
identified because of company policy, declined to comment. An e-
mail sent to the bank today wasn’t immediately returned.  An official in Venezuela’s finance ministry, who declined
to be identified because of ministry policy, also declined to
comment.  U.S. prosecutors filed parallel criminal charges today
against Clarke, Hurtado and the Venezuelan official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  