-- Senators of Both Parties Seek Changes to Immigration Bill
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-05-08T20:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/senators-of-both-parties-seek-changes-to-immigration-bill.html
A Republican senator wants to limit
the number of immigrants granted permanent U.S. residency, while
a Democratic senator is seeking protection for same-sex couples
as part of legislation to revise immigration laws.  A sampling of amendments that members of the Senate
Judiciary Committee plan to offer demonstrates the political
push-and-pull that lies ahead when the panel is scheduled to
begin work on the bipartisan immigration plan tomorrow.  “We want everyone as a ‘yes,’ but I hope that we don’t end
up adopting amendments in the vain belief that picking up one
more senator on one side or the other will pass the bill and
lose our basic agreement,” said Illinois Senator Richard Durbin, the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat and a co-author of
the bill. “We’ve got to keep the strength of this core
agreement in place.”  During the next several weeks, the panel will choose from
among hundreds of amendments in a preview of the coming floor
debate over the attempt to enact the most significant revision
of U.S. immigration law in almost three decades.  The bill’s supporters will seek to make changes that build
support for the proposal while holding off amendments that erode
the number of backers.  Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions, a Republican who is among
the chamber’s most vocal opponents of the bill, is proposing
capping at 20 million the number of immigrants who could become
permanent residents in the first decade after the bill is
enacted.  Citizenship Path  Sessions contends the bill’s core component -- creating a
pathway to citizenship for an estimated 11 million immigrants in
the country illegally -- would undercut U.S. workers and harm
the economy.  In a statement, Sessions called his proposal “a starting
point in scaling back the extraordinary and unacceptable” flow
of immigrants that he said the legislation would create.  Sessions said he will offer 49 amendments. Senator Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican and another skeptic on immigration
legislation, proposed 77 amendments. About 300 amendments have
been filed, according to the Judiciary Committee website.  Senate Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat, had said committee members would be allowed to offer
whatever amendments they chose. The four Republicans and four
Democrats who crafted the plan say they will oppose amendments
that would erode support for their bill.  Durbin, Graham  Four members of the bipartisan Senate group -- Democrats
Durbin and Charles Schumer of New York and Republicans Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Jeff Flake of  Arizona  -- are
members of the Judiciary Committee.  Durbin wouldn’t say whether he would vote for Leahy’s
amendment that would treat foreign nationals married to a same-sex U.S. citizen equally with those married to a citizen of the
opposite sex. Still, he said he supported the substance of the
proposal.  “For immigration reform to be truly comprehensive, it must
include protections for all families,” Leahy said in a
statement. “We must end the discrimination that gay and lesbian
families face in our immigration law.”  Graham told reporters that Leahy’s proposal was was a “bad
idea” that would “kill the bill.” Two other Republican
members of the Senate group,  Florida ’s Marco Rubio and Arizona’s
John McCain, have said they oppose the same-sex provision.  Public Housing  Other Democratic amendments that may draw Republican
opposition include a proposal by Minnesota Democrat Al Franken
to make public housing assistance available to immigrants who
are victims of domestic abuse.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has
said he plans to bring the immigration bill to the floor in June
after the Judiciary panel completes work on it. Reid has said he
will allow a number of amendments.  Republicans plan to propose strengthening the bill’s border
security provisions. Improvements to border security would be
required before undocumented immigrants could begin qualifying
for eventual citizenship.  Scrutiny of border security intensified after the April 15
 Boston Marathon bombings . Authorities identified two brothers
who legally immigrated to the U.S. from Kyrgyzstan as the
suspects.  Full Replacement  Senator Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican, is proposing a full
replacement of the bill’s border-security provisions. Cruz would
triple the number of Border Patrol agents along the U.S.-Mexico
border and quadruple surveillance equipment such as cameras and
drones before any prospective citizen could be granted
“registered provisional immigrant” status.  Graham wants to require additional security screening of
anyone seeking to become a citizen from a country that
“represents a threat, or contains groups or organizations that
represent a threat, to the national security of the United
States.”  One of Grassley’s amendments would bar prospective citizens
from receiving “registered provisional immigrant” status until
the U.S. “maintained effective control of the borders” for at
least six months.  Rubio said ensuring the measure won’t lead to a wave of
illegal immigration -- as occurred after a 1986 immigration law
was enacted -- will be crucial to gaining Republican votes.  “The vast majority of Americans, and I believe the vast
majority of conservative Republicans, are prepared to support
immigration reform if we can ensure that we don’t have a second
wave of illegal immigration,” Rubio said. “Our goal should be
to move this bill in a direction that ensures that and wins
their confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  