-- Sherritt Urged to Buy Back Shares, Investigate Ambatovy Work
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-05-07T20:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/sherritt-urged-to-buy-back-shares-investigate-ambatovy-work-1-.html
Sherritt (S)  International Corp., a
Canadian mining and energy company, should begin a share buyback
program and investigate the work that was done on the Ambatovy
mine in Madagascar, said Takota Asset Management Inc.  Sherritt’s board should form a special committee to
investigate  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) ’s performance at Ambatovy  in
light of delays and cost overruns at the nickel and cobalt
project, Scott Leckie, principal at Takota, said in a statement
today. SNC-Lavalin was the engineering contractor at Ambatovy.  The Toronto-based asset manager has no plans to force
changes at Sherritt “at this time” and doesn’t disclose the
size of specific holdings, Leckie said today in a telephone
interview.  Sherritt’s board regularly reviews “all mechanisms” for
returning excess capital to shareholders, including dividends
and share buybacks, the Toronto-based company said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Sherritt, which also has operations in  Canada , Cuba,
 Pakistan  and Spain, started finished-metal production at
Ambatovy in the third quarter.  “Considering the ongoing pressure on commodity prices, as
well as a continued obligation to fund Ambatovy project costs
until the operation generates free  cash flow , Sherritt’s board
and management view a share buyback program to be inappropriate
at this time,” it said.  ‘Major Impacts’  Sherritt, which owns 40 percent of Ambatovy and operates
the project, fell 0.2 percent to C$4.73 at the close in Toronto.
 The shares  have dropped 18 percent this year, matching the
decline in the 118-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Global Mining
Index.  “We maintain that we performed our work according to the
contract,” Leslie Quinton, an SNC-Lavalin spokeswoman in
 Montreal , said today by e-mail in response to the Takota
statement.  “Two factors impeded the work’s progress -- a political
coup in 2008 and the economic slowdown,” Quinton said. “Both
had major impacts on the project.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  