-- Singapore Breaks Into Homes to Stem Dengue Fever: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-08T10:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/singapore-breaks-into-homes-to-stem-dengue-fever-southeast-asia.html
Singapore’s dengue cases are set to
surge to a record this year, prompting the government to break
into homes that could be breeding grounds for mosquitoes that
transmit the disease.  Inspectors have broken into three homes suspected of
housing mosquitoes since the start of the year, the  National
Environment Agency  said today. They cut the delay before forcing
entry into locked premises to one week from two this month, it
said. Dengue infections may rise to 23,000 this year, exceeding
the record 14,000 in 2005,  Leo Yee Sin , director of Tan Tock
Seng Hospital’s communicable disease center, said yesterday.  Singapore, one of the five places most affected by the
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome or SARS outbreak in 2003, is
seeking to prevent the spread of dengue, a tropical disease that
has affected the city-state and other Southeast Asian nations
for decades.  “There is a slightly more heightened sense of awareness of
the risks associated with a supervirus or something that can
spread very quickly,”  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based
economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., said in an interview
yesterday. “The fact that SARS has actually hit the economy
means that the coordination between ministries and the kind of
airtime that such warnings get has become better over time.”  SARS killed about 33 in the city-state at the height of the
outbreak.  Tourist arrivals  plunged to a two-decade low and the
government shut schools and isolated more than 4,000 people.  The Ministry of Health said in an e-mailed statement today
that no deaths have been reported from dengue this year. The
estimate on dengue cases for 2013 is based on the trend of a
fivefold increase from last year’s cases, Leo said.  ‘Challenging Mosquito’  “This mosquito is a very challenging mosquito -- it’s
adapting very well to our environment,” she said in an
interview. “They will lay their eggs in many, many different
places. If we humans destroy their breeding site in one place,
they still have other eggs in some other areas.”  The government  revised  the latest daily dengue infections
to 66 as of 6 p.m.  Singapore  time, bringing the number this year
to 6,123. That’s more than the full-year total of 4,632 in 2012.
Environment Minister Vivian Balakrishnan said last week the
outbreak “may be our worst dengue epidemic ever.”  The National Environment Agency or NEA, which
Balakrishnan’s ministry oversees, will make multiple visits to
homes in affected areas before placing a legal notice to enter
the premises. The break ins follow if homeowners or residents
fail to respond after one week, the agency said in an e-mailed
response to queries. Almost 1.5 million homes were inspected
between January and mid-April, it said.  Active Transmission  “In areas where dengue is actively transmitting, NEA will
shorten the time required to make the first inspection of all
premises,” he said on his  Facebook page  on April 28, adding
that residents will “understand the need for urgency.”  Dengue symptoms include high fever, headaches, joint pains
and rash, according to the  World Health Organization ’s  website .
It may lead to complications and dengue hemorrhagic fever, a
life-threatening form of the disease with symptoms that include
abdominal pain, vomiting and bleeding.  The nation could have 1,000 infections a week at the peak
of the outbreak, the  Straits Times  reported last week, citing
Balakrishnan. The newspaper first reported the shorter period
before inspectors break into homes.  Dengue, typically a childhood disease internationally, is
infecting more adults in Singapore, the National Environment
Agency, which Balakrishnan’s ministry oversees, said in an e-mailed response to queries.  Fitter Viruses  “Because of our intensive vector control over the years
our population has had low herd immunity, making the population
vulnerable to outbreaks,” it said, adding that the mosquito
population has risen and viruses have become “fitter.”  Shares of hospital operators have risen this year.  Raffles
Medical Group Ltd. (RFMD)  climbed 27 percent since the start of the
year, and Parkway Life REIT jumped 28 percent, outpacing the
benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) ’s 7.3 percent advance.  The dengue outbreak also comes as an outbreak of H7N9 bird
flu has killed 26 people in  China  since March.  In Singapore, a surge in the number of immigrants may have
added to the outbreak, according to  Ooi Eng Eong , an associate
professor of emerging infectious diseases at Duke-NUS Graduate
Medical School in the city-state.  ‘Immunologically Naive’  “A significant proportion of our population’s made up of
people who may not have been born in dengue-endemic regions so
they are immunologically naive and therefore susceptible to
infection,” Ooi said. The rise in population adds to “the pool
of the people who are susceptible to the infection,” he said.  The number of people in Singapore has jumped by more than
1.1 million to 5.3 million since mid-2004 as the government used
immigration to make up for a low birth rate.  The surge in infections this year could also be due to a
switch in the type of dengue being transmitted, according to Tan
Tock Seng’s Leo. People on the island may not have built up
immunity to the type of dengue that is now dominant and are more
vulnerable to it, she said.  “Dengue will be here to stay,” Leo said. “These
mosquitoes are not mosquitoes we can easily get rid off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  