-- Skanska CEO Eyes Acquisitions to Realize U.S. Growth Ambitions
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-05-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/skanska-ceo-eyes-acquisitions-to-realize-u-s-growth-ambitions.html
Skanska AB (SKAB) , the builder of  New
Jersey ’s MetLife Stadium, wants “significantly bigger” U.S.
operations in five to 10 years, with higher sales in current
operations supplemented by acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer
Johan Karlstrom said.  U.S. growth is Skanska’s main focus, Karlstrom said
yesterday in a telephone interview. That market now represents
35 percent of total sales, compared with about 27 percent the
company had in December of 2011.  The Nordic region’s biggest builder first entered the U.S.
in 1971 and has had its stronghold in  New York , where it’s
reconstructing the Brooklyn Bridge. Stockholm-based Skanska
plans to spread operations toward the west coast, the Midwest
and  Boston , capitalizing on growing demand in the energy,
information technology and health-care industries. Acquisitions
will come in these areas, the CEO said.  “We are very picky, but we are continuously looking,”
Karlstrom said. “It’s not only a question of price, someone
needs to be willing to sell and it needs to be the right type of
business.”  The company agreed to buy Industrial Contractors Inc.,
based in Evansville,  Indiana , for $135 million at the end of
2011. The purchase expanded Skanska’s presence in commercial,
industrial and power markets in the Midwest. Skanska’s first-
quarter sales and profit held up in large part due to the demand
in the U.S. construction business area, the company said
yesterday in its quarterly earnings statement. Skanska focuses
on big projects in the U.S.  Fierce Competition  While it’s one of the biggest construction companies in the
U.S. market, Skanska’s market share is still only about 1
percent, Karlstrom said. It hasn’t published a growth target.
Competition is fierce in getting the contracts now that emerging
political will to invest in infrastructure and low energy prices
resulting from shale-gas extraction are helping to push
investments, he said.  Construction spending in the U.S. fell 1.7 percent in
March, the Commerce Department said May 1. It reflected the
biggest slump in government projects in 11 years and followed a
1.5 percent increase in February, revised numbers for the month
showed. January saw a drop by 4 percent.  “These are too short time horizons to go by as we only
really work with megaprojects,” Karlstrom said. “It’s a very
strong market, there are a lot of large infrastructure projects
coming and we don’t really see an end to it.”  First-quarter net income, according to the company’s
segment reporting, increased to 338 million kronor ($51.8
million) from 113 million kronor a year earlier, Skanska said
today. Sales rose 7 percent to 28.2 billion kronor. The shares
gained 6.4 percent in  Stockholm  trading yesterday, the biggest
gain since November 2011. The stock is up 10 percent this year,
valuing the builder at 49.1 billion kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  