-- Slow Reforms Cloud Vietnam’s Economic Growth Outlook, IMF Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-07T01:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/slow-reforms-cloud-vietnam-s-economic-growth-outlook-imf-says.html
Slow restructuring of  Vietnam ’s banks
and state companies contributed to the International Monetary
Fund’s decision last week to cut the nation’s  growth  forecasts.  The IMF lowered its projection for Vietnam’s growth to 5.2
percent this year from 5.8 percent previously, and to 5.2
percent in 2014 from 6.4 percent in its  report  on April 29. The
reduction of this year’s forecast is the biggest cut among
Southeast Asian countries after  Singapore , while the 2014 cut is
the biggest downward move for any Asian country, the data showed.  The cuts signal “that it will be important to carry
through with the reforms the government has said it intends
to,” said Sanjay Kalra, the IMF’s Hanoi-based resident
representative, in a telephone interview on May 3. “Structural
reforms have moved a bit slower than one might have expected or
is desired.”  Deputy Finance Minister Truong Chi Trung said in February
that the government would unveil a plan by June to restructure
the biggest state-owned companies. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s administration has missed its earlier target for the
creation of an  asset management company  to address bad debt in
banks that has crimped consumption and slowed economic growth.  Vietnam’s  economy  expanded 5.03 percent last year, the
slowest pace since 1999. The central bank cut  interest rates  in
March, the seventh such reduction since the start of 2012, in a
bid to spur lending, even as the World Bank said the country’s
issues can’t be resolved with monetary easing.  Additional Steps  The Vietnam government’s master plan to restructure state
companies and overhaul the financial system lacks clear action
steps, with a slow pace of share sales and the banking reform
lacking timelines, said Truong Dinh Tuyen, a member of the
country’s National Financial Monetary Policy Advisory Council,
at a conference last month in the city of Nha Trang.  Credit in Vietnam grew 1.4 percent as of April 23 compared
with the end of 2012, Thoi Bao Ngan Hang newspaper reported May
6. Credit growth last year was an “anemic” 9 percent, lower than
an earlier target of 15 percent, according to the  World Bank .  Restoring the nation to a higher and sustainable growth
path will require the acceleration of banking and state-owned
enterprise reforms, with planned structural changes
“implemented decisively and additional steps considered,” the
IMF said on April 26, in a  statement  after a mission from the
agency concluded an 18-day visit to the country.  “There is a need not just to merge banks but to really
improve governance and to recapitalize them,” Kalra said.
“Their balance sheets need to be improved, their depositor base
needs to strengthen, and their loan portfolios need to be
diversified.”  Good Start  The planned asset-management company has missed an end-of-
March deadline for beginning operations. Setting it up “would
be a good start, and an indication from the authorities that
they understand that this is a big enough problem to require a
system-wide approach,” Kalra said. The entity “would help
address the liquidity problems at some banks, but for now we
don’t know how the recapitalization issue would be addressed.”  The IMF forecasts for this year put Vietnam behind regional
peers including  Indonesia , Myanmar and  Thailand . The  Philippines 
last week received an investment-grade rating from  Standard &
Poor’s , while Indonesia’s economy grew 6.02 percent in the first
quarter, a 10th straight quarter of above-6-percent growth.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s VN Index has advanced
18 percent this year, compared with gains of almost 16 percent
for the Jakarta benchmark and more than 23 percent for the
Philippine index.  Vietnam reported a wider-than-estimated trade deficit of $1
billion in April.  Inflation (VNCPIYOY)  slowed to 6.61 percent last month,
the lowest since September 2012, even as  core inflation , which
excludes raw food and energy, remains high and limits the room
for further rate cuts, the IMF said on April 26.  “The issue is less the level of the rates and more a
question of whether further cuts in policy rates can increase
credit growth,” Kalra said. “Banks are reluctant to lend even
if they have resources, in part because they are concerned about
the economy’s prospects and their own balance sheets.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  