-- Spanish Banks Refinanced, Restructured $272.4 Billion in Loans
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-07T16:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/spanish-banks-refinanced-restructured-272-4-billion-in-loans.html
Spanish banks had 208.2 billion euros
($272.4 billion) of refinanced or restructured loans at the end
of last year, a figure that analysts said could translate into
further losses.  Twenty-four percent, or about 51 billion euros, of that
relates to mortgages, 36 percent to non-real estate companies
and 33 percent to property and construction, the Bank of  Spain 
said in its financial stability  report  published today. The
balance was in loans to households and government.  An economic slump in its sixth year is generating mounting
 defaults  for Spanish lenders that in some cases refinanced or
restructured more loans to avoid booking losses. The central
bank said on April 30 it told lenders to review their refinanced
portfolios “without delay” to avoid differing interpretations
of how to classify loans.  “In theory, there’s nothing necessarily wrong with
refinancing,” said Daragh Quinn, a banks analyst at Nomura
International in  Madrid . “What matters is the quality of the
refinancing and what is the level of re-default say 12 months
down the line.”  The refinanced or restructured loans amount to about 14
percent of credit in Spain, the regulator said. Of the 208.2
billion euros, 42 percent are classed as normal by the banks, 37
percent as “ doubtful ” and 21 percent as “substandard,” or
having some risk of turning bad.  “A number like this almost raises more questions than it
answers in an economic situation like Spain’s,” said  Nick Anderson , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London . “It’s a big
number, and I don’t think it’s going to let people sleep easier
at night about the health of the banking system.”  The Bank of Spain report said loans would probably continue
to rise. Even so, the situation is different than in 2012
because of the loan-loss charges taken by banks and transfers of
soured assets to a so-called bad bank, the regulator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  