-- Sprint Said to Press Dish for Details Before Due Diligence
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-05-08T20:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/sprint-said-to-press-dish-for-more-bid-details-before-diligence.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , weighing a $25.5
billion bid from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , is holding off on granting
its suitor access to its books because of questions over funding
and cost savings, said people familiar with the matter.  Dish has pressed Sprint directors to rule that its bid may
be superior to the one from  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  that Sprint accepted
last year, said the people, who asked not to be named since the
process is private. That would pave the way for Dish to begin
reviewing Sprint’s confidential financial data and  projections ,
a step the satellite-TV company wants to take before lining up
an estimated $9.3 billion in financing, they said.  The board is concerned about Dish’s ability to obtain the
financing as well as the debt that would be placed on the merged
company, said one of the people. It also has doubts about Dish’s
estimate of $11 billion in cost savings as the two companies
reduce overlap in marketing staff and other business units, the
person said. Sprint has already made reductions in those areas
and doesn’t see much fat left to cut, according to the person.  The board’s concerns create more hurdles for Dish Chairman
 Charlie Ergen , who’s challenging SoftBank for control of the
third-largest U.S. wireless carrier to bolster his pay-TV empire
with mobile capability. The two sides have already gone back and
forth at least once, and Dish has complained to some Sprint
 investors  that the directors are delaying their ruling because
management prefers SoftBank’s bid, said one of the people.  ‘Remain Confident’  Ergen and his advisers expected a decision from Sprint’s
 directors  by now, said one of the people. The board hasn’t
decided whether Dish’s offer could top SoftBank’s, and no
decision is expected soon, said another person.  “We remain confident Sprint shareholders are going to
accept the offer from the company that brings the most to the
table, including the best price and strategic plan,” said Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Dish. He declined to elaborate.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint,
declined to comment on the status of the review.  The directors began pressing Dish for more details within
days of its April 15 offer, the people said. They sent a letter
to Dish saying the bid needed fixes before Sprint could compare
it with SoftBank’s, said people familiar with the matter.  The letter, which was from a special committee of the
board, highlighted the lack of committed financing, said the
people. The board also raised questions over Dish’s business and
financial projections, the expense-reduction numbers, timing to
close the deal and whether the merger would survive regulatory
scrutiny, said the people.  Confidence in Numbers  In response, Dish told the board it was confident in its
cost-savings projections because the two parties had discussed a
combination in the past, providing insight into Sprint’s
operations, one person said. At the time Ergen announced his bid
for Dish, he predicted that the deal might generate as much as
$24 billion in “new opportunity synergies,” on top of the
planned $11 billion in savings.  SoftBank said yesterday that Dish’s synergy claims are
inflated. Citing a report from Franklin Court Partners LLC, the
company said it would be harder for Dish to find cost savings in
part because the two merger partners would be so dissimilar.
Dish also didn’t account for integration expenses, which could
be $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion, the report found.  As for how to pay for the deal, Dish has said that it won’t
be able or willing to provide committed financing until it’s
allowed to conduct due diligence, the person familiar with the
matter said. Dish so far has a letter from financial adviser
Barclays Plc saying the bank is confident it can help raise the
necessary financing.  Investor Meeting  Ergen met with some larger Sprint shareholders in late
April and told them he felt the questions from Sprint’s board
had been appropriately answered by his financial advisers, said
another person familiar with the matter.  Dish should already be involved with its due diligence work
at this point, said Gerard Hallaren, an analyst with Janco
Partners Inc.  “I suspect Sprint favors the SoftBank bid since it’s safer
and keeps more of their people in power,” said Hallaren. “But
it is not necessarily the best offer for shareholders.”  A dearth of committed financing isn’t always an obstacle to
negotiations.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the personal-computer maker in the
midst of a buyout by its founder and Silver Lake Management LLC,
agreed to let counterbidder Blackstone Group LP examine its
books before obtaining committed funds. Blackstone withdrew the
offer April 18, citing concerns about the worsening global PC
market.  Finding Sources  Dish Treasurer Jason Kiser said in April that the deal may
require more than $9 billion in new funding, with most coming
from Sprint. Dish is offering $4.76 in cash and 0.05953 of a
Dish share for each Sprint share, making the bid worth about
$7.12 a share as of today’s close.  Dish fell 2.9 percent to $39.61 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 8.8 percent this year. Sprint, up 29
percent in 2013, rose 1.4 percent to $7.32, suggesting that
investors expect either SoftBank or Dish to raise its bid.  Sprint disclosed April 22 that its board formed a special
committee to evaluate Englewood, Colorado-based Dish’s offer.
The group, which consists of Larry Glasscock, James Hance, Janet Hill, William Nuti and Rodney O’Neal, is receiving financial
advice from Bank of America Corp. and legal counsel from
Shearman & Sterling LLP.  SoftBank’s Terms  The group is comparing Dish’s proposal with that of Tokyo-based SoftBank, which offered about $20.1 billion for a majority
stake in Sprint on Oct. 15. That deal would provide Sprint with
$8 billion in new capital, according to a statement at the time.  Taking control of Sprint would give the Japanese company a
foothold in a market that’s still growing, compared with its
home country, where handset shipments have shrunk. SoftBank has
argued that its bid has “superior short- and long-term
benefits” compared with Dish.  The Dish offer has helped make the telecommunications
industry the most active for deals in 2013, with more than $80
billion in proposed transactions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Dish also made a bid in January for Clearwire Corp.,
which had earlier agreed to be bought out by controlling
shareholder Sprint. Clearwire’s board urged shareholders this
week to vote in favor of Sprint’s deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  