-- Spurs Pull Out Double Overtime NBA Playoff Win as Bulls Top Heat
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-07T05:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/spurs-pull-out-double-overtime-nba-playoff-win-as-bulls-top-heat.html
The  San Antonio Spurs  rallied from a
16-point deficit in the closing minutes of the fourth quarter
and then needed two overtimes to beat the Golden State Warriors
129-127 in the opening game of their National Basketball
Association second-round playoff series.  Manu Ginobili hit the go-ahead three-pointer with 1.2
seconds left last night as the Spurs denied the Warriors their
first win in 30 games in San Antonio dating back to 1997.
Ginobili had missed his previous seven shots.  “I have no clue how we won,” Ginobili said in a televised
interview. “I really have to watch it to see what happened. We
just kept going, and we made the last shot.”  The Spurs’ comeback came after the  Chicago Bulls  dealt the
defending-champion  Miami Heat  their first loss of the NBA
postseason with a 93-86 road victory in Game 1 of their Eastern
Conference semifinal series.  Nate Robinson  scored 27 points and Jimmy Butler added 21
points and 14 rebounds for the Bulls, who outscored the Heat 35-
24 during fourth quarter to send Miami to its fifth loss in 44
home games this season.  “Our offense wasn’t as fluid and efficient as it normally
is,” Heat coach  Erik Spoelstra  said at a news conference. “You
have to credit their defense. Shooting 39 percent and scoring
under 90 in our building is not our style.”  It was the third time the Heat lost Game 1 of a playoff
series since  LeBron James ,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  have been
playing together. They rallied to win the previous two series,
most recently in last year’s NBA Finals.  Miami will host Game 2 tomorrow.  Today’s Games  The NBA’s other two conference semifinals resume today,
with the  New York  Knicks hosting the  Indiana Pacers  in Game 2 of
their Eastern Conference series after losing the opener at
Madison Square Garden two days ago. In the West, the Oklahoma
City Thunder are home to the  Memphis Grizzlies  after rallying
for a two-point Game 1 victory.  The Spurs trailed 104-88 with four minutes, 31 seconds
remaining before ending the fourth quarter with an 18-2 scoring
run to force overtime. San Antonio also rallied from a five-
point deficit in the first overtime.  The Spurs then blew a five-point lead in the second five-
minute overtime, as Golden State took a 127-126 lead with three
seconds left before Ginobili caught a long inbounds pass and hit
a wide-open three-pointer.  “Good timing,” said Ginobili, who finished with 16 points
on 5-of-20 shooting.  Parker’s Points  Tony Parker  had 28 points to lead San Antonio, the No. 2
seed in the West, while Danny Green scored 22 and  Tim Duncan 
added 19 points and 11 rebounds. The Spurs will also host Game 2
of the best-of-seven series tomorrow.  Steph Curry scored 44 points to lead the Warriors,
including 22 during the third quarter when Golden State turned a
two-point lead into a 12-point advantage. Klay Thompson and
Harrison Barnes each added 19 points for Golden State.  “We’re not the first team to lose a game like this, we
won’t be the last,” Warriors coach Mark Jackson said. “It
doesn’t mean we’re going to accept it. At the end of the day,
they made plays and we didn’t make enough.”  The Bulls in March ended Miami’s 27-game regular-season
winning streak -- the second-longest in NBA history -- and last
night finished the game with 10 unanswered points to snap the
Heat’s run of 12 straight victories.  Slow Start  James was limited to two points during the first half after
receiving his NBA Most Valuable Player trophy and finished with
24 points, eight rebounds and seven assists. Wade had 14 points
and was the only other player to score in double figures for
Miami, which was outrebounded 46-32.  The Heat had been off seven days after completing their
first-round sweep of the  Milwaukee Bucks , while the Bulls were
back in action two days after beating the Brooklyn Nets on the
road in the decisive Game 7 of their opening-round series.  “You’re always faced with different challenges -- for us
it was the quick turnaround, for the Heat, the layoff,” Bulls
coach  Tom Thibodeau  said. “It was how quickly you can adapt to
the challenge in front of you and we’ve been hit with a lot of
things all year. I like the mental toughness of our team.”  The Bulls were without Kirk Hinrich and former NBA MVP
 Derrick Rose  because of injuries, while Luol Deng also didn’t
play because of an illness. Robinson led Chicago in scoring
after receiving 10 stitches in his mouth and lip as a result of
a first-half collision with James.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  