-- Steinmetz’s BSG Ready to Use Law and Arbitration Over Guinea Ore
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-05-07T11:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/steinmetz-s-bsg-ready-to-use-law-and-arbitration-over-guinea-ore.html
BSG Resources Ltd., a mining company
controlled by  Israel ’s richest man, is prepared to use the law
including international arbitration to prevent Guinea stripping
it of one of the world’s most valuable iron-ore deposits.  “BSGR will defend its reputation and its mining rights in
Guinea through whatever legal means prove necessary, including
international arbitration, if the Government of Guinea continues
with its illegal efforts to expropriate BSGR’s interests,” the
company held by Beny Steinmetz said in an e-mailed statement.  BSG in March said Guinea was preparing to cancel its mining
rights to the Simandou and Zogota projects. Two BSG officials
were also arrested after investigations by the  U.S. Department
of Justice  and Guinea, the African nation’s Justice Ministry has
said. In addition, A French citizen with ties to BSG was charged
with obstructing a U.S. probe into whether bribes were paid to
win mining rights, a criminal complaint filed in  New York  shows.  Work at both sites, held in a venture with Vale SA, was
frozen last year. Vale, the world’s biggest iron-ore exporter,
says U.S. and Guinea investigators assured the company it’s not
under any suspicion. Simandou, with an estimated value of $50
billion, is in the iron-laden mountains of southeast Guinea.  The U.S. Department of Justice said on April 15 that it was
investigating the possibility of a payment of bribes to win
“lucrative mining rights.” That followed a probe by Guinea
begun in 2012 into how BSG gained its permits.  Allegations ‘Baseless’  “Allegations that there was anything improper about the
manner in which BSGR obtained mining rights in  Guinea  are
entirely baseless and form part of a sustained smear campaign
against the company,” BSG said in the e-mailed statement. The
business “was awarded its permits because it was prepared to
act decisively and take quick decisions and, unlike most major
mining companies, did not view Simandou as a strategic asset for
the benefit of its future reserve estimates.”  BSG acquired rights to part of Simandou in 2008 after Rio
Tinto Group was ordered by Guinea to give up a section of its
license. BSG subsequently sold 51 percent of its stake in
Simandou and Zogota to Vale in 2010 for $2.5 billion. The
venture had planned a $10 billion mining operation before a
dispute with the government escalated from last year.  Steinmetz, 57, has a net worth of about $8.8 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  