-- Strongman Putin Is No Match for Corruption
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-07T23:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/strongman-putin-is-no-match-for-corruption.html
President  Vladimir Putin ’s crackdown
on corruption is vital to Russia’s future. It’s also certain to
fail unless he recognizes the shortcomings of his methods.  In 2008, under then-President  Dmitry Medvedev , Russia began
a  genuine  and somewhat successful effort to bring its corruption
laws into the first world. At the same time, the state
restricted investigative news media, stepped up its intimidation
of nongovernment organizations, persecuted whistle-blowers and
subverted the judicial system.  No bureaucracy can police itself effectively. That’s why
international conventions (and now Russian law)  clearly  state
that graft can be reduced only if whistle-blowers and nonstate
actors play an active role. Yet Putin, back in power after four
years as prime minister, is sending a message that he is
 Russia ’s only anti-corruption champion, and that exposing
dishonest officials is at the sole discretion of the Kremlin.  Corruption costs Russia about  $300 billion  a year, a
whopping 16 percent of gross domestic product. And that measure
doesn’t capture the distorted incentives and lost investment
that are side effects. Russia placed last in Transparency
International’s most recent Bribe Payers  Index , which ranks
countries according to their companies’ propensity to offer
bribes.  Economic System  Unfortunately, corruption is an integral part of the state-based economic system Putin has built since he took power in
2000. In the oil and gas sector, for example, the government
controls 45 percent of production, compared with 10 percent in
1998-1999, according to research by BNP Paribas. Managers of
state-owned oil and gas companies are usually former government
officials, and their companies are routinely tapped to fund
unrelated projects such as the 2014 Sochi Olympics. The natural-gas monopoly OAO Gazprom’s budget for such initiatives in 2011-2014 is $14.3 billion, according to BNP.  In 2011, Gazprom lost $40 billion to corruption and
inefficiency, Anders Aslund of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics has  estimated . When the British hedge-fund manager  William Browder  tried earlier to expose this kind
of misfeasance, he was barred from Russia and had several of his
companies confiscated. His lawyer, Sergei Magnitsky, then
alleged that several Interior Ministry officials had, in the
process of confiscating Browder’s companies, simply pocketed
$230 million the companies had paid in taxes. Magnitsky was
arrested and died in custody in 2009.  Since returning to the presidency in 2012, Putin has seen
public anger over corruption take a toll on his approval
ratings. He formed an investigative committee on graft within
the Kremlin, and pushed new laws to force officials to declare
their incomes and ban them from holding foreign bank accounts
and shares.  Yet such welcome strengthening of anti-corruption laws
can’t succeed if the state attacks anyone who takes the lead in
exposing graft outside Putin’s Kremlin-sanctioned campaign. The
current show trial of  anti-corruption  blogger Alexei Navalny on
what look like trumped-up charges of embezzlement is a case in
point.  So what to do? One answer lies in building on steps already
taken. In 2008, after joining the  Council of Europe ’s Group of
States Against Corruption, Russia adopted a legal definition of
corruption and later made it a distinct criminal offense. Last
year, Russia  signed  on to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development’s Anti-Bribery Convention.  Follow Through  These organizations should continue to press the Russian
government to follow through on its anti-corruption commitments.
So far it has implemented 15 of 26 recommendations that the
Council of  Europe  made in 2008. A progress report in March said
it remains true that “bribe-taking in courts represents one of
the biggest corruption markets in Russia.”  Putin’s campaign against nongovernmental organizations has
made it more difficult for them to promote necessary reforms.
Transparency International’s Moscow office, for instance, has
been inspected three times this year, and it may be forced to
register as an “alien” organization.  Meanwhile, the U.S., the European Union and Russia’s other
partners can make sure that companies operating in Russia comply
fully with their own anti-corruption laws. They can also shine a
light on egregious abuses.  Today, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  can publicly
disapprove of Navalny’s unfair trial, and promote transparency.
Putin, the anti-corruption campaigner-in-chief, won’t be
pleased, but many Russians will be.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 