-- Super Group Sees Steady Growth Amid Recovery From Near Collapse
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-05-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/super-group-sees-steady-growth-amid-recovery-from-near-collapse.html
Super Group Ltd. (SPG) , the best performing
stock in the  FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index (JALSH)  this year, forecast
fiscal full-year profit growth will match that of the first half
as the South African transport company recovers from near
collapse five years ago.  Sales climbed 16 percent in the six months through December
to 5.4 billion rand ($598 million), while per-share profit
before one-time items, or headline earnings per share, rose 19
percent to 95.3 cents, Super Group said in a Feb. 12 statement.
The company owns the largest fleet of leased vehicles in
 Australia , manages the storage and transportation of goods for
clients such as  Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s biggest auto-
parts supplier, and owns 28 South African motor dealerships.  “The type of revenue growth you saw at the half-year
should be sustained for the full year and similarly we’d like to
see headline earnings per-share growth similar to that reported
at half-year,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Mountford said by
phone from Johannesburg yesterday.  In 2008, Super Group halted dividends, disposed of property
and sold 510 million rand of stock to existing shareholders to
help repay debt that amounted to almost two-thirds of its
equity. Larry Lipschitz, who led the company for 22 years, quit
in April 2009 after a first-half loss. Five months later it was
forced to raise 1.2 billion rand in another rights offer to
stave off collapse after takeover talks failed.  The stock has  gained  46 percent this year through
yesterday’s close, outpacing the other 165 members on  South
Africa ’s  benchmark  equity index, which increased 1.5 percent
over the period. Super Group, which reached a 4 1/2-year high of
25.25 rand on April 2, fell 0.4 percent to 24.55 rand yesterday,
giving the company a market value of 7.7 billion rand. Super
Group is still cheaper than the benchmark, trading at a price to
earnings  ratio  of 12.6 versus 17.4 for the index.  Buybacks Continue  The company will continue with share buybacks, Mountford
said. Super Group has bought back almost 37 million shares since
2010, bringing down shares in issue to 289.3 million.  “That’s the more value-enhancing strategy for us,” he
said. “We reassess it on an annual basis. That’s certainly
going to be the case for this year to June 2013.”  Super Group is increasing its  operations  in supply-chain
management, where it has a 5 percent share of the South African
market, according to Mountford. Growth will be boosted by
bolstering existing businesses and making acquisitions, he said.
Auto sales from Super Group’s dealerships climbed 12 percent in
the first half compared with an 8 percent gain in new vehicle
sales in South Africa over the period, according to a  slide  on
its website.  “The company’s turnaround story is almost complete,” Jean Pierre Verster, an analyst at Johannesburg-based 36One Asset
Management, which owns Super Group stock, said by phone
May 6. Super Group “has good prospects. The Australian
fleet-lease division is performing well and will probably
support sales and profit growth,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  