-- Suspected Boko Haram Militants Kill 42 in Nigeria Raid
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2013-05-07T21:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/suspected-boko-haram-militants-kill-42-in-nigeria-raid.html
Suspected members of the Islamist
militant group Boko Haram killed at least 42 people today in
raids in the northeastern Nigerian town of Bama, according to
local authorities.  The attackers hit a military barracks, prison, police
station and government administrative buildings, according to
military and police spokesmen. Twenty-two police officers, 14
prison officials, two soldiers, three children and a women died
in the clashes, they said. Thirteen attackers were reported
killed.  About 200 gunmen, who arrived in 18-seater buses and Toyota
Hilux trucks mounted with machine guns, attacked a military
barracks in the town, according to Army spokesman Sagir Musa.
Two soldiers and 10 attackers were killed in fighting there, he
said.  Attackers “came in army uniform pretending to be
soldiers,” though genuine members of the military were able to
detect them, he said.  At about the same time, attackers killed 14 prison
officials in a raid that freed 105 inmates, Musa told reporters
today.  The gunmen also burned down a police station and barracks
as well as the local magistrate court and government offices.
Some of the buildings were still ablaze when reporters arrived.  The police area commander in Bama town, Alhaji Sagir, told
reporters that 22 police officers were killed, and three
children and a woman were burned to death. Three attackers were
killed by the police, he said.  The government of  Africa ’s top oil producer has battled
Boko Haram since 2009. The group, which wants Islamic rule over
the West African nation, has carried out gun and bomb attacks in
the mainly Muslim north and the capital Abuja, killing hundreds
of people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  