-- Symantec Sales, Profit Forecasts Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-05-08T21:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/symantec-sales-profit-top-estimates-on-antivirus-demand.html
Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  fell after the biggest
maker of security software forecast fiscal first-quarter sales
and profit that may miss estimates as a slump in the personal-computer market weighs on its consumer business.  Revenue in the current period, which ends in June, will be
$1.61 billion to $1.65 billion, Symantec said yesterday on a
conference call. Profit excluding some costs will be 35 cents to
36 cents a share. Analysts on average had  projected  sales of
$1.7 billion and profit of 44 cents, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Shares fell as much as 10 percent in late trading.  Chief Executive Officer Steve Bennett has cut jobs and
consolidated sales functions amid a push to wring more business
from consumers and corporations at a time when PC demand is
shrinking. Growth in Symantec’s other businesses, such as data
storage, hasn’t made up for the decline in PC shipments, which
had their biggest drop on record in the first three months of
the year. The company is reviewing its bundling contracts with
PC makers, and cancellations may hurt results, Bennett said.  “The Q1 view is a little more conservative than we had
been looking for,” said Jonathan Ho, an analyst at William
Blair & Co. in  Chicago , who has an outperform rating on the
stock. “Just having new management in place does not change the
fact that the PC headwinds are there. Now it’s about
reinvigorating the rest of the business and executing the rest
of the strategy.”  PC Slump  Symantec’s shares dropped 2.4 percent to $24.49 at the
close in  New York , leaving them up 86 percent since Bennett was
appointed in July, after Symantec’s board ousted his
predecessor,  Enrique Salem .  In the first three months of 2013, PC shipments fell 14
percent worldwide as consumers opted to purchase smartphones and
tablets instead and a new operating system from Microsoft Corp.
failed to attract buyers, researcher IDC said  last month.  The
decline is putting pressure on  Mountain View , California-based
Symantec, which got 30 percent of revenue from sales of
consumer-security products in the fiscal fourth quarter, which
ended March 29.  Profit before certain costs in the fourth quarter rose to
44 cents a share, and sales increased 4 percent to $1.75
billion, Symantec said in a statement. On average, analysts
projected profit of 38 cents and revenue of $1.73 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company also
initiated a quarterly dividend of 15 cents a share.  Fourth Quarter  Net income fell to $188 million, or 26 cents a share, from
$559 million, or 76 cents, a year earlier, Symantec said.  Hacking attacks are getting more frequent, disrupting the
operations of major U.S. banks earlier this year for a record
249 hours. Attacks on a dozen European banks last year led to
the theft of tens of millions of dollars from customers’
accounts,  Bloomberg News  reported this week.  The increased sophistication of the attacks is driving
demand for security technologies in an industry that Gartner
Inc. estimates will reach $65.7 billion this year.  Still, the high-profile attacks haven’t provided a big
boost to Symantec’s consumer-security business. Sales in the
consumer division rose 1 percent in the recent period. Its
storage and server-management unit saw revenue gain 7 percent,
with that business making up 36 percent of total sales.  Sales in Symantec’s Norton consumer-security business
should be little changed for at least the next several years,
hurt by declining PC sales, Bennett said.  Bloomberg News reported in January that Bennett planned to
eliminate 1,000 jobs, about 5 percent of the staff, as part of a
plan to cut costs and jump-start profit growth.  Symantec’s profitability has suffered as the company has
resisted calls to sell or spin off its slower-growth data-storage division. Operating income in that business declined 9.6
percent from 2010 to 2012, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  