-- Syria’s Internet Access Being Restored, Web Companies Say
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-05-08T17:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/syria-internet-access-cut-off-from-world.html
Syria ’s Internet links to the outside
world were restored almost 20 hours after e-mail, websites and
other services became inaccessible across much of the country,
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other Web companies said.  Google’s Web services are coming back online in Syria after
being down since yesterday, according to the search provider’s
transparency  report , which tracks the status of products
available to users around the world. The report showed an
increase in traffic prior to 10:30 a.m.  New York  time today.  Others saw the return of Web traffic as well. Syria’s
Internet returned after being down about 19 1/2 hours,  according 
to Renesys Corp., a Manchester, New Hampshire-based Web-monitoring company. Umbrella Security Labs, part of Web traffic-services provider OpenDNS Inc., also confirmed that the country
was  back  online.  The outage came after several other Internet disruptions in
Syria, which is in the midst of a two-year civil war, according
to Renesys. The last was in November, when the  Internet was
knocked out for several hours.  “This is the same sort of outage, and it appears to have
been accomplished in the same ways, as the outage from several
months ago,” said Matthew Prince, chief executive officer of
CloudFlare, an  Internet company  that underwent outages yesterday
in Syria.  The Internet has played a central role in the two-year
battle between Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his
opponents.  Social Media (SOCL)   There is evidence that the use of social media, especially
Facebook, sharply increased during the first year and a half of
the conflict, according to a paper by Georgetown University
graduate student Mary Zell, who’s lived in Damascus.  In February 2011, she wrote, Facebook’s penetration rate
was 1.19 percent, and by June 2012 it had reached 15.3 percent,
according to the Arab Social Media Report from the Dubai School
of Government. Syrian rebel groups also use Twitter, YouTube and
other social media, Zell wrote.  While the International Telecommunications Union, a United
Nations agency, says that in 2011 only 22.5% of the country’s
population used the Internet, the figure fails to take into
account the use of public access points such as coffee houses
and the growing number of smartphones in the country, despite
the fact that the government has banned them, said a U.S.
official.  Fiber-Optic  Bakr Bakr, director general of the Syrian
Telecommunications Establishment, a government-related company,
blamed the Web outage on a malfunction in a fiber-optic cable,
according to an earlier report by the Middle East  News Agency .
Maintenance teams were working to restore access, Bakr was cited
as saying.  The reason for the disruption wasn’t immediately clear and
may be due to a government-ordered shutdown of the Internet,
according to Dan Hubbard, chief technology officer at Umbrella
Security Labs and OpenDNS. Damage to infrastructure or
cyberattack also are possibilities, though unlikely, he said.
Internet services are provided in Syria through the state-owned
telecommunications company, Hubbard said.  “Citizens of Syria have been cut off from Internet
communication channels,” Hubbard said in an interview. “Anyone
that has infrastructure or servers that are hosted there, or
potentially hosted by the .sy server domain, would be offline.”  The latest disruption is similar to one that began Nov. 29
and lasted for two days, Hubbard said. Many companies that
depended on the .sy server domain during the last outage have
since changed their services, he said.  The U.S. and  Russia  will press the Syrian government and
opposition leaders to participate in talks as soon as possible
to end two years of civil war in the country, U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  