-- Cameron Puts Immigration First in Hunt for Lost Votes
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-05-08T15:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/u-k-to-make-landlords-check-tenants-immigration-status.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  dropped
measures unpopular with his Tory lawmakers, including a minimum
alcohol price and plain cigarette packaging, to focus on
immigration and pensions in a bid to win back voters.  Announcing the coalition government’s plans in Parliament
today for its last full legislative year before the 2015
election,  Queen Elizabeth II  set out 20 bills covering areas
including energy markets, intellectual property, offshore
gambling and consumer rights.  Smarting from local-election losses last week at the hands
of the anti-immigration and anti-European Union U.K.
Independence Party, Cameron and Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  offered Parliament a package of measures
unlikely to provoke further rebellions from their own sides.  “This is about the strategy the Tories have developed for
fighting the next election,” Tim Bale, professor of politics at
Queen Mary University of London, said in a telephone interview.
“That, regardless of what happens to the economy, they will
have a solid and, they hope, election-winning lead over
Labour.”  Proposals to introduce a minimum unit price for alcohol
were attacked by both the drinks industry and Tory lawmakers as
likely to hurt poorer consumers most. Health Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said today his department is still assessing the evidence
in favor of plain cigarette packets.  Aid Budget  A plan to enshrine in law the U.K.’s commitment to spend
0.7 percent of gross domestic product on overseas aid was also
abandoned, as ministers argued the development budget shouldn’t
be protected at a time of expenditure cuts elsewhere.  Time is running out for ministers wishing to get bills
through Parliament. The May 2015 election timetable will make
passing legislation increasingly difficult as the coalition
parties seek to emphasize their differences in voters’ minds.  The government will limit access to some state-provided
benefits to migrants from the European Economic Area to six
months as part of plans to cut welfare costs.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said that what the Tories are
“obsessing about day in day out is Europe and UKIP.” He told
lawmakers that Cameron’s party “used to call them clowns, now
they want to join the circus.”  Internet Monitoring  Having dropped an attempt to force  Internet service
providers  to log e-mail traffic, the government said it will
look again at how to help police dealing with criminal web-based
communications including recording who was using particular
Internet addresses at specific moments.  A gambling bill will force anyone operating in the U.K. to
hold a British license and inform regulators of suspicious
betting patterns.  “Three wasted years, today another wasted chance,”
Miliband said. “A no-answers queen’s speech from a tired and
failing government -- out of touch, out of ideas, standing up
for the wrong people and unable to bring the change the country
needs.”  In reply, Cameron attacked Miliband’s economic plans and
said he’s too weak to stand up to his party’s treasury
spokesman,  Ed Balls . Miliband is the embodiment of a new
doctrine that “the weak are a long time in politics,” Cameron
said.  Immigration Clampdown  In other proposals announced today, private landlords will
be forced to check the visa status of tenants or face fines of
thousands of pounds to tackle fraudulent immigration to the U.K.
The new immigration bill will also include the power to fine
businesses found to be using illegal labor and to ensure
temporary migrants make a contribution to the state-run health
service.  The government also plans a bill to speed up the patent
applications process and simplify intellectual-property rights
for design companies.  An energy bill encouraging 110 billion pounds ($170
billion) of investment in the electricity industry and measures
to guarantee power prices for renewable generators and nuclear
plants will be introduced, alongside a bill that will make it
easier for water companies to sell supplies to each other.  For the first time, legislation to support the construction
of the HS2 high-speed rail link between London and the north of
 England  will also be included in the government’s program. It
will allow for the compulsory purchase of homes along the route.  Consumer Rights  A draft consumer-rights bill will be introduced, the
monarch said. It’s designed to make sure consumer rights keep
pace with technological advances, such as by protecting the
quality of e-books and computer software.  A social-care bill capping costs for the elderly at 72,000
pounds and a pensions bill to create a flat-rate state pension
to encourage savings and help women who have had career breaks
to care for children or relatives will also be included in the
government program. Small, dormant pension pots will be more
easily transferable under the plans announced today.  Improvements to child-care provision to help working
parents were also announced. The focus of children’s learning
will be altered to concentrate on English, math and science and
to make spelling and grammar a focus of examinations. Teachers’
pay will also be linked to performance under a new bill.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net 
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  