-- U.S. Border Security Questioned by Senators at Hearing
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-05-07T18:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/u-s-border-security-questioned-by-senators-at-hearing.html
Senators in both parties questioned
the effectiveness of U.S. border-security efforts as lawmakers
begin debating a measure to revise immigration laws and create a
path to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants.  “We do not have a secure border today,” said Oklahoma
Senator Tom Coburn, the top Republican on the Senate Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. The panel held a
hearing today on legislation proposed by a bipartisan group of
eight senators.  Coburn said he was concerned the measure would stretch the
capabilities of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other
agencies “to actually carry it out.”  The Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled on May 9 to
begin debating the immigration bill, which seeks to balance a
path to citizenship sought by Democrats with enough border
security improvements to satisfy some Republicans. Concern about
border security has heightened following the April 15  Boston
Marathon bombings . The two suspects legally entered the U.S.
from Kyrgyzstan a decade ago.  The Senate measure requires specific benchmarks to be met
in improving border security before undocumented immigrants can
begin qualifying for eventual citizenship. The apprehension rate
of illegal crossings must reach 90 percent in high-risk sectors
along the U.S.-Mexico border.  Measuring Improvements  Republican and Democratic senators told Obama
administration officials at today’s hearing that passage of the
legislation depends on a credible way to measure border-security
improvements.  North Dakota Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat elected
last November when Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
carried her state, said the immigration legislation won’t be
successful unless the public perceives there “will be a sea
change” in border-security enforcement.  Voters want “an absolute commitment to making sure this
happens,” she told a panel of Homeland Security Department
officials.  Attempted border crossings are  down since 2000 , when 1.68
million people were apprehended on the Southwest border,
according to U.S Customs and Border Protection. Last year, the
number was about 357,000.  The effectiveness of border security last year, according
to a Government Accountability Office report based on Border
Patrol data, has ranged from 87 percent in the Tucson,  Arizona ,
sector to 71 percent along the Rio Grande River.  Illegal Crossings  Border Patrol Chief Michael Fisher, under questioning by
Coburn, acknowledged the rates don’t take into account the
number of illegal crossings that agents don’t detect.  That number “is going to have to be determined in finite
terms,” Coburn said. “If in fact the American people can’t
trust that the border is controlled, you are not going to be
able to pass this bill.”  Obama administration officials said the comprehensive
legislation is the best way to reduce illegal border crossings.
The measure includes tougher sanctions against employers who
hire undocumented workers as well as a reallocation of visas.  “You need to address the magnet that attracts people for
illegal work” by enforcing employer sanctions, said Assistant
Homeland Security Secretary David Heyman. The bill contains “a
number of different tools and devices” also including improved
technology along the border, he said.  Individual Bills  “Put all of that together, our ability to have a better
control of the border will also improve,” Heyman said.  In the House, Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a
Virginia Republican, said last month that he would proceed with
a series of individual bills instead of a comprehensive
immigration measure.  Representative Peter Roskam, an Illinois Republican, said
today he agreed with that approach.  “The bigger, the more complicated, the more stuff in the
bill, it’s easier for somebody to say, ‘I am a no,’” Roskam
said at the Peterson Foundation fiscal summit in  Washington .
“If you want to get to yes, break this down.”  Coburn also said it was a “mistake” for the Homeland
Security panel not to assert jurisdiction over drafting the
bill’s border-security provisions “because so much is going to
impact the agencies” under the committee’s oversight.  Unanimous Vote  The panel’s chairman, Democratic Senator Tom Carper of
 Delaware , said the Senate would have to vote unanimously to
refer the immigration measure’s border-security provisions to
the Homeland Security panel. Carper said he would explore that
option.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has said he plans to bring the
measure to the floor in June after the Judiciary committee
completes work on it.  Carper said while security has been improved along the
Southern border with  Mexico , the Homeland Security Department
must “do a much better job of measuring its performance at our
borders.”  Carper said he was concerned that the Border Patrol wasn’t
making full use of advanced radar systems on airplanes to detect
illegal activity along the U.S.-Mexico border.  “Aircraft without an advanced sensor on board to help
detect illegal activity on the ground is of very little value,”
Carper said.  Helicopters, Planes  One of three helicopters used near McAllen,  Texas , is
equipped with the sensors, and just one of 17 single-engine
C-206 airplanes has been fitted with an advanced infrared camera
system, he said.  Carper said the border agencies must make better use of
intelligence and work more closely with Mexican authorities to
stem the number of undocumented immigrants from Central America.  “We squeeze the balloon in northern Mexico” by cracking
down on drug cartels and it “pops out in places like El
Salvador,” Honduras and  Guatemala  where people are “coming
because of murder and mayhem in their countries,” he said.  Anne L. Richards, the Homeland Security Department’s
assistant inspector general for audits, blamed poor planning for
the failure to add new technology when buying equipment. She
agreed with criticism by Republican lawmakers that border-security agencies don’t have adequate data to measure their
performance.  “Our challenges are related to inadequate strategic
planning, a dearth of performance measures and data and
information that cannot be relied on to make sound decisions,”
she said in prepared testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  