-- Lufthansa Board Names Mayrhuber as Chairman After Back and Forth
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2013-05-07T18:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/lufthansa-board-names-mayrhuber-as-chairman-after-back-and-forth.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s supervisory
board named  Wolfgang Mayrhuber  its new chairman, following two
days of toing and froing on his nomination after investors had
criticized the former chief executive officer’s candidacy.  Mayrhuber, an Austrian national who had been Lufthansa
chief executive officer until 2010, was appointed after the
airline’s annual general meeting in Cologne today, according to
a release. Karl-Ludwig Kley, the CEO of drugmaker  Merck KGaA (MRK)  and
Lufthansa CFO from 1998 to 2006, will also join the panel, the
carrier said. The appointments are for a five-year period.  The election follows a dispute with institutional
investors, who had urged Mayrhuber not to consider the post to
give his successor at the helm, Christoph Franz, more freedom to
implement his turnaround plan. Mayrhuber initially pulled his
candidacy yesterday, only to renew his interest 12 hours later,
with the board backing his aspirations.  A voluntary code of conduct now requires CEOs wait two
years before they ascend to the supervisory panel, and caps the
number of permitted mandates. Investors had criticized
Mayrhuber’s nomination, saying parts of his strategy as CEO
failed and complaining he already held too many similar posts.  Leadership of companies in  Germany  is divided into an
executive board overseen by the CEO, and a supervisory board led
by a chairman. The supervisory board is split halfway between
managers representing the capital side and delegates from trade
unions and works councils who voice workers’ demands. Christine Behle, a union representative, was chosen as Mayrhuber’s deputy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  