-- Hungary Industry Output Shrinks for Sixth Month in March
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-07T08:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/hungary-industry-output-shrinks-for-sixth-month-in-march.html
Hungary’s industrial output shrank for
a sixth month in March as the government struggles to pull the
economy out of its second recession in four years.  Production fell a workday-adjusted 0.7 percent from a year
earlier after a revised 1 percent drop in February, the
Budapest-based statistics office said today. That compares with
a median  estimate  for a 0.9 percent drop in a Bloomberg survey
of nine economists. Output rose 0.4 percent from February after
a revised 0.1 percent increase the previous month.  Hungary entered recession in 2012 as trade and banking
links with the slumping euro area, as well as the government’s
focus on narrowing the  budget deficit  by levying extraordinary
taxes, smothered growth. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , facing re-
election in 2014, predicts the economy will grow 0.7 percent
this year.  “All sectors showed a decline except for car production,
where we saw growth,” statistician Miklos Schindele told
reporters. “Industrial production continues to be
unfavorable.”  The central bank last month started a Funding for Growth
plan, modeled on the Bank of England’s Funding for Lending
Scheme, to spur economic expansion by boosting lending to small
and medium-sized companies.  Orban sacrificed growth to keep the budget deficit within
the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product and remove the threat of cuts in funding from the bloc.  His policies included retroactive extraordinary taxes on
energy, retail and telecommunication companies as well as
 Europe ’s highest bank tax, which have damaged investment and
reduced the economy’s potential growth rate to near zero,
according to government estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  