-- Venezuelan Bank Official Charged in U.S. in Bribe Scheme
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/venezuelan-offical-u-s-broker-dealers-charged-in-bribe-scheme.html
An official with Venezuela’s state-owned economic development bank directed its bond-trading
business to a  New York  brokerage in exchange for bribes from two
of its employees, U.S. prosecutors said.  Maria Gonzalez, 54, vice president of finance at Banco de
Desarrollo Economico y Social de Venezuela, Tomas Alberto Clarke
Bethancourt, 43, and Jose Alejandro Hurtado, 38, were charged in
a criminal complaint unsealed yesterday in federal court in New
York.  Prosecutors said Clarke was a senior vice president and
Hurtado an employee in the Miami office of the brokerage, which
was identified in a lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission as Direct Access Partners LLC, or DAP.  “These latest charges certainly highlight the widespread
corruption throughout the Venezuelan government and the immense
sums of money available with no Venezuelan oversight,” Russ Dallen, head bond trader at Caracas Capital Markets, said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said that the
three defendants engaged in a conspiracy to pay bribes to
Gonzalez in exchange for her directing the bank’s financial
trading business to DAP. All three were arrested by agents with
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  on May 3 and presented in
federal court in Miami on May 6.  Intermediary  The SEC said Hurtado, who lives in Miami, was the
intermediary between DAP and Gonzalez. The Venezuelan government
has a majority ownership interest in the bank, known as BANDES,
and provided it with substantial funding, according to the SEC.  Henry Bell, a lawyer for Clarke, had no comment on the
charges. Frank Rubino, who represents Hurtado, and Jane
Moscowitz, a lawyer for Gonzalez, didn’t immediately return
phone messages yesterday seeking comment on the allegations.  Phone calls to DAP’s offices yesterday after regular
business hours weren’t answered.  From April 2009 through June 2010, Clarke, Hurtado and
Gonzalez participated in a conspiracy in which Gonzalez directed
trading business which she controlled to DAP and in return,
agents and employees of the broker-dealer split the more than
$60 million in mark-ups and mark-downs from trading with BANDES,
the U.S. alleged.  Split Commissions  Clarke and Hurtado allegedly devised a scheme with Gonzalez
to split commissions which BANDES paid the broker-dealer, and
the government said Gonzalez received monthly kickbacks from DAP
and its employees which prosecutors said “were frequently in
the six-figure amounts.”  Gonzalez, who was in charge of overseas trading for BANDES,
made at least $3.6 million in kickbacks from the scheme
according to prosecutors. In exchange, Gonzalez allegedly
directed bank business to DAP. Hurtado and his wife made
millions from DAP in salary, bonuses and finder’s fees in
connection with the BANDES business, prosecutors said. Millions
more went to a foreign entity controlled by Clarke, which then
transferred some of the money to a Swiss account for Gonzalez’s
benefit, according to the government.  In addition to generating money on mark-ups and mark-downs,
Clarke caused DAP in January 2010 buy and sell the same bonds
for BANDES on the same day.  “The result of such trades was that BANDES was left with
the same bond holdings as before the trades, except that it had
paid the broker-dealer approximately $10.5 million in mark-ups
in the course of the two round-trip transactions,” the U.S.
government said in its complaint.  Wife, Relative  The SEC’s lawsuit against Clarke and Hurtado includes as
defendants Haydee Leticia Pabon, 33, who is Hurtado’s wife, and
Iuri Rodolfo Bethancourt, 40, a resident of  Panama . According to
the SEC, Clarke and Bethancourt are “apparent relatives.”  Bharara’s office yesterday filed a civil forfeiture lawsuit
seeking control of bank accounts used in the alleged scheme and
Miami-area properties that Hurtado allegedly bought with his
proceeds.  “The defendants’ arrests lay bare a web of bribery and
corruption in which employees of a U.S. broker-dealer allegedly
generated tens of millions of dollars through transactions in
order to fund kickbacks to a Venezuelan government official in
exchange for her directing the Venezuelan economic development
bank’s financial trading business to their employer,” Bharara
said yesterday in a statement. “The defendants also engaged in
international  money laundering  to carry out their corrupt
scheme.”  Charges  A BANDES press official, who declined to be identified
because of bank policy, declined to comment on the charges. An
official in  Venezuela ’s finance ministry, who declined to be
identified because of ministry policy, also declined to comment.
A representative of the Information Ministry, who couldn’t be
identified because of ministry policy, declined to comment.  Gonzalez is charged with conspiracy to violate the Travel
Act, violation of the Travel Act, money laundering and money
laundering conspiracy. Clarke and Hurtado are each charged with
conspiracy to violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
violation of the FCPA, Conspiracy to violate the Travel Act,
violation of the Travel Act, money laundering and money
laundering conspiracy.  The money laundering and money laundering conspiracy
charges carry maximum prison terms of 20 years.  The case is U.S. v. Clarke, 13-mag-00683, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The SEC case
is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Bethancourt, 13-cv-03074, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in federal court in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 