-- Verizon to Lease or Sell Space in Its Manhattan Headquarters
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-05-07T20:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/verizon-to-lease-out-or-sell-space-in-its-manhattan-headquarters.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, will sell or lease out about
half the space in its  Manhattan  headquarters, part of a move to
cut costs and raise cash in a rebounding real estate market.  The company is inviting investors to assess the property
this week and submit plans for potential use, Verizon said today
in a statement. It expects to keep the first 10 floors of the
31-story structure, a 1920s-era building whose lobby and
exterior are designated as New York City landmarks.  By offering the space, located at 140 West St., Verizon
aims to capitalize on a renaissance of the area following the
Sept. 11 attacks more than a decade ago. The building is across
the street from One World Trade Center, now the tallest tower in
the U.S., which will open next year. The real estate could be
used as retail, restaurant, hotel or residential space for the
burgeoning neighborhood, Verizon said.  “Lower Manhattan -- especially the World Trade Center
neighborhood -- is destined to be an important tourist and
commercial center for the world, and the plan that Verizon is
proposing is in concert with that grand vision for the area,”
John Vazquez, vice president of global real estate, said in the
statement.  Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  has been hired to market the
space, said Nicholas Derasmo, a spokesman for the New York-based
brokerage.  Dual Disasters  Verizon’s tower, formerly the  New York  Telephone Co.
building, has suffered two blows in recent years. The structure
was damaged during the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001 when terrorists
destroyed the original World Trade Center, requiring Verizon to
embark on seven years of restoration. The devastation caused
hundreds of windows to be blown out and steel girders punctured
the building, according to MacRostie Historic Advisors LLC,
which consulted on the  rehabilitation project .  It was struck again last year by Superstorm Sandy, which
flooded the building. The view of Verizon’s opulent lobby under
water became a symbol of the storm’s destruction after the
company posted  a picture  of the damage on the Web.  It’s become increasingly attractive to convert New York
office space into housing, something that’s already happened to
previous Verizon buildings. Manhattan apartment prices climbed
5.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier as buyers
competed for a tight supply of properties, according to a report
by appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and brokerage Douglas Elliman
Real Estate.  Doing Math  “With the lack of housing supply, especially in the new
development space, I think every company, individual or
institution with a building that has conversion potential is
doing the math on whether they should take advantage of current
conditions,” said  Jonathan Miller , president of New York-based
 Miller Samuel Inc.   One Verizon office building in Chelsea on 18th St., which
was sold in 2009 to a partnership led by JDS Development Group,
was converted to a luxury condominium called Walker Tower. The
24-story project, where a top floor penthouse was listed for
sale at $55 million, is expected to be completed this year.  Just four blocks from Verizon’s 140 West St. building is
the landmark Woolworth Building, where the upper floors are
being converted into 40 luxury apartment units. An investment
group led by New York developer Alchemy Properties acquired the
top 29 stories last year for $68 million, according to research
firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Earlier Deals  Verizon has previously sold parts of other buildings,
including 1095 Avenue of the Americas and 375 Pearl St. The
company maintained communications equipment at both locations.  With 140 West St., Verizon will retain the executive
offices and boardroom on the 28th and 29th floors, in addition
to the lower floors. The building will still house both network
and administrative employees and it will remain the corporate
headquarters, said Ray McConville, a spokesman for the company.  As part of the move, about 1,100 mostly customer-service
workers will be relocated to a call center in  Brooklyn . Verizon
said it is planning to make improvements, including a fitness
center, at the Flatbush Avenue site.  Verizon shares rose 1.7 percent to $52.92 at the close in
New York. The stock has climbed 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  