-- Wal-Mart Said to Focus on McMillon, Simon to Succeed CEO
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y   a n d   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 2013-05-07T21:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/wal-mart-said-to-focus-on-two-internal-candidates-to-succeed-ceo.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s board, as it
prepares for new leadership at the company, has identified two
internal candidates to succeed Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke , according to a person familiar with the situation.  The two leading contenders are international chief Doug McMillon, 46, and  Bill Simon , 53, who runs the U.S. operations,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
matter is private. While Duke, 63, isn’t expected to step down
immediately, Wal-Mart may name his successor in the coming
months, the person said.  The new CEO will take over a chain struggling to keep U.S.
sales growing as its lower-income customers pull back amid high
 unemployment  and defect to online retailers such as Amazon.com
Inc. or dollar stores such as  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  The next CEO
also will have to handle a diminished workforce that’s having
trouble keeping store shelves stocked and oversee a probe of
allegations of bribery in Mexico.  “There are rumors and speculation about our company all
the time and we just don’t comment on them,”  David Tovar , a
Wal-Mart spokesman, said in a telephone interview today. Tovar
declined to comment on succession timing.  Duke is the fourth CEO since Wal-Mart became a publicly
traded company in 1970. Founder  Sam Walton  was the first, and,
ever since he stepped down in 1988, the company has looked
inside for its CEO. Duke and his predecessors --  Lee Scott  and
David Glass -- all were insiders with years of experience at the
company before taking over the top job. Duke was named CEO of
the world’s largest retailer in November 2008 and didn’t
formally take the reins until Feb. 1, 2009.  Share Performance  Under Duke, the company’s shares have lagged behind the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Wal-Mart  advanced  67 percent from
the last trading day before Duke took over through yesterday,
compared with a 96 percent increase for the  S&P 500 . A gauge of
42  consumer-staples  companies in the S&P 500 rose 85 percent in
the same period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wal-Mart was unchanged at $78.83 at the close in New York.  McMillon, who has worked at Wal-Mart since starting as a
summer worker in 1984, is close to the Walton family, three
other people said. Simon joined Wal-Mart in 2006, after working
in the food and beverage industry.  “It’s the kind of organization that requires promotion
from within, and therefore the candidates are obviously
inside,” said Peter Crist, chairman of Crist/Kolder Associates,
an executive recruiter based in Hinsdale,  Illinois .  Like all companies with good governance, succession
planning is a regular and ongoing process at Wal-Mart, said
another person.  Improving Distribution  Before becoming CEO, Duke improved Wal-Mart’s distribution
system by consolidating shipments to make sure each delivery
truck would contain a full load of goods for each store. He was
later put in charge of Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores in 2003.  As CEO, he installed a new U.S. leadership team, which
reversed course on a strategy to de-clutter stores, and is
opening smaller locations in rural and urban areas to lure back
U.S. consumers struggling to recover from the economic slump.
Simon has played a key role, becoming CEO of Wal-Mart’s U.S.
division in 2010.  Prior to joining Wal-Mart as executive vice president of
professional services in 2006, Simon held roles at companies
including the U.S. restaurant company  Brinker International
Inc. (EAT) ,  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the U.K. spirits maker, Cadbury Schweppes,
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  RJR Nabisco . He was secretary of the Florida
Department of Management Services under then-Governor  Jeb Bush .
He also served 25 years in the U.S. Navy and Naval Reserves.  Brazil, China  With Simon running the U.S. business, McMillon oversaw
international operations. The company has been working to
relaunch its “everyday low price” strategy in Brazil and China
after struggling to find strong sales growth in both markets. In
India, Wal-Mart has faced questions over lobbying.  McMillon, an Arkansas native, began his career with Wal-Mart in 1984 as a summer worker in a distribution center,
according to the company’s website. He moved through the ranks,
working in a variety of merchandising roles in the U.S.
division, where he concentrated on food, apparel and general
merchandise. Before taking the reins of the international
division, McMillon ran Sam’s Clubs from 2006 to 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  