-- WebMD’s CEO Redmond Steps Down After 1 Year in Post
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-07T23:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/webmd-s-ceo-redmond-steps-down-after-1-year-in-post.html
WebMD Health Corp. (WBMD) ’s Chief Executive
Officer Cavan Redmond stepped down today after about a year on
the job as the consumer health-information website raised its
sales forecast for 2013.  David Schlanger, WebMD’s senior vice president, strategic
and corporate development, will take over on an interim basis in
the top post as the board seeks a permanent replacement, the New
York-based company said in a statement. The company also raised
its revenue  projection  to $450 million to $470 million from $430
million to $455 million, based on an improved outlook for its
advertising business from drug companies.  WebMD generates most of its  revenue  from ads and
sponsorships, and said in July that business would probably
suffer as drugmakers face patent expirations and delayed
products. In December the online provider of health information
said it would fire 250 workers, about 14 percent of its
workforce, citing the decline in drug ads.  “The change announced today will best position us to build
on the momentum that our senior management team has created to
date,” said Chairman Martin Wygod. “We will accelerate the
development and implementation of strategies to diversify our
revenue base and capture opportunities arising form the rapidly
changing health-care landscape.”  WebMD’s shares gained 15 percent to $29.24 in extended
trading at 6:08 p.m. New York time. The  shares  have gained 17
percent in the past 12 months.  Deal Talks  Redmond, the former head of  animal health , consumer health-
care and corporate strategy for Pfizer Inc., was hired about a
year ago as CEO. In January 2012, WebMD said it broke off talks
with potential buyers because the offers were less than the
company’s value. Schlanger has been with WebMD and its
predecessors for 18 years and was responsible for acquisitions
and deals operations.  WebMD also today reported its first-quarter  net loss 
narrowed to $1.54 million, or 3 cents a share, from $7.78
million, or 14 cents, a year earlier. Analysts had  estimated  a
loss of 15 cents, according to the average of five estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were $113 million, compared with
analysts’ estimates of $107 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  