-- West Australia Set for Critical Rain Amid Sowing, CBH Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-05-07T05:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/west-australia-set-for-critical-rain-after-dry-sowing-cbh-says.html
Grain growers in  Western Australia ,
the country’s second-biggest wheat producer last year, are set
to receive “critical” rain, boosting the outlook for crops
being planted into dry soil, according to CBH Group.  “We’re hoping to get 10 millimeters to 15 millimeters,”
Colin Tutt, general manager operations at the state’s biggest
grain handler, said by phone from Perth. “That will allow us to
get a fair bit of crop in.”  Wheat climbed 6.3 percent in April, the best month since
July, on concern freezing weather may cut production in the U.S.,
the biggest exporter. Western Australia’s wheat output slumped
38 percent last harvest after dry weather curbed yields,
according to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics and Sciences, or Abares. Parts of the state’s
southwest may get as much as 25 millimeters (0.98 inches) in the
four days to May 10, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  “We’ve progressed reasonably well, although moisture is a
bit of an issue,” Tutt said. “Tonight’s rain is critical.”  New South Wales overtook Western  Australia  as the country’s
largest wheat producer last year after production dropped to 6.9
million metric tons from 11 million tons, according to Canberra-
based Abares. The state’s southwest, the main grain-growing
region, had below-average rainfall in April after above-average
rain in summer, according to the weather bureau.  Planting Drops  The area planted may total 6.5 million hectares (16 million
acres) to 6.8 million hectares this year, a decline of about
100,000 to 200,000 hectares from a year earlier, as some farmers
face financing difficulties, according to Tutt. “If we can get
this rain tonight, we might see finances a bit freer and more
crops go into the ground,” he said.  Production in Australia’s east may decline if dry weather
continues, according to Emerald Group Australia Pty. Inland New
South  Wales  had little rain in April and Victoria, the fourth-
largest wheat grower last year, received much less than usual,
according to the weather bureau.  “We haven’t seen any tangible reduction yet in planting
intentions, but the stress is there,” said Brian Dalitz,
general manager of trading and marketing at the Melbourne-based
grain handler. “If we get to the first half of June without
some rain on the ground or a conducive forecast, we’ll start to
lose some acres.”  No significant rainfall is forecast for New South Wales and
Victoria to May 10, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.
Australia’s wheat  production  may climb 13 percent to 24.9
million tons this harvest on an increase in area, Abares
forecast in March.  Wheat for delivery in July rose as much as 0.8 percent to
$7.085 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade today after
Department of Agriculture data showed winter-crop conditions
worsened in the U.S. and planting of the spring-variety lagged
behind last year’s pace.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  