-- WestJet Plunges as Capacity Gains Seen Hurting Profit
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-05-07T20:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/westjet-trims-fleet-age-with-new-737s-in-efficiency-push.html
WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  fell the most in
almost four years amid concern that additional flights will
crimp profit as competition with larger rival  Air Canada (AC/A) 
escalates.  Canada’s largest discount carrier said today it expects a
“moderate decline” in second-quarter revenue per available
seat mile as system capacity climbs 9 percent to 10 percent in
the period. Capacity will climb 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent for
all of 2013 after a 6 percent first-quarter increase, Calgary-
based WestJet said in a  statement .  Less than a week ago, Air Canada predicted further pressure
on 2013 fares as its first-quarter yield dropped with
competitors adding seating and offering lower prices on some
routes in North and South America.  “There’s a high degree of anxiety about capacity growth,”
David Tyerman, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “This industry has a long bad
history of airlines pursuing their own growth agenda which ends
up destroying profitability for everybody. And of course WestJet
and  Air Canada (AC/B)  both have growth agendas.”  WestJet dropped 7.5 percent to C$22.87 at the close of
trading in Toronto, the largest single-day drop since June 2009.
Air Canada tumbled 7.6 percent to C$2.32, its lowest level since
Feb. 21.  Yield, or average fare per mile, has declined since the
start of the second quarter after climbing just 0.7 percent in
the first three months of 2013, WestJet Executive Vice President
Robert Cummings said today.  Lower Yield  “In deploying more capacity, we’ve done so with a bit of a
reduction on the yield side,” Cummings told analysts on a
conference call. “Yields aren’t significantly down, but with
more capacity deployed, and a trend toward slightly less
bookings close in, we have the yield backing off a little bit.”  First-quarter yield showed “the weakest year-over-year
growth WestJet has reported since the second quarter of 2010,”
 Walter Spracklin , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto,
said in a note to clients. “Increasing domestic capacity is
starting to weigh on the significant pricing strength the Canada
airlines have enjoyed over the last couple of years.”  WestJet is working toward the start of its Encore regional
unit, which will compete with Air Canada and seek part of a C$2
billion market for short-haul Canadian and trans-border flights.
Encore will begin daily service on June 24 from Calgary and
 Vancouver , WestJet said today.  Air Canada  Air Canada responded Feb. 1 by introducing turboprop
service in Western Canada, WestJet’s backyard, and boosting
available seats to meet demand.  “Encore will add capacity into the regional market, which
Air Canada is trying to defend,” Tyerman said. “The worry is
that profits will start dropping because too much capacity being
put in negatively impacts pricing.”  WestJet’s  profit  of 68 cents a share in the first quarter
compared with the 64-cent average of projections from analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. Net income climbed to C$91.1 million
($90.7 million) from C$68.3 million, or 49 cents, Calgary-based
WestJet said today.  Traffic results for April, which WestJet released
separately today, showed planes were 82.7 percent full on
average, a drop of 3.5 percentage points from the same month a
year earlier. WestJet is seeing “stronger bookings” so far in
May and June, Chief Executive Officer Gregg Saretsky said
without being more specific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  