-- Whitworth Wins Timken Holders’ Backing for Steel Spinoff
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-05-07T15:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/whitworth-wins-timken-holders-backing-for-steel-spinoff.html
Ralph Whitworth’s Relational Investors
LLC won  Timken Co. (TKR)  shareholders’ support in a nonbinding vote
urging management to spin off the company’s steel unit from its
larger ball-bearing business.  Directors will evaluate the results and announce steps
within 45 days, Chairman Ward J. Timken said in a statement
today. The plan won support of 53 percent of shareholder votes
cast at Timken’s annual meeting. For all outstanding shares, 47
percent favored the proposal and 41 percent opposed it.  “The board must now acquiesce to the will of the
shareholders consistent with their fiduciary duties,” according
to a statement from Relational and California State Teachers’
Retirement System, which together own 7.3 percent of Canton,
Ohio-based Timken.  Relational and Calstrs, as the pension fund is known, have
been lobbying for a breakup since November on the grounds that
it would boost shareholder value. The board argued that a
spinoff would boost expenses, reduce efficiency and inflate
borrowing costs for an independent steel operation.  “We appreciate the thoughtful feedback we’ve received from
our shareholders on the spinoff proposal,” Ward Timken said in
the company’s statement.  Timken rose 2.9 percent to $56.21 at 11:07 a.m. in New
York. The shares jumped 32 percent  through yesterday  since Nov.
27, the day before Relational and Calstrs disclosed their stakes
and described the breakup proposal.  Whitworth has used his holdings to push for change at
companies such as  Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW) , which sold a
majority stake in its decorative surfaces unit last year and
said in February it’s studying the sale of its packaging
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  