-- Wilmar Says First-Quarter Profit Gains 23% on Oilseed Earnings
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-05-07T23:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/wilmar-says-first-quarter-profit-gains-23-on-oilseed-earnings.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s
biggest palm oil processor, said its first-quarter profit gained
23 percent as earnings at its oilseeds unit rebounded.  Net income was $315.4 million in the three months ended
March 31, from $255.9 million a year earlier, the Singapore-
based company said today in a statement. That compares with the
$296.5 million average estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales decreased 2.6 percent to $10.2 billion.  Wilmar’s oilseeds unit, which incurred a loss a year
earlier, improved due to higher margins in soybean processing,
the company said. China will probably import less soybeans, used
for oil and livestock feed, this year as the outbreak of bird
flu curbs poultry demand, a Wilmar executive said last month.  “The positive crush margins during the quarter were a
result of lower cost of imported soybeans and higher local
product prices, due to late arrival of soybeans in  China ,”
Wilmar said today in the statement.  Shares were unchanged at S$3.31 in  Singapore  yesterday. The
earnings were announced today before the stock market opened.
The stock has slid one percent this year, compared with the 6.8
percent gain in the benchmark Straits Times index.  “In China, the bird flu will affect meal consumption in
the short term, but is not expected to have a long term
effect,” Chief Executive Officer Kuok Khoon Hong said in the
statement.  The H7N9 virus has killed 26 people, as of May 2, since
March and prompted Chinese authorities to shut down live poultry
markets and cull birds. Authorities in Shanghai retrieved 11,040
dead pigs from  Shanghai ’s Huangpu river in March, with thousands
more found in neighboring Zhejiang province.  Soybean imports, which more than tripled from 2004 to 59.2
million metric tons in the year to Sept. 30, will probably fall
to 58 million tons this year, according to the median of a
Bloomberg survey last month of four crushers and three analysts
in China. Feed is mostly made with soybean meal and corn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  