-- Wolves Fire Saunders After Demotion; Jackett Quits Millwall
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-07T10:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/wolves-fire-manager-dean-saunders-after-relegation-to-league-one.html
Wolverhampton Wanderers  fired manager
Dean Saunders after the club was relegated to League One, the
third level of English soccer. Kenny Jackett resigned at
Millwall.  It was a second straight demotion for Wolves, who dropped
out of the Premier League a year ago. The team lost five of its
last six games to finish next-to-last in the Championship.  Saunders, 48, took over the role in January. He’s the
fourth man to be dismissed from the job in the past 15 months,
following Mick McCarthy,  Terry Connor  and Stale Solbakken.  “The club will now take as long as is necessary to make
this crucial appointment and there will be no publicly
communicated time scales,” Wolves said  on its website .  Saunders, who previously managed Wrexham and Doncaster
Rovers, played for clubs including Derby, Liverpool and Aston
Villa. Wolves were relegated along with Bristol City and
Peterborough.  Jackett, 51, quit London team Millwall after almost six
years in charge, one of the longest tenures among current
managers in  England .  He took the team to this year’s F.A. Cup semifinals but the
club finished only two points above the Championship relegation
zone after four losses in the last five games.  “After almost six seasons I personally feel the time is
right for a new challenge, and also for a new manager to come
into Millwall with fresh ideas, to take the club forward towards
its long-term goal of reaching the Premier League,” Jackett
told the club website.  ‘Fantastic Service’  Chairman John Berylson said Jackett had given “fantastic
service” to the club.  “On a personal level, whilst respecting Kenny’s decision,
I wish I could have persuaded him to change his mind,” he said.
“He was my first acquisition as chairman of the club and has
proved himself to be one of the best.”  Former Watford player Jackett later managed the club before
switching to Swansea in 2004 and Millwall in 2007. Both he and
Saunders played for the Welsh national team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  