-- Yahoo CEO Says Report-to-Work Policy Was Well Received
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-05-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/yahoo-s-ceo-says-report-to-work-policy-well-received-internally.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  said a policy change barring employees from
working at home has been well received internally and helped the
company step up its introduction of new applications.  “I didn’t mean for it to become an industry narrative,”
Mayer said yesterday at a conference sponsored by Wired
magazine. “We were just saying, it’s not right for us right
now. Everyone at Yahoo works in teams. I heard from a lot of
people all around the company that the fact that our team is
distributed causes drag.”  As Mayer nears her first anniversary as CEO, Yahoo has
ramped up its output of new Web services and apps for mobile
devices. The introduction in recent months of programs for e-mail, weather and news was made possible by what she calls the
“Reese’s peanut butter effect” of helping people from
different disciplines collaborate to create cool new things.  “That only happens when people come together,” Mayer said
at the conference.  Mayer stirred controversy in February when the company
ordered employees who work from home to begin reporting to
offices. While the directive was aimed at fostering
collaboration and boosting the speed and quality of task
completion, it sparked concern that Yahoo doesn’t place a
premium on work-life balance or flexible work arrangements.  Google Glass  Alluding to possible products on the horizon for Yahoo,
Mayer said the company’s developers are testing out Google
Inc.’s wearable computer, Google Glass, to see how services
might work with the device.  The technology behind Summly, the news-summarization
service founded by a 17-year-old entrepreneur and purchased by
Yahoo in March, will be used in more mobile apps to simplify
text-based content, Mayer said.  As for Nick D’Aloisio, who became a millionaire after
selling Summly to Yahoo, Mayer doesn’t expect him to stay at the
company for long.  “He’s got to go to college,” Mayer said. “Maybe we’ll
get him back afterward and he’ll be a summer intern, but he’s
got to go to college.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  