-- Yankees’ Rodriguez Takes First Swings Since Having Hip Surgery
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-07T04:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/yankees-rodriguez-takes-first-swings-since-having-hip-surgery.html
Alex Rodriguez  participated in his
first baseball activities since undergoing left hip surgery four
months ago, as he ran, threw and hit off a tee yesterday at the
New York Yankees’ minor league complex.  Rodriguez started a 30-day rehabilitation program in Tampa,
Florida, joining teammates  Mark Teixeira ,  Curtis Granderson ,
 Kevin Youkilis ,  Francisco Cervelli  and Ivan Nova, who are also
working their way back from injuries.  Rodriguez will be re-evaluated after his rehab period and
then will probably begin another 30-day program, meaning the
earliest he’d be able to join the Yankees would be after Major
League Baseball All-Star break from July 15-18. Rodriguez said
he’s not focusing on a timetable for his return and isn’t yet
sure that it will be this season.  “I really hope so. That’s as specific as I’ll get,”
Rodriguez told reporters yesterday, according to the  team’s
website.  “But I’m working 24/7 to get back on the field.”  Rodriguez, a three-time American League Most Valuable
Player, hasn’t played since last year’s postseason, when he went
3-for-25 without an extra-base hit and struck out 12 times. The
Yankees have said Rodriguez’s struggles were probably connected
to the hip injuries and in January he had surgery to repair a
torn labrum and correct bone alignment and a cyst.  “I have a lot of unfinished business,” said Rodriguez,
who also praised the Yankees for their 18-12 start. “I’m
looking forward to getting back and helping my team win.”  Teixeira, who’s missed the first 30 games with a partially
torn tendon in his right wrist, fielded ground balls yesterday
while taking 20 swings in a soft-toss drill. He may take live
batting practice later this week, the Yankees’ website said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  