-- Euro Climbs Most in 3 Weeks on Signs of German Economic Growth
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-08T21:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/yen-gains-for-second-day-as-traders-bet-recent-selling-overdone.html
The euro rallied the most in three
weeks against the dollar as German industrial production
unexpectedly rose for a second month in March, a sign that
 Europe ’s largest economy may be returning to growth.  New Zealand’s dollar fell to a five-week low versus its
U.S. peer after Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said the
central bank has sold the currency and may do so again. Norway’s
krone gained the most against the greenback of its 16 most-traded peers after policy makers declined to lower the benchmark
rate.  Stanley Druckenmiller , who made $1 billion for  George
Soros  as his chief strategist by forcing a devaluation of the
pound in 1992, said investors should bet against  Australia ’s
dollar.  “We had that positive German production number this
morning, so that was something that helped to boost the euro,”
Eric Viloria, a senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group
LLC in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “The concerns
recently from a lot of the policy makers in the  euro zone  have
been that the core has been slowing.”  The euro gained 0.6 percent to $1.3153 at 5 p.m. in New
York after rising as much as 0.9 percent, the largest advance
since April 16. The 17-nation shared currency climbed 0.6
percent to 130.22 yen. The yen was little changed at 99.01 per
dollar.  Trading Volume  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $27 billion, compared with turnover of $33.7 billion
yesterday, according to data reported by U.S. banks to the
Depository Trust Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg.  Volume in options on the dollar-yuan  exchange rate  amounted
to $5.5 billion, the largest share of trades at 20.4 percent.
Dollar versus yen options were the second most-actively traded,
at $5.3 billion, or 19.7 percent.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 65 percent more than the
average of the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, and yen trading fell 55 percent, according to Bloomberg
analysis.  Norway’s central Bank kept its benchmark interest rates
unchanged at 1.5 percent for a seventh meeting after fighting
krone strength with verbal warnings to mitigate the exchange
rate’s effect on inflation and exports. The currency rallied 1.6
percent against the dollar to 5.7490.  Peso, Zloty  Mexico’s peso erased earlier losses after the nation’s
credit rating was raised one step to BBB+ by  Fitch Ratings  on
the prospect that proposed legal changes will boost growth in
Latin America’s second-largest economy. The peso rose for a
second day, rallying 0.4 percent to 11.9771 versus the dollar.  Poland’s central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  by a
quarter point to a record low 3 percent as the European Union’s
largest eastern economy struggles with slowing growth. The zloty
fell as much as 0.3 percent versus the euro before trading up
0.3 percent at 4.1299.  Druckenmiller, the billionaire hedge-fund manager who
returned an average of 30 percent a year from 1986 through 2010,
said the long rally by commodities is over as  China  switches to
consumption-led growth rather than investing in infrastructure.  Druckenmiller is betting the Australian dollar will “come
down and come down hard,” he said today at the Ira Sohn
Investment Conference in New York.  The Aussie declined 0.2 percent to $1.0170. It jumped 0.5
percent to NZ$1.2104, rallying from a more-than three-year low
of NZ$1.1958 yesterday.  In China,  imports  rose 16.8 percent in April from the prior
month, the customs administration said today in Beijing. That
was more than the 13 percent increase expected by economists in
a Bloomberg survey. Exports grew 14.7 percent last month from
March. China is the biggest trading partner for both Australia
and  New Zealand .  ‘Strengthening Pressure’  Wheeler told the New Zealand parliament’s finance and
expenditure select committee in Wellington today that he
reserves the right for further currency sales to damp gains in
the kiwi. The RBNZ publishes monthly figures for its net
currency sales that may or may not involve direct intervention,
which show it sold NZ$2 million in March, and NZ$199 million in
December. It had an intervention capacity of NZ$8.7 billion at
March 31, the data shows.  The  New Zealand dollar  dropped 0.7 percent to 84.01 U.S.
cents.  Baby Steps  The euro gained as  German industrial production  rose 1.2
percent in March from a revised 0.6 percent expansion the
previous month, a report showed. That was a second month of
gains and compares with a 0.1 percent contraction forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The shared currency extended its advance as  Germany ’s
cabinet in Berlin approved European Union plans to place all
system-relevant banks under the supervision of the  European
Central Bank . “Another building block toward better banking
supervision in Europe,” said chief government spokesman Steffen
Seibert.  “Europe is making baby-step progress in some of their
structural reforms,” Brad Bechtel, managing director at Faros
Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  