-- Yuan Rises as China Pledges Capital-Account Convertibility Plan
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-05-07T08:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-07/yuan-rises-as-china-pledges-capital-account-convertibility-plan.html
The  yuan  strengthened the most this
year as Premier Li Keqiang pledged to come up with a plan this
year that would allow investment capital to move more freely in
and out of China.  The proposal, part of the government efforts to loosen
control over the currency and interest rates, will include a
mechanism enabling individuals to invest overseas, the nation’s
Cabinet said yesterday. People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor
Yi Gang said last month the yuan’s trading band will be widened
“in the near future.” The central bank raised the daily
 reference rate  0.05 percent to 6.2083 per dollar, shy of the
record 6.2082 on May 2. The currency is allowed to diverge a
maximum 1 percent from the fixing.  “ China  is moving forward with exchange-rate reform and
making the yuan more globally used,” said Nathan Chow, a Hong
Kong-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “There have
been bets the trading band will be widened, giving more room for
appreciation. Yet, it’s unlikely to happen soon as that might
fuel speculation and worsen inflation.”  The yuan rose 0.2 percent, this year’s largest one-day
gain, to close at 6.1541 per dollar in  Shanghai , according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It dropped 0.18 percent
yesterday, the most since December, as China intensified
scrutiny of cash transfers from abroad. The currency has gained
1.2 percent this year and touched a 19-year high of 6.1521 on
May 6.  Offshore Market  In Hong Kong, the yuan gained 0.28 percent, the most in
four months, to 6.1585 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped 0.35 percent yesterday, the biggest loss
since March 2012, after the currency regulator said it would
step up efforts to ensure companies and banks are not bringing
in cash for speculative purposes.  Warning notices will be sent out to trading companies whose
goods and capital flows do not match, as well as to those that
are bringing large amounts of funds into China, the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange said in a May 5 statement.
Chinese lenders must boost foreign-exchange positions when loan-
to-deposit ratios for overseas currencies exceed reference
levels, it said.  The clampdown may slow yuan appreciation in the near term,
HSBC Holdings Plc strategists  Paul Mackel  and Ju Wang wrote
yesterday in a research note. The measures do not mark a turning
point for the yuan, according to Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-
based strategist at Societe Generale SA.  “ Renminbi  remains very attractive in the long-run,” Chong
wrote in a note yesterday. “A check on the currency is there to
manage rather than reverse the trend.”  The yuan will gain 0.6 percent in the rest of the year to
reach 6.12 per dollar by Dec. 31, according to the median
forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.22 percent today to 6.2280,
a 1.2 percent discount to the onshore exchange rate.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
decreased six basis points, to 0.06 percentage point, to 1.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  