-- 149 Airport Towers Spared Budget Ax as FAA Halts Closings
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-10T19:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/149-airport-towers-spared-budget-ax-as-faa-halts-closings.html
U.S. aviation regulators will keep
149 contractor-staffed airport towers open at least through
Sept. 30 after Congress authorized budget transfers to stave off
planned closings.  The U.S. Department of Transportation said today in an e-mailed statement that it would also transfer $21 million within
its budget to fund technology programs and maintenance of the
air-traffic infrastructure.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  had planned to stop
funding the towers at mid-sized airports on June 15 as part of
its effort to cut $637 million this fiscal year under across-the-board budget trims known as sequestration.  “We are grateful that the leaders of DOT and the Federal
Aviation Administration have moved to utilize the clear
authority provided by the Congress to keep contract towers open
and operational beyond June 15,” Spencer Dickerson, executive
director of the Alexandria, Virginia-based U.S. Contract Tower
Association, said in a statement.  The FAA announced April 27 that it was ending furloughs for
employees, including air-traffic controllers, after thousands of
flights were delayed. The furloughs were also triggered by
sequestration cuts.  Congress the day before had passed a law granting the
agency more authority to transfer funds from other accounts to
pay for salaries. President  Barack Obama  signed the legislation
May 1.  While the law’s language doesn’t address the towers, 124
members of the House and Senate wrote FAA Administrator Michael Huerta and his boss, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, on May
2 urging them to maintain funding for the towers. The letters
said lawmakers intended that the agency spare the towers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  