-- ABB Says Chief Joe Hogan to Quit for ‘Private Reasons’
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-05-10T11:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/abb-says-ceo-hogan-to-quit-for-private-reasons-.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest
supplier of power grids, said Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan
will step down for “private reasons” after five years at the
helm of the Swiss company.  Hogan, 56, will continue in the role until a replacement is
appointed and the former  General Electric Co. (GE)  executive is
“committed to a smooth transition,” ABB said in a statement
today. He didn’t resign because of ill health and there was no
conflict with the board or chairman, spokesman Antonio Ligi
said, declining to give further details.  The surprise exit of Hogan, who joined ABB in 2008 and was
the first American to lead the Zurich-based company in its 120-year history, comes after he spent $20 billion on investments
and acquisitions to broaden its reach and portfolio. He also
started an efficiency drive to rein in costs as clients cut
spending on power gear amid the global economic crisis.  “Hogan’s track record of cutting costs and protecting
margins is exemplary in the industry,” said Panagiotis Spiliopoulos, an analyst at Bank Vontobel. “Several larger
acquisitions to fill technology white spots and expand the
company’s presence in  North America  were highly successful. We
regret the departure.”  Outperforming Rivals  ABB  dropped  as much as 1.8 percent to 21.15 francs in
Zurich trading and was down 0.6 percent as of 1:15 p.m., valuing
the company at 49 billion francs ($51 billion). Before today,
ABB shares had gained 34 percent in the past 12 months, while
General Electric rose 20 percent,  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE)   added  22
percent and  France ’s  Schneider Electric SA (SU)  increased 32 percent.  “This has been a difficult decision as I leave behind a
strong and talented executive committee and a cohesive board
whose support I could always count on,” Hogan said.  The company said it will be looking internally and
externally for a new chief.  ABB’s margin based on earnings before interest, taxes,
amortization and depreciation rose by 1.1 percentage points to
15 percent in the first quarter, the company said April 24.
Operational improvements such as lower travel expenses and the
sourcing of materials at lower prices saved $260 million in the
quarter, compensating for less profitable orders. Sales
increased by 9 percent to $9.7 billion.  A week later, German rival Siemens cut its full-year
forecast after quarterly earnings missed analyst estimates and
said revenue fell 6.7 percent to 18 billion euros.  Solar Push  Formed through the merger of Brown Boveri & Cie of
 Switzerland  and ASEA AB of  Sweden , ABB makes components and
systems to transmit and distribute electricity, as well as
motors and robots.  Hogan’s most recent  acquisition  was the $1 billion takeover
of  Power-One Inc. (PWER) , a California-based maker of solar inverters.
The deal gives ABB, the world’s biggest electricity-networks
builder, inverters that allow solar power to be fed into grids.
ABB is looking to tap a market forecast to grow by more than 10
percent annually, driven by a need for affordable energy and
declining costs of producing solar power.  The Power-One purchase is an example of how Hogan has been
bringing new technology to the Swiss company’s portfolio. Solar
inverters convert the direct current generated by solar panels
into the alternating current needed to run appliances on power
grids.  M&A Legacy  Hogan, who holds a bachelor of science degree in business
administration from Geneva College and an MBA from Robert Morris
University, also orchestrated the purchase of drives maker
Baldor Electric Co. and low-voltage products maker Thomas &
Betts Corp.  ABB exceeded a savings target last year and Hogan said last
month he would be cautious about investment until spending by
customers picks up.  The February appointment of Eric Elzvik to the role of
chief financial officer, after a career of almost three decades
at the company, may lend a degree of stability to management as
Hogan is replaced.  Hogan was working alongside Chairman Hubertus von Gruenberg, who clashed with Hogan’s predecessor Fred Kindle.  The board “sincerely regrets” Hogan’s departure, von
Gruenberg said in the release today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  