-- Mack’s AREA Property Partners to Be Acquired by Ares
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-05-10T15:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/mack-s-area-property-partners-to-be-acquired-by-ares.html
AREA Property Partners LP, the real
estate investment firm William Mack co-founded with  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) ’s  Leon Black , agreed to be acquired by
Ares Management LLC.  Mack, 73, will step down as AREA’s chairman to focus on his
family’s property investments and charitable pursuits, the
companies said today in a statement. His son Richard, currently
New York-based AREA’s chief executive officer for  North America ,
will become a senior adviser to Ares’s real estate group. The
deal’s terms weren’t disclosed.  “The entire Ares Management platform will greatly benefit
from AREA’s geographic reach, market insights, industry
relationships and seasoned investment professionals,” Tony Ressler, senior partner and chairman of Los Angeles-based Ares’s
executive committee, said in the statement.  AREA, formerly named Apollo Real Estate Advisors, was one
of the original investors in  Time Warner Center , the 2.8
million-square-foot (260,000-square-meter) complex at the
southwest corner of New York’s  Central Park  that houses the
media company’s headquarters. Other investments include the
Hyatt Regency Waikiki Resort & Spa; the Carr America 15-building
office portfolio in suburban Atlanta; and St. Katherine Dock, a
22-acre (8-hectare) mixed-use development near the Tower of
London, according to AREA’s website.  Lee Neibart, AREA’S CEO, will become a senior partner in
Ares’s real estate group, according to the statement.  Ares has about $59 billion under management, according to
the statement. The firm describes itself as a global alternative
asset manager with concentrations in private equity, private
debt and  capital markets , including high-yield bonds and other
fixed-income investments. Jacuzzi Brands Corp., Simmons Bedding
Co., 99 Cents Only Stores and Marietta Corp. are among companies
in which Ares has invested, according to its website.  The acquisition is subject to regulatory and investor
approval, the companies said in the statement. They didn’t say
when they expect the deal to be completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  