-- Actavis Says It’s in Early Talks to Buy Warner Chilcott
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/actavis-said-to-be-in-early-talks-to-acquire-warner-chilcott-1-.html
Actavis Inc. (ACT) , the largest U.S. maker
of generic drugs by market value, said it’s in “early stage
discussions” to buy  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX) , the drugmaker that
unsuccessfully pursued a sale last year.  Bloomberg reported yesterday before the announcement that
the companies were in acquisition talks, citing people familiar
with the matter who asked not to be named because the
discussions were private. The negotiations come a few weeks
after Actavis weighed a merger with fellow generics maker
 Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , said the people.  “Actavis has entered into early stage discussions with
Warner Chilcott Plc regarding a potential combination of the two
companies,” Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis said in a
statement. Warner Chilcott issued a similar statement. The
companies said no agreement had been reached and they would have
no further comment on the talks.  Warner Chilcott, led by Chief Executive Officer Roger Boissonneault, had a market value of about $3.76 billion as of
yesterday. Combining with Dublin-based Warner Chilcott would
lower Actavis’s tax burden over time, and would help the
generics maker expand in women’s health, said one of the people.  “It’s a great combination for the two of them,”  David Maris , an analyst with BMO Capital Markets Corp. in New York,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Actavis gets to add
in the brand areas. They get a new therapeutic area --
dermatology --and second, they add to their women’s health
market.”  Shares Rise  Warner Chilcott shares  advanced  20 percent to $18.01 at
yesterday’s close in New York, its largest one-day increase
since August 2009. Actavis shares  rose  12 percent to $119.86,
its biggest one-day gain since March 2000.  More than a year ago, Warner Chilcott disclosed that it was
in discussions with potential bidders and conducting a strategic
review. Actavis was among the suitors that considered an offer
for the company during that process, said another person.  In August, Warner Chilcott said talks had ended and it
planned to renew a share-buyback program and pay a special
dividend that would be more rewarding for shareholders.  Actavis’s talks with Valeant stalled over a disagreement on
price, people familiar with the process said last month. While
the talks were halted, they could become active again, another
person said then. Actavis’s market value was $15.3 billion at
the close of yesterday’s trading.  ‘Love Triangle’  “We kind of have a corporate love triangle with Actavis,
Valeant and Warner Chilcott,” said Kevin Kedra  an analyst with
Rye, New York-based Gabelli & Co. “These two incidents are
probably related. It could be to some degree a defensive move,
in light of Valeant pursuing” Actavis.  CEO  Paul Bisaro  has put Actavis -- originally named Watson
Pharmaceuticals -- on an expansionary path during his tenure,
announcing plans to push the generics business worldwide and to
buy and develop brand-name drug assets with bigger profit
margins. Investors have rewarded the company; since Bisaro took
over in September 2007, the  stock  has about tripled.  “I don’t think Paul Bisaro would enter into a deal in a
quick way to prevent Valeant from making a high offer for the
company,” BMO’s Maris said. “It may provide that defense, but
that’s not what’s driving this.”  Under Bisaro, the company has been using deals to grow
rapidly. Then-Watson bought Actavis Group hf and took its name
last year in a 4.25 billion euro ($5.52 billion) deal.  Brand Acquisitions  Actavis makes generic versions of birth-control pill
Seasonique and pain medication Percocet. Last year, Bisaro said
the company would focus more on brand acquisitions and licensing
deals to expand. He has said he is most interested in narrow,
specialty segments or new formulations of existing drugs.  The deal would also let Actavis sell Warner Chilcott’s
products abroad. Actavis is expanding in European and  emerging
markets , and had 18 percent of its sales  outside  the U.S. last
year, while 90 percent of Warner Chilcott’s sales were in the
U.S. or  Canada .  Actavis has “a big European business and a growing South
American business,” Maris said. “You can take those Warner
Chilcott products and layer them into geographies they haven’t
been in.”  Warner Chilcott’s products include oral contraceptives such
as Ovcon 35 and Estrostep FE, as well as the acne treatment
Doryx. The company reported first-quarter revenue of $593
million yesterday, a 13 percent drop from a year earlier, after
halting trade shipments of a version of its colitis drug Asacol
in the U.S. to transition to Delzicol. Net income was unchanged
at $113 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  