-- Adcock Takeover May Value Company at $1.5 Billion, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-05-10T12:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/adcock-takeover-may-value-company-at-1-5-billion-jpmorgan-says.html
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP) , South
 Africa ’s largest supplier of hospital products, may gain a
further 12 percent from yesterday’s 30-month high after it got
takeover offers, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Adcock’s board has received non-binding proposals that
could lead to an offer for the whole company or a controlling
stake, the Johannesburg-based maker of Panado painkillers and
Corenza cold medicine said yesterday. The stock rose 8.9 percent
to 67.50 rand by the close in Johannesburg, its highest level
since November 2010, valuing the company at $1.3 billion.  The wording suggests there may be “multiple bids for the
company,” JPMorgan analysts Alex Comer and Avinash Kalkapersad
wrote in a note dated yesterday. “Under this scenario, we
believe the stock could be worth 75.80 rand a share based on
historic transaction multiples and a bid premium.” That would
value Adcock at about $1.46 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The shares were down 0.4 percent at 67.24 rand by
2:27 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The approaches probably came from foreign companies as
there are no obvious South African bidders other than  Bidvest
Group Ltd. (BVT) , which had an offer for a controlling stake in Adcock
rejected in March, Mathew Menezes, an analyst at Avior Research,
said by phone from Johannesburg. The latest proposals aren’t
from Bidvest, Adcock said in yesterday’s statement.
Bidvest is still interested in a bid for Adcock and must get the
same information as other bidders, Chief Executive Officer Brian
Joffe said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  Bid Values  Adcock has had a marketing and distribution agreement with
U.S.-based  Merck & Co. (MRK)  to sell non-prescription medicines as
well as treatments for high blood pressure since 2010. “Adcock
would also offer an acquirer a potential launch pad into the
rest of Africa,” JPMorgan’s Comer and Kalkapersad said.  Weakness in the South African rand has also made “Adcock
more attractive to potential international buyers,” the
JPMorgan analysts wrote. The rand has declined 6.8 percent
against the dollar this year, the worst performer of 24 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Adcock shares have gained 6 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a 72 percent increase at larger competitor  Aspen
Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) , 18.2 percent owned by Brentford,
England-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Weak Performance  Adcock has fallen behind Aspen because of “product losses,
a previously weak tender performance, insipid over the counter
markets and a weak rand,” JPMorgan said.  Bidvest offered to buy 60 percent of Adcock for about 6.2
billion rand ($685 million) on March 22. The offer was half in
cash, at 65 rand a share, and half in stock at a ratio of one
Bidvest share for every four Adcock shares. The bid values
Adcock at 64.94 a share at current prices, 3.4 percent below the
stock’s cost today. Bidvest said last month it would take the
offer directly to shareholders in the absence of support from
the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  