-- Africa Panel Urges Governments to Spread Resources Boom Spoils
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-05-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/africa-panel-urges-governments-to-spread-resources-boom-spoils.html
African governments must do more to
spread the spoils of a resources boom that threatens to generate
jobless growth and widen inequality, according to the  Africa 
Progress Panel, led by former United Nations Secretary-General
Kofi Annan.  “If the next decade looks like the last decade, Africa
will unquestionably emerge with impressive gains in gross
domestic product,” the panel said in a report released at the
World Economic Forum on Africa in Cape Town today. “What
matters for African people is the rate at which new resource
wealth reduces poverty and expands opportunity. Governments
across the region have paid insufficient attention to this.”  The 10-member panel includes former International Monetary
Fund Managing Director Michel Camdessus, former Nigerian
President Olusegun Obasanjo and musician Bob Geldof.  While the size of sub-Saharan Africa’s economy has more
than tripled since 2000 to about $1.33 trillion last year, more
than half its 1 billion people live on less than $1.25 a day,
World Bank data shows.  In many countries “natural resource revenues are widening
the gap between rich and poor,” Annan said in the forward of
the report. “National strategies have to set out how the
extractive sector fits with plans for poverty reduction,
inclusive growth and social transformation.”  The panel painted a mixed report of development across the
continent.  Tanzania, Mozambique and  Ghana  have made large strides in
reducing the ranks of the poor, yet poverty has increased
marginally in Nigeria and Zambia even as their economies expand,
according to the report. In Cameroon and  Mali , increased growth
had no discernible effect on poverty.  Oil producers Angola and Equatorial Guinea were among the
nations criticized for failing to ensure their populations
benefitted from their oil wealth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  