-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Weaken Most Since January; Bonds Decline
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-05-10T03:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/taiwan-dollar-forwards-weaken-most-since-january-bonds-decline.html
Taiwan  dollar forwards fell the most
since January after a report showed exports weakened, fueling
concern the central bank will curb currency appreciation to
protect local manufacturers.  The government will cut its economic targets after data
from January to April disappointed, the Commercial Times
reported today, citing chief statistician Shih Su-mei. Overseas
shipments shrank 1.9 percent in April from a year earlier, the
government said on May 7. The island’s economy grew 1.54 percent
last quarter, trailing the estimate for a 3.1 percent gain in a
Bloomberg survey.  “In Asia, we see economies facing some uncertainties with
headwinds from  Europe  and, to a small extent,  China ,” said
Tommy Xie, an economist in  Singapore  at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. “The central bank has been active in the market as Taiwan
and South Korea are most affected by yen depreciation.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.7 percent to
NT$29.605 against the greenback as of 11:11 a.m. local time, the
biggest drop since Jan. 28, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spot rate declined 0.3 percent to NT$29.588,
paring weekly gain to 0.1 percent, according to Taipei Forex
Inc.  Taiwan’s central bank has sold its currency in the run-up
to the close on most days in the past year, according to traders
who asked not to be identified. The currency erased a 0.5
percent rally in the final minutes of trading yesterday, a
“symbolic gesture” to stabilize the market, the Economic Daily
News reported, citing Deputy Governor Yang Chin-long.  Yen Weakness  The yen fell to a four-year low of 101.05 per dollar today,
while South Korea’s won lost 1.2 percent. Taiwan competes with
 Japan  and South Korea on shipments of personal computers,
electronics, semiconductor chips.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
rose 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 3.81 percent.  Ten-year government bonds declined. The yield on the 1.125
percent notes due March 2023 climbed two basis points to 1.21
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market prices.  The  overnight interbank lending  rate was unchanged at 0.388
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Debra Mao at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  