-- Taiwan Demands Probe With Philippines Into Fisherman Death
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-05-10T08:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/taiwan-demands-joint-probe-with-philippines-into-fisherman-death.html
Taiwan  demanded a joint investigation
into the death of a Taiwanese fisherman whose ship came under
fire from a  Philippines  Coast Guard vessel in waters claimed by
both sides.  The fisherman’s ship was riddled with 32 bullet holes in
the shooting yesterday, Taiwan Coast Guard Deputy Minister Cheng
Chang-hsiung said at a briefing today. The Philippines Coast
Guard acknowledged one of its ships opened fire on a Taiwanese
vessel and received reports that a fisherman died, spokesman
Armand Balilo said in a text message.  “It’s not acceptable, under any circumstances, for the
Philippines to shoot our unarmed fishermen,” Taiwan Foreign
Minister David Lin said at the briefing with Cheng. He also said
the two sides should start talks on settling the dispute over
the waters.  The shooting off the coast of the Philippines province of
Batanes in the South  China  Sea may fan tensions in an area beset
by territory disputes among countries including the Philippines,
China,  Vietnam  and Malaysia. The Philippine Coast Guard will
investigate, its commander, Rear Admiral Rodolfo Isorena, said
at a briefing. He called the incident unfortunate.  Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou called on his island’s Coast
Guard to defend the safety of fishermen, his spokeswoman Li Jia-fei said in a statement. Taiwan’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs 
demanded the Philippines arrest the person responsible and
compensate the dead fisherman’s family.  Deeply Concerned  “China is deeply concerned about the Philippines’ repeated
shooting at unarmed fishermen,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Hua Chunying said at a briefing in Beijing today. “We would
like to urge the Philippines to quickly investigate and properly
handle this case.”  China, which claims Taiwan as a province, has been more
assertive in pressing sovereignty claims in the  South China Sea .
In April last year, Chinese ships blocked the Philippines from
inspecting Chinese fishing boats in an area of the sea claimed
by both sides.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  