-- Algerian Man Pleads Not Guilty to SpyEye Software Charges
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2013-05-10T19:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/algerian-man-pleads-not-guilty-to-spyeye-software-charges.html
An Algerian national who U.S.
prosecutors say is part of the cybercrime group behind a
powerful hacking software known as SpyEye pleaded not guilty to
criminal charges.  Hamza Bendelladj, known for years in underground computer
forums as Bx1, didn’t request bond and will remain in custody,
said his attorney, Wilmer Parker. Parker declined to comment on
why his client didn’t seek release on bond at today’s hearing in
federal court in Atlanta.  Prosecutors have opposed bond, saying Bendelladj is a
flight risk.  Bendelladj, 24, was accused in a 23-count indictment
unsealed May 1 of crimes including computer and bank fraud.
Bendelladj is accused of playing a role in selling and
supporting SpyEye, which allows hackers to hijack victims’ bank
accounts through their own computers.  Bendelladj was extradited from  Thailand  at the request of
U.S. authorities after his arrest there on Jan. 5.  Prosecutors allege Bendelladj sold the SpyEye hacking
software and designed modules that enhanced its effectiveness.
The software can be customized to circumvent the security of
banks’ websites. Once a computer is infected with SpyEye,
hackers can use it to take over online banking sessions and
transfer money to accounts they control.  It can also be programmed to automatically steal passwords
to e-commerce sites and scrape credit card numbers and
expiration dates.  Bendelladj, who is also accused in the indictment of
supporting hacking operations by providing servers to control
the hijacked computers, is a close associate of SpyEye’s
creator, a hacker known by the nickname “gribodemon,”
according to security experts who helped track the group.  The case is U.S. v. Bendelladj, 1:11-cr-00557, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Beasley in Atlanta at  dbeasley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  