-- Alibaba Seeking Partners to Boost Overseas Shoppers as IPO Looms
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-05-10T06:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/alibaba-seeking-partners-to-boost-overseas-shoppers-as-ipo-looms.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the
world’s biggest online retailer, will seek partners for payment
processing and logistics as it tries to lure more overseas
shoppers ahead of an expected initial public offering.  Alibaba’s two most-popular platforms, Taobao Marketplace
and  Tmall.com , also are expanding in  Hong Kong ,  Taiwan ,
 Singapore  and  Malaysia , Daphne Lee, director of overseas
business at Taobao.com, said during a briefing in Hangzhou,
China, today.  “We want to partner with local companies in payments
systems and logistics to reach the overseas Chinese market,”
Lee said.  Taobao Marketplace links individual buyers with sellers and
has more than 500 million registered users, while Tmall.com
connects retail brands like Nike Inc. and L’Oreal SA with
consumers. The two platforms are fueling profit at Alibaba that
doubled in the three months ended in December as analysts
anticipate an IPO this year or next.  Jack Ma, Alibaba’s billionaire executive chairman, said
last year the Hangzhou-based company may go public within five
years. Alibaba has said it has no timetable for an IPO.  Alibaba is considering a more conservative valuation for
its IPO than the social-networking company Facebook Inc.
achieved last year, a person familiar with the situation said
this month. Facebook has lost about 40 percent of its $104
billion price tag from its offering last year.  Alibaba’s platforms are dominant in  China . On Nov. 11 alone,
Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com sold $3.1 billion of goods.
Alibaba’s profit doubled in the three months ended in December
to $642.2 million from $236.9 million a year earlier, according
to a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission by
Yahoo! Inc., a shareholder.  Overseas Presence  Alibaba’s business-to-business platform is strong overseas,
while Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com, which focus on consumers,
compete against local e-commerce sites in Taiwan and  Japan , said
Alex Wang, a Beijing-based analyst at Internet consulting group
iResearch.  The value of goods sold on Alibaba this year may reach
about $330 billion, he said.  “ Southeast Asia  holds some opportunities for their
business-to-customer platforms,” Wang said.  The moves to boost overseas development come as
anticipation grows for Alibaba’s IPO. The offer’s valuation
could reach $62.5 billion, according to the median of eight
estimates by investment banks and research firms since February,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alibaba’s revenue rose 80 percent to $1.84 billion in the
three months ended December, Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo
reported in its Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Yahoo
owns a stake of about 24 percent in Alibaba.  Morgan Stanley estimates Alibaba’s revenue for the 12
months through December of this year may increase 59 percent
from 2012 to $7.48 billion, and another 44 percent in the next
year, analysts Jordan Monahan and  Scott Devitt  said in a March 6
research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  