-- Americans Revealed in Colorado Over Laws From Pot to Guns
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/americans-revealed-in-colorado-over-laws-from-pot-to-guns.html
Colorado  lawmakers’ approval of taxes
and other measures to regulate marijuana sales is the latest in
a series of moves by the Democratic-controlled legislature
splitting cities from rural areas dominated by Republicans.  Widening the rift are the passage of up to a 25 percent tax
on recreational pot sales legalized by Colorado voters, a
successful Democratic campaign to enact the toughest gun control
measures in the state in a decade and a mostly failed attempt to
tighten regulations on oil and gas drillers.  On the floor of the  House of Representatives  and the
Senate, rural Republicans charged urban Democrats with trying to
ram through an agenda tailored to communities hugging the
foothills of the  Colorado Rockies , known as the Front Range,
where almost 75 percent of the state’s  population  of five
million makes its home in eight counties. The rest inhabit 56
counties from peach groves on the Western slope to cattle
ranches on the Eastern plains.  “The sentiment I’m getting from people all over rural
Colorado is that ‘we used to be free, but now we just keep
getting pressed down by people on the Front Range,’” said state
Senator Greg Brophy, a Republican from Wray, on the plains near
the  Nebraska  border. “This session has to be characterized as
the most extreme overreach witnessed in Colorado.”  Legislation that passed on party-line votes this week, now
awaiting Democratic Governor John Hickenlooper’s signature,
would require voters to approve new taxes this November to cover
the cost of regulating recreational marijuana sales they
authorized last fall.  Excise Tax  The measure calls for a ballot initiative seeking voter
approval for an excise tax of as much as 15 percent on wholesale
pot sales and up to a 10 percent tax on retail transactions. The
first $40 million in proceeds from the excise levy would fund
new school construction, with retail sales taxes paying for
regulation.  During debate on the bill, lawmakers expressed concern that
if voters don’t agree to tax an industry that’s still considered
illegal under federal law, the state will be forced to fund
regulatory efforts with taxpayer money.  “The bottom line is this has to pass,” state Senator Matt
Jones, a Democrat from Louisville, said during debate on May 7.
“We can’t fund regulation on the back of the general fund.”  The split over the new taxes extends to energy, guns and
other issues.  Wearing a denim shirt, a five-o’clock shadow and a look of
disgust, a man who buys power from an electric cooperative
implores Hickenlooper: “Please Stand Up for Rural Colorado.”  Half-Page Ad  The man is pictured in a half-page ad in the  Denver Post 
that asks the first-term Democratic governor, a businessman who
previously was mayor of Denver, to veto a  bill  passed by the
state legislature on a party-line vote requiring rural
electricity providers to double the amount of power they receive
from renewable energy by 2020.  “Across rural Colorado, affordable electricity waters
crops, milks cows and lights small towns,” reads the May 5 ad,
paid for by the  Rural Economic Action Alliance , a group of
customer-owned utilities in Colorado, Nebraska,  New Mexico  and
 Wyoming . “But this economic lifeline is under attack by special
interests in Denver.”  During the 120-day legislative session, which ended May 8,
Democrats also pushed through measures blocked by Republicans in
the past including civil unions between gays, rewriting the K-12
school funding formula, in-state college tuition for illegal
immigrant students, and an overhaul of the state’s election
system that would allow voter registration on Election Day and
send mail ballots to all voters.  ‘Catbird Seat’  “It’s an extraordinary laundry list -- on issue after
issue after issue these votes tended to be if not complete party
line, close to party line,” said John Straayer, a political
science professor at  Colorado State University  in  Fort Collins .
“The Democrats are in the catbird seat right now.”  A third of the state’s  100 legislators  were newly elected
this session and half the Democratic contingent were women, who
“tended to be more sympathetic” to measures enacted and signed
by Hickenlooper in March requiring background checks for all gun
sales and limiting the capacity of ammunition magazines, said
Straayer, one of three authors of “State of Change: Colorado
Politics in the Twenty-First Century.”  Efforts that redrew  boundaries  for Colorado’s congressional
districts and state legislative seats to better reflect a
population shift toward its cities underscored ideological
differences among the electorate. The swing state’s shifting
political attitudes helped President  Barack Obama , a Democrat,
defeat Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in 2012.  ‘Only Farmer’  “We only have two representatives that represent the
entire eastern plains,” said state Representative Jerry Sonnenberg, a Republican from Sterling.  “Agriculture is the second largest industry in the state,
and out of 65 members in the House I am the only farmer,” said
Sonnenberg, who was back on his tractor yesterday readying his
fields for wheat and sunflowers. “That presents a huge
challenge to agriculture in rural Colorado when it comes to
educating our urban cousins on the economic impacts.”  The policy divide extends from Colorado to states
nationwide, with many major cities hewing Democratic while their
neighbors in remote areas vote Republican.  The trend deepened after the New Deal with a decline in
racial segregation as more liberal voters, including Hispanics,
moved into suburban areas in places like Denver, said  Jonathan
Rodden , a professor of political science at  Stanford University .  Voter Segmentation  “The correlation between the population density of a
county and the voting behavior of a county has been
increasing,” Rodden said. “That kind of segmentation is
getting more pronounced in every election.”  States surrounding Colorado illustrate the divide, he
added, with the policy preferences of liberal lawmakers from
Omaha and Lincoln and Topeka and  Kansas City  differing from
their conservative rural colleagues.  Some Colorado Democrats say the urban-versus-rural
narrative portrayed by Republicans is based on rhetoric and not
fact. They add that they crafted the school-finance reform
measure and a bill that would convert a shuttered prison in Fort
Lyon to a homeless shelter with needs of sparsely-populated
counties in mind.  “Unfortunately, there’s been an effort to pit rural
Coloradans against urban Coloradans,” said state Representative
Crisanta Duran, a Democrat from Denver who co-sponsored the bill
that raises renewable energy quotas for rural electric
cooperatives to 20 percent from 10 percent by 2020.  ‘Diversify’ Economies  “The renewable energy standard is part of a long-term plan
to help diversify rural economies,” she said. “We have
incredible potential with solar capabilities and wind
capabilities.”  Although they succeeded in passing many controversial
bills, Democrats failed to push through a slate of measures that
would have placed tighter regulations on the state’s oil and gas
industry when several party members sided with Republicans in
voting down the bills.  Legislation that proposed increasing fines for violations,
bolstering groundwater testing on the Front Range’s Wattenberg
Field and revising the charter of the state agency that
regulates energy companies to emphasize public health died amid
strong opposition from lobbyists and the Hickenlooper
administration. Of the 10 oil and gas measures introduced in
2013 only a measure increasing the reporting requirements for
spills passed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  