-- ANA 787 Ads Aim to Lure Back Flyers as Services to Resume
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-05-10T08:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/ana-787-ads-aim-to-lure-back-flyers-as-services-to-resume-june-1.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , operator of the
world’s largest  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 fleet, placed advertisements in
Japanese newspapers to lure flyers back to the aircraft, which
had been grounded after battery overheating incidents.  The airline has 17 of the planes and will restart domestic
and international flights June 1, adding 787 flights to Taipei
and Beijing to its routes, the company said.  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) ,
the world’s second-largest Dreamliner operator, will resume 787
flights the same day.  ANA, whose All Nippon Airways Co. unit flies the planes,
used the full-page color ads to explain that the Federal
Aviation Administration had approved Boeing fixes and  Japan ’s
transport ministry had agreed, allowing the restart of flights,
while apologizing to passengers for the inconvenience. One of
the carrier’s 787s made an emergency landing on Jan. 16 after
smoke from a lithium-ion battery was detected. A battery caught
fire on a JAL 787 in Boston nine days earlier. No one was
injured in either incident.  “There’ll be people who want to fly straight away and
others who may wait for two or three months,” said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Barclays Securities Japan Ltd. “With the
strengthening economy, traffic will probably be back to normal
by the summer.”  ANA rose 0.5 percent to 211 yen at close of trading in
Tokyo and have gained 17 percent this year. Japan Air climbed
0.8 percent to 4,940 yen, extending its advance to 34 percent
this year.  Services Resume  Japan’s carriers may be among the last of the eight
Dreamliner operators to restart services as Ethiopian Airlines
Enterprise began flying again last month and Qatar Airways Ltd.
last week. Air India Ltd. plans to resume service on May 15 and
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  on May 20.  The Dreamliner groundings will probably cut ANA sales by
about 16 billion yen ($158 million), according to figures from
the company. JAL’s probably lost 6.5 billion yen in sales due to
the groundings, it has said.  The 787 is safe to fly, even as the cause of the battery
meltdowns remains uncertain, Mike Sinnett, vice president and
chief project engineer of the 787 program, said April 27. Stress
testing of Chicago-based Boeing’s redesigned system showed its
steel casing and heat vent reduced battery overheating, he said.  The Dreamliner is the only large commercial jet equipped
with lithium-ion batteries as part of its power system. Airbus
SAS abandoned lithium-ion batteries for its A350, the direct
rival to the 787, after Boeing encountered problems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in  Tokyo  at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  