-- Manchester United Fans Can’t Buy Seats to Ferguson’s Final Match
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-10T13:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/manchester-united-fans-can-t-buy-seats-to-ferguson-s-final-match.html
West Bromwich Albion blocked online
ticket orders placed by Manchester United fans for  Alex Ferguson ’s final game as manager of the Premier League champion.  West Brom took the action to stop away fans from buying
tickets online in home areas for the May 19 season finale at the
Hawthorns, the club said in a  statement . Ferguson, who’s led
United to 13 league titles, announced two days ago he will
retire at the end of the season.  West Brom said it noticed a spike in orders being placed on
website Viagogo, which allows the club’s season ticket holders
to sell their seat to another Albion fan, within minutes of the
Ferguson’s retirement being announced.  “With Manchester United’s help, we identified that the
vast majority of these orders were lodged by United season
ticket holders/members,” West Albion said in its statement.
“Therefore, we will not be honoring any ticket orders lodged
after 8 a.m. on Wednesday, May 8.”  West Brom said the move is in keeping with the Viagogo
terms and conditions which state that the club reserves the
right not to honor orders from buyers that are suspected of
being opposing fans.  “The safety of fans is paramount, which is why we so
vehemently uphold the rules regarding the segregation of
supporters,” the club said.  West Brom is reminding all fans that tickets should only be
sold, assigned or transferred to other Albion supporters with
the prior written consent of the club. While it expects most
will keep their tickets, the club will monitor all potential
sale platforms -- such as  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  -- where tickets may fall
into the “wrong hands.”  “Anyone who sells their ticket for a price greater than
face value without the consent of the club is regarded as ticket
touting, which is a criminal offense,” the club said in its
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 