-- ANZ Cuts Mortgage Rate by More Than RBA for First Time Since ’08
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-10T02:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/anz-cuts-mortgage-rate-by-more-than-rba-for-first-time-since-08.html
Australia and New Zealand Banking
Group  Ltd. cut its benchmark mortgage rate by 27 basis points,
the first time one of the nation’s four major lenders passed on
more than the central bank’s reduction since October 2008.  ANZ reduced its standard variable mortgage rate to 6.13
percent, matching  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s rate as the
lowest among the country’s four biggest banks. NAB,  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  matched the 25
basis-point rate reduction by the central bank, which dropped
rates to a record low of 2.75 percent on May 7.  Until this week,  Australia ’s top four lenders hadn’t passed
on in full the central bank’s rate cuts, which began in November
2011, citing higher funding costs and competition for deposits.
Funding costs have since eased with the yield premium on bank
bonds over government debt at the lowest since November 2007,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show, sending home lending
rates to their lowest since 2009.  “This month we reviewed a range of factors including the
 Reserve Bank ’s decision to decrease the official cash rate this
week, our competitive position and a recent easing in the cost
of our wholesale funds,” ANZ CEO Australia Philip Chronican
said in a statement. “While competition for deposits remains
strong, our overall funding cost position has allowed us to
reduce variable mortgage rates” by 27 basis points.  ANZ last lowered its home lending rate by more than the RBA
in October 2008 when the central bank reduced its cash rate by
100 basis points and the lender followed with a mortgage rate
drop of 105 basis points in two steps. CBA in the same month cut
rates by 101 basis points in two steps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  