-- Apache Seen Leading Industry in Offshore Lapses
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-10T20:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/apache-seen-leading-industry-in-offshore-lapses.html
Three years after BP Plc’s oil spill
fouled Gulf of Mexico beaches, drilling safety is improving,
though deficiencies remain at some of the same companies
operating offshore, Democrats on a House panel said in a report.  Oil and gas producers including  Apache Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  that reported the most environmental and safety incidents
prior to the April 2010 spill continue to have the most
violations, according to the analysis by the Democratic staff on
the House Natural Resources Committee.  Committee staffers reviewed company data they said hadn’t
been publicly disclosed, comparing accidents, inspections,
violations and civil penalties before and after the BP spill,
the worst in U.S. waters. Representative  Edward Markey , the top
Democrat on the panel, said the report shows the need for
legislation to add U.S. inspectors and raise the fines for
violations.  “Three years after the spill, instilling a new safety
culture in the oil industry remains a challenge,” according to
the report.  John Roper , a spokesman for Apache, said the company has
more facilities than any other operator in the Gulf and its own
analysis of federal records shows a lower incident rate per
inspection than the industry average, he said.  “We’re very proud of our record,” Roper said in a
statement.  BP Violations  The Democratic report also said that BP had 25 violations,
nine classified as major. The total matches what the London-based company reported from 2007 to 2009, even though BP now
operates at fewer drilling sites in the Gulf, the report said.  Gains were reported for some measures. Total injuries in
offshore accidents fell by half, according to the report. Well-control issues fell to three in 2011 from an average of seven a
year from 2007 to 2009, according to report.  “The industry views safety as a core value that is
integral to everything we do,” said Brian Straessle, a
spokesman for the  American Petroleum Institute , a Washington-based group that represents  oil companies . “America is becoming
the world’s energy superpower, which is why we continue to
develop the best technologies, safety standards, and
environmental protections in the world.”  Democrats said better oversight accounted for some of the
improvements. The Interior Department issued 5,188 violations in
the two years after the disaster, more than 1,000 more than it
had the previous two years.  Democrats also found “that facilities of top violators are
still no more likely to be inspected than other facilities; that
civil penalties are being imposed at about the same rate as
before the BP spill; and that when such penalties are imposed,
they are typically minuscule compared to company profits.”  Responses from Chevron and BP weren’t available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  