-- ArcelorMittal Beats Estimates, Sees Second Better Quarter
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-05-10T06:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/arcelormittal-beats-profit-estimates-sees-better-second-quarter.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, posted first-quarter earnings that beat analyst
estimates and forecast higher profit in the second three months
of the year.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell to $1.57 billion in the first three months of
the year from $2.12 billion a year earlier, ArcelorMittal said
today in a statement. That beat the $1.32 billion median
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Economic conditions remain challenging, but our
performance in the quarter reflects the results of the
management action we have taken to confront the effects of the
financial crisis,”  Lakshmi Mittal , chief executive officer of
the Luxembourg-based company, said in the statement.  Steel-industry earnings have slumped as  Europe ’s economic
crisis saps demand and slower Chinese growth weighs on commodity
prices. European steelmakers are grappling with excess capacity
that’s pushed down prices as operating costs climb. The region
has capacity to make about 210 million metric tons of steel a
year, while demand in a “normal market” is 150 million to 160
million tons, according to industry lobby group Eurofer.  ArcelorMittal said second-quarter Ebitda will exceed the
first-quarter result. The company maintained its full-year
guidance that Ebitda will exceed $7.1 billion. In February, it
said earnings will recover in 2013 after the company posted the
lowest full-year profit since 2009.  Demand Outlook  The steelmaker said in March it expects global steel
consumption to rise 3 percent to 3.5 percent this year, while
European demand will slide to a low before rebounding next year.  Full-year profitability will be boosted by a 2 percent rise
in steel shipments, a 20 percent gain in the volume of iron-ore
sold and as the company sees benefits from cost-cutting efforts,
the steelmaker said.  ArcelorMittal said in March that it plans to cut costs by
$3 billion by the end of 2015.  First-quarter sales slipped 13 percent to $19.75 billion,
it said. The $1.6 billion Ebitda figure included $500 million of
gains from asset disposals and carbon-credit sales.  ArcelorMittal’s  net debt  fell by $3.8 billion during the
first quarter to $18 billion. The company is seeking to reduce
borrowings after its  credit rating  was cut to below investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings.  Dividend Cut  The steelmaker has scaled back its dividend and sold
assets, including a $1.1 billion stake in its Canadian mining
business. It raised about $4 billion in a sale of shares and
bonds in a bid to pare debt to $17 billion by the end of June.  ArcelorMittal shipped 20.9 million tons of steel in the the
quarter, a 4.7 percent increase from the prior three months.
Iron ore production was 13.1 million tons.  The steelmaker’s South African unit today reported a loss
of 270 million rand ($30 million) for the first quarter, after a
fire that halted the continent’s biggest steel plant.
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  said it expects to return to
profit in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  