-- Poly Property Dollar Bonds Gain After Busiest Day in Two Weeks
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-05-10T04:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Poly Property Group’s (119)  debut dollar-denominated bonds rose today after the Chinese developer priced
its offering on the busiest day for U.S. currency sales from
Asia in two weeks.  Poly Property’s notes, which priced at par, rose as high as
101.4 cents on the dollar as of 12:11 p.m. in Hong Kong,
according to prices quoted by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
Five companies from Asia outside Japan sold securities in the
U.S. currency yesterday, the most offerings in a single day
since April 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chinese companies led issuance, accounting for 77 percent
of the $2.47 billion raised, the data show.  China  Railway
Construction Corp. and Poly Property borrowed $800 million and
$500 million respectively, while  Want Want China Holdings Ltd. (151) 
priced $600 million of notes in its first dollar issue. China’s
real estate developers are on track to meet their sales targets
for 2013 after a strong first quarter, Standard & Poor’s wrote
in a report today.  “We haven’t seen any sign of indigestion yet and
therefore, in the near-term, even when there’s more supply to
come, I think the market should be able to absorb it,” said
Agnes Wong, a credit strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Our
base case is that yields will continue to grind tighter,
especially for those higher-yielding papers.”  Interest rates  on debt from the world’s second-largest
economy fell to 5.39 percent yesterday, near the lowest level
since the end of February, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes.  Bond Demand  Poly Property, a first-time U.S. currency issuer without a
credit rating, sold five-year debt to yield 4.75 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors placed orders for about
$6.7 billion of notes, with asset managers buying 65 percent of
the bonds, a person familiar with the matter said today.  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds against
non-payment in the Asia-Pacific region excluding  Japan  rose,
credit-default swaps show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index gained 1 basis point to
99 basis points as of 10:31 a.m. in Sydney, according to
National Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The measure, which has
ranged from 96.1 to 127.5 this year, is on track to rise for a
third consecutive day, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan advanced 1 basis point to 100.5 as of
8:40 a.m. in  Singapore ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices show. The
benchmark is headed for a second daily increase, according to
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Japan Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped 2 basis points to 75
basis points as of 9:29 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche
Bank AG prices. The gauge is trading at the lowest level in five
years, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  