-- Aussie Falls Below $1 First Time Since June in Wake of RBA Cut
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-05-10T11:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/aussie-falls-below-1-first-time-since-june-in-wake-of-rba-cut.html
Australia ’s dollar dropped below
parity with its U.S. counterpart for the first time in more than
10 months, three days after the nation’s central bank cut
interest rates to a record low.  The so-called Aussie weakened versus most  of its 16 major
counterparts. The currency slid more than 3 percent this
quarter, as Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens cut
the overnight cash-rate target by 25 basis points this month to
2.75 percent and indicated there is scope for further
reductions.  The Australian dollar fell as much as 0.9 percent to 99.98
U.S. cents and traded at A$1.005 at 7.33 a.m. in New York.
That’s the first time the world’s fifth-most traded currency
touched below $1 since June 28. It is still above its post-float
average of 76 U.S. cents.  The Aussie’s stretch above parity, the longest since
exchange controls were scrapped in 1983, sparked calls for
policy action from union leaders and businesses including  Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL)  and  Orica Ltd. (ORI) , the world’s biggest producer of
industrial explosives. The local dollar has declined 3.8 percent
this year after surging 48 percent in the four years through
Dec. 31, the biggest advance among more than 150 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank will update its growth and inflation
forecasts in today’s quarterly statement on monetary policy.  Exports Outlook  The Aussie’s resilience damped the outlook for the South
Pacific nation’s exports, which include iron ore, coal and
liquefied natural gas. The RBA’s commodity price index fell 9.3
percent last month from a year earlier in Australian-dollar
terms, according to figures released May 1. A Feb. 28 statistics
bureau report showed an unexpected decline in business
investment in the fourth quarter.  It has also slashed government earnings, spurring Prime
Minister Julia Gillard to scrap plans to boost help for low-paid
families even as her Labor party trails in polls before the
election due in September.  ‘Very Challenging’  Her minority government scrapped in December a pledge to
return to surplus this fiscal year and said this month it faces
a A$17 billion ($17 billion) revenue shortfall in the 12 months
ending June 30. Treasurer Wayne Swan said this month revenue has
taken a “huge whack” from the high Aussie dollar and he faces
“very challenging” fiscal circumstances as he prepares to
deliver the budget for the coming year on May 14.  Australia’s currency has been buoyed by demand from
international investors looking to diversify their assets. The
RBA said Feb. 28 the Aussie is held by as many as 34 central
banks, according to  documents  released under a Freedom of
Information Act request by Bloomberg News. China and  France  were
among possible buyers added to the latest list.  Even after 2 percentage points of reductions since November
2011, Australia’s benchmark borrowing cost remains the highest
among major developed nations. It compares with a record low 0.5
percent in the euro zone and in the U.K. and near zero rates in
the U.S. and  Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  