-- Author of Heritage Report on Immigration Plan Resigns
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-05-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/author-of-heritage-report-on-immigration-plan-resigns.html
The Heritage Foundation said one of
the authors of a report released this week criticizing a
bipartisan Senate plan to revise U.S. immigration laws has
resigned.  The co-author, Jason Richwine, wrote a Harvard University
dissertation in 2009 that said immigrants’ intelligence quotient
scores were “substantially lower” than those of white
Americans and that the difference “is likely to persist over
several generations.”  Richwine is no longer employed by Heritage, Michael
Gonzalez, the group’s vice president of communications, in an e-mail yesterday that didn’t give a reason for the resignation.
Heritage is a policy group that supports smaller government led
by former South Carolina Senator Jim DeMint, a Republican.  The dissertation, first reported by the  Washington  Post on
May 8, led to criticism from pro-immigration groups that said
Richwine’s findings were grounded in racism.  The report released by Heritage on May 6 said creating a
path to citizenship for about 11 million undocumented immigrants
now in the U.S. would cost taxpayers $6.3 trillion over the
immigrants’ lifetimes.  The figure is more than double the $2.6 trillion estimate
Heritage produced the last time Congress attempted a broad
revision of U.S. immigration law in 2007. The potential cost is
part of opponents’ arguments against an immigration bill the
Senate Judiciary Committee began considering May 9.  Growing ‘Underclass’  Richwine, a Heritage senior policy analyst, received his
doctorate in public policy from Harvard University. Before
joining Heritage in 2010, he had a fellowship at the American
Enterprise Institute in Washington. He co-authored this week’s
report with Robert Rector, a senior research fellow at Heritage.  In his dissertation, Richwine described a “growing
Hispanic underclass.”  “No one knows whether Hispanics will ever reach IQ parity
with whites, but the prediction that new Hispanic immigrants
will have low-IQ children and grandchildren is difficult to
argue against,” Richwine wrote, according to the Post.  Though Heritage attempted in a statement earlier this week
to distance itself from Richwine’s previous work, some groups
began to call for DeMint’s resignation.  One of them, Presente.org, a Latino advocacy group, said
Richwine’s resignation isn’t enough to satisfy Heritage’s
critics. In a statement, the group’s executive director, Arturo
Carmona, said he is “still waiting for the Heritage Foundation
to renounce the findings of his research.”  ‘Faulty Research’  “Hiring racists like Richwine is unacceptable, but what’s
worse is putting their organization’s name on a report laden
with faulty research,” said Carmona.  The Heritage report was also under attack from Republicans
who support revising immigration laws over its central finding
that overhauling U.S. laws would inflate U.S. deficits and the
national debt.  The report said legalizing undocumented immigrants will
increase participation in programs such as Social Security,
Medicare and Medicaid, along with food stamps and public
assistance for the poor.  Doug Holtz-Eakin, a former Congressional Budget Office
director, said the report failed to consider increased tax
revenue resulting from rising immigrant incomes over their
lifespans and upward mobility by their children.  The Social Security Administration said May 8 the Senate
bill would add more than $275 billion in revenue to Social
Security and Medicare, increase the gross domestic product by
1.63 percent and add more than 3 million jobs over the next
decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  