-- MBIA Raised to Investment Grade by S&P After Settling Lawsuits
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2013-05-10T18:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/mbia-raised-to-investment-grade-by-s-p-after-settling-lawsuits.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  was raised to investment
grade by  Standard & Poor’s  for the first time in four years
after the holding company for bond insurers settled with the
last of 18 banks that had challenged its 2009 restructuring.  Its senior unsecured debt  rating  was lifted seven steps to
BBB from B-, New York-based S&P said today in a statement.
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., the unit created by
MBIA in the split to jumpstart its municipal debt-guarantee
business, was raised three levels to A from BBB.  MBIA and Bank of America Corp. settled a five-year legal
battle over soured mortgage debt on May 6 in a deal that will
pay the Armonk, New York-based insurer the equivalent of $1.7
billion and give the lender a 5 percent stake. As part of that
deal, Bank of America dropped its challenge to MBIA’s
restructuring. MBIA also agreed to pay $350 million to Societe
Generale SA to resolve their litigation over the split, a person
familiar with the matter said two days later.  “After more than four years of sitting on the sidelines,
while it built its capital position, National is finding a
position where it can begin moving forward,” MBIA Chief
Executive Officer  Jay Brown  said on a conference call with
investors and analysts today before the ratings upgrades were
announced by S&P.  Most of the money in the Bank of America settlement was
used to repay a $1.7 billion loan from the National unit to the
cash-strapped MBIA Insurance Corp. subsidiary that had backed
some of Wall Street’s most toxic mortgage debt, according to a
statement yesterday.  MBIA last was rated investment grade by S&P in February
2009 when it was cut from an A- grade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The National unit was three steps to BBB
from BB on May 8, after being cut to the junk level in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  