-- Blackstone Targets Bulging Corporate Coffers Via New Unit
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/blackstone-targets-bulging-corporate-coffers-via-new-unit.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, is taking aim at the $5.4 trillion
of cash on corporate balance sheets in the U.S. and Europe as
regulators weigh changes that may reduce the appeal of money-market funds.  The firm has started a money-management unit called
Blackstone Treasury Solutions Advisors LLC that will cater
exclusively to corporations. Its portfolio managers include
Blackstone Chief Financial Officer Laurence Tosi and Treasurer
Matthew Skurbe, who help run New York-based Blackstone’s
internal  cash management  strategy.  Blackstone is targeting company treasurers as the U.S.
considers requiring money funds to shift from stable share
prices to floating valuations. For Blackstone, providing cash
management for corporations would help diversify income streams
further, after Chief Executive Officer Stephen Schwarzman added
real estate, hedge funds and credit vehicles to reduce reliance
on leveraged buyouts.  “It could be a highly profitable activity for
Blackstone,” said Anthony Carfang, a partner at Treasury
Strategies Inc., a Chicago-based treasury consulting firm. “The
investment management business is highly scalable.”  Peter Rose, a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment on
Treasury Solutions. The parent company incorporated the money-management unit along with the Blackstone Treasury Solutions
Master Fund LP in March and the registration took effect in
April, public records show.  Floating Value  Corporate treasurers rely on money-market funds to manage
cash because the funds maintain a fixed $1 share price. That
could change as U.S. regulators, seeking to avoid a repeat
bailout of the $2.56 trillion industry after the 2008 collapse
of the Reserve Primary Fund, evaluate requiring managers that
invest in corporate debt to let their share prices fluctuate.  “The money-market funds no longer being booked at net
asset value would be a significant issue for corporations,”
said Michael Gannon, the former treasurer and chief planning
officer for Molson Coors Brewing Co. in Denver. “It would
certainly be a reason that treasurers might look at
alternatives.”  Without a stable share price, treasurers may be spurred to
seek alternative ways to invest their cash that provide added
yield without a big increase in risk. Tosi and Skurbe, who came
to Blackstone from Merrill Lynch & Co., according to the
investment advisory registration with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, currently help invest some $1.3 billion
Blackstone cash in assets ranging from mortgages to hedge funds
to eke out extra yield.  Defined Contribution  Large bond managers such as Pacific Investment Management
Co., based in Newport Beach,  California , and BlackRock Inc. of
New York also have funds investing in shorter-dated securities.
Banks such as Wells Fargo & Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. offer
treasurers a suite of services for daily cash management,
including Internet portals that allow them to choose among
money-market funds in which to deposit excess cash, Gannon said.  Offering corporate money management may also help
Blackstone maintain relationships with companies whose pension
plans decide to reduce their investment in private equity, said
Eileen Neill, a managing director in the consulting division of
Wilshire Associates Inc., a Santa Monica, California-based
financial advisory firm. Corporate pension plans have been
moving into bonds as part of an effort to reduce the impact of
market swings on their financial statements, she said.  “This has everything to do with the fact that corporate
defined-benefit plans in the U.S. are meaningfully reducing
their exposure to riskier assets,” Neill said in a telephone
interview.  Initial Investment  A cash-management product may even help Blackstone gain
access to corporate 401(K)s, also known as defined contribution
plans, according to Neill.  “Right now, private equity is completely shut out of the
defined-contribution industry because they don’t offer daily
liquidity,” she said.  The treasury solutions group will be part of Blackstone
Advisory Partners LP, a unit that provides advice on corporate
restructurings and mergers and helps outside private-equity and
hedge funds raise money, according to the brochure. Blackstone
recently modified the license of advisory partners to permit it
to provide capital markets services, such as underwriting stock
and bond sales, the parent company said in its annual report.  ‘Conservatively Managed’  Blackstone Treasury Solutions plans to charge both
management and performance fees, the filing shows, and the unit
will require a minimum initial commitment of $50 million. It
will have the leeway to invest in a range of fixed-income
products, according to the registration, including mortgages,
asset-backed securities, leveraged loans, managed futures and
interest rate contracts. It will also invest in both Blackstone
and third-party hedge funds.  The SEC filings doesn’t specify how corporations would
invest with the unit, or spell out whether clients would be able
to withdraw their money daily or face waiting periods.  The three portfolio managers for the Treasury Solutions
funds are Tosi, Skurbe, and Joseph Rocco, a vice president who
is involved in credit and risk management for Blackstone’s
treasury operations. Their internal treasury cash-management
strategies generated $25.8 million of income and $8.6 million of
capital gains during 2012, according to the annual report.
Assuming the capital gains aren’t part of investment income, the
strategy would have generated a total return of 3.3 percent on
average assets of $1.05 billion for the year.  “They do actively manage that to get a little bit of
incremental yield,” said Meghan Neenan, a senior director at
Fitch Ratings Ltd. in New York. “But it is all fairly
conservatively managed and very liquid.”  Generating Income  Corporate treasurers generally forecast future cash needs
and then invest accordingly, said Carfang at Treasury
Strategies. Cash to run the business is typically kept in money-market funds or bank accounts, with reserves placed in
investments that mature in 90 to 100 days. The remainder can be
invested in longer-dated securities that provide higher yields.  U.S.  corporate cash  increased to $1.79 trillion at the end
of last year from $1 trillion in 2000, according to an April 4
report by Treasury Strategies. Corporate cash totaled 1.93
trillion euros ($2.53 trillion) in countries that use that
currency as of Dec. 31, and the comparable U.K. figure stood at
730 billion pounds ($1.13 trillion). With the U.S. Federal
Reserve keeping interest rates near record lows, treasurers are
challenged to generate income from their excess cash.  ‘No Yield’  After coming under pressure from hedge-fund manager David
Einhorn, Apple Inc. said last month that it would seek to return
an additional $55 billion to stockholders through dividends and
share repurchases. Apple earned a 2.3 percent return, including
dividends, interest and capital gains, on the average cash and
securities of $101.4 billion held on its balance sheet during
the fiscal year ended Sept. 29, 2012, according to the company’s
most recent annual report.  “Corporations have so much cash on their balance sheets
and treasurers are saying there is no yield to be gotten
anywhere,” said Gannon, a director at the National Association
of Corporate Treasurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  