-- Blackstone-Backed Fund Health Bet Defies Slump in Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-05-10T18:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/blackstone-backed-fund-health-bet-defies-slump-in-brazil.html
Patria Investimentos SA, the private-equity fund partially owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , and Kinea
Investimentos Ltda are buying medical-diagnostic providers,
betting a slowdown at insurers that pay for tests is temporary.  Kinea invested 70 million reais ($34.6 million) in Grupo
Delfin, owner of six diagnostic centers in  Brazil ’s Northeast,
and expects to triple the company’s size in four years, said
Cristiano Lauretti, a partner and head of private equity.
Alliar, the company created by Patria after acquiring stakes in
50 diagnostic units since 2011, is growing at a rate of 50
percent a year, Chief Executive Officer Fernando Terni said.  “It’s a segment that has differentiated growth
possibilities, more accelerated than in health in general,”
Terni said in an interview. “The sector is still very
fragmented and therefore opportunities for consolidation
exist.”  With only 25 percent of Brazil’s population insured, Kinea
and Patria are counting on growth to rebound even as so-called
formal jobs, the biggest generator of new insurance policies,
expanded at a slower pace in 2012. About 80 percent of revenue
for diagnostic medicine companies comes from health insurers.  Growth Markets  The funds, both based in  Sao Paulo , are focusing on regions
that aren’t fully served by  Fleury SA (FLRY3)  and  Diagnosticos da
America SA , Brazil’s biggest publicly traded diagnostics
companies, which are among the global industry’s three  worst 
performers in the past year.  Spending on health plans grew at almost 13 percent annually
from 2003 to 2011, the most recent year with available data,
according to the national health insurance agency, known as ANS.
That pace probably slowed last year with the creation of only
1.3 million formal jobs, down from 2.2 million in 2011, said
Thiago Macruz, a Sao Paulo-based analyst at Itau Corretora de
Valores SA, in a telephone interview.  The deceleration is weighing on Sao Paulo-based Fleury and
Dasa, as Diagnosticos da America SA is known. Fleury slid 19
percent in the 12 months through yesterday and  Dasa (DASA3)  slumped 15
percent. Canada’s  CML HealthCare Inc. (CLC)  fell 26 percent. Dasa rose
0.1 percent to 11.51 reais and Fleury gained 0.2 percent to
20.21 reais at 3:51 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading.  A spokesman for Fleury at A4 Comunicacao and one for Dasa
at RMA Comunicacao declined to comment on current market
challenges and future expectations.  ‘Challenging Trends’  “We have seen very challenging trends for the segment of
diagnostics in Brazil,” Macruz said. He  rates  Barueri, Brazil-based Dasa the equivalent of neutral and  recommends  buying
Fleury. Rising costs are also hurting as insurance plans refuse
to increase payments for services.  “Health-care cost inflation is being caused by a shortage
in the number of physicians and doctors and the high quality of
care being demanded,” Macruz said.  In the past decade, more Brazilians have migrated from the
free, government-run health-care system to private plans as the
middle-class swelled by 36 million people between 2002 and 2012.
That pattern should resume as the economy and job creation
rebound, Kinea’s Lauretti said.  Brazil’s economy, the world’s second-largest emerging
market, expanded last year by 0.9 percent, the slowest pace
since 2009. It is projected to grow 3.1 percent in 2013,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 30 economists.  Growth Opportunities  High employment levels in the Northeast present growth
opportunities, Lauretti said. Alliar is focusing on expansion in
the faster-growing regions in states like  Minas Gerais  and
Paraiba, Terni said.  “Whenever you have a city without these services, we go
there,” Terni said. “There is repressed demand.”  Brazil’s Northeast has seen the largest regional gains in
the middle class since 2002, buoyed by development such as
attracting employers such a  Kraft Foods Inc. (KRFT)  factory. Delfin is
the biggest diagnostic-center operator in that part of the
country, Lauretti said.  “There is a lot of long-term potential because more
Brazilians are aging,” Itau’s Macruz said. “There is a more
space to expand the use of health insurance in those regions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  