-- Blast Victims Left Unprotected in Texas Without Emergency Plan
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/blast-victims-left-unprotected-in-texas-without-emergency-plan.html
Within minutes of a blaze starting at
West Fertilizer Co. on the evening of April 17, residents a
third of a mile away on Main Street in West,  Texas , gathered in
their front yards to watch firefighters at the plant.  “That’s what people in West do, because nothing exciting
ever happens here,” Debbie Gerdes, 56, said in an interview.
“I thought we were just going to sit here and watch them put
out a fire.”  About 20 minutes later, Gerdes was thrown to her knees by
an explosion at the facility, which stored ammonium nitrate
fertilizer. The blast destroyed more than 100 homes and
scattered debris as much as two miles from the epicenter. At
least 14 people died, including 10 emergency workers, and 200
were injured in the worst U.S. industrial accident since 2010.  Had Gerdes lived near another kind of industrial
installation, the outcome might have been better. Fertilizer
plants like the one at West are exempt from federal regulations
that enforce warning systems at other hazardous sites, an
exception that’s being questioned by legislators. Oil refineries
and chemical plants must warn residents of any danger in
advance. Local officials are required to plan how to notify
residents of an emergency.  No such measures were in place in West, a city of 2,800
located about 80 miles south of  Dallas . West Fertilizer, which
sat just outside the city limits, stored 270 tons of ammonium
nitrate as of Dec. 31, according to a report from the Texas
Department of State Health Services. The common fertilizer is
such a powerful explosive that it’s been used in terrorist
bombs.  Blast Crater  According to recordings of emergency radio traffic the
night of the fire, a police officer asked a dispatcher for an
emergency contact at the plant. A plant manager arrived at the
scene about 15 minutes after the fire was reported, recordings
aired by television station WFAA indicate.  A few minutes later, the plant was gone, leaving a crater
93 feet by 10 feet (28 meters by 3 meters).  Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat, has said
she’ll hold hearings to determine if U.S. chemical-safety laws
need to be strengthened. The Department of Homeland Security may
be able to enact tighter rules on ammonium nitrate under a 2007
law intended to prevent explosives from falling into the wrong
hands, said Kathy Mathers, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based Fertilizer Institute.  Still, it’s been almost six years since the law was passed
and the department has yet to finalize its rules. None of the 16
Texas officials who testified in Austin May 1 at a state hearing
on the West blast called for additional regulations.  Chevron Fire  It may take until May 24 to determine the cause of the
fire, the Texas Insurance Department said in a May 6 statement.
Investigators from the state fire marshal’s office and the U.S.
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms have conducted more than
400 interviews and reassembled pieces of the plant’s building,
according to a May 7 pool report from the Associated Press.  Donald Adair, owner of West Fertilizer’s parent company
Adair Grain Inc., declined to comment on emergency management
plans at the plant, Daniel Keeney, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  In contrast to West, warning sirens sounded within minutes
of an Aug. 6 fire at  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Richmond, California, oil
refinery. Contra Costa County’s early warning system
automatically sent 18,800 phone calls alerting residents,
telling them to stay in their homes.  Bhopal Victims  Contra Costa’s system has an annual budget of about $1.2
million, paid for by the refineries and other businesses that
handle hazardous materials, said Heather Tiernan, emergency
planning coordinator the county sheriff’s office. The county
also uses e-mail, websites and social media for alerts, which
can be triggered by county officials and operators of six
refineries and chemical plants in the area.  “As soon as someone recognizes that we need to use the
systems, it takes seconds,” Tiernan said in an interview.  The federal law that established the warning systems, known
as the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, was
written in 1986, two years after a toxic gas cloud leaked from a
Union Carbide Corp. pesticide plant and killed thousands of
people in Bhopal,  India .  The law requires states and local governments to form Local
Emergency Planning Committees, or LEPCs, to prepare for
emergencies and warn residents when there’s a chemical release.
The 1990 Clean Air Act requires plants to file detailed risk
management plans for airborne pollutants. LEPCs are required to
keep an inventory of chemicals in their community and provide it
to people who ask for it.  Airborne Hazards  West Fertilizer’s risk management report filed with the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency doesn’t list any potential
airborne hazards, according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg
News. The EPA fined West Fertilizer $2,300 in 2006, in part
because it was two years late in filing the plan.  The rules on early warning systems are less stringent for
plants that handle dry or powdered chemicals such as ammonium
nitrate, since there’s less risk of them being released into the
air.  “The largest part of what the LEPC does is being a
clearinghouse for information,” said Gary Patterson, who heads
McLennan County’s LEPC as its emergency management director. The
West Fire Department was responsible for specific plans to deal
with a fire at the plant, he said.  Emergency Drills  Officials don’t yet know if West firefighters had
previously developed an emergency response plan with closely
held Adair Grain, according to state Representative Joe Pickett,
who led a May 1 legislative hearing on the incident. Five of the
city’s 29 firefighters died, along with emergency medical
workers and staff from nearby towns.=  West Mayor Tommy Muska said the fire department knew there
was ammonium nitrate at the plant, though not the quantity.
While the department had done emergency drills, it hadn’t
drilled for a fire at the plant, Muska said in an April 24
interview.  The nearest fire hydrant was three blocks away, inside the
city limits, Muska, who is also a firefighter, said in a May 8
interview.  “We wouldn’t have enough water even if it was inside the
city limits to put that fire out,” he said. Firefighters were
trying to retreat from the burning plant when it exploded, he
said.  Gerdes, who has lived on Main Street in West for 20 years,
and her neighbor Nancy Shelton, said they don’t remember hearing
about any plans or public-information campaign to warn
residents.  Damaged Schools  In hindsight, the danger seems obvious. The homes closest
to the plant were flattened and some of them burned to the
ground. The explosion blew out windows and doors and buckled
roofs along Main Street. It collapsed the ceilings in Shelton’s
house and embedded shards of glass in Gerdes’ bedroom wall.
Three of the town’s schools were damaged and two of them may
have to be permanently closed.  “If school had been in session, it would have just been
horrible,” Shelton said.  The scale of the West disaster shows that even early
warning systems aren’t enough and what’s really needed are rules
requiring a buffer between chemical plants and homes, said Paul
Orum, a consultant who wrote a report on chemical safety for the
Center for American Progress.  Plants that can’t relocate could store hazardous materials
in smaller quantities to reduce risk, he said.  ‘Vital Purpose’  A week after the explosion, Shelton was starting to agree
with that viewpoint.  “There needs to be some type of federal regulation where
you can’t have inhabited residences within so many feet or miles
of a plant,” she said.  Muska said in a May 1  post  on the city’s website that West
Fertilizer should be rebuilt away from populated areas.  “It serves a vital purpose for the large farming
population in this area,” he wrote. “Maybe just farther away
from the city limits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  