-- BMC Software Sued by Investor Over $6.9 Billion Bain Deal
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-05-10T20:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/bmc-software-sued-by-investor-over-6-9-billion-bain-deal.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , a Houston-based
software maker that abandoned a sale last year after failing to
find a buyer, was sued by an investor over its plans to be taken
private.  The company’s proposed $6.9 billion sale to Bain Capital
LLC and and Golden Gate Capital is inadequate and detrimental to
shareholders, lawyers for investor Nicole Henzel said in the
complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court. Henzel is
seeking to represent all BMC shareholders in her bid to bar the
transaction.  BMC agreed to be taken private after struggling to compete
with rivals in the market for server software for cloud
computing. The company, which provides software that keeps
corporate computer networks running smoothly, gets about 40
percent of its sales from managing mainframe computers from
International Business Machines Corp.  The buyout group, which includes  Singapore ’s GIC Special
Investments Pte Ltd. and Insight Venture Partners, will pay
$46.25 a share in cash for BMC.  BMC has been trading well below its intrinsic value for
more than two years due in large part to management’s failure to
capitalize on cloud computing, Henzel said. Still, the company’s
financial performance has been improving with rising revenue and
bookings, Henzel said. The proposed buyout caps that
improvement, she said in the complaint.  “The merger agreement ensures that instead of the benefits
of this improved financial outlook accruing to BMC’s long-suffering shareholders, the buyout group will reap a windfall,”
Henzel said in the complaint.  Mark Stouse, a BMC spokesman, declined to comment on the
lawsuit in an e-mailed message.  BMC rose 2 cents to $45.37 at in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  The case is Nicole Henzel v. BMC Software Inc., CA8542,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  