-- Boston Scientific’s Mahoney Says Watchman Key to Growth
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-10T20:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/boston-scientific-s-mahoney-says-watchman-key-to-growth.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ’s Watchman
improved survival in patients with erratic heart rates after
four years, an unexpected finding that may help create a $500
million market, said Chief Executive Officer Michael Mahoney.  The device is inserted into the heart to close a cul-de-sac
where blood pools in patients with atrial fibrillation, the most
common erratic heart rate. Patients given Watchman were 40
percent less likely to have a stroke, form a clot or die than
those getting the blood thinner warfarin in a study presented
yesterday at the  Heart Rhythm Society  meeting in Denver.  The findings should lay to rest questions about the device,
which was shown to carry risks when it was implanted by
physicians without much experience, said Vivek Reddy, the lead
researcher and director of the cardiac arrhythmia services at
Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York. Even with
complications from the insertion, patients treated with Watchman
have a lower risk of stroke and death from any cause, he said.  “It’s comforting to know that with longer follow up, the
device’s effectiveness doesn’t drop off, it increases,” Reddy
said in a telephone interview. “The 34 percent decrease in
mortality is extraordinary.”  The findings should bolster demand for the product in
Europe and help the second-biggest U.S. maker of heart devices
win  Food and Drug Administration  approval, Mahoney said in a
telephone interview. Boston Scientific, based in Natick,
 Massachusetts , plans to file for approval by the end of the
month and hopes for a decision by the first quarter of next
year, he said.  ‘Growth Strategy’  “This is an important part of our growth strategy,”
Mahoney said. “Watchman is one of the most clinically tested
devices ever prior to FDA approval. We feel like with the body
of evidence we have, this deserves to be approved.”  Boston Scientific rose 1.8 percent to $8.45 at the close in
New York. The shares have  gained  35 percent in the past 12
months.  Boston Scientific is counting on five new products obtained
through acquisitions that have just reached the U.S. market or
are in late development to help return the company to growth in
the second half of 2013, Mahoney said. The company is grappling
with decreasing demand and falling prices for cardiac devices
that account for almost half its  annual revenue , as sales have
declined for three consecutive years.  Novel Defibrillator  Two studies presented at the meeting on the company’s new
S-ICD, a defibrillator that doesn’t require leads to be attached
to the heart, may bolster its use, investigators said.  The work from researchers at the Academic Medical Center in
Amsterdam found the novel devices are being used mainly in
younger males. A review of 369 patients found about 7 percent
had inappropriate shocks after 15 months, less than half the
rate found in small, early studies. A second review showed the
one-year mortality rate was 2.7 percent in patients getting the
device to replace an infected defibrillator compared with the
8.4 percent expected death rate with older devices.  The improved results stem from better patient selection,
improved programming of the devices and greater experience of
the doctors implanting them, said Louise Olde Nordkamp, a doctor
and researcher at the Academic Medical Center in Amsterdam.  More than 2.7 million Americans and 15 million worldwide
suffer from  atrial fibrillation . With the condition, the heart
quivers instead of beating efficiently, allowing blood to pool
and potentially form clots that cause strokes. While blood
thinning medicines like warfarin are used to stop the blood from
sticking together, the Watchman also can prevent clots.  Regulatory Review  The longer-term results should help the company win U.S.
approval for the novel technology and boost the use of the
device once it hits the market, said Danielle Antalffy, an
analyst with Leerink Swann in New York, in a note to investors.  Recent approvals of new blood thinners, including Xarelto
from  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and Eliquis from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , are siphoning sales from warfarin,
a form of rat poison used for decades to thin the blood. Xarelto
is getting almost as many new prescriptions from cardiologists
as warfarin, with about 37 percent of the market, according to
IMS Health, which tracks industry data.  Warfarin is considered inferior to the newer medicines,
which aren’t affected by diet and don’t require routine blood
tests, said Jason McGorman, an analyst with Bloomberg Industries
in Princeton, New Jersey. Watchman was tested against warfarin
so it’s not clear how doctors will compare it to the newer
drugs, he said in a telephone interview.  “There are very few things in medicine that get you a
benefit of this magnitude,” said Ken Stein, Boston Scientific’s
chief medical officer for cardiac rhythm management. “We’re
hopeful that with the strength of this data we get pretty
quickly through the FDA process.”  While the company plans additional studies to confirm how
the device fares once it’s approved, “the heavy lifting is
done,” Stein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  