-- Boston Bomb Suspect’s Friends Waive Right to Hearing
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-05-10T22:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/boston-bomb-suspect-s-friends-waive-probable-cause-hearing-1-.html
Two friends of  Boston  Marathon
bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev waived a scheduled court
hearing on whether the government had probable cause to arrest
them for allegedly hindering a federal probe into the attack.  Lawyers for Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov, who were
charged on May 1 with obstruction of justice, said they wanted
more time to review evidence in the case. Today they filed a
joint motion with U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz to cancel a May 14
hearing in federal court in Boston, where the request was
approved by U.S. Magistrate Judge Mirianne Bowler.  Tazhayakov’s lawyer, Arkady Bukh, said the delay will allow
him to seek more evidence from government prosecutors.  “We’re functioning simply based on the complaint, which is
public material; this is very minimal material to work with,”
Bukh said today in a phone interview. “We need to know a little
more in order to engage in some sort of meaningful negotiations,
or possibly go to trial if the evidence is very weak.”  Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov, both in the U.S. on student
visas from  Kazakhstan , are accused of deciding to remove a
backpack containing fireworks from Tsarnaev’s college dormitory
room on April 18 after authorities released pictures identifying
him as a suspect in the attack that killed three people and
injured more than 260 near the race’s finish line. They also
agreed to dispose of the bag to protect their friend, the U.S.
said.  Christina Sterling, a spokeswoman for Ortiz, declined to
comment on the delay.  Third Friend  A third friend of Tsarnaev’s, Robel Phillipos, was arrested
and charged the same day over claims he lied to investigators
about the dorm-room visit. Phillipos, a U.S. citizen, was
released on bail and is scheduled to appear in court on May 17.  Tsarnaev, who was charged with conducting the attack with
his brother Tamerlan, 26, faces a possible death sentence if
convicted. Tamerlan died in a police shootout in the days after
the bombing. Tsarnaev is scheduled to appear in court on May 30.
All four men are 19 years old and attended classes at University
of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth.  The process is “simply taking time” and the request to
delay next week’s hearing isn’t a sign of a plea bargain with
prosecutors, Robert Stahl, a lawyer for Kadyrbayev, said in an
interview. Stahl said he sought the delay to gather evidence and
to avoid a “rush of judgment for the government to indict in
order to avoid the preliminary hearing.”  Prosecutors allege that while both Kazakh men agreed to
remove the backpack and dispose of it, Kadyrbayev is the one who
physically removed it from the dorm room and later placed it in
a plastic bag and dumped it in a trash bin near his apartment.  Roommate, Girlfriend  The difference is important to Tazhayakov’s defense, Bukh
said. He said he’s seeking information including statements
given to investigators by people who would have witnessed the
dorm-room visit. He said that includes Tsarnaev’s roommate,
whose name isn’t in the complaint, and Kadyrbayev’s girlfriend,
whose name he doesn’t know.  “There are lots of witnesses -- some witnesses who knew
what was going on in the room,” Bukh said. “The complaint
itself is very clear it was done by Mr. Kadyrbayev.”  Bukh also said he seeks to know what evidence the
government has about the way Tsarnaev allegedly gave his consent
for what to do with the backpack.  “The allegation against my client is that in some form or
shape he gave consent -- this is a very generic statement from
the prosecutors,” Bukh said. “Was it general consent? How
general? Does silence constitute consent? Where in his head does
it constitute consent? As strange as it sounds, it’s a very
important detail.”  The case is U.S. v. Kadyrbayev, 1:13-02161, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston). The Tsarnaev case is
U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  