-- Brent Pressured by U.S. Tripling Crude to Canada: Energy Markets
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-05-10T16:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/brent-pressured-by-u-s-tripling-crude-to-canada-energy-markets.html
U.S. oil exports are poised to reach
the highest level in 28 years as deliveries to Canada more than
triple, helping bring down the price of the global benchmark
Brent crude relative to U.S. grades.  The shipments will rise to at least 200,000 barrels a day
by the end of the year, according to  Ed Morse , head of global
commodities research at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Exports
were 59,600 in 2012 and haven’t averaged more than 200,000 since
1985. The U.S. restricts companies from sending American crude
abroad, with Canada an exception.  The premium for Brent, used to price European and West
African crude, over U.S. West Texas Intermediate  narrowed  to
less than $8 a barrel this week from $25.53 in November. The
export increase allows refiners in eastern Canada including
 Valero Energy Corp.  and Irving Oil Corp. to replace cargoes from
overseas with less-expensive U.S. oil, benefiting from the
shale-drilling boom that’s pushed domestic output to the highest
level since 1992.  “U.S. production is making its way across North America
and increasing supplies into the Atlantic Basin,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “It
impacts the availability of light, sweet crude, which in turn
will affect the Brent price.”  The  spread  between Brent for June settlement on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange and June-delivery WTI on the New York
Mercantile Exchange widened 19 cents to $8.27 at 11:38 a.m.
after reaching $7.72 in May 8, the lowest since Jan. 20, 2011.
The premium may narrow to $5 before rebounding later this year,
 The Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  said today in a report.  Higher Exports  Exports  to Canada doubled in February from a year earlier
to 124,000 barrels a day, the highest level since 1999,
according to U.S. Energy Information Administration data.
Canadian refineries might be able to process “a couple hundred
thousand barrels a day” from the U.S.,  Adam Sieminski , the
EIA’s administrator, said in an interview in Houston.  Valero expects to ship 90,000 barrels a day to its Quebec
refinery in June. Irving can unload 200,000 barrels daily from
rail cars on Canada’s Atlantic Coast.  Imperial Oil Ltd  took in
20,000 barrels a day by rail in the first quarter at its plants
and  Suncor Energy Inc . plans to finish a rail terminal at its
Montreal refinery by the end of the year.  Improved use of directional drilling and hydraulic
fracturing in shale formations in North Dakota and Texas has
helped the U.S. reverse a decline of crude output. The U.S.
 pumped  7.37 million barrels a day in the week ended May 3, the
most since February 1992, EIA data show.  Cushing Glut  Booming production created a glut of crude in Cushing,
Oklahoma, the delivery point for WTI futures.  Supplies  there
reached a record of 51.9 million barrels in the week ended Jan.
11. WTI prices, which averaged a slight premium to the European
benchmark before 2011, sank to an average $17.47-a-barrel
discount last year.  Refineries in Eastern Canada have been cut off from the
growth of bitumen and light synthetic oil production in the
country’s western half.  Enbridge Inc.  is trying to remedy that
by reversing its Line 9 to carry crude east to Montreal from
Sarnia, Ontario.  TransCanada Corp.  is proposing to convert 1,800
miles (2,896 kilometers) of natural gas pipelines to carry crude
from Western Canada as far east as New Brunswick.  As U.S. crude discounts persist into a third year,
producers such as ConocoPhillips have called for the U.S. to
change its export policy, which requires companies to obtain
Commerce Department approval before sending unrefined crude
abroad. The department’s policy is to approve shipments to
Canada, according to its Export Administration Regulations.  Gasoline Prices  The government probably won’t change export rules while
parts of the country still pay $4 a gallon for gasoline, said
 Stacey Hudson , a senior research associate with Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in Houston. Shipments to Canada are a way to tap
into a foreign market while avoiding that debate.  “The politics of sending crude to another country other
than Canada get people’s feathers ruffled,” she said.  Gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, has risen to
$3.56 yesterday from $3.291 a gallon on Jan. 1, Heathrow,
Florida-based AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group, said
yesterday on its website. The average price reached a 2013 high
of $3.786 on Feb. 26. Prices were $4.244 a gallon in Chicago,
$4.073 in San Francisco and $3.814 in New York, according to
AAA.  The Commerce Department’s  Bureau of Industry and Security 
issued 66 licenses to export crude from the U.S. in 2012, up
from 45 in 2011 and 22 in 2007. A license is good for one year
and allows a company to export a set amount of crude, said
 Eugene Cottilli , a Washington D.C.-based spokesman for the
agency.  Valero License  Valero is allowed to send 90,000 barrels of Eagle Ford
crude a day to its Quebec City refinery. It processed the first
test batch in April to positive results and shipments will begin
after the refinery completes a turnaround in June, Chief
Executive Officer  Bill Klesse  said in a May 2 interview
following the company’s annual meeting in San Antonio.  The refinery also expects to complete a rail unloading
terminal and begin receiving 30,000 to 50,000 barrels a day
there in July. When  Enbridge  completes its reversal of Line 9 to
move crude to Montreal in 2014, Valero will back out all non-U.S. imports at the 235,000-barrel-a-day  plant , Klesse said.  “When all that’s done, the Quebec refinery will be a North
American-sourced refinery, where today we are running Saharan,
CPC, North Sea, West African,” Klesse said.  Reconnecting Benchmarks  Canada averaged 676,000 barrels a day of light crude
imports in 2012, according to data compiled by the country’s
 National Energy Board .  U.S. exports and light synthetic crude from western Canada
could replace 200,000 barrels a day of European and African
imports this year, and as many as 400,000 barrels a day by the
end of next year after the Line 9 expansion, said  Amrita Sen ,
chief oil market analyst for Energy Aspects Ltd. in London.  “Ultimately you are lowering your demand for crudes from
the North Sea and West Africa,” she said. “It can weigh on
Brent prices, whereas the more the U.S. exports, it is better
for U.S crude, so it will help to reconnect the two benchmarks,
a little by lowering Brent, and a little by pushing WTI up.”  Irving’s Saint John refinery in New Brunswick uses more oil
from North Dakota than any other plant,  Mike Ashar , the
company’s then-president, said March 20 during a presentation in
San Antonio. Irving has also brought in Eagle Ford crude from
Texas on vessels, he said.  Imperial Shipments  Imperial received 20,000 barrels a day of North American
mid-continent crude by rail at refineries in Ontario and Alberta
in the first quarter and expects that number to increase, the
company said April 29 in an earnings statement.  Suncor expects to complete a rail unloading operation at
the 137,000-barrel-a-day Montreal plant by the end of this year,
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Williams  said in a March 5
interview in Houston.  The arrival of U.S. oil in eastern Canada may displace
higher-priced local oil pumped from fields off the coast of
Newfoundland. Three tankers are set to take crude from
Newfoundland to Europe in May, bringing the total for the year
to four, according to shipping-fixture data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s up from two in 2011 and one last year.  The Genmar Spartiate, chartered by  Exxon Mobil Corp ., is en
route from Whiffen Head in Newfoundland to Le Havre, France,
according to satellite tracking data from AISLive on Bloomberg.
Valero has chartered the AST Sunshine to load May 23 from the
East Coast of Canada to Pembroke in the U.K., where the company
has a refinery.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  booked the Ioannis from
Whiffen Head May 15 to Tranmere in the U.K.  Ship-charter data are incomplete and bookings are often
reported at the provisional stage, meaning they are subject to
cancellation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  