-- BT Shares Jump to 5 1/2-Year High as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-05-10T16:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/bt-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-high-speed-web-customers.html
BT Group Plc,  the U.K.’s largest
fixed-line company, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after adding high-speed Internet service
customers. The shares jumped to the highest level since 2007.  BT surged 12 percent to close at 309.5 pence in London, the
biggest gain since 2009. The stock has gained 34 percent this
year.  BT reported adjusted earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization rose 4 percent to 1.67 billion
pounds ($2.6 billion) in the quarter ending in March, in a
statement today. Analysts had  projected  1.62 billion pounds,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  BT said yesterday it will offer its new BT Sport channels
free with broadband subscriptions to make its bundles of phone,
Internet and TV service more appealing, sinking shares of
competitor  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc . While the
investment, which will probably cost the company 1 billion
pounds in rights alone in the next three years, will lose money
in the near term, it’s expected to drive up subscriptions and
increase loyalty, executives said at a press conference.  “This offer has three potential pay-offs for BT: the first
and most important is to regain retail broadband market share;
the second is to increase fiber uptake and the third is to
accelerate growth of the lower end pay-TV market,” Sanford C.
Bernstein analyst  Robin Bienenstock  said in a note to investors
yesterday. “This is the end of price inflation in the U.K. pay-TV market; ushering in an era of increasing pressure on TV
margins.”  BT sales fell 1.8 percent to 4.79 billion pounds, the
London-based company said today in a statement.  Olympic Park  The company will release three new channels in August
before the Premier League soccer season, it said at the event
near its London TV headquarters in the Olympic Park. The BT
Sport 1, BT Sport 2 and ESPN channels will also stream on the
Web and through applications for mobile phones.  The company said adjusted Ebitda would be 6 billion to 6.1
billion pounds this fiscal year, in line with the 6.1 billion
pounds forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Adjusted
Ebitda for the fiscal year ending in March 2015 is forecast to
be 6.2 billion pounds to 6.3 billion pounds.  BT has a “strong financial outlook despite significant
strategic investments, particularly in BT Sport,” according to
the statement.  “The key for us is we’ve got to balance off the short term
and the long term,” BT Chief Financial Officer  Tony Chanmugam 
said in an interview on Bloomberg TV today. “We’re funding the
investment by continuing to reduce our costs. That allows us to
invest in the future.”  BSkyB Shares  BSkyB shares dropped 6.2 yesterday, the biggest decline
since July 2011. The U.K.’s biggest pay-television broadcaster
declined 2.5 pence to 806.5 pence today.  The TV channels will compete with free sports programming
from the publicly funded British Broadcasting Corp. and paid
services offered by BSkyB.  BT has poached star presenters from other networks,
including BBC Radio veteran Clare Balding, former English
national rugby team captain Lawrence Dallaglio, and Jake
Humphrey, a former host of the BBC’s Formula One broadcasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  