-- Bulls’ Rose Needs Confidence-Building Knock-Down, Trainer Says
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-05-10T18:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/bulls-rose-needs-confidence-building-knock-down-trainer-says.html
Chicago Bulls guard  Derrick Rose , the
former Most Valuable Player who hasn’t returned from a knee
injury two months after doctors declared him fit, needs to get
on the court and play, said the former trainer of  Michael Jordan 
and  Kobe Bryant .  “It’s a mental state for some people,” Tim Grover, the
trainer who began working with Jordan in 1989 and Bryant in
2007, said in an interview. “Once he takes that hit and stands
back up and sees he’s OK, he’ll be just as good if not better
than before.”  Rose, the National Basketball Association MVP two seasons
ago, hasn’t played since he tore the anterior cruciate ligament
in his left knee in the first game of last year’s playoffs. He
has been practicing with the team since February and was
medically cleared to play in March, according to ESPN.  The Bulls enter the third game of the best-of-seven playoff
series against  LeBron James  and the Miami Heat tonight at home
tied after losing the second game 115-78.  His teammates have struggled through other ailments:
Forward Luol Deng has been out since April 29, and had a spinal
tap to check for viral meningitis. All-Star Center Joakim Noah
has plantar fasciitis, a painful inflammation of a ligament in
the sole of the foot. Kirk Hinrich, who replaced Rose at point
guard, is out with a severely bruised calf. Game 2’s rout by the
Heat included 51 personal fouls, plus the ejection of Noah and
Taj Gibson.  Rose has said he might play during the postseason, and told
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.’s TNT network that he needed to
regain his muscle memory to return.  ‘Hell Yeah’  Bulls fans say it’s time for the team’s highest-paid player
to get back on the court. In 2011, he signed a five-year
extension with the Bulls for $95 million and in 2012 signed a
14-year deal with Adidas for $260 million, according to the
 Chicago Tribune .  “Should he be playing? Hell yeah,” said Duan Johnson, 35,
a trading clerk at the Chicago Board of Trade. “If everybody
else can play, he can play. He’s getting paid a pretty good
salary to sit down.”  Matt Casson, a trader at Darkstar Capital in Chicago,  said
the time has passed. He pointed out how Chicago fans criticized
Bears quarterback  Jay Cutler  when he left the 2011 National
Football Conference championship game against the  Green Bay
Packers  when he sprained his knee.  “He should have been playing weeks ago,” Casson, 42,
said.  Nets Series  The Bulls advanced to the second round of the playoffs
after beating the Brooklyn Nets. During that series,  Nate Robinson  vomited in a bucket on the sidelines and kept playing;
Gibson fought through the flu; and Hinrich injured his calf. In
the first game of the series against the Heat, a 93-86 Chicago
victory, Robinson required 10 stitches in his lip after
colliding with James, according to the Tribune. Game 2 started
with the 5-foot-9 Robinson being knocked to the floor by 6-foot-8 Udonis Haslem, the kind of hit that Rose needs to take,
according to Grover.  “It’s not great to watch a game like last night’s and know
that Derrick is on the sidelines,” George Dowd, head of Chicago
foreign exchange for Newedge USA LLC, an institutional brokerage
firm, said yesterday. “But anyone who played sports knows,
especially in postseason play, the most difficult thing in the
world is sitting on the sidelines and watching your team
struggle.”  Rose endeared himself to the city as he emerged from
Chicago’s Englewood neighborhood, which for years has been
notorious for gun violence. It’s where singer  Jennifer Hudson ’s
family was slain in 2008.  Pizza Boxes  His face is on billboards and pizza boxes for Giordano’s,
which serves Chicago’s deep dish pies. Company Chief Executive
Officer Yorgo Koutsogiorgas was out of the country and
unavailable for comment, according to Jessica Wenson, a
spokeswoman.  Sponsors like Giordano’s and Adidas take a hit when players
sit out games because they aren’t able to capitalize on good
performances. In the case of Rose, they are limited in what
commercials or promotional events they can stage due to possible
customer backlash, said  Jim Andrews , a senior vice president of
content strategy at IEG, a Chicago-based sponsorship consultant.  “The bad feelings go away pretty quickly with our sports
heroes,” Andrews said in an interview. “Long-term I don’t
think this will have an impact. The negative is that they can’t
take advantage of him the way they could if he were playing.”  Rose may be the victim of unfair comparisons to Jordan, who
won six championships with the team, said Grover, author of
“Relentless: From Good to Great to Unstoppable.”  “To compare anyone to MJ is unfair,” he said. “If he
went in at halftime and the doctor said he’s got a broken
finger, MJ would tell him to cut it off and he’d figure out how
to play.”  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in  Chicago  at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  