-- Canadian Tire REIT Spurs Speculation for Hudson’s Bay
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-05-10T13:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/canadian-tire-reit-spurs-speculation-for-hudson-s-bay.html
Investors are wagering  Hudson’s Bay
Co . will follow  Canadian Tire Corp.  in spinning off its property
into a real estate investment trust.  Canadian Tire, the country’s largest sporting goods
retailer, said yesterday it will create a C$3.5 billion ($3.48
billion) REIT in an initial public offering this fall, becoming
the eighth company to either sell or propose a real estate IPO
this year. Shares in the Toronto-based firm gained 11 percent to
C$82.36 yesterday, the most since November 2008. Hudson’s Bay,
the country’s oldest retailer, jumped 9.1 percent to C$17.68,
the most since it went public in November.  “What this does is it really sets the precedent for other
companies that have all this land, like Hudson’s Bay Company,”
James Telfser, a fund manager with Caldwell Investment
Management Ltd. in Toronto, said yesterday by phone. The firm
manages about C$1 billion and Telfser said he sold shares in
Canadian Tire in October. “It brings more to light that this is
an option now for these companies trying to create value in a
tough environment.”  Canadian Tire joins  Loblaw Cos. , the country’s biggest
grocery chain by market value, which said it plans to file
regulatory documents for a C$7 billion REIT this month.
Retailers are using REITs to raise capital from yield-hungry
investors amid increasing competition from U.S. companies such
as Target Corp. and record consumer debt loads.  Hudson’s Bay is looking at creating a REIT “sometime in
the future,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Baker  said last
month. Tiffany Bourre, a spokeswoman for Hudson’s Bay, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Cheap Capital  “Canadian Tire is a perfect example of giving the market
what it wants right now, which is yield,”  Michael O’Brien , a
fund manager with TD Asset Management in Toronto who manages
about C$3 billion, said on the phone yesterday. “In the case of
both Canadian Tire and Loblaws, this is a really cheap and
efficient source of capital.”  REITs, which receive preferential tax treatment from the
government, are companies that invest in income-producing real
estate and pay out most of their income to investors through
unit distributions. They have raised $760 million from six
Canadian IPOs this year, including Milestone Apartments REIT and
Agellan Commercial REIT, to account for 74 percent of $1.02
billion raised from initial offerings this year in the country,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Canadian REITs raised almost $500 million in seven IPOs
last year, more than any other industry in Canada, the data
show. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Capped REIT  Index  soared 169
percent from a five-year low on March 9, 2009 and reached a
record high on April 30. The benchmark S&P/TSX Composite index
rose 66 percent over the same period.  Canadian Tire lost 0.5 percent to C$81.60 and Hudson’s Bay
retreated 1 percent to C$17.50 at 9:41 a.m. in Toronto trading
today.  Fund Buybacks  “The market is in a most perfect condition and I can’t see
a better time to surface the value of the properties we have,”
 Stephen Wetmore , CEO of Canadian Tire, said in a conference call
yesterday. “The market is right and this creates a vehicle we
can access should we need funding.”  Dean McCann, chief financial officer at Canadian Tire, said
on the call an IPO may raise C$350 million and plans to use the
cash for potential acquisitions as well as share buybacks.  The rush to REITs and their rich yields is also
accelerating in the U.S. Companies including Geo Group Inc., a
prison operator, and American Tower Corp., which owns cellphone
towers, have already converted to REIT structures while CBS
Corp. said in January it’s planning a conversion for its
billboard unit and casino owner Penn National Gaming Inc. has
said it will also spin off some of its real estate.  More Coming  “Companies that have larger real-estate portfolios will
definitely be looking at these types of structures and
arrangements and opportunities to finance future growth,”   Dean Braunsteiner , IPO services leader in Toronto for PwC Canada, a
member of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Ltd., said in a
phone interview. “Are there more to come? Probably.”  Loblaw, the Brampton, Ontario-based company said on May 1
it plans to file regulatory documents for a REIT IPO this month
and close the sale by early to mid-July. The grocer plans to
spin off about 35 million square feet of real estate.  “Just like Loblaw, we have the exact same opportunity,”
Hudson’s Bay’s Baker said in a telephone interview with
Bloomberg in April.  Not all retailers are interested in entering the REIT
market at the moment.  Tim Hortons Inc. , which posted continuing store sales
declines in Canada for the first time since an initial offering
in 2006 and faces pressure to create a REIT from activist
investor Highfields Capital Management LP, said it’s not
pursuing the strategy.  Crackdown Possible  “The establishment of a REIT structure would not create
significant value,”  Cynthia Devine , CFO of Tim Hortons, said in
a conference call on May 8. The company leases some of its sites
and some income would not qualify, she said.  It’s unclear how these REITs will be managed and how they
will fit into the operations of Canadian Tire or Loblaws, which
may scare away investors, Toronto-based  Mark Rothschild , an
analyst with Canaccord Genuity Corp., said yesterday. “These
REITs are not structured properly and do not operate as real
businesses. We do not believe there will be significant interest
to most traditional REIT institutional investors.”  Bill Ackman , founder of Pershing Square Capital Management
LP, said at an April 11 conference in New York that the glut of
U.S. REIT conversions will lead to new restrictions that may
harm the industry.  “If you push the envelope too much, there will be a
crackdown on the REIT industry,” Ackman said.  Rising Rent  Canadian Tire’s REIT will acquire most of the company’s
owned real estate, which includes about 250 properties comprised
of mainly Canadian Tire retail stores and a distribution center,
Canadian Tire said in a statement. The properties would
represent about 18 million square feet.  Canadian Tire plans to keep 80 percent to 90 percent of the
REIT, which will have a minimal effect on the company’s
earnings, the company said.  As the REIT establishes itself, it will draw new revenue
from rising rent, additional real estate sales from Canadian
Tire’s existing portfolio, and the potential to buy more varied
properties, McCann said.  “The idea is to get other tenants by acquiring other
properties that Canadian Tire isn’t a part of, which would make
the REIT a slightly more attractive investment,” said  Bobby Hagedorn , an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  