-- Cengage CEO Seeking Restructuring, May File Bankrupy
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-05-10T17:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/cengage-ceo-seeking-restructuring-may-file-bankrupy.html
Cengage Learning Inc. , the
educational publisher owned by Apax Partners LLP, said it’s
seeking to negotiate with creditors on a restructuring plan and
may need to file bankruptcy as part of its turnaround efforts.  “We will seek to negotiate the terms of a comprehensive
restructuring transaction with our key creditor constituents and
quickly implement the restructuring plan,” Chief Executive
Officer Michael Hansen said today on a conference call after the
company reported third-quarter results.  “The Chapter 11 process can be an effective way of
achieving a fast and efficient debt restructuring with minimal
disruption to the business, particularly where agreement is
reached with key financial stakeholders on a plan -- on the
outlines of a plan --prior to the filing,” Hansen said.  Cengage, which develops teaching materials for colleges,
schools, libraries and corporations, was acquired by a private
equity group led by Apax from Thomson Reuters Corp. for $7.75
billion in 2007. The company said March 22 it had drawn down
most of its revolving credit lines and hired restructuring
adviser Alvarez & Marsal, legal firm Kirkland & Ellis LLP and
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , raising the prospect of bankruptcy.  The company is reviewing “a range of options to strengthen
our balance sheet” and no decision has been made yet, Hansen
said. Executives didn’t take questions on today’s call. A pre-packaged bankruptcy, where key outcomes are already negotiated
with creditors, is being evaluated,  Cengage said .  Publisher’s Debt  Apax has been buying up the publisher’s debt at a discount,
Hansen said on a February conference call. The London-based
buyout firm hasn’t disclosed how much debt it has accumulated.
Holding debt gives Apax greater influence in a restructuring.  Cengage had $417.5 million cash as of March 31, and long-term debt of about $5.25 billion, it said in a statement. The
company has $525 million in revolving credit, an amount poised
to shrink to $300 million July 5 when part of the loans are due.
The company disclosed in March it had drawn $518 million from
the facilities.  Hansen, who joined the publisher in September, has revamped
management and shifted to more digital products and
subscriptions to help revive revenue as students increasingly
move away from buying new textbooks. The company is cutting
costs and ending some incentives that encouraged early ordering,
Hansen said today. That decision will hurt fiscal fourth-quarter
sales, he said.  Cengage reported an operating loss of $2.77 billion for the
three months ended March 31, compared with a loss of $12.3
million a year earlier. Sales rose 4.8 percent to $353.4
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  