-- China’s Import Data Doubted by Nomura as Tariff Revenue Slumps
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-10T10:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/china-s-import-data-doubted-by-nomura-as-tariff-revenue-slumps.html
China ’s “surprisingly strong”
import growth in the first four months may have been inflated by
fake invoices as companies circumvented  capital controls  to move
funds into China, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  A 28 percent slump in the value of import tariffs in the
first quarter compared with a year earlier casts doubt over the
credibility of official data that show  imports (CNFRIMPY)  rose 8 percent in
the period, economists Zhang Zhiwei in Hong Kong and Wendy Chen
in Shanghai wrote in a research note today. The two indicators
have generally moved in tandem in the past, they said.  Skepticism over import figures in the world’s second-biggest economy adds to concerns that the nation’s trade data
are inaccurate after analysts at Bank of America Corp. and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc said  export  figures this year were
inflated by fabricated reports. Hot money flooding into China
helped push the yuan to a 19-year high yesterday and regulators
this week announced a crackdown on companies using trade reports
to disguise speculative inflows.  “Some companies may have moved products between  Hong Kong 
and China’s special trade zones to circumvent capital controls
and move funds into China,” the Nomura economists wrote. “Such
trade is free of import tariffs, so it pushes up imports and
exports but not  import duties .”  The country’s customs bureau this week reported an
unexpected acceleration in export growth in April from a year
earlier, even as shipments to the U.S. and Europe fell. The 14.7
percent surge may have been overstated by 9 percentage points,
according to RBS.  Over-invoicing Shipments  The drop in revenue from import tariffs in the first
quarter was more than the 24 percent contraction in the first
quarter of 2009, Nomura said. Imports plummeted then because of
the global financial crisis.  Companies that over-invoice shipments from Hong Kong to
special trade zones in China can shift funds across the border
to capitalize on high-yielding investment products offered by
so-called shadow banks and also benefit from any  yuan  gains,
Zhang said in a telephone interview.  “You could borrow from Hong Kong at a very low  interest
rate  and then buy the products in China and at the same time
benefit from the exchange-rate appreciation,” said Zhang,
Nomura’s chief China economist.  The customs administration didn’t immediately respond to
faxed questions from  Bloomberg News  seeking comment on Nomura’s
report today.  Zheng Yuesheng, a customs administration spokesman, said
last month that China is investigating possible fraud behind
first-quarter export growth and said the practice of false trade
declarations “does exist but is definitely not mainstream.”  --Kevin Hamlin, with assistance from Zhou Xin in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  