-- China’s New Loans Pass Estimates, Sign of Growth Support
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-11T07:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/china-april-new-yuan-loans-money-supply-exceed-estimates.html
China ’s new local-currency  loans 
exceeded estimates last month while money supply expanded at a
faster pace, a sign policy makers are maintaining credit support
for the economy after first-quarter growth unexpectedly slowed.  Lending was 792.9 billion yuan ($129 billion) in April, the
People’s Bank of China said yesterday in Beijing, compared with
the median estimate of 755 billion yuan in a Bloomberg News
survey. M2 money supply rose 16.1 percent from a year earlier,
following March’s 15.7 percent advance.  Inflation that’s run below the government’s annual goal
every month this year has allowed the central bank to keep
credit flowing as a  recovery  in the world’s second-biggest
economy threatens to falter. At the same time, the lending
growth and expansion of so-called shadow banking may increase
risks in the financial system that new leaders including
President Xi Jinping are trying to control.  “The strong credit supply and bank loans in the first four
months of this year will be sufficient to support an economic
recovery through the third quarter,” said Ding Shuang, senior
China economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong. “Financial
risks may also rise.”  Aggregate financing, a broader measure of credit that
includes trust loans, stock and bond sales, was 1.75 trillion
 yuan  in April, compared with a record 2.54 trillion yuan the
previous month.  The median economist forecast was for a 15.5 percent
increase in money supply while the 10  forecasts  for aggregate
financing ranged from 1 trillion yuan to 1.8 trillion yuan, with
a median of 1.5 trillion yuan.  Stocks Rise  The yuan fell 0.2 percent against the dollar in Shanghai
yesterday, snapping a three-day gain. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index, which closed before the data were released,
rose 0.6 percent.  Standard Chartered Plc became the latest bank to lower its
growth estimates for China, cutting its 2013 forecast to 7.7
percent from 8.3 percent and next year’s projection to 7.5
percent from 8.2 percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. last month cut their 2013 forecasts to
7.8 percent after economic expansion unexpectedly slowed to 7.7
percent in the first quarter.  “There are few signs of renewed dynamism” in economic
growth, Standard Chartered analysts led by Stephen Green, head
of Greater China research in Hong Kong, wrote in a report dated
May 10. “Credit growth should support near-term activity,
though it raises questions about leverage, credit quality and
growth sustainability in the next few years.”  Spillover Effects  Aggregate financing  was a record in the first three months
and new yuan loans were the most for a quarter in almost four
years, spurring concerns that faster credit isn’t translating
into economic growth.  The central bank said this week that it will use various
tools to guide “stable and reasonable” growth in money supply
and credit. “The negative spillover effects from loose monetary
policy in major economies are growing, which has helped pro-cyclical credit expansion at home,” the PBOC said.  The ruling Politburo Standing Committee, headed by Xi, said
last month that the country must guard against financial risks
and boost  consumption , issuing a statement after what the
official Xinhua News Agency said was a special session on the
economy.  Quality Growth  “New leaders are keen to put their house in order by
preventing any small financial and debt incidents,” Bank of
America Corp. economists led by Hong Kong-based Lu Ting said in
a note yesterday. The banking regulator in March tightened rules
on wealth-management products.  The government set a target for a 7.5 percent increase in
gross domestic product this year and Premier Li Keqiang last
month urged more efforts to improve the quality and benefits of
economic growth, indicating the government is prepared to
tolerate slower  expansion .  Gauges of  manufacturing  and service industries released
this month declined and a drop in producer prices deepened last
month, indicating demand is softening.  “Monetary conditions are still loose,” said Qinwei Wang,
China economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , who
previously worked at the People’s Bank of China. More broadly,
policy makers have moved toward “tightening oversight of
lending through other non-traditional channels since late March,
which should start to have an effect on the pace of overall
credit expansion.”  Import Doubts  Yesterday’s credit data from the central bank follow a
statistics bureau report this week showing consumer prices rose
2.4 percent in April from a year earlier, below the government’s
annual goal of 3.5 percent. The  producer-price index  fell a
more-than-estimated 2.6 percent, the 14th straight drop and the
longest negative streak since 2002.  Separately yesterday, Nomura Holdings Inc. said
“surprisingly strong” import growth in the first four months
may have been inflated by fake invoices as companies
circumvented capital controls to move funds into China. The
skepticism adds to similar doubts over the veracity of the
nation’s export data and broader questions about the reliability
of China’s official economic figures.  A 28 percent slump in the value of import tariffs in the
first quarter compared with a year earlier casts doubt over the
credibility of data that show  imports  rose 8 percent in the
period, economists Zhang Zhiwei in Hong Kong and Wendy Chen in
 Shanghai  said in a report.  The statistics bureau is scheduled on May 13 to release
data on  industrial output  and retail sales for April and
investment for the first four months. Production probably rose
9.4 percent in April from a year earlier, compared with an 8.9
percent gain in March, based on the median analyst forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  --Scott Lanman. With assistance from Zhou Xin, Kevin Hamlin and
Liu Li in Beijing and Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Nerys Avery, Nathaniel Espino  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  