-- China’s Overnight Rate Rises as Bill Sales Seen Curbing Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-10T02:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/china-s-overnight-rate-rises-as-bill-sales-seen-curbing-cash.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
rose for a second day on speculation the central bank’s
resumption of bill sales will curb the supply of cash in the
financial system.  The People’s Bank of China sold 10 billion yuan ($1.6
billion) of three-month bills at a yield of 2.91 percent
yesterday, the first issue of such securities since December
2011, according to a statement on its website. Prior to that,
the monetary authority has only used 28- or 91-day repurchase
contracts to drain capital since February.  The  one-day  repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, rose three basis points to 2.14 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It fell 85 basis points this week. The
seven-day  repurchase rate  touched a two-week high of 4 percent
today before dropping 13 basis points to 2.98 percent.  “Liquidity won’t be overly loose any more,” said Song
Qiuhong, a bond analyst at Foshan Shunde Rural Commercial Bank
Co. in Foshan, a city in the southern province of Guangdong.
“The seven-day repo may stay above 3.3 percent most of the time
this quarter.”  New home prices jumped 5.3 percent from a year earlier in
April, defying government efforts to cool the property market,
according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., which owns the country’s
biggest real-estate website. The consumer price index rose 2.4
percent last month, the most this year, official data show,
while the  yuan  touched a 19-year high yesterday. China is
tightening monetary policy even as benchmark interest rates were
cut this month in South Korea,  Australia ,  Europe  and  India .  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was unchanged at
3.27 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
climbed six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, this week.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Andrew Janes, Robin Ganguly  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 