-- Christie Linked to Walker as Rule Changes Anger Workers
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-05-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/christie-linked-to-walker-as-rule-changes-anger-workers.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie,
whose cutback of public-employee compensation two years ago made
him a national model of Republican strength, now is trying to
scrap century-old civil-service rules.  The state bureaucracy, Christie says, is mired in
antiquated testing and barriers to promotion. He wants the
system run like an efficient private employer, leading to lower
costs in the U.S. state with the highest property taxes.  New Jersey’s public-employee unions see the proposal as a
renewed Republican drive against government workers’ pay and
benefits that peaked in 2011 under Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker. Christie, 50, is seeking a second term, and he and
Walker are potential 2016 Republican candidates for president in
a country where unions historically support Democrats.  Christie’s proposal is “the biggest threat to organized
labor I’ve seen in 37 years,” said David Forsythe, 65, an
administrative analyst from Carteret, as he picketed May 1
outside the state Labor Department building in Trenton. “It
speaks to his bigger aspirations. It’s an example of this
political agenda that walks side by side with Scott Walker.”  Republican Leaders  Last year,  Arizona  and  Tennessee  rewrote their civil-service rules. Joseph Slater, a professor at the University of
Toledo’s law school in  Ohio  who has studied public-labor unions,
said it’s no coincidence that such Republican-led states are
following one another.  “It would be naive to think that this was all about state
budgets or government services or making the public sector more
competitive,” Slater said. “It clearly has a partisan edge to
it because unions traditionally, or at least in the last few
decades, have supported Democrats much more frequently and
enthusiastically than they support Republicans.”  Christie’s proposal would allow job transfers without the
exams and competition required since 1908, when New Jersey
became the sixth state to establish civil-service rules. The
system was an effort to combat the political patronage that
allowed corruption to flourish in places like  New York  City
during the Tammany Hall era in the late 1800s and early 1900s.  Two years ago, Christie vetoed a Democratic-sponsored bill
to update civil-service rules because it failed to allow towns,
counties and school districts to opt out of the system.
Democrats, who control the legislature, haven’t sent him a new
version of the measure with his proposed changes.  Governor Appointed  Christie now seeks an overhaul through the Civil Service
Commission, whose members he appoints. The panel held one
hearing on his proposal on a workday in a room that couldn’t
accommodate at least half the crowd of about 100, said Charles Wowkanech, president of the New Jersey State AFL-CIO, the
largest U.S. labor federation.  Peter Lyden III, a spokesman for the commission, declined
to comment on the April 10 hearing. Any action on the governor’s
proposal would come after May 17, when the public comment period
ends. About 170,000 jobs in New Jersey are subject to civil-service rules.  “He’s starting to gut the regulatory process,” Wowkanech
said of Christie. “This has become emblematic of the bullying
this administration is famous for. If you think that makes him a
stronger presidential candidate, that’s your business.”  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman, called the union’s
assertions “this usual demagoguery, exaggeration or outright
lying on issues.”  “This is a narrow proposal,” Drewniak said. “This is not
some kind of stripping of the civil-service system.”  Walker Protests  Hetty Rosenstein, state director of the Communications
Workers of America, said the changes are being handled “very
quietly and quickly.” Christie, she said at the May 1 protest,
is coming from “a similar point of view” as Walker.  Walker, 45, set off lawsuits and an unsuccessful recall
effort when he signed legislation curbing collective-bargaining
rights in 2011. Christie earlier that year stripped public
workers of their ability to collectively bargain insurance
coverage, raised the minimum retirement age and boosted
contributions for pensions and benefits.  Christie, who campaigned for the Wisconsin governor as he
fended off the recall, returned to  Milwaukee  in March for a New
Jersey re-election fundraiser hosted by Walker and his wife.  “Chris Christie has begun the job of putting the people
back in charge of the government, instead of the unions,” said
Greg Mourad, vice president of the National Right to Work
Committee, a Springfield, Virginia-based organization that
presses states to drop compulsory union membership.  Peter Woolley, a professor of comparative politics at
Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison, New Jersey, said
Christie is “a lot more cautious and considered than Walker.”  “He’s made it clear that he supports the concept and the
preservation of unions, but he’s made it equally clear that some
things need to change,” Woolley said. “This is really a
classic confrontation between the civil service and the
executive. You find it not just in New Jersey or  Wisconsin . You
find it in every country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  