-- Clean Energy Stock Momentum Beating S&P 500: Technical Analysis
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-05-10T02:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/clean-energy-stock-momentum-beating-s-p-500-technical-analysis.html
Clean energy shares are outperforming
the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index for the first time in six
years and momentum indicators signal more gains for the
industry, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The S&P Global Clean Energy Index, which includes companies
from Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest
thin-film solar manufacturer, to Electric Power Development Co.
in  Tokyo , has climbed 20 percent in 2013, compared with a 14
percent advance in the benchmark gauge for American equities.
Indicators measuring the speed of the rally suggest the advance
isn’t over, according to Ayush Nagaraj, a Hong Kong-based sales
trader at Bernstein, the division of New York-based
AllianceBernstein LP.  The 14-week relative strength index for the ratio between
the indexes rose to 59.8 on May 3 after briefly surpassing 60,
the highest since May 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The weekly moving average convergence/divergence line
for the ratio -- the difference between its 12-week and 26-week
exponential moving averages -- rose above zero last week for the
first time since July 2009.  “After years of underperforming the broader markets,
alternative energy stocks have finally bottomed out,” said
Nagaraj on May 3 by e-mail. “This is corroborated by both the
MACD and RSI showing bullish signs. The fact that the clean
energy index has now become an outperformer after five years
brings it back into the scope of long-only fund managers whose
primary objective is to beat the benchmark.”  Correct Call  Nagaraj in January used Nomura Holdings Inc.’s 14-day
relative strength index to correctly predict stock of Japan’s
biggest brokerage would retreat after a 13-day advance.  The price ratio of the clean energy index to the  S&P 500  is
up 5.5 percent this year through yesterday, after tumbling in
each of the past five calender years for a total loss of 88
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Other
constituents of the clean energy index include China’s  GCL-Poly
Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , the world’s biggest polysilicon maker, and
 Enel Green Power SpA (EGPW) , the clean-energy unit of Italy’s biggest
utility.  The global solar market doubled in size between 2010 and
2012 while investor sentiment remained indifferent,  Michael
Parker , an analyst at Bernstein, wrote in a report dated May 2.
Growth will be driven by adoption in low-subsidy and
unsubsidized markets amid a continuing drop in installed cost,
the report said.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  