-- Cleric Qatada Will Go to Jordan If U.K. Adopts Trial Treaty
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-05-10T11:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/cleric-qatada-will-go-to-jordan-if-u-k-adopts-fair-trial-treaty.html
Abu Qatada , the Islamic cleric the
U.K. is trying to deport to Jordan on terror charges, will
voluntarily return to his home country if the two governments
adopt a treaty that guarantees him a fair trial.  “If that is enacted in Parliament, he will voluntarily
return to Jordan,” Qatada’s lawyer,  Edward Fitzgerald , told a
court in London today.  Home Secretary Theresa May announced a deal with Jordan
last month that it won’t use evidence linked to torture in a
renewed bid to persuade British courts to allow his removal.
Qatada, whose real name is Mohammed Othman and was 52 when he
was re-arrested in March, is being held in Belmarsh prison in
southeast  London .  The U.K. has failed in repeated attempts to deport Qatada
because judges say he may not get a fair trial in his home
country. The cleric was once described by a Spanish judge as
former al-Qaeda leader  Osama Bin Laden ’s right-hand man in
 Europe .  U.K. lawmakers hope to approve the treaty by the end of
June and it will appear before Jordan’s parliament within a few
weeks, Robin Tam, a lawyer for the U.K. government, told a
specialist immigration court today. The court delayed a decision
on whether Qatada should be granted bail.  Plane to Jordan  “The Home secretary and the prime minister are absolutely
determined to put Abu Qatada on a plane back to Jordan,”
Christian Cubitt, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, said
in a statement to reporters.  Abu Qatada, who denies any links to al-Qaeda, has been in
and out of U.K. jails for more than a decade. He has been
released on bail following rulings by U.K. judges and the
European Rights Court.  He was most recently arrested in March after the government
said he breached bail conditions that included a 16-hour-a-day
curfew, a ban from traveling by car or public transport, and
prohibitions against him using mobile phones or computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  