-- Clinton Won’t Be Hurt by Benghazi Controversy, Kaine Says
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/clinton-run-won-t-be-hurt-by-benghazi-embarrassment-kaine-says.html
The controversy over Benghazi doesn’t
rise to the level of scandal and won’t hurt  Hillary Clinton  if
she decides to run for president, Senator  Tim Kaine , a Virginia
Democrat, said yesterday.  “Some of the battling over the wordsmithing about who said
what, it could be embarrassing and that will play out,” Kaine,
a former head of the  Democratic National Committee , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “But the real issue is how to fix
it.”  Clinton was secretary of state at the time of the attacks
on the diplomatic compound in Benghazi that killed four
Americans, including U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens. The remorse
she has shown for the loss of lives will make political attacks
seem “shallow” and “cynical,” Kaine, 55, said.  Kaine also predicted the Senate, led by Democrats, would
pass legislation to expand background checks for  gun buyers . In
April, the Senate rejected a bill after an intense push by the
 National Rifle Association , a lobbying group for firearms owners
and makers based in Kaine’s home state.  Kaine, who has said the political strength of the NRA
leadership is overstated, said supporters will keep looking for
ways to pass the bill.  “There will be a moment where we will either get some
people to switch their mind, or we’ll make a change to the bill
that will satisfy a concern,” Kaine said. “The American people
overwhelmingly support record checks, and the day will come when
we pass this bill.”  Virginia Tech  The first-term senator was governor of Virginia in 2007
when Seung-Hui Cho shot and killed 32 people at Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg, the
deadliest shooting rampage in U.S. history. That experience left
“scar tissue” among his constituents, he said.  “We learned through our deep pain and shame, make a better
background-check system -- you keep people safer,” he said.
“We fixed some things in  Virginia , but we got more to fix at
the national level.”  Kaine, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee,
also talked about a reported rise in sexual assaults in the U.S.
military. He said lawmakers would include language designed to
fix the problem in a defense budget bill later this year.  “On this issue, we’ve got to see a dramatic upgrade,” he
said in response to a question about whether he had confidence
in Air Force Secretary Michael Donley.  ‘Heads Roll’  Asked what the response to the problem should be, Kaine
said: “More heads roll and more procedures should be changed.”  Kaine, who is also a member of the Senate Budget Committee,
criticized Republicans who control the  House of Representatives 
for not trying to reach a  budget  deal with Senate Democrats.  “The Republicans banged on us in the Senate for years.
‘The Senate won’t even pass a budget’,” Kaine said. “As soon
as we did, we said, ‘OK, now let’s go to conference with the
House and find a compromise,’ and they won’t do it.”  Every day, he said, “we’re going to point out their
hypocrisy to them.”  The improving economy is generating more government revenue
and lowering the projected federal deficit, he said. That takes
away some leverage from Republicans wanting to use the debt
ceiling to force concessions on spending cuts, Kaine said.  Eventually, each side will have to give in to reach a broad
budget deal, he said.  Democrats “traditionally don’t want to talk about smart
entitlements reforms,” Kaine said. Republicans “don’t want to
talk about revenue, but we’re not going to get the kind of deal
we need unless we do both.”  Libya Attacks  The issue of how the administration handled the attacks in
Benghazi continues to be a political flash point in  Washington .
 Congressional Republicans  have said the administration failed to
provide adequate security to the embassy and then sought to play
down the likelihood that Islamic terrorists led the assault.  The Republican-led House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee held a six-hour hearing on the subject this week.  Kaine, also a member of the Senate Foreign Relations
committee, said the focus should be on how to prevent further
attacks by implementing recommendations of an accountability
review board empaneled to look into the Benghazi incident.  “I do not think it’s a scandal; it could be an
embarrassment,” he said. “But what would be the scandal is if
Congress spends time focusing on that and not fixing the things
that need to be fixed that were laid out in very clear detail by
that accountability review board.”  Kaine also predicted Democrat  Terry McAuliffe  would win the
governor’s race in Virginia against  Ken Cuccinelli , the
Republican attorney general. A Washington Post poll showed the
Democrat trailing.  “It’s going to be a close race, but I think we’ll win,”
Kaine said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at 
 rmeszoly@bloomberg.net  