-- CMA CGM Appeal on Abidjan Port Terminal Dismissed by Ivory Coast
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-05-10T14:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/cma-cgm-appeal-on-abidjan-port-terminal-dismissed-by-ivory-coast.html
Ivory Coast ’s Public Procurement
Regulating Authority dismissed an appeal from a group led by CMA
CGM SA in relation to a bid won by  Bollore SA (BOL)  to run a second
container terminal at the port of Abidjan.  The request from CMA CGM’s group last month for an
annulment was unfounded, the regulatory agency in the world’s
biggest cocoa producer said in a decision dated May 8 and
published on its website.  The group, which includes ICTS Inc., CMA CGM unit Terminal
Link, NCT Necotrans and Movis CI, had cited irregularities in
the pre-selection procedure, non-compliance with competition
laws and an arbitrary award process, the agency said.  Bollore Africa Logistics CI,  Bouygues SA (EN)  and A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s APM Terminals won a bid in March to build and run
the second container terminal at the port of Abidjan, the
commercial capital. Abidjan is Ivory Coast’s main harbor and
also serves landlocked neighbors Burkina Faso and  Mali .  The group offered 122 million euros ($158 million) for
concession rights and 14 million euros for annual operating
fees. The construction of the terminal will be made in public-private partnership and is expected to cost about 450 million
euros. Geneva-based Mediterranean Shipping Co. and partners came
second in the bidding while the CMA CGM-led group ranked third.  According to CMA CGM’s group, the inclusion of Bollore in
the bidding last year broke competition rules as the Puteaux,
France-based company runs the port’s first container terminal.
Bollore made an offer based on supposed joint management of the
two terminals, the agency said.  The final decision to award the bid to Bollore’s group was
mainly based on the financial proposal more than on the
technical assessment as Bollore offered more for the concession
rights and operating fees, CMA CGM said, according to the
agency.  The procurement authority said CMA CGM’s group “doesn’t
demonstrate that it has been unfairly squeezed out of the
bidding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  