-- Co-Op Bank Says It Doesn’t Need Government Aid After Ratings Cut
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-05-10T11:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/co-operative-bank-ceo-quits-after-lloyds-branch-bid-abandoned.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc, which began in
Britain’s 19th-century industrial north, said it doesn’t need a
government bailout after Moody’s Investors Service cut the
lender’s rating to junk status, citing a capital shortfall.  “We have not sought nor do we need government support,”
the Manchester, England-based lender said in a statement after
Moody’s reduced its rating by six steps and said Co-Op Bank may
require “external support” if real-estate losses escalate.  Barry Tootell today quit as chief executive officer, less
than a month after Co-Operative Bank abandoned a 750 million-pound ($1.2 billion) bid for 632  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) 
branches. The customer-owned lender struggled to complete the
Lloyds purchase, originally struck in July, as regulators
expressed concern the firm lacked capital. The purchase would
have more than doubled the number of the bank’s branches.  “Co-Op are really going to regret ever attempting that
purchase,” said  Simon Maughan , a banking analyst at Olivetree
Securities Ltd. in London. “It shone an unwelcome light on
their capital position. In the modern world it’s very difficult
to be an unlisted bank because you don’t have the same access to
capital.”  Moody’s yesterday cut the lender’s deposit and senior debt
ratings to Ba3/not prime from A3/prime, and said it may reduce
the ratings further. That’s three steps below investment grade.
Moody’s said Co-Operative Bank may require aid if losses
stemming from its 2009 purchase of the Britannia Building
Society increase and deplete the lender’s already low capital.  Bail-In Speculation  The downgrade triggered speculation junior bondholders may
be forced to take losses as part of a bail-in of the U.K.
lender. In February, the Dutch government expropriated about 900
million euros ($1.2 billion) of SNS Reaal NV’s junior debt after
property losses brought the fourth-largest Dutch lender to the
brink of collapse.  Co-Operative Bank’s 9.25 percent subordinated notes due
April 2021 fell 27 pence to 75 pence on the pound, according to
Bloomberg pricing data. The securities, issued in April 2011,
were at 101.92 pence yesterday and have been quoted above par
since July.  “People are concerned the problems at the Co-Op are worse
than they had thought,” said Roger Francis, a credit analyst at
Mizuho International Plc in London. “Subordinated bondholders
in today’s world know that they are the first line of
stakeholders to suffer, and the example of SNS is fresh in
people’s minds.”  Regulatory Scrutiny  Co-Operative Bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio under the
latest round of Basel rules was 6.7 percent in January, less
than the 7 percent target set by U.K. regulators, Moody’s said.  The Prudential Regulation Authority, the unit of the  Bank
of England  that took over supervision of the industry from the
Financial Services Authority, has yet to disclose how much
capital each U.K. bank will have to raise to plug a 25 billion-pound industry shortfall the regulator identified in March. The
PRA may inform the banks at the end of this month.  We acknowledge “the need to strengthen our capital
position in light of the broader economic downturn and the
pending introduction of enhanced regulatory requirements,” Co-Op said. “We plan to significantly simplify our business, which
will greatly improve our operational effectiveness and also
enhance our capital position in the process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  