-- U.K.’s Co-Op Bank Sees Subordinated Debt Fall 26% on Ratings
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-10T14:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/co-op-bank-s-subordinated-bonds-tumble-amid-bail-in-speculation.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc, which traces
its roots to Britain’s 19th-century industrial north, saw its
subordinated debt plunge after a downgrade to junk triggered
speculation junior bondholders may be forced to take losses.  The company’s 275 million pounds ($423 million) of 9.25
percent subordinated notes due April 2021 fell 27 pence to 74.9
pence on the pound, according to Bloomberg prices. The have been
quoted above par since July. The lender was cut six steps by
Moody’s Investors Service to Ba3, which cited the potential for
losses on real estate loans and low levels of provisions for
future impairments.  Holders of junior bank debt in Europe have been on the
alert for writedowns since the Dutch government expropriated
about 900 million euros ($1.2 billion) of SNS Reaal NV’s junior
debt in February when property losses brought the fourth-largest
Dutch lender to the brink of collapse. Irish lenders imposed
losses of as much as 90 percent on their junior debt investors
as the government pledged 64 billion euros to rescue them
following that country’s housing collapse.  “People are concerned the problems at the Co-Op are worse
than they had thought,” said  Roger Francis , a credit analyst at
Mizuho International Plc in London. “Subordinated bondholders
in today’s world know that they are the first line of
stakeholders to suffer, and the example of SNS is fresh in
people’s minds.”  The lender’s senior bonds also fell as investors are wary
the securities will leave benchmark investment-grade indexes
after the downgrade. Co-Op’s 2.375 percent senior unsecured
bonds due October 2015 dropped five cents to 93 cents on the
euro, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  No Bailout  The Manchester, England-based bank, which is owned by its
customers, said in a statement that it doesn’t need a government
bailout. “We plan to significantly simplify our business, which
will greatly improve our operational effectiveness and also
enhance our capital position in the process,” it said.  The lender may need “external support” if real estate
losses escalate, according to Moody’s. Chief Executive Officer
 Barry Tootell  quit after the downgrade, leaving less than a
month after the bank abandoned its 750 million-pound ($1.1
billion) bid for 632 Lloyds Banking Group Plc branches.  “Loss sharing is very possible but doesn’t have to follow
the SNS model,” said  Paul Smillie , a Singapore-based banking
analyst at Threadneedle Asset Management. “They’ve been in
trouble for a long while and their capital position is very
weak.”  Co-Op’s core Tier 1 capital ratio under the latest round of
Basel rules was 6.7 percent in January, less than the 7 percent
target set by U.K. regulators, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  