-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as G-7 Finance Chiefs Meet
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-10T20:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-as-g-7-finance-chiefs-meet.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose for a third day as investors considered the pace of
stimulus measures while Group of Seven finance ministers and
central bankers meet in the U.K.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.2
basis points to a mid-price of 72.1 basis points at 4 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge
has risen from a more than five-year low of 68.9 basis points on
May 7.  G-7 finance ministers started a two-day meeting in
Aylesbury, north of  London , today to discuss global financial
issues ranging from Europe’s debt crisis to austerity policies.
They may not release a formal communique, a Canadian Finance
Department official said May 8. Investors are weighing the
abilities of central banks to stimulate global economic growth
amid years of interest-rate cuts and asset purchasing programs.  “If you want to consider whether easing is helping sustain
markets, then yes, it’s working,” Noel Hebert, chief investment
officer at Concannon Wealth Management, which oversees about
$250 million of assets from Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , said in a
telephone interview. “But it’s not doing anything for the real
economy. Investors know there’s a problem but nobody can respond
to them how they traditionally would because they can’t miss the
trade.”  Bond Sales  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s finance unit and billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  led dollar-denominated sales
of at least $42.1 billion this week, trailing $46.4 billion in
the previous period.  General Motors Financial Co. sold $2.5 billion in its first
issue in almost nine months while Berkshire Hathaway Finance
Corp. raised $1 billion in its second sale this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of investment-grade debentures declined to about
$30.9 billion from last week’s $39.8 billion, while offerings of
speculative-grade bonds reached at least $11.2 billion compared
with $6.6 billion in the previous period.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index added 4.7 basis points to 350.2 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Default Risk  The high-yield measure may be understating default risk,
John Lonski, chief economist of Moody’s Capital Markets Research
Group, wrote in a note yesterday, saying the index should be
“substantially higher” than the 337 basis points it reached
May 8, based on the outlook for default rates.  “The corporate credit market senses that central banks
will do whatever they can to prevent their respective economies
from stalling,” Lonski wrote. “Nevertheless, the rally in high
yield credit may abate soon in view of the flagging pace of
global expenditures, as well as the benign but less than
inspiring outlook for corporate credit quality.”  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt tightened 1.8 basis points to 477 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  