-- Credit Pinch for Small Business Impedes U.S. Job Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-10T16:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/credit-pinch-for-small-business-impedes-u-s-job-growth.html
Jim Brown, owner of JWB Properties
LLC, says community banks called him almost every day in 2006
trying to lend him money. Now, his homebuilding business in
Atlanta can’t get a loan.  “The small banks became really, really cautious, and real
estate became a dirty word,” said Brown, 65, whose one-man
company takes on workers on a project-by-project basis.  Tighter lending standards among U.S. community banks help
explain why small businesses are adding jobs at only half the
pace of large employers. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
says the 6,900 institutions it  classifies  as community banks
supply almost half of small business loans. Their health has
become a focus for Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
his colleagues.  “If community banks are on shaky ground and unable to
extend credit, the small businesses won’t be able to expand
their operations and payrolls,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania.  Companies with fewer than 20 workers increased employment
by 3.8 percent from February 2010 to April 2013, while the
largest companies -- with more than 1,000 on their payrolls --
expanded their workforces by 8.6 percent, according to  data 
compiled by Moody’s and ADP Research Institute.  British Builders  While small construction businesses like Brown’s struggle
in the U.S., British builders have also been hurt by a credit
pinch.  U.K. construction output  fell in the first quarter to its
lowest level in more than 14 years as work on new building
projects declined across the industry, the Office for National
Statistics in London said today.  Stocks fluctuated between gains and losses in the U.S.
after rising in Europe. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
less than 0.1 percent to 1,626.57 as of 12:35 p.m. in New York.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose 9 basis points to a
six-week high of 1.90 percent.  In the U.S., recent startup companies -- which lead small
businesses in creating jobs -- have had a particularly tough
time getting loans, according to an Atlanta Fed  survey  released
in December of 495 small businesses in the southeastern U.S.  Among companies less than six years old, 41 percent
couldn’t get a loan at all, and 36 percent got less than the sum
they requested. Among more mature employers, 23 percent were
rejected, and 38 percent got just part of the amount they
applied for.  Profitability Gap  That disparity reflects in part the gap in profitability
between large and small banks.  In the fourth quarter of 2012, 21 percent of banks and
savings institutions with less than $100 million in assets were
losing money, according to FDIC  data . Eleven percent of lenders
with assets of $100 million to $1 billion were unprofitable,
while among institutions with greater than $10 billion in
assets, just 1.9 percent were losing money.  “Small banks are still trying to get up off the mat from
the beating” from the past recession, said  Russell Price ,
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in Detroit. Some
have been restricting lending to conserve capital, while others
face tougher regulatory examinations and more rules that hurt
lending, he said.  Lending Caution  “With interest rates currently so low, it is an
exceptionally difficult task for these banks to generate a
profit and thus rebuild their equity,” he said. That leads to
caution in lending that is having “its greatest impact on the
small businesses” that rely on community banks.  The availability of small loans, and community banks’
ability to earn money amid increasing financial rules, have
become concerns for Fed officials.  The Fed and the  Conference of State Bank Supervisors  last
month announced  plans  for their first research conference on
community banking in October in St. Louis. Four central-bank
policy makers, led by Bernanke, will speak on what the chairman
calls the “vital role” of small banks in the economy.  Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke , a former Virginia banker, said
she often hears from small lenders who tell her they worry that
community banking might not survive. Concerns include weak
regional economies, near-zero interest rates squeezing lending
margins, and an increased burden of regulations following the
2008 financial crisis, she said in a speech in February in
Duluth, Georgia.  Regulators’ Focus  Regulators have increased their focus on real estate-backed
loans and commercial borrowers that started operations recently,
said Jack Hartings, chief executive officer of The Peoples Bank
Co. of Coldwater, Ohio.  “The regulatory scrutiny is a little more severe” for
lending to startups and new companies, he said. “I may be
questioned at the next examination” and a loan to such a
borrower could be classified as a problem by regulators “even
though I may not consider it” weak.  Julie Stackhouse , senior vice president for supervision at
the St. Louis Fed, said regulators are “very concerned about
the credit needs of small communities and the ability of the
financial sector to meet them.” If small banks can’t provide
local lending, “it is not clear other organizations” can fill
that role, she said in an interview.  Since September 2007, 477 banks have failed in the U.S.,
led by 87 in Georgia and 68 in Florida, according to Trepp LLC,
a real estate and financial data provider. That compares with
just 20 failures in the U.S. during the six years prior to
September 2007.  Standards Tightened  “In the wake of the bank failures, underwriting standards
had tightened” in hardest-hit communities, even when failing
banks were acquired by larger banks, the Government
Accountability Office said in a January  report  to Congress.
“New lending in certain kinds of loans was restricted in
certain areas, such as collateral-dependent loans in areas where
asset values declined severely.”  While smaller banks are easing credit somewhat in response
to an economy on the mend, “the improvements in the sector are
certainly lagging the broader recovery,” economist Price said.  That would leave them behind the largest banks, which
relaxed lending standards during the previous quarter, according
to a Fed  survey  of loan officers at 68 domestic banks and 21
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks conducted from April
2 to April 16.  The Fed doesn’t gather similar data on lending standards at
small banks. The Independent Community Bankers of America, a
trade group, reported about 55 percent of community banks
increased lending by an average of 3.6 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier. The group’s report doesn’t specify
whether easier lending standards contributed to the increase.  Early Losses  The biggest banks generally recognized their losses tied to
the housing bust and subprime crisis early on during the
downturn, while the deterioration of construction or commercial
real estate loans that hurt small banks took years to develop,
the St. Louis Fed’s Stackhouse said.  In addition, while the Fed ordered the largest U.S. banks
to raise $74.6 billion in capital in 2009, many small banks
don’t have the ability to raise new capital and so therefore
shrink their asset base by making fewer loans, she said.  Community bankers say lending is also held back by weak
demand in markets where the economy is still struggling, as well
as fewer qualified borrowers.  Tepid Recovery  “Some of the borrowers have dents coming off the
recession,” with late payments or defaults, said Charles
Crawford, president of the Atlanta-based Private Bank of
Buckhead, which has been increasing lending. With a “tepid
recovery” nationally, “a lot of good borrowers are paying
loans back early,” he said.  “A bank like ours wants to lend more,” he said.  In Atlanta, homebuilder Brown, 65, said he has gotten
private investors to help finance four homes with prices of more
than $1 million each, though he says that isn’t an option for
most smaller builders. During the housing boom, he would get
bank loans for good projects, Brown said. While he has talked
with a dozen bankers over the past year, “they have no interest
in dealing with a small builder.”  JT Hroncich, 45, president of Capitol Media Solutions, an
advertising-buying company started six years ago in Atlanta,
said the lending environment is “still tough” for companies
without long histories of profits. His firm got a line of credit
for $75,000 from a community bank, compared to his request of
$100,000.  That may reflect conservatism following the past recession,
he said. “I wasn’t disappointed,” he said. “I totally
understand. After 2008 and 2009, I completely get it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  