-- Czech Inflation Stays Below Target Amid Currency-Sales Debate
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-05-10T07:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/czech-inflation-stays-below-target-amid-currency-sales-debate.html
The Czech  inflation (CZCPYOY)  rate remained
below the central bank’s target for a fourth month in April,
contained by weak consumer demand, as policy makers debate
whether to stimulate the economy by selling the koruna.  Inflation was 1.7 percent from a year earlier, the same as
in the previous month, the Statistics Office in Prague said
today in a statement. The reading also matched median forecast
of 14 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Consumer  prices  rose 0.1
percent from March.  The $217 billion  economy  has contracted for five
consecutive quarters, the longest streak since records began in
1996, as households and businesses spend less because of
government austerity measures and Europe’s debt crisis. Policy
makers are in uncharted territory after cutting interest rates
to effectively  zero  last year and the bank board is debating
whether currency sales are needed to meet its inflation goal.  “Consumer sentiment remains poor as a result of rising
unemployment, declining real incomes and doubts about the light
at the end of the imaginary tunnel of recession,” Petr Dufek,
an analyst at CSOB AS, the Prague-based unit of KBC Groep NV,
said in a note after data showed yesterday that retail sales
declined for a fifth month in March.  Rates Held  The Ceska Narodni Banka left the benchmark  two-week 
repurchase rate at 0.05 percent for a fourth meeting on May 2.
After three rate cuts last year exhausted the scope for further
reductions, the koruna is at the center of policy makers’
deliberations as a weaker exchange rate boosts exports that
account for about 80 percent of economic output, increases
import prices and limits deflation risks.  The Czech currency has lost 4.9 percent to the euro since
Sept. 17, the day before central bank Governor Miroslav Singer
first said policy makers may sell the currency to meet their
inflation goal. It was the third-worst performer in that period
among major emerging-market peers tracked by Bloomberg.  The koruna weakened 0.1 percent to 25.797 per euro as of
9:33 a.m. today in  Prague . The yield on 10-year government debt
rose 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.54 percent.  “We are now debating interventions quite often,” Singer
said May 7 at a conference in Prague.  The central bank last week raised its forecast for price
growth in the second quarter of 2014 to 1.8 percent from 1.7
percent, and in the third quarter of next year to 1.9 percent
from 1.8 percent.  Some Czech policy makers see an increased likelihood that
the central bank will need to sell the koruna to ease monetary
conditions, minutes from the bank’s May 2 policy meeting showed
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  