-- Argentina’s Deadbeat Special: Buy a 4% Bond or Go to Jail
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-05-10T14:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/deadbeat-special-unveiled-in-jail-free-4-bond-argentina-credit.html
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  wants tax evaders hiding about $160 billion in dollars
to help finance Argentina’s oil-producing ambitions. Her offer:
Buy a 4 percent bond or face the prospect of jail time.  The tax authority announced the plan May 7, highlighting
its information-sharing agreements with 40 nations and warning
Argentines who don’t use the three-month amnesty window that
they risk fines or arrest. Evaders have two options for their
cash and the only one paying interest will be a dollar bond due
in 2016 to finance  YPF SA (YPF) , the state oil company. The 4 percent
rate is a third the average  13.85 yield  on Argentine debt and
less than the 4.6 percent in  emerging markets .  A year after seizing YPF, Fernandez is funneling more money
into the nation’s energy industry as the government struggles to
boost production from the world’s third-biggest shale oil
reserves. With Argentina already committed to pumping $2 billion
of central bank reserves into a fund for energy investments and
the highest borrowing costs in emerging markets keeping it from
issuing debt abroad, the government is eyeing the billions of
undeclared dollars that Argentines hold to help shore up
reserves that have dwindled to a six-year low.  “The authorities need to take steps to open up external
resources in the energy sector and to finance the Treasury and
local governments,” said Sebastian Vargas, a New York-based
analyst at Barclays Plc. “The amnesty is not negative for
markets but it’s disappointing because they do little to solve
balance-of-payment difficulties.”  Hidden Assets  A press official from the federal tax agency declined to
comment in an e-mail on how much the government expects to
collect through the amnesty.  Economy Ministry press officer Norma Madeo didn’t respond
to an e-mail and a telephone message from Bloomberg seeking a
similar comment, and YPF spokesman Alejandro Di Lazzaro declined
to comment on how the plan will affect the company.  Argentines have at least $160 billion of undeclared funds,
equal to about 36 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product, and $40 billion are hidden inside the country, Vice
Economy Minister Axel Kicillof said at the May 7 press
conference where he and other senior officials presented the
amnesty.  Many Argentines hide assets to avoid a 35 percent income
tax and a levy of as much as 1.25 percent on their personal
wealth. Undeclared assets are also beyond the reach of the
government, which in 1989 seized bank certificates of deposit in
exchange for bonds and in 2002 converted dollar deposits into
pesos.  ‘Find You’  Those joining the plan would be immune from prosecution and
won’t be forced to pay past-due taxes, said Ricardo Echegaray,
head of the tax agency. The search for evaders, which includes
cross-checking information on income and personal wealth reports
with purchases of real estate and cars, foreign travel and
credit card purchases, will continue, Echegaray said.  “You better bring your dollars back because we will find
you,” Echegaray said at the May 7 press conference. Last year,
 tax collection  in South America’s second-largest economy rose to
37 percent of gross domestic product from 16.5 percent in 2002,
according to Economy Ministry data.  Former Vice Economy Minister Roberto Feletti, who is now a
congressman for Fernandez’s Victory Front alliance, said the
government expects to attract at least $5 billion under the
program.  Investment Plan  YPF, which Fernandez expropriated from Spain’s Repsol SA,
needs to finance a $37 billion five-year program to expand
production and reduce the country’s need to import oil and gas,
which doubled to $9.4 billion in 2011. The country’s biggest
energy producer, refiner and distributor is also seeking
partners to develop the Vaca Muerta shale formation, a
Connecticut-sized area in southern Argentina that contains at
least 23 billion barrels of oil.  The amnesty program will probably fail because its benefits
don’t outweigh investors’ mistrust of the government’s ability
to rein in inflation, cut spending, attract foreign investment
and restore confidence in the currency, according to Moody’s
Analytics Inc.  “The problem the government faces is lack of credibility
and lack of confidence,” Juan Pablo Fuentes, an economist at
Moody’s, said in a telephone interview from West Chester,
 Pennsylvania . “That money is potentially there, it could come
back eventually, but there needs to be a lot of changes. These
bonds are not going to have any real impact.”  Inflation Data  Last year, the government reported a deficit equal to 2.4
percent of GDP, the biggest shortfall since 2001, when it
reached 3.3 percent of GDP.  Consumer prices  rose 10.6 percent in the 12 months through
March 31, according to official data, while private economists
put the increase at more than 24 percent.  In February, Argentina became the first country to be
censured by the International Monetary Fund for the inaccuracy
of its economic statistics. Government data have been questioned
by economists and labor leaders since early 2007, when
Fernandez’s late husband and predecessor, Nestor Kirchner,
changed senior staff at the national statistics institute.  Since her re-election in October 2011, Fernandez has banned
most currency purchases, limited imports and restricted the
remittance of dividends abroad by units of foreign companies to
stem capital outflows that almost doubled to $21.5 billion that
year.  Black Market  Unable to buy currency, Argentines have turned to an
 illegal market  to acquire dollars. The black-market rate for the
dollar reached a record 10.4 pesos on May 8, compared with the
official rate of 5.21.  The peso weakened 0.05 percent to 5.2240 per dollar at
11:26 a.m. in Buenos Aires. The cost to insure Argentine debt
against default within the next five years through credit
default swaps fell 42 basis points to 2,560 basis points at 11
a.m in Buenos Aires, the highest in the world, according to data
compiled by CMA Ltd.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened eight
basis points to 1,202 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  Argentina’s last effort to bring undeclared funds back into
the country, announced in 2008, attracted $4 billion, according
to Echegaray.  ‘Safe Way’  Eduardo Hecker, who was the head of the country’s national
securities commission at the time, said while the latest amnesty
program might not succeed in bringing back a significant amount
of assets from abroad, the increased monitoring of income and
spending by the tax authorities could encourage investors to
declare funds held inside the country. He estimated that the
amnesty might attract about $5 billion.  “Those holding the money overseas won’t be among the
largest declarers as they have already paid the cost of getting
the money out,” said Hecker, who runs Del, a company that gives
advice on financial regulations. “Those holding undeclared
funds in the country will declare the most. It’s a safe way for
them to declare profits and not be scared of the taxman.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  