-- ‘Morning-After’ Pill Judge Won’t Delay Ruling for Appeal
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-10T21:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/delay-of-plan-b-pill-access-ruling-rejected-by-u-s-judge.html
A federal judge rejected as
“frivolous” a government request to delay the effect of his
order giving girls including those 16 and younger access to the
so-called morning after-pill without a prescription.  U.S. District Judge Edward R. Korman in  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
refused today to put the ruling on hold while the government
appeals his decision that the emergency contraceptive doesn’t
require a prescription. He gave officials until May 13 to seek a
delay from the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York.  “Significantly, defendants do not take any issue with any
of my substantive conclusions,” Korman wrote. “In my view, the
defendants’ appeal is frivolous and is taken for the purpose of
delay.”  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in December 2011 was
set to approve sales of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s (TEVA) 
Plan B One-Step, a branded version of the pill, without a
prescription. Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  overruled the action, marking the first time an FDA
decision was reversed by a presidential administration.  Korman last month ordered the FDA to lift age restrictions
for obtaining  levonorgestrel -based contraceptives without a
prescription and said the agency was influenced by political
pressure. The government is appealing.  F. Franklin Amanat, a government lawyer, declined to
comment on the order today and said the  Justice Department  is
evaluating its next steps.  ‘Politically Motivated’  In his order today, Korman called Sebelius’s action
“politically motivated, scientifically unjustified, and
contrary to agency precedent.”  Referencing a December 2011 memorandum, Korman noted that
FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  had said “there is adequate
and reasonable, well-supported, and science-based evidence that
Plan B One-Step is safe and effective and should be approved for
nonprescription use for all females of child-bearing
potential.”  Sebelius said at the time that her decision to overrule
Hamburg was merited by “cognitive and behavioral” differences
in girls of the youngest reproductive age.  Currently, the FDA allows women 17 and older to obtain
generic and non-generic versions of the morning-after pill
without a prescription. Last month, the agency approved Teva’s
application to sell its branded pill Plan B One-Step over-the-counter to girls as young as 15, saying the move was
“independent” of the court case.  Teva’s Application  At a hearing earlier this week, Korman said the approval of
Teva’s application offered little additional benefit to women
because they would still be subject to age restrictions,
requiring photo identification that younger and poorer women
might not possess.  Younger teens lacking prescriptions would also only be able
to obtain Teva’s more expensive branded drug, costing as much as
$60 per dose, rather than generics, Korman said during the
hearing.  The contraceptive, which contains a larger dose of the
hormone levonorgestrel than found in other birth control pills,
prevents pregnancy by inhibiting fertilization. The drugs are
most effective when taken within 24 hours of intercourse.  Anti-abortion groups have alleged that the pill can kill
embryos by preventing implantation. In April, Charmaine Yoest of
Americans United for Life called the pill “a potent and
potentially life-ending drug” that young girls should need
medical supervision to take.  ‘Bad Faith’  Korman said in his ruling today that the government has
already put off making the contraception more widely available
for too long and acted in “bad faith” in past initiatives to
do so.  “The effort to convert these levonorgestrel-based
contraceptives from prescription to over-the-counter status has
gone on for over 12 years, even though they would be among the
safest drugs available to children and adults on any drugstore
shelf,” Korman said in the ruling. The FDA “delayed as long as
it possibly could before it took even one incremental step in
the process.”  The case is Tummino v. Hamburg, 12-cv-00763, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is
Tummino v. Hamburg, 13-1690,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  