-- Denver Pays Wall Street $216 Million as Swaps Fail: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/denver-pays-wall-street-216-million-as-swaps-fail-muni-credit.html
Wall Street banks collected $215.6
million that  Denver’s public schools  paid to unwind swaps and
sell bonds since the district began borrowing to cut pension
costs in 2008. That sum is about two-thirds of annual teaching
expenses.  The district paid $146.6 million last month to banks,
including RBC Capital Markets LLC,  Wells Fargo Securities LLC 
and Bank of America Corp., to end interest-rate swaps as part of
a second attempt to restructure a 2008 borrowing, bond documents
show. The April 17 deal sold as the district’s property-tax rate
has risen 26 percent in two years to fund education.  “It’s very sickening,” Andrew Kalotay, president of
Andrew Kalotay Associates Inc., a debt-management adviser in New
York, said in a phone interview. “It’s costing people money.”  Municipal borrowers from  Detroit ’s utilities to Harvard
University in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , have paid billions of
dollars to banks to end privately negotiated interest-rate bets
sold as hedges. The Federal Reserve’s policy of holding its
benchmark borrowing rate  near zero  since 2008 has turned many of
the swaps into wrong-way bets.  ‘Policy Decision’  Denver’s schools might have avoided borrowing if elected
officials had adequately funded pensions, according to a draft
study for Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public
and International Affairs by Joseph Fichera, chief executive
officer of Saber Partners LLC in New York. To fill the gap,
officials chose complex financings sold by Wall Street instead
of raising taxes or renegotiating benefits, he said.  “The point is the amount of risk they take on to meet
their obligations,” Fichera said in an e-mail. “It’s a policy
decision that needs to be made after careful and fully informed
analysis.”  The pension plan was underfunded by $397.8 million when the
district started borrowing in 2008, according to annual
financial filings. The borrowing that year closed the gap, which
wound up re-emerging and growing to $638 million in 2011.  Last month, the district issued $536.9 million of
certificates of participation, a type of debt structured as a
lease involving school buildings. The offer carries an Aa3 grade
from Moody’s Investors Service, three steps below the top.  Extra Yield  Yields on the offer, whose payments are subject to annual
appropriation, exceeded those on top-rated debt. The December
2037 maturity sold with a yield of 4.24 percent, about 1.37
percentage points more than benchmark debt.  It was the latest effort to unwind a borrowing in April
2008, when the district sold $750 million of taxable, variable-rate debt.  The goal of that issue was to refinance earlier pension
borrowings and fully fund pensions as part of a plan to merge
the obligations into a state fund. The sale, with rates that
reset periodically, came two months after the auction-rate
securities market froze, leaving investors unable to redeem
bonds and issuers stuck with increasing borrowing rates. Soon
after Denver schools sold its debt, it faced such penalty rates,
Superintendent Tom Boasberg said.  The district, which educates about 84,400 students, spent
about $327 million on instruction in the 2011-2012 school year,
according to official statements for last month’s sale.  Savings Erosion  Denver schools wound up doing a bond deal in 2011, along
with last month’s, to convert the 2008 bonds to fixed-rate and
exit swaps. The $215.6 million paid to unwind swaps as well as
fees for new bond sales has eroded money the district set out to
save for its pension plan. Besides the swap termination
payments, the cost includes fees to underwriters and other
professionals.  Interest-rate swaps  are derivatives in which two parties
agree to trade interest payments on a set amount of debt,
letting one side create a fixed payment on variable-rate debt,
as the Denver district did.  “We’ve lost hundreds of millions of dollars on deals we
never should have been in,” said Jeannie Kaplan, a district
board member who said she voted for the 2008 borrowing and then
began pushing to end it in 2010. “Public institutions with
elected boards shouldn’t be in these kinds of transactions. Our
responsibility is to use the public’s money in a judicious
way.”  Goal Accomplished  Boasberg disagrees. He said the transactions have
accomplished the goal of moving retiree money to a state-run
plan and lowering costs relative to what benefits would have
cost without the deals. Even with payments to banks for
transaction costs, the deals saved about $78 million, he said.  “The benefits of the transaction have been very strong,”
Boasberg said in an interview. “It’s saved taxpayers a lot of
money.”  For RBC Capital, which was to receive $36.75 million from
last month’s sale to terminate a swap, according to bond
documents, the payment “is pursuant to the original agreement
governing its early termination,” Elisa Barsotti, a spokeswoman
in New York, said by e-mail. “Any monies paid represent the
cost of that early termination, which relates directly to
current market conditions.”  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo declined to comment through
Dana Obrist, a spokeswoman; as did Bank of America, according to
 Bill Halldin , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank. Wells Fargo was to receive $36.1 million, with $73.8
million going to Bank of America.  Bond Comprehension  Kalotay, Kaplan and John MacPherson, a former principal in
the jurisdiction and an employee of the pension fund when it was
under the district, said the extra fees and expenses to unwind
swaps are making the costs higher than if the district had just
sold fixed-rate debt in the first place. The $215.6 million is
29 percent of the $750 million of variable-rate debt sold in
2008 with a swap designed to limit borrowing costs.  “There was not one person on that board who understands
bonds,” said Kalotay, who has studied costs of the earlier
deals, including fees paid to enter the swaps, and testified
about them before the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Superintendent Boasberg said taxes haven’t been raised to
cover costs of repaying the debt. Still, the district has asked
voters for overrides on its mill levy to cover more costs not
covered by its general fund, according to bond documents and
Kaplan.  The payment “will affect the classroom,” Kaplan said.  MacPherson said the borrowings will add $1 billion to
pension costs over the life of the loans compared with a
scenario where the district had just merged its pension plan
into the state system.  “This deal hasn’t done much for anyone -- except the
bankers, who are dancing in the streets,” said MacPherson.  Market Movement  In the $3.7 trillion local-debt market, yields on tax-free
bonds are the highest in a month.  At  1.8 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  1.81 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries. The ratio of
the two yields is about 99 percent, meaning local debt is
relatively expensive compared with federal securities.  Tax-free local bonds have yielded less than Treasuries in
only five of the past 41 trading sessions, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  ratio  has averaged 92 percent since 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  