-- Dresdner Celebrates Bonus Win Commerzbank Wants to Forget
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-05-10T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/dresdner-bankers-celebrate-bonus-win-commerzbank-wants-to-forget.html
Matthew Jordan, like many Dresdner
Kleinwort bankers, was worried about  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s plans to
take over the investment bank in 2008. Jordan, Dresdner’s deputy
head of equity research, had lost 20 analysts to rivals that
year amid uncertainty about the lender’s future.  So he was relieved when Dresdner’s then-chief executive
officer Stefan Jentzsch used a December town hall meeting to
ease concerns about a bonus pot set aside that summer to retain
staff. Commerzbank executives were “men of honor who will stick
to the bonus commitments,” Jentzsch said, according to trial
documents.  Less than three months later Commerzbank proposed cutting
awards by as much as 90 percent because of worse-than-expected
losses. “Everyone was outraged,” Jordan, 41, said in a phone
interview. “From the moment I heard, I spent the next 24 hours
rushing around  London  meeting different law firms.”  Commerzbank last week ended four years of fighting Jordan
and more than 100 other Dresdner bankers. It decided not to
appeal two London court rulings awarding the bankers about 50
million euros ($65.7 million).  While the Frankfurt-based lender maintains its conduct was
proper, Commerzbank didn’t want to waste money continuing to
fight the case, Margarita Thiel, a spokeswoman for the lender,
said in an e-mail. The bank consistently argued that a 6.5
billion-euro loss at Dresdner during 2008 justified cutting
compensation.  Simply Reasonable  The decision to reduce bonuses “was simply responsible,
reasonable and prudent in those circumstances and the right
decision to take,” she said. Commerzbank has fought lawsuits in
 Germany ,  Italy  and  Japan  over the Dresdner cuts.  The bankers’ victory may not end the legal dispute for
Commerzbank in London. Lawyer  Mark Levine  is representing
another 40 ex-Dresdner employees who heard Jentzsch’s promises
and who never joined the U.K. lawsuit.  “Now the case has concluded successfully, this group can
stake claims for their bonuses,” said Levine, who was the
lawyer for some of the 104 employees in the original case. As
long as they didn’t sign waivers giving up their right to
compensation, Levine said they have a good chance of success.  Commerzbank would rather leave the issue in the past.  “This matter arose in 2008 within the Dresdner investment
banking business and as such is seen as a legacy issue from long
ago and at odds with Commerzbank’s investment-banking approach
and culture,” Thiel said.  Large Screens  The case hinged on comments Jentzsch made in August 2008 to
Dresdner staff pledging to set aside 400 million euros for
compensation. The speech, which wasn’t recorded or transcribed,
was broadcast on large screens in Dresdner offices including
London.  At a London trial in February last year, Jentzsch testified
that U.K. finance regulators had put Dresdner on a watch list of
vulnerable firms. The bonus pot was for “safety and
stability,” he told the court.  Jentzsch, 52, declined to comment through his assistant at
Perella Weinberg Partners LP, where he is now a partner.  Commerzbank bought Dresdner from  Allianz SE (ALV)  in January
2009, the same year it took an 18.2 billion-euro bailout from
Germany. After completing the takeover, Commerzbank said it
would cut about 9,000 jobs and phase out the Dresdner brand by
the end of 2010.  Commerzbank CEO  Commerzbank CEO  Martin Blessing  said at the London trial,
where Jordan also testified, that he expected his employees to
show loyalty, not make demands for money.  Stefan Martin, a lawyer who advises banks on employment
issues and wasn’t involved in the case, said his clients weren’t
surprised at Commerzbank’s defeat. For all the emotional issues
involved, the case boiled down to a simple contract dispute.  “It has always been the case that oral statements could
create binding commitments and this case merely illustrates that
in fairly dramatic terms,” he said.  The combination of Jentzsch’s town hall speech and letters
to employees meant it “became impossible for the bank to change
its mind and renege on the assurances,” Martin said in an e-mail.  Jordan, who left his job at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in
February, says the lawsuit hasn’t put him off working in
financial services. “Most of us don’t feel any anger or
bitterness. We are just pleased it’s over,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  