-- Eastern Europe’s Growth Tops Agenda as Development Bank Meets
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-05-10T06:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/eastern-europe-s-growth-tops-agenda-as-development-bank-meets.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development meets today and tomorrow in Istanbul as the 34
countries it invests in, from  Russia  to  Morocco , seek to
kickstart their economic recoveries.  EBRD President Suma Chakrabarti will try to convince the
development bank’s shareholders at their annual meeting today
that more of the 30.5 billion euros ($40.1 billion) it has to
invest through 2015 should go to building projects and small-and
medium-sized businesses to fuel economic expansion, he said in
an interview last month. He will also urge nations receiving
EBRD funds to overhaul their economies to enable faster growth.  “In this period of continued weak growth it is
particularly important for the region to tackle important
structural reforms,” Chakrabarti said in a May 2 statement on
the London-based lender’s website. “The EBRD will support the
region in this drive.”  Emerging  Europe , where foreign capital inflows and easy
access to credit fueled growth of more than 5 percent a year
before the global crisis of 2008, is being hurt through trade
and banking links to the recession-hit euro area. The euro
crisis and western banks’ efforts to clean up balance sheets
have undermined a growth model in the post-communist East that
was propelled by exports and foreign investment.  The MSCI Emerging Europe Index fell 0.6 percent to close at
470.87 yesterday in  London .  Capital Withdrawn  The EBRD will publish its new economic projections at 12:45
p.m. Istanbul time today. The bank in January predicted 3
percent growth this year in eastern Europe.  Egypt , Morocco,
Jordan and Tunisia, where the bank is preparing to lend as part
of an expansion, will grow 4 percent this year, it said.  Eastern Europe’s growth is lagging other  emerging markets 
as foreign lenders such as  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Austria’s
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , which own about three-quarters of banking
assets in the continent’s east, trimmed financing and capital to
their units.  Support from western banks to the region grew to about $1
trillion in 2008 from about $200 billion in 2002, representing a
quarter of the area’s gross domestic product, the IMF said in a
report last week. About a third of those inflows were withdrawn
between 2008 and 2012, it said.  While the process known as “deleveraging” slowed after
the  European Central Bank  helped provide liquidity to banks,
credit growth has remained impaired by a stock of bad loans and
sluggish demand from borrowers amid an economic slump, the
Vienna Initiative, a group of banks, regulators and policy
makers that helped prevent an east European financial collapse
in 2008 and 2009, said in a May 2 report.  New Recipients  To help cash-strapped businesses, the EBRD is focusing its
resources on companies rather than direct support to banks,
Chakrabarti said last month.  The EBRD invested 8.9 billion euros in its 30 recipient
countries last year, mainly from the former Soviet bloc,
financing a record 388 projects. It also committed 181 million
euros to six projects in the southern and eastern Mediterranean
region, where it’s expanding.  The bank has said it will invest as much as 8.5 billion
euros a year through 2015 in its current recipients. It also
plans to bring annual investments in new countries to 2.5
billion euros by that time.  The EBRD, owned by 64 countries and by the European Union
and the  European Investment Bank , was created in 1991 to help
former communist countries from the Balkans to central  Asia 
transform their economies. It has lent 80.9 billion euros since
then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  