-- Lebanon Oil Blocks Lure Shell to Petrobras as Nation Seeks Funds
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-05-10T10:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/lebanon-oil-blocks-lure-shell-to-petrobras-as-nation-seeks-funds.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , Petroleo Brasileiro SA and  Total SA (FP)  all obtained tender
documents allowing them to bid for exploration licenses off
Lebanon, according to the country’s industry regulator.  The oil and gas producers are among 12 that qualified for
bidding rights as operators, Lebanese Petroleum Administration
President Assem Abou Ibrahim said today in  Beirut . More than 30
other companies, seeking to invest in rather than operate the
licenses, also have the documents that were released May 2.  The Middle Eastern country is offering blocks in the
 Mediterranean Sea  near Israeli and Cypriot waters where Noble
Energy Inc. has already discovered commercial quantities of gas.
Lebanon, seeking revenue to help reduce its $56 billion of
public debt, expects to award contracts in February.  The other companies that qualified as potential operators
are  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  Repsol SA (REP) ,
Petroliam Nasional Bhd,  Statoil ASA (STL) , AP Moeller-Maersk A/S and
 Inpex Corp. (1605) , according to the regulator’s website. Operators
must form groups with other investors to bid for exploration and
production-sharing contracts, or PSCs.  The government still needs to issue three decrees that
demarcate the blocks to be explored, establish PSCs and specify
tender protocols. Since the current caretaker government has no
legal right to make the decrees, the bidding may be extended if
the orders haven’t been issued by Sept. 2, Energy Minister
Gebran Bassil said April 30.  Among the 34 companies that pre-qualified as non-operators
are  Genel Energy Plc (GENL) ,  Suncor Energy Inc (SU) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,
 Santos Ltd. (STO) ,  OMV AG (OMV) , INA Industrija Nafte DD,  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , MOL
Hungarian Oil & Gas Plc,  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) ,  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) ,
Dana Petroleum Plc, Mitsui E&P Middle East BV,  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) ,
Lukoil Overseas Lebanon BV,  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , Turkiye Petrolleri AO,
 Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  and  Dragon Oil Plc (DGO) , the regulator’s website shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  