-- Emerging Stocks Fall the Most in Three Weeks
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-10T21:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-three-weeks-as-exporters-tumble.html
Emerging stocks fell, trimming the
longest weekly rally since January, as the yen’s tumble to a
four-year low dimmed the outlook for global exporters. South
Korea’s won led a selloff in developing-nation currencies.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the largest maker of mobile
phones, sank 2.6 percent in  Seoul , while  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  slid
the most since April 19. Russian stocks dropped for the first
day this week, led by power producers OAO RusHydro and OAO Inter
RAO UES, as crude oil tumbled. Brazil’s Ibovespa fell a third
day as B2W Cia. Digital paced losses in consumer stocks. The won
weakened 1.4 percent in the biggest slump in three months.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index lost 0.9 percent to
1,050.74, paring its third weekly rally. The gauge rose 0.8
percent in five days. The yen fell beyond 101 per dollar for the
first time since April 2009, helping Japan’s exporters compete
at the expense of global rivals. All 24 developing-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg declined against the  U.S. dollar 
and the S&P GSCI Index of commodities slid 0.9 percent.  “The dollar gets stronger and it negatively impacts
emerging economies, many of which are sensitive to export
flows,”  Peter Sorrentino , who helps manage about $14.7 billion
at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a phone
interview. “You get a pricing impact on the currency
translation for the markets themselves, but it also dims the
prospects for a lot of those economies that are export driven.”  Technology and commodity shares led losses among the 10
 groups  in the emerging-market gauge. The broader measure has
fallen 0.4 percent this year, after erasing its 2013 decline
earlier this week. That compares with a 12 percent increase in
the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  exchange-traded fund slid
0.8 percent to $43.57. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, added 5.7
percent to 19.59 in a third day of gains.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  dropped 0.6 percent on concern that a
weaker Brazilian real will fuel inflation. B2W sank 7.7 percent,
while OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA fell after the oil
producer’s net loss was wider than forecast.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  declined 0.5 percent in Moscow, resuming
trading after a holiday yesterday. RusHydro and Inter RAO
dropped at least 2.7 percent. West Texas Intermediate crude fell
a second day as the strengthening dollar cut the appeal of raw
materials priced in the U.S. currency.  Eurocash Tumbles  Benchmark gauges in Poland, Turkey and Hungary lost at
least 0.1 percent. Eurocash SA, a distributor of non-durable
 consumer goods , tumbled 7.8 percent in Warsaw as earnings missed
estimates. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, fell from
the highest in almost three months as Economy Minister  Mihaly
Varga  said he may raise taxes on banking transactions.  South Korean stocks fell the most in nine months, led by
exporters, after the won climbed to its highest level against
the yen in more than four years. Samsung Electronics retreated
the most since March 15, while Hyundai Motor lost 2.3 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.6 percent, while the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added 0.7 percent. Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co. jumped 7.6 percent after sales increased
and China Resources Power Holdings Co. tumbled after saying it
will issue shares for a merger. India’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  added 0.7
percent as a report showed industrial production growth
quickened in March. Pakistan’s  KSE 100 Index (KSE100)  rallied 1.3 percent
to a record ahead of elections tomorrow.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 262 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  