-- Endo Loses Bid to Stop Sales of Generic Painkiller Rivals
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-10T20:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/endo-loses-bid-to-stop-sales-of-generic-painkiller-rivals.html
Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  lost an
effort to stop U.S. sales of generic versions of its extended-release painkiller that don’t have tamper-resistant qualities.  The Food and Drug Administration’s decision today means
copycats of Endo’s older Opana ER without abuse-deterrent
technology will remain on the market.  Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL) ,
the maker of a generic version, rose in New York trading.  Endo sought a determination from the FDA that the original
Opana ER was taken off the market for safety reasons, a
determination that would have meant less competition for its
newer version. The FDA declined to do so and instead criticized
properties of the new Opana ER that were supposed to make the
drug resistant to injection and snorting.  Inconclusive post-marketing studies show the reformulated
version may have a higher percentage of abuse via injection than
the original version, the FDA said in a statement.  Opana and extended-release Opana generated $299 million in
revenue last year, or 10 percent of Endo’s total sales, down
from $384 million in 2011. Impax, based in Hayward,  California ,
became the first to sell a generic of the original Opana ER in
January. Other companies, including  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Actavis Inc. (ACT) , have applied to sell a generic
of the oxymorphone painkiller.  Impax rose 7.7 percent to $17.40 at the close in New York.
The shares have declined 22 percent in the past 12 months. Endo
had fallen 5.3 percent to $34.97 before being stopped before
today’s decision was announced.  OxyContin Request  The FDA last month granted a similar request from Purdue
Pharma LP in relation to the company’s OxyContin pain pill.
Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania-based Endo and  Stamford , Connecticut-based Purdue pulled the original versions of their painkillers
from the market and reintroduced them with advancements that
keep addicts from being able to crush the pills for a greater
high. The FDA has established standards for drugmakers to prove
their painkillers are abuse-resistant though it hasn’t required
tamper protection.  “FDA continues to encourage the development of abuse-deterrent formulations of opioids to help reduce prescription
drug abuse and to positively affect public health. FDA reviews
every application on its own merits, based on applicable
scientific and legal standards,” the agency said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  