-- Tesla Shorts Run for Cover as Stock Doubles: Mover
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-05-10T20:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/tesla-motors-short-covering-sustains-gains-mover.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of
electric cars run by billionaire Elon Musk, rose 11 percent
after an analyst said that investors who’d expected the stock to
decline had to buy it.  Tesla gained $7.36 to a record $76.76 at the close in New
York. Its market capitalization totaled about $8.9 billion,
ranking it between the $7.9 billion value of Turin, Italy-based
 Fiat SpA (F) , the majority owner of Chrysler Group LLC, and Japan’s
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , at $10.5 billion.  Covering of short positions is “a big part of” Tesla’s
gain, Elaine Kwei, said a New York-based analyst at Jefferies
Group who rates the shares a buy, in a phone interview
yesterday. “This has been such a polarizing stock. There’s
still much skepticism and doubt around electric vehicles, and a
lot of people didn’t expect the company to get this far.”  Currently, investors have a short interest in  41 percent  of
 Palo Alto , California-based Tesla’s float, or shares available
to the public, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
shares had the sixth-highest short interest among Nasdaq-listed
stocks as of the April 30 settlement date. Short sellers profit
from price declines by selling borrowed securities and replacing
them with stock bought at lower levels.  The surge in shares of the automaker named for inventor
 Nikola Tesla  came after the company this week reported its first
quarterly profit, which also beat estimates. Consumer Reports
magazine yesterday also said Tesla’s Model S sedan, with a
$69,900 base price, scored 99 out of 100 points in its
 evaluation , ranking among the best cars it has tested.  Naked Shorts?  Tesla has more than doubled this year compared with a 15
percent increase in the Russell 1000 Index. Bearish investors
have pared back bets against the electric-car maker as the stock
rallied.  About 20 percent of the company’s shares outstanding were
borrowed and sold short on May 8, down from 23 percent three
weeks ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Markit, a
London-based research firm. That compares with an average 3.1
percent for the Russell 1000 Index.  Shares on loan in Tesla reached a record 25 percent in
September last year.  Musk said in an interview last week there are rumors some
investors had a naked short position in Tesla. In a naked short
sale, the seller doesn’t borrow shares at the beginning of the
process and can get caught needing to buy at ever-higher prices.  “You’re not supposed to do that on the  Nasdaq ,” Musk said
on May 2 in Hawthorne,  California . “If there’s a naked short,
oh my god, things could really go ballistic.”  The gains in Tesla shares this week, along with  SolarCity
Corp. (SCTY) , a solar power company also led by Musk, have raised his
fortune to $4.5 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . SolarCity has the highest short interest among Nasdaq-listed stocks as of the April 30 settlement date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  