-- European Stocks Rally for a Third Week; BT Group Climbs
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-05-10T16:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/european-stocks-rally-for-a-third-week-bt-group-climbs.html
European stocks  rallied for a third
week, closing at their highest level in almost five years, as
companies from BT Group Plc to Hochtief AG posted earnings that
beat estimates, while economic data exceeded expectations.  BT surged 13 percent as the fixed-line phone operator
proposed a higher full-year dividend.  Hochtief  gained 7.5
percent after it posted a first-quarter profit and sold its
airport division. Alcatel-Lucent SA rose 14 percent as its chief
executive officer said that he may sell assets. National Bank of
Greece SA led Greek stocks higher, surging 48 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 1.3 percent this week to
304.99, its highest level since June 2008. The equity benchmark
has gained 9.1 percent so far this year amid confidence that
central banks around the world will continue to add stimulus to
support economic growth.  “The stock rally is mainly driven by continued
accommodative policies around the world, lately the rate cut by
the European Central Bank and the aggressive money printing in
Japan,”  Kai Fachinger , who oversees about $700 million as
portfolio manager at RobecoSAM AG in Zurich, wrote in a message.
“On monetary policy there is nothing specific to this week,
just a further improved sentiment that quantitative easing would
help to sustain the equity rally.”  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee left its
 bond-purchase program  at 375 billion pounds ($575 billion) when
it met yesterday. The policy makers also held their benchmark
interest rate at 0.5 percent. In Asia, Bank of Korea Governor
 Kim Choong Soo  and his board lowered their benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate yesterday to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent.  Industrial Production  Reports from two of Europe’s three biggest economies beat
estimates. In Germany, a measure of  industrial production 
increased 1.2 percent in March. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had predicted output would drop 0.1 percent. A separate release
showed that Germany’s exports, adjusted for working days and
seasonal changes, advanced 0.5 percent in March. They declined
1.2 percent in February.  U.K.  industrial production  rose more than economists had
forecast as cold weather increased demand for electricity and
gas. Output climbed 0.7 percent from February, according to a
report from the Office for National Statistics yesterday.  In China, a report from the General Administration of
Customs showed that  exports  from the world’s second-largest
economy rose 14.7 percent last month. That exceeded the 9.2
percent median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  European Markets  National benchmark indexes advanced in every western-European market, except for Spain, this week. The U.K.’s FTSE
100 added 1.6 percent, France’s CAC 40 rose 1 percent and
Germany’s DAX jumped 1.9 percent.  BT  surged 13 percent. The telecommunications operator
proposed paying a full-year dividend of 9.5 pence a share, a 14
percent increase from the 8.3 pence that it paid a year earlier.
The company also reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates as it attracted more customers to its high-speed Internet service.  Hochtief rose 7.5 percent. Germany’s biggest builder posted
a first-quarter pre-tax profit of 123 million euros ($159
million) compared with a loss of 92 million euros during the
same period last year. The average analyst estimate had called
for profit of 111 million euros, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  Separately, the company agreed to sell its airports
division to Public Sector Pension Investment Board of Canada.
The deal values the business, which has stakes in airports in
Athens, Budapest, Dusseldorf, Hamburg, Sydney and Tirana, at
about 1.5 billion euros. Hochtief will get 1.1 billion euros
because its business partners own some of the shares.  Alcatel-Lucent  Alcatel-Lucent rallied 14 percent. Chief Executive Officer
 Michel Combes  said the French network-equipment maker will sell
assets and form partnerships in an attempt to reduce losses.
Combes plans to unveil a reorganization plan by mid-July.  Greece’s  ASE index  surged 5.2 percent after the
International Monetary Fund said in a staff report that the
Mediterranean country has made progress. Greek markets were
closed on May 6 and May 7 for the Orthodox Easter and Labor Day
public holidays.  National Bank of Greece SA, the nation’s largest lender,
surged 48 percent. Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA,
the country’s biggest telephone company, rose 4.1 percent.  ING, SocGen  ING Groep NV  advanced 6.9 percent. The biggest Dutch
financial-services company reported that net income in the first
quarter more than doubled to 1.8 billion euros from 728 million
euros a year earlier. That exceeded the average analyst estimate
of 1.48 billion euros in a Bloomberg survey. Chief Executive
Officer Jan Hommen said ING will bring forward an initial public
offering for its European insurance business  Societe Generale SA  gained 5.3 percent after France’s
second-largest bank posted a smaller-than-estimated drop in
quarterly net income to 364 million euros. That beat the 317
million-euro average forecast of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Deutsche Telekom AG  advanced 7.2 percent. Germany’s largest
phone company reported that first-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell 4.3 percent
to 4.29 billion euros, compared with the 4.24 billion-euro
 average forecast  of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Banco Espirito Santo SA slumped 9.5 percent after
Portugal’s biggest publicly traded lender posted an unexpected
first-quarter loss and its chief executive officer said he
cannot guarantee positive results for this year. The bank posted
a  first-quarter loss  of 62 million euros as loan-loss provisions
increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  