-- Lew Says Fannie Mae Delays U.S. Debt Limit Until September
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-05-10T15:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/lew-says-fannie-mae-delays-u-s-debt-limit-until-september-2-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Jacob J. Lew 
said a one-time payment from Fannie Mae confirms that the
nation’s debt ceiling won’t be reached until September.  “The one-time payment that Fannie Mae has announced makes
it very clear that we’re not going to hit the effective deadline
until at least Labor Day,” he said in an interview on CNBC
Television in London today. Fannie Mae, the mortgage financier
seized by U.S. regulators in 2008, said yesterday it will pay
the Treasury $59.4 billion after reporting a record quarterly
profit driven by rising home prices and declining delinquencies.  The U.S. Congress voted at the end of January to suspend
the nation’s $16.4 trillion debt limit through May 18,
temporarily removing the risk of a default. With Fannie Mae’s
payment and the use of so-called extraordinary measures,
Treasury may have more time to push the deadline further.  “The statutory debt limit will be reached in just a few
days” and “because of the extraordinary measures that are
available and cash flows that we now can predict it will not be
until at least after Labor Day,” Lew said, referring to the
Sept. 2 holiday.  Treasury said on May 1 it can use “extraordinary
measures” to meet its obligations and to stay under the ceiling
“for a period of time after May 19.” A later deadline would
give Congress more time to debate lifting the cap and postpone
any vote until after the August recess. When the ceiling is
restored May 19, it will be increased to reflect the
government’s borrowing during the past few months.  On May 8, Freddie Mac, the U.S.-owned mortgage-finance
company, said it will pay $7 billion to the Treasury Department
after reporting the second-largest quarterly net income in the
company’s history.  The Treasury can continue borrowing for several months by
shifting money among government accounts. In the past, the U.S.
has staved off hitting the debt limit with measures including
declaring a “debt-issuance suspension period” under the
statute governing the Civil Service Retirement and Disability
Fund. That allows the U.S. to redeem existing Treasury
securities held by that fund as investments.  The debt of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to which the U.S.
has pledged its backing without officially guaranteeing it,
isn’t included in a tally of the U.S. government’s total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  