-- Mexico Industry Output Falls Three Times More Than Forecast
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-05-10T16:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/mexico-industrial-output-falls-three-times-more-than-expected.html
Mexico ’s  industrial production  fell
three times more than analysts forecast in March, reinforcing
expectations that the central bank will cut interest rates for
the second time since 2009 later this year.  Output slid 4.9 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
decline since the end of the 2009 recession and more than the
1.4 percent median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Manufacturing contracted 5.8 percent and construction
fell 5.2 percent, the national statistics institute said on its
website today.  The central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest
rate by half a point to a record low 4 percent on March 8 as
growth slowed. In April, policy makers left the rate unchanged
after inflation exceeded the upper limit of their target range.
Inflation will slow in the second half, the central bank said in
the minutes of their April 26 meeting published today. Most
board members said they expect U.S. growth to slow in the second
quarter and a prolonged recession in Europe.  The industrial production figure is a “poor number, so it
does support our rate cut view,”  Gabriel Casillas , chief
economist at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB in Mexico City, said
in an e-mail. At the same time “the tone of the minutes is very
dovish.”  Mirroring Carstens  The minutes mirrored comments by central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens earlier this week that led Banorte to join UBS
AG and Barclays Plc in forecasting a cut this year. Banorte,
which previously expected rates to remain unchanged this year,
forecast Banxico will reduce the key rate to 3.5 percent in
July.  “Economic activity in Mexico has decelerated and there are
downside risks to growth,” the majority of the board said at
the April 26 meeting, according to the minutes.  The peso weakened 1.2 percent to 12.1374 per dollar at
11:03 a.m. in Mexico City. The currency has soared 5.9 percent
this year, the most of all 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as investors search for yields amid global monetary
easing and speculation increases President Enrique Pena Nieto
will pass energy and tax overhauls to boost growth.  Yields on peso-denominated fixed-rate government bonds
maturing in 2024 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 4.54 percent.  U.S. Growth  Gross domestic product in the U.S., the buyer of about 80
percent of Mexico’s exports, rose at a 2.5 percent annualized
rate in the first quarter, less than the median 3 percent
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 86 economists.  U.S. growth will slow to 1.6 percent in the second quarter,
according to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  Mexico’s industrial activity fell 0.3 percent in March from
the previous month, compared with the 0.1 percent median decline
estimated by seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There continues to be weakness in many areas associated
with exports,”  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Grupo
Financiero Santander Mexico SAB, said in a phone interview from
Mexico City. “This would help favor an environment where
monetary policy could be eased.”  Still, Camarena expects interest rates to be unchanged this
year given annual inflation, at 4.65 percent in April, is above
the upper limit of the bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target
range.  The minutes show that one of the central bank board members
said it isn’t clear that inflation is converging toward its 3
percent target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  