-- Mexican Peso Tumbles as Output Drop Spurs Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-05-10T16:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/mexican-peso-tumbles-as-output-drop-spurs-rate-cut-speculation.html
Mexico’s peso plunged as industrial
production fell three times more than analysts forecast in
March, stoking speculation that policy makers will cut borrowing
costs in Latin America’s second-biggest economy.  The peso weakened 1.3 percent to 12.1512 per U.S. dollar at
10:29 a.m. in Mexico City, paring its rally this year to 5.8
percent, still the biggest among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The peso has fallen 0.5 percent this week.  The national statistics agency reported that industrial
production dropped 4.9 percent in March from a year earlier, the
biggest decline since the 2009 recession and more than the 1.4
percent median forecast of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Central bank board members said in minutes of their April 26
policy meeting, published today, that “there are downside risks
to growth” for Mexico.  “The market expected something bad, but not as bad as it
was,”  Mario Copca , a currency and fixed-income strategist at
Metanalisis SA in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview,
referring to the output decline. “There could be a cut to the
reference rate in the future once inflation falls amid the weak
economic data.”  Yields on six-month swaps tied to the interbank rate were
headed for a drop this week to 4.18 percent, indicating traders
are pricing in about a 64 percent chance that policy makers will
reduce borrowing costs over the next six months.  The central bank unexpectedly cut its target lending rate
by a half-percentage point to a record low 4 percent on March 8
as growth slowed. Policy makers left the benchmark unchanged at
their meeting on April 26.  The national statistics agency reported yesterday that
 consumer prices  climbed 4.65 percent in April from a year
earlier, higher than a 4.25 percent annual inflation rate in
March. The central bank’s target range is 2 to 4 percent.  Yields on peso bonds due in December dropped four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to a record low 3.74 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on debt maturing
in 2024 rose seven basis points to 4.55 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  