-- F&C Drops in London as Dutch Insurer Pulls $16 Billion of Assets
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-05-10T08:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/f-c-drops-in-london-as-dutch-insurer-pulls-16-billion-of-assets.html
F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) , the
investment firm controlled by hedge-fund manager  Edward Bramson ,
dropped in London trading after Achmea BV decided to withdraw
10.3 billion pounds ($16 billion) of assets.  The Dutch insurer will pull the funds, which yield 11 basis
points in revenue for F&C, from October, the London-based money
manager said today in a statement. The stock slid 2.5 percent to
98.3 pence at 9:24 a.m. in London trading, valuing the firm at
about 552 million pounds.  “Our assets-under-management assumptions will have to
change given this morning’s news from Achmea,” Owen Jones, a
Liverpool, England-based analyst at Shore Capital Group Ltd.,
wrote in a note to clients as he downgraded the stock to sell
from hold.  F&C is attempting to stem withdrawals from insurance
clients after Bramson took control of the firm in 2011 and cut
costs. The Achmea outflows represent about 10 percent of F&C’s
funds under management. U.K. insurer Resolution Ltd. pulled 5.3
billion pounds last year and may withdraw a further 6.2 billion
pounds, it said in March.  F&C’s assets under management rose 3.7 percent in the first
three months of the year to 98.8 billion pounds, boosted by
rising markets and favorable foreign-exchange movements. Net
inflows of 139 million pounds into retail funds in the quarter
were outweighed by 178 million pounds of outflows from
institutional clients, the firm said in the statement today.  Bramson, an activist investor, is F&C’s chairman and
largest shareholder through his hedge fund Sherborne Investors
LLC.  The stock  has almost doubled since he began buying his
stake in 2010.  Earlier this year, Bramson announced he increased his stake
in 3i Group Plc, Britain’s oldest private-equity firm, to 4.2
percent, making Sherborne its third-biggest shareholder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  