-- Fed’s George Sees 2% Growth as Housing Gain Counters Budget Cuts
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-05-10T20:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/fed-s-george-sees-2-growth-as-housing-gain-counters-budget-cuts.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas  City
President Esther George said the economy will probably grow 2
percent this year, spurred by Fed stimulus that threatens to
eventually push up long-term inflation expectations.  A strengthening housing recovery is counteracting headwinds
from a fiscal spending contraction that will probably crimp
growth in the second and third quarters, George said today to
the  Wyoming  Business Alliance in Jackson, Wyoming.  “Housing starts are coming back online and we are also
seeing the demand for housing coming back,” while  home prices 
“are beginning to firm,” said George, who holds a policy vote
on the  Federal Open Market Committee . “The employment picture
is getting better,” with monthly payroll growth averaging
200,000 “a positive sign.”  George, 55, has dissented this year against FOMC decisions
to press on with monthly purchases of $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion in Treasuries, saying the
record stimulus may destabilize markets and impair employment.  “The economy is pushing against some headwinds coming from
fiscal issues,” George said. “We have seen growth slow because
of the sequestration.”  Federal budget  cuts totaling $85 billion commenced on March
1 and will probably trim the nation’s gross domestic product by
0.6 percentage point this year, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  George said business owners have told her they’ve put
hiring “on hold until they see clearly” the impact from the
Affordable Care Act, which is expected to expand health coverage
to about 27 million uninsured Americans.  Easing ‘Complications’  The so-called quantitative easing that has swollen the Fed
balance sheet to  $3.32 trillion  may lead to “complications” as
the central bank begins to exit the policy, George said. Risks
include a jump in longer-term inflation expectations and a
“painful adjustment” for investors when the benchmark interest
rate is eventually raised, she said.  “Continuing this current policy outside of the crisis,
outside of a recession, poses risks to us in the long term,”
George said.  Low  interest rates  prompt investors to “reach for yield,”
which may make them “particularly vulnerable to the point at
which rates must rise,” George said. “That could require a
painful adjustment that I worry about.”  The FOMC said last week it will continue buying bonds
“until the outlook for the labor market has improved
substantially.” It also left unchanged its statement that it
plans to hold its target interest rate near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Jobless Rate  The  unemployment rate  decreased to  7.5 percent  in April as
employers added 165,000 workers to payrolls. Initial jobless
claims fell by 4,000 to 323,000 in the week ended May 4, the
fewest since January 2008, the Labor Department said yesterday.
The four-week average declined to 336,750, the lowest since
November 2007, the month before the start of the recession.  While the unemployment rate has moved toward the Fed’s goal
of 5.2 percent to 6 percent during the past year, inflation has
fallen further from the Fed’s long-run target of 2 percent.
Inflation dropped to 1 percent from a year earlier in March, the
slowest since 2009, according to the Fed’s preferred inflation
gauge.  George, who became chief of the Kansas City Fed in 2011,
was the Fed district bank’s No. 2 official under  Thomas Hoenig ,
now vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. She
joined the Fed in 1982 and spent much of her career in bank
supervision.  The Kansas City district represents  Colorado , Kansas,
Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming, northern  New Mexico  and western
 Missouri .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  