-- Texas Fertilizer Blast Spurs Sheriff’s Criminal Probe
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-05-10T21:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/fertilizer-plant-blast-in-texas-spurs-sheriff-criminal-probe-1-.html
Texas  law enforcement officials said
they have opened a criminal investigation into the April 17
fertilizer-plant explosion in the town of West that killed more
than a dozen people and leveled nearby structures.  The probe is being led by the  McLennan County Sheriff’s
Department  with assistance from the  Texas Rangers , according to
a statement by the Texas Department of Public Safety.  “This disaster has severely impacted the community of
West, and we want to ensure that no stone goes unturned and that
all the facts related to this incident are uncovered,’’ Steven McCraw, director of Texas DPS, said in the statement.  At least 14 individuals, many of them first responders,
were killed when the West Fertilizer Plant exploded last month.
The blast injured more than 200 people and destroyed in excess
of 70 homes and businesses across a five-block area.  “The citizens of McLennan County and Texas must have
confidence that this incident has been looked at from every
angle and professionally handled -- they deserve nothing less,’’
McLennan County Sheriff Parnell McNamara said in the joint
statement.  Investigators with the U.S.  Chemical Safety Board  haven’t
released results of their probe into what caused the explosion,
which followed a fire at the plant earlier that evening. The
facility stored 270 tons of ammonium nitrate, a common
fertilizer, according to a yearend report by the Texas
Department of State Health Services.  Ammonium Nitrate  Ammonium nitrate can be highly explosive. The substance has
been linked to terrorist bombings, including the 1995 blast that
killed 168 people and destroyed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal
Building in  Oklahoma City .  Officials with the Texas Fire Marshal’s office and the  Texas
Insurance Department  said the civil investigation, which is
being conducted in coordination with the Chemical Safety Board
probe, may not be completed until May 24, later than officials
initially forecast. Dozens of investigators have interviewed at
least 400 individuals and continue combing the site, which
includes a blast crater 93 feet (28 meters) wide by 10 feet
deep.  While investigators haven’t determined the cause of the
initial fire, they have ruled out bad weather, anhydrous
ammonium, which is also stored at the plant, and a rail car
containing ammonium nitrate, Rachel Moreno, a spokeswoman for
the Texas Fire Marshal’s office, said last week.  Family Business  At least 35 individuals and businesses harmed by the blast
have sued Adair Grain Inc., the family business that owns the
fertilizer plant. The suits seek damages for destroyed property
as well as physical and emotional injuries from the blast, which
the victims claim resulted from safety negligence.  Randy Roberts, a lawyer for several victims, said he had
“serious doubts’’ that Donald and Wanda Adair, the plant’s
owners, have enough personal or corporate assets to cover all
the blast damage, which has been estimated at more than $100
million.  “There’s not any sprawling corporate network behind Adair
Grain,’’ Roberts said. “I’d be surprised if there is enough.”  Paul Grinke, another lawyer for blast victims, said his
research found the Adairs carried just $1 million in primary
insurance, with no umbrella policy or excess coverage.  “This was a mom-and-pop shop,’’ Grinke said.  Daniel Keeney, a spokesman for the plant owners, declined
in e-mails to comment on either pending litigation or emergency
management plans at the facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at  laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  