-- Florida Orange-Crop Outlook Affirmed by U.S. Agency
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-05-17T16:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/florida-orange-crop-estimate-unchanged-at-138-million-boxes.html
(Corrects percentage in first paragraph in story published
May 10.)  Florida ’s orange crop, the world’s
second-largest, will be 10 percent smaller than first forecast
in October, the U.S. government said, affirming last month’s
estimate and surprising analysts after beneficial rain.  The state will produce 138 million boxes of the fruit in
the harvest that started in October and runs through June,
unchanged from the April forecast, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today in a report. On average, analysts and
traders expected 137.6 million boxes, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Output last year was 146.7 million. Futures pared gains
in  New York .  In April, the USDA cut the crop forecast for the fifth
straight month from its first estimate of 154 million boxes in
October. A state group has said that the citrus greening, a
bacterial disease, is “threatening to wipe out” Florida’s $9
billion citrus industry. This week, Coca Cola Co., the owner of
Minute Maid juices, said it plans to spend $2 billion to support
planting of 25,000 acres of new groves.  “We’ve seen up to 50 percent of the crop lost in some
areas because of greening, with some fruit not usable for
anything,” said Dean Mixon, a farmer in Bradenton, Florida,
whose family has been in the citrus business more than 75 years.
While “the disease is more prevalent in southern parts, the
announcement by Coca Cola this week, is very telling about the
industry’s concern,” he said.  ICE Futures  Orange juice  for July delivery rose 0.3 percent to close at
$1.4435 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. Earlier, the price
climbed as much as 2.1 percent. The commodity has jumped 23
percent this year, the biggest gain among 19 raw materials in
the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  “Rainfall was generally light, becoming heavier toward the
end of the month, easing drought conditions in all of the
citrus-producing regions” that hampered crops this season, the
USDA said today.  Citrus greening, first found in Florida in 2005, starves a
tree of nutrients, causing the fruit to shrink and drop
prematurely. The disease has appeared in all of the 32 counties
that produce commercially.  Drier-than-normal weather had compounded the damage from
disease, Mixon said today in a telephone interview. His farm is
next to a Tropicana plant owned by  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)   In 2013, rainfall in the state has been 40 percent to 70
percent below the average of the past 30 years, Kyle Tapley, a
meteorologist at MDA Information Systems Inc. in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland , said in an e-mail.  University Study  Citrus greening cost Florida’s economy $3.63 billion in
lost revenue since 2006 because of a reduction in orange-juice
production, the University of Florida said in January. The state
also lost 6,611 jobs, according to a study by the university’s
institute of food and agricultural sciences.  To shield new citrus crops from the disease, seedlings must
be grown in greenhouses rather than outdoors, doubling the cost
of a new tree to about $8, Tom Spreen, a consultant and
professor emeritus at the university’s food and resource
economics department, said in a telephone interview.  Yields in Florida will average 1.60 gallons per box, down
from 1.63 gallons a year earlier, the USDA said today. A box
weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  Brazil  is the top orange
producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  