-- Former Guatemalan Dictator Rios Montt Guilty of Genocide Charges
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-11T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/former-guatemalan-dictator-rios-montt-guilty-of-genocide-charges.html
Former Guatemalan dictator Efrain Rios Montt was found guilty of genocide and crimes against
humanity for the killing of more than 1,700 indigenous Ixil
Mayans during the Central American country’s 36-year civil war.  Rios Montt, 86, who held de facto military rule for 17
months from 1982-1983, was found guilty yesterday of mass
killings, rape and torture of Mayan Indians during his
“scorched earth” campaign to eliminate support for guerrillas.
Dozens of Ixil Mayans testified against Rios Montt during the
trial, which was the first time a former head of state has been
prosecuted for genocide in a national court.  In announcing the verdict, Judge Yasmin Barrios detailed
the violent killings of the Ixil people and said the court ruled
that Rios Montt was “aware of the massacres and did nothing to
stop them.” Rios Montt, who said he never “authorized, signed,
proposed or ordered attacks on a racial, ethnic or religious
group,” was sentenced to 80 years in prison. At the reading of
the verdict, the courtroom exploded with cheers.  “The evidence of massacres, of torture, of disappearance
and abuse against Ixil Mayans was pretty overwhelming,” said
Geoff Thale, director of the Washington Office on  Latin America ,
who has followed justice issues in  Guatemala  for more than two
decades. “A general, who for years headed a military that
committed human rights abuses without concern for prosecution or
punishment, has finally been brought to justice.”  Trial Delay  Rios Montt’s trial was temporarily halted last month when a
judge who was taken off the case in 2011 was reinstated and
requested that proceedings be rolled back to the time when she
was removed. That prompted a protest by seven Nobel Peace Prize
laureates, including Guatemalan Rigoberta Menchu and South
African Archbishop Desmond Tutu. The case was reconvened by
Barrios, who oversaw the duration of the trial, on May 8.  Guatemala has one of the world’s highest impunity rates,
with about 98 percent of criminal cases remaining unsolved,
according to the  United Nations .  “A justice system, an attorney general, a set of judges, a
supreme court, has managed to function well enough and resist
hard line and conservative pressures and act impartially to make
this trial happen,” Thale said. “That matters not just for
General Rios Montt, not just for the Ixil Maya, not just for the
victims of the war, but for the rule of law and justice in
Guatemala in general.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  