-- G-7 Finance Chiefs Clash on Budget Cutting Amid Growth Weakness
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-10T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/g-7-finance-chiefs-clash-on-budget-cutting-amid-growth-weakness.html
Global finance chiefs clashed over
the correct speed of budget cutting as they sought fresh ways to
rally the slowing world economy.  With a Group of Seven meeting getting under way in the
U.K., Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew cited the U.S. as a model
for focusing on ensuring expansion first and fiscal
consolidation later. While that stance won French support,
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann pushed back and Canadian
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  criticized it as “ambiguous.”  “The Americans need to be more clear where they stand on
this,” Flaherty said in an interview in Aylesbury, north of
 London . “They seem to be wanting to encourage economic growth
more than fiscal responsibility.”  The disagreement is the latest in the long-running debate
over whether austerity deepens slowdowns or helps end them by
boosting investor confidence. It has swung in recent weeks in
favor of those preferring added stimulus as  Europe ’s recession
persists even after three years of axing budgets.  “Every country is in a different position,” said Clay Lowery, a former U.S. Treasury official and now vice president
of Rock Creek Global Advisors LLC in  Washington . “Ideally you
want coordinated macro policies as much as possible. But
realistically, how often in the past have we been able to have
G-7 countries come to agreement on macro policies?”  Lew’s View  The G-7’s finance ministers and central bankers are
gathering as their host, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , urges them to “nurture the recovery” amid signs
economies face another soft patch. The meeting will conclude
today and officials say there may not be a closing communique.  Lew said he will press European policy makers to intensify
efforts to revive their economies by rethinking the pace of
budget cuts and seeking ways to unfreeze credit markets.  “We feel very strongly there needs to be the right balance
between austerity and growth,” he said in an interview on CNBC
Television. “Overall, Europe is going to need to do a little
bit better. There’s room for progress.”  The U.S.’s approach of “scheduling the deficit reduction
to come a little bit later has left us with a stronger
economy,” he said.  Austerity ‘Dogma’  Such lobbying has fallen on more receptive ears in recent
weeks with French and German officials acknowledging to varying
degrees a need to soften their fiscal squeeze after the euro
area recession outlasted forecasts and  unemployment  reached a
record 12.1 percent. Countries including France and  Spain  may be
given longer to meet European Union deficit goals and  Italy 
elected a government pledging to reverse some of its
predecessors’ policies.  “We reject an austerity track, this dogma which slows
growth,” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said in an
interview with Deutschlandfunk radio. EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said that “we can, for the
moment, afford a smoother path of fiscal adjustment.”  In the biggest rhetorical shift, the German government is
indicating acceptance that austerity can be overdone. There is
“enough room to maneuver” for nations to act after having
reduced budget deficits and bond yields, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said May 9.  Weidmann Disagrees  Not everybody agreed with Lew. Countries must deliver on
pledges to reduce deficits, as restoring confidence in public
finances is “one important precondition for sustainable
growth,” Weidmann said.  Flaherty said the G-7 should be recommitting to debt
reduction plans after many last year missed and then scrapped
2010 targets he helped negotiate.  “There is a desire to have much more emphasis on
incentives on stimulus than on what they call austerity,” he
said in an interview, adding that growth and budget discipline
aren’t “mutually exclusive goals.”  Osborne has also signaled he will resist foreign pressure
to slow the U.K’s austerity drive, which is running into
criticism from the  International Monetary Fund . “Government
deficit and debt levels are too high in a number of G-7
economies -- including the U.K.,” he said. “We should reaffirm
our resolve to deal with these and there are more areas of
agreement than is commonly assumed.”  While the yen weakened below 101 per dollar for the first
time since April 2009, none of the delegates criticized  Japan ’s
campaign to bolster its economy through monetary stimulus even
if it pushes up their exchange rates.  Bank of Japan  Governor
 Haruhiko Kuroda  reiterated that officials aren’t targeting a
currency level as the central bank boosts bond-buying to hit a 2
percent inflation target.  “Everybody has said they would never seek to manipulate
foreign exchange rates as an instrument to boost growth,”
Schaeuble said. Lew said that “the world community has made
clear that domestic tools that are designed to deal with
domestic growth are within the bounds of what the international
community thinks is appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  