-- Galaxy Entertainment Added to Hang Seng Index, Esprit Removed
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-05-10T11:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/galaxy-entertainment-added-to-hang-seng-index-esprit-removed.html
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , the
 Macau  casino owner that doubled profit last year, will be added
to Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index effective June 17, the
compiler of the gauge said today.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  will be removed, according to a
statement from Hang Seng Indexes Co. The number of members will
remain at 50, it said. Galaxy has a market capitalization of
HK$159.9 billion ($20.6 billion) while Esprit is valued at
HK$19.97 billion.  The Hang Seng Index has risen 0.3 percent to 23,321.22
since its last quarterly review on Feb. 6, when the index
compiler said Lenovo Group Ltd. will be added and Aluminum Corp.
of  China  Ltd. will be removed. Lenovo, the world’s No. 2
personal computer maker, has since tumbled 19 percent, while
Aluminum Corp. of China slid 11 percent.  The changes announced today may impact the share moves of
the added or removed companies, as Hang Seng Index-tracked funds
such as the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  Exchange-Traded Fund, with a  total
asset value  of HK$35.3 billion ($4.55 billion) as of May, adjust
their holdings.  Galaxy Entertainment surged 15 percent since Hang Seng
Index’s last quarterly review, as increasing number of Chinese
gamblers to Macau drove its profit higher. The shares rose to a
record high this week after announcing a plan to buy a casino
hotel on Macau’s increasingly popular Cotai strip.  Esprit, the Hong Kong-based apparel seller whose two top
executives quit last year, this week forecast a “substantial”
fiscal-year loss on store closures and loss of goodwill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  