-- Generali Profit Unexpectedly Rises as Non-Life Income Climbs
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-05-10T05:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/generali-profit-unexpectedly-rises-as-non-life-income-climbs.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s
biggest insurer, said first-quarter profit rose 6.3 percent as
earnings at its non-life insurance business increased.  Net income in the three months to March climbed to 603
million euros ($787 million) from 567 million euros a year
earlier, the Trieste, Italy-based company said in a statement
today. That beat the 561.4 million-euro  average estimate  of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Mario Greco  is seeking to boost
profit at Generali and increase capital by cutting costs,
disposing of non-strategic assets and targeting faster-growing
 emerging markets . The company, which targets 4 billion euros in
revenue from disposals by 2015, is selling its U.S. life-reinsurance business and Swiss asset-management unit BSI Group
as part of a plan approved in January.  “Generali still is an attractive investment case for
investors comfortable with exposure to Italy,” Michael van Wegen and Jelena Bjelanovic, analysts at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, wrote last week. “We expect the company to make steady
progress to improve the solvency ratio over the next few years,
driven by earnings and divestments,” they said.  Generali reiterated today that it expects an improvement in
its total operating result in 2013, forecasting a reduction in
life premiums and an increase in non-life.  Income Climbs  Operating income rose 8 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier to 1.33 billion euros as income at the non-life
business rose 27 percent to 520 million euros. Operating income
at the life business declined 2.6 percent to 797 million euros.  “In this quarter we have recorded our best operating
result of the last four years, thanks to an excellent P&C
performance and a solid life business,” Greco said. “We are
making good progress in implementing the planned measures to
turn around our business.”  The solvency ratio, a measure of an insurer’s capacity to
absorb losses, dropped to 138 percent on March 30 from 145
percent at the start of the year. The ratio climbed to 145
percent as of April 30, Generali said. The first-quarter reading
was hurt by the purchase of a 25 percent stake in the eastern
Europe venture from private-equity firm PPF Group NV.  Spending on claims and other costs as a percentage of
premiums, known as the combined ratio, improved to 93.6 percent
in the first quarter from 95.4 percent a year earlier. 