-- German Exports Increased in March in Further Sign of Recovery
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-05-10T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/german-exports-increased-in-march-in-further-sign-of-recovery.html
German  exports (GRBTEXMM)  rose in March, adding
to signs that  Europe ’s largest economy is starting to recover
from a contraction at the end of last year.  Exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
advanced 0.5 percent from February, when they dropped 1.2
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
The increase matched the median forecast of 16 economists in a
 Bloomberg News survey . Imports rose 0.8 percent from February.  Industrial production and factory orders both increased
more than forecast in March and unemployment remains near a two-decade low. That suggests the economy is starting to grow again
after an unusually long winter delayed its recovery from a 0.6
percent contraction in the final quarter of 2012.  “The latest data from  Germany  are pretty strong,” said
 Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan. “I think recession fears are overdone,
Germany may become the growth engine for the euro area once
again.”  Germany’s HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest
maker of cement, said on May 8 that first-quarter earnings rose
3.3 percent as North American growth and job cuts helped offset
harsh winter conditions that impeded building in Europe.  Germany’s trade surplus increased to 18.8 billion euros
($24.5 billion) from 16.8 billion euros in February. The surplus
in the current account, a measure of all trade including
services, climbed to 20.2 billion euros from 18 billion euros.  The European Commission last week cut its economic
projections for the euro area, Germany’s biggest export market.
It predicts the euro economy will shrink 0.4 percent this year
after a 0.6 percent contraction in 2012. By contrast, the
Bundesbank forecasts 0.4 percent growth in Germany this year.  The  European Central Bank  on May 2 cut its benchmark rate
to a record low of 0.5 percent and President  Mario Draghi  said
the ECB stands ready to act again if economic data worsen.  “The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  