-- Glaxo, Theravance Win Approval for Lung Disease Treatment
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-10T20:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/glaxo-theravance-win-approval-for-lung-disease-treatment.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Theravance
Inc. (THRX)  won U.S. approval of their once-daily drug Breo Ellipta to
treat a lung disorder that is the third-leading cause of death.  Theravance rose to its highest price in almost six years
after the Food and Drug Administration today cleared the dry
powder inhaler to treat exacerbations of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, or COPD, and airflow obstruction. COPD, often
caused by cigarette smoking, is an umbrella term for emphysema
and chronic bronchitis.  Breo may generate $4 billion in worldwide peak sales,
translating to $500 million in royalties for South San
Francisco, California-based Theravance, M. Ian Somaiya, a senior
research analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co., said in an e-mail.
The once-a-day Breo will compete with twice-daily products,
including Glaxo’s Advair and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Symbicort.  “COPD is a serious disease that makes breathing
difficult,” Curtis Rosebraugh, director of FDA Office of Drug
Evaluation II, said in a  statement . “The availability of new
long-term maintenance medications provides additional treatment
options for the millions of Americans who suffer with COPD.”  Theravance rose 12 percent to $34.94 at the close in  New
York , its highest price since June 2007. London-based Glaxo
gained 1.6 percent to 1,670 pence.  Drug Availability  The treatment may be available in the third quarter of this
year, according to a statement from the companies. Theravance
owes Glaxo a $30 million milestone payment based on the FDA
approval, they said.  Breo works by decreasing inflammation in the lungs and
helping the muscles around the airways stay relaxed, the FDA
said. The treatment is a combination of the compound vilanterol
and a corticosteroid.  Breo carries a boxed warning that drugs like it can
increase the risk of asthma-related death. The drug isn’t
recommended for people younger than 18 years old and can
increase users’ risk of pneumonia and bone fractures, the FDA
said.  The therapy is the first to be cleared that was produced by
a partnership Glaxo and Theravance formed more than 10 years
ago. Glaxo is the  largest shareholder  in Theravance with 27
percent of the stock.  Glaxo Partnership  “After more than a decade of joint respiratory research
and development, the approval is a very important milestone for
Theravance and Glaxo,” Theravance Chief Executive Officer Rick Winningham said in a statement.  The companies also are working on another treatment for
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, called Anoro. The once-daily medicine combines vilanterol with another ingredient to
improve lung function. The FDA is expected to decide whether to
approve Anoro in December. The drug would compete with Spiriva
from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH.  Theravance said last month it would split into two
companies at the end of this year or early 2014. One of the
companies will be called Royalty Management Co. and will focus
on the Glaxo collaboration, while the other, Theravance
Biopharma, will focus on developing drugs.  Theravance  generated  $136 million in revenue last year
while sales are projected to almost triple to $383 million in
2016, according to the average of five analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  