-- Groping Complaint on S. Korean Spokesman Pursued in D.C.
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-05-11T03:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/groping-complaint-on-s-korean-spokesman-pursued-in-d-c-.html
The  Washington  Metropolitan Police
Department is investigating a complaint alleging misdemeanor
sexual abuse by South Korean presidential spokesman Yoon Chang
Jung during an official visit to the U.S. capital this week.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye decided to replace
Yoon on May 9 because of “disgraceful” conduct during Park’s
trip to Washington, chief presidential press secretary Lee Nam
Ki said, according to a statement on the president’s website.  Yoon is alleged to have inappropriately touched a woman who
is an intern at the South Korean embassy in Washington,
according to Yonhap News Agency, which said the incident
occurred at a hotel. A police report filed by the woman,
described as being in her early 20s, said the suspect “grabbed
her buttocks without her permission,” according to Yonhap.  Washington police are aware of the misdemeanor sexual abuse
allegation and are investigating the complaint, Tisha Gant, a
spokeswoman, said yesterday in a phone interview. She declined
to provide details about the suspect or whether the police had
spoken with the woman.  Yoon denied the accusation, while expressing a “deep
apology” to the president and the nation for causing “a public
stir,” speaking at a media briefing in  Seoul  today broadcast by
YTN TV.  ‘No Intention’  “I swear I had no intention of sexually harassing her, and
I didn’t molest her,” Yoon said during the briefing.  The press office at  South Korea ’s Washington embassy didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Park met with President  Barack Obama  at the White House on
May 7 and gave a speech the following day to a joint session of
Congress.  The case has created a backlash for Park in Seoul where the
opposition  Democratic Party  has called for a thorough
investigation and an apology from the president for her
spokesman’s behavior, according to Yonhap.  Yoon hurt the country’s dignity with an inappropriate
action, the details of which the South Korean embassy is trying
to confirm, according to Lee, Park’s press secretary.  Lee apologized for the alleged incident in a separate
statement on the presidential website and said Park’s office
will cooperate with U.S. authorities in the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  