-- Gross Says Bond Bull Market Probably Ended April 29
-- B y   P a u l   C o x   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-05-10T18:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/gross-says-bull-market-in-bonds-likely-ended-april-29-1-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest fixed-income fund,
said the 30-year  bull market  for bonds has probably ended as
yields reached a low and prices peaked.  “You need to look at an amalgamation of Treasuries,
mortgages and corporates, and not just Treasuries,” Gross, co-founder and co-chief investment officer of Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Measured on that basis, 4/29/13 has been the price high and
yield low, to this point.”  Gross, who earned the nickname “The Bond King” in media
outlets and was awarded fixed-income manager of the decade in
January 2010 by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said today on Twitter that the
bond bull market has “likely ended” and that fixed-income
returns will probably be in the range of 2 percent to 3 percent.
Gross spoke about an end to the fixed-income market rally in
2010, saying in March of that year that bonds may have seen
their best days and then eight months later that a renewal of
asset purchases by the  Federal Reserve  may signify an end of the
bond bull market.  The yield on Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Broad
Market Index, which includes Treasuries, corporate debt and
mortgage bonds, fell below 1.58 percent on April 29, before
rebounding to 1.67 as of yesterday. Yields on 10-year U.S.
Treasury notes fell to 1.61 percent on May 1, the least since
December. The yield dropped to a record low of 1.38 percent in
July 2012. The yield climbed to 1.93 percent today, and traded
at 1.89 percent at 1:56 p.m. in  New York .  Selling Risk  Gross has been advising investors to sell riskier assets
and buy government debt, including inflation-linked securities
and nominal Treasuries as central banks pursue unprecedented
stimulus measures. He raised the holdings of Treasuries in his
flagship fund in April to the highest level since July 2010.  Treasuries, for now “are a better alternative than cash,”
Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook on May 1.
“Current policies come with cost, even as they magically float
asset prices higher. Negative real  interest rates , inflation,
 currency devaluation ,  capital controls  and outright default”
are among the costs, or “haircuts,” from global central banks’
unprecedented monetary stimulus.  Government Holdings  The proportion of U.S. government securities in the $292.9
billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  increased to 39 percent, from 33
percent in March, according to data released yesterday on
Pimco’s  website . Mortgage holdings rose to 34 percent, from 33
percent in March, which was the lowest level since August 2011.
The company doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in its
portfolio holdings.  Gross’s fund lost an estimated $5 billion to withdrawals in
2011, according to Morningstar, as he endured what he termed “a
stinker” after eliminating U.S. Treasuries early in the year
and missing a rally when investors rushed to the safety of
government-backed debt.  Pimco has expanded its offerings in the past few years,
adding exchange-traded funds, equity products, multiasset and
alternative funds, in anticipation of investors moving beyond
traditional U.S. bond funds to capture higher returns.  Monetary Stimulus  Other central banks around the world are pursuing monetary
policies similar to the U.S. Federal Reserve to boost domestic
economic growth. The U.S. has held its target interest rate at a
record low zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and spent
$2.3 trillion purchasing Treasury and mortgage-related debt from
2008 to 2011 in the first two rounds of quantitative easing. The
Fed buying this year has been divided between $40 billion a
month of mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion a month of
 Treasury securities .  The  European Central Bank  last week cut its key interest
rate to a record low 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent.  Australia 
cut borrowing costs to a record this week and India and South
Korea trimmed borrowing costs this month. The  Bank of Japan  on
April 4 announced it would double monthly bond purchases.  The Total Return fund returned 6.8 percent over the past
year, beating 90 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It returned 0.3 percent in the past
month, beating 54 percent of its peers.  The fund’s government and Treasury debt category includes
fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and
inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $2.04 trillion in  assets  as of March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Cox  in New York at 
 pcox16@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  