-- Guinea Starts Hearing Corruption Accused in Steinmetz Case
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-10T15:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/guinea-starts-hearing-corruption-accused-in-steinmetz-case.html
Guinea started legal proceedings in a
corruption case against two officials from BSGR Resources Ltd.,
a mining company controlled by Israel’s richest man, the
defendents’ lawyer said.  The former head of BSGR’s external relations, Ibrahima Sory
Toure, and security official Issiaga Bangoura appeared in front
of a magistrate at the Appeals Court in the capital, Conakry,
their lawyer, Momo Sacko, said today in an interview in the
city.  Toure and Bangoura were arrested last month as part of an
investigation into whether BSGR, a company held by  Beny Steinmetz , bribed government officials to obtain licenses to two
blocks in the Simandou iron-ore deposits. BSGR denies any
wrongdoing and says the allegations are connected to an attempt
to strip it of its mining permits.  “Guinea is trying to find a way to prove the allegations
of corruption against BSGR to get back mining titles,” Sacko
said. “We are confident because the case is empty.”  A French citizen with ties to BSGR was charged with
obstructing a U.S. probe into whether bribes were paid to win
mining rights, a criminal complaint filed in New York shows.
U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation agents are in Conakry to
investigate the charges, Sacko said.  Toure’s sister, Mamadie Toure, was the wife of Guinea’s
former President  Lansana Conte , whose government awarded BSGR
the rights to Simandou weeks before his death in December 2008.
Mamadie Toure has become an informant for the FBI in the case,
according to a person familiar with the investigation  BSGR in March said Guinea was preparing to cancel its
mining rights to the Simandou and Zogota projects. Two BSGR
officials were also arrested after investigations by the U.S.
Department of Justice and Guinea, the African nation’s Justice
Ministry has said.  Steinmetz, 57, has a net worth of about $8.8 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Ougna Camara in Conakry at 
 ocamara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  