-- Libya Militias Flee as Pro-Government Crowds End Siege
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-11T01:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/libyan-protests-spur-embassies-to-issue-travel-alerts.html
Libyan militias that had besieged the
foreign ministry in Tripoli fled yesterday after thousands of
pro-government protesters converged on the building, as the
unrest led the U.S. to put some military units on alert.  Demonstrators chanting slogans supporting Prime Minister
Ali Zaidan and denouncing the Muslim Brotherhood’s leader
engaged in scuffles with militia members before the gunmen left,
ending an almost two-week blockade.  “We don’t want a country controlled by militias -- we are
a democracy,” Bashir Shamis, a protester, said in an interview
outside the ministry building.  Violence in  Libya ’s capital has raised U.S. concern that
American lives may be endangered if the security situation
deteriorates. The Pentagon yesterday put quick-reaction forces
from the Africa Command in Stuttgart,  Germany , on standby in
case they’re needed, according to a U.S. defense official who
asked not to be identified.  Earlier, the U.S. and British embassies in the Libyan
capital withdrew some workers and issued travel warnings as
rival groups prepared for yesterday’s protests. Nationals of the
two countries were told that they should only undertake
essential travel to Tripoli and some other parts of the country.  Libya’s foreign and justice ministries were blockaded for
almost two weeks by militiamen who pledged to stay until
personnel purges were implemented under the so-called Isolation
Law. The measure requires the dismissal of senior Muammar Qaddafi-era officials. The gunmen sought Zaidan’s ouster.  Radical Islamists  The May 5 law will force changes to the Cabinet and delay
efforts to rebuild the country, Zaidan said in a televised
speech on May 8. He said companies from other countries are
reluctant to open offices in Libya, while others have left the
country, which holds  Africa ’s largest oil reserves.  Frustration with the slow pace of change in Libya in the
two years since Qaddafi’s removal has already led to strikes and
demonstrations as militias refuse to disarm and radical
Islamists rise in the oil-producing east. Libya still lacks a
new constitution and permanent government to usher in
administrative and systemic reforms and begin reconstruction.  The new law will bar from office anyone who worked in
managerial positions in the government, civil service,
diplomatic corps, the military, banks, universities, the
judiciary and oil industry for at least 10 years, regardless of
whether they opposed Qaddafi. In the 200-member General National
Congress, 30 members may be expelled.  U.S. Forces  Supporters and opponents of the measure clashed in central
Tripoli on April 30 and May 2-4, though no casualties were
reported. About 500,000 people may lose their jobs because of
the law, according to Mahmoud Jibril, leader of the National
Forces Alliance, Libya’s biggest political party, on May 8.  The violence in Tripoli occurred about eight months after
U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans were
killed in a Sept. 11 attack by Islamist militants on a U.S.
diplomatic compound in Benghazi.  The quick-reaction forces put on standby yesterday by the
Pentagon were created in the wake of the incident. The military
teams can reach parts of Libya quickly because they’re equipped
with their own air transport, according to the U.S. official.  Earlier this week, the U.S., U.K. and  France , which led
Western military action against Qaddafi in 2011,  called  on
Libyans to refrain from armed protest and violence during the
“this critical time in the transition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  