-- Middle East-U.S. Tanker Rates Seen Higher as Ships Head to Asia
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-05-10T13:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/middle-east-u-s-tanker-rates-seen-higher-as-ships-head-to-asia.html
Charter rates for the largest  oil
tankers  hauling Middle East crude to the U.S. climbed after
stronger demand drew vessels to Asia, according to shipbroker
Braemar Seascope Ltd.  Earnings to carry cargoes to  China  topped those for crude
bound for the U.S., London-based Braemar Seascope said today in
an e-mailed report. Rates “jumped up” because shipowners were
unwilling to accept lower returns, it said.  Hire  costs  for very large crude carriers on the Saudi
Arabia-to-U.S. voyage surged 29 percent this week to 23.27
industry-standard Worldscale points as of yesterday, according
to figures from the London-based Baltic Exchange. That would be
the biggest increase this year. Each of the tankers can hold 2
million barrels of oil.  “It started with cargoes to the east,” Kevin Sy, a
Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at Marex Spectron
Group, said by e-mail. “Even if owners refuse a U.S.-bound
cargo, they know quite a few eastbound cargoes are working, so
in the end the U.S. charterers have to pay up as well. I won’t
be surprised if rates ease off again after the last few May
cargoes are covered.”  The route is based on a journey to the  Louisiana Offshore
Oil Port  in the  Gulf of Mexico  from  Ras Tanura  in  Saudi Arabia ,
the world’s biggest oil-export site, according to the exchange.  The supply of VLCCs available to load crude in the  Persian
Gulf  over the next four weeks shrank to 60, the lowest for a
four-week forward period since Nov. 15, according to data from
Marex Spectron. The tally of ships was 76 at the start of the
month. Rates will be “prevalent into next week,” according to
Braemar Seascope.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  