-- Mighty River Jumps on Debut of New Zealand’s Biggest IPO
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-10T05:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/mighty-river-jumps-on-debut-of-new-zealand-s-biggest-ipo-2-.html
Mighty River Power Ltd. rose 4.8
percent on the debut of  New Zealand ’s biggest initial public
offering, rewarding investors and supporting Prime Minister John Key’s asset sales program.  The utility closed at NZ$2.62 in Wellington, compared with
the NZ$2.50 offer price, valuing the Auckland-based company at
NZ$3.67 billion ($3.1 billion). The government, which retains a
51 percent stake, raised NZ$1.7 billion from the IPO.  Key plans to generate NZ$5 billion to NZ$7 billion selling
shares in state-owned companies to help reduce the need for
borrowing after the  budget deficit  reached a record on spending
following the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. The sale of stakes
in Meridian Energy Ltd., Genesis Power Ltd. and Air New Zealand
Ltd. will follow.  “Investors have an appetite for well-structured, well-positioned, well-priced investments in New Zealand,” said Shane Solly, equities portfolio manager at Mint Asset Management Ltd.
in Auckland. “Depending on the market conditions in the next
year or so, there should be a reasonably solid demand for more
assets coming out of the New Zealand government.”  Mighty River traded  opened at NZ$2.73, which was the high
for the day, and closed at its low. More than 69.9 million
shares changed hands.  Before Mighty River’s offering, 29 companies completed IPOs
worth at least $1 billion each in the past 12 months across the
world, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. These companies
closed on average 6 percent higher on their first day of trading,
the data show.  Next Sale  Key has signaled he wants to sell stakes in either Meridian
or Genesis this year.  “It’s highly likely there’ll be another float this year,”
Finance Minister  Bill English  said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television, adding that an announcement will be made
in the May 16 budget. “Market conditions are pretty good, the
New Zealand economy is building at around 3 percent growth and
business confidence is rising.”  The sale of Mighty River - which operates nine hydro plants
on the Waikato, the nation’s longest river - has been opposed by
indigenous Maori tribes.  They claimed it violated the 173-year-old Treaty of
Waitangi, New Zealand’s founding document, which may give them
rights over land, water, steam and wind resources. A court
rejected a claim by the Maori Council in February that would
have delayed the IPO while indigenous rights are assessed.  Schools, Roads  Sale proceeds will go into a fund to be used to pay for
investment in new schools, roads and reconstruction in
Christchurch without requiring the government to raise more debt,
English said earlier.  New Zealand is targeting a return to  budget surplus  by 2015
after the deficit became as wide as NZ$18.4 billion in the 12
months ending June 30, 2011. The government forecasts a gap of
NZ$7.34 billion in the current year. The country lost its top
 credit rating  at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings in 2011,
prompting Key to focus on debt reduction.  Opposition Plan  The government was forced to make a supplementary
disclosure last month after opposition parties said they would
revise regulation of the industry if they form a government
after the election next year. Their proposal includes creating a
state agency to buy wholesale electricity at a regulated price,
and also envisages splitting the retail and generation units of
existing utilities.  “Details are scant and people can’t work out how it will
be implemented,” Andrew Bascand, managing director of Harbour
Asset Management Ltd. in Wellington, said of the opposition plan.  The  Labour Party  and the  Green Party , which backs the
opposition proposal, attracted combined support of 41.5 percent
in a Reid Research poll for TV3 in early April. That compares
with 49.4 percent for Key’s  National Party .  The shares were also offered amid contract negotiations
between Meridian and Rio Tinto Group Ltd., the majority owner of
the nation’s only aluminum smelter, which used about 13 percent
of national power output last year. Demand would slump if Rio
closed the plant and companies such as Genesis may respond by
shutting some generation sites, Bascand said.  ‘Tickly’ Issues  “The next ones aren’t at the moment necessarily ready to
run,” Bascand said. “Meridian and Genesis both have tickly
little issues. All roads lead back to discussions with Rio,
you’d have to put that to bed thoroughly.”  The lead managers of the offer were Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd., and a partnership of Credit Suisse
Group AG and First NZ Capital Securities. JB Were (NZ) Pty,
Craigs Investment Partners Ltd. and Forsyth Barr Ltd. managed
the retail share offer.  Mighty River projects a  dividend  of 13 cents a share next
year, a yield of 5.1 percent on its offer price. It’ll pay a
dividend of 12 cents this year.  “It’s not a big growth industry so it needs to have a
reasonable yield,” Bascand said. “We like these things over 5
percent, it looks alright.”  Still, all power companies are also operating in an
environment with flat demand for electricity which may limit
earnings growth because there is surplus capacity in the
industry, he said.  Slow Growth  “No one has any growth in electricity prices for
generators in their models going forward for some time,” he
said. “Will 13 cent dividend grow in years to come? It’s
unlikely to grow through prices.”  Mighty River also operates five geothermal stations and the
natural gas-fired Southdown plant near Auckland. It sells power
to about 20 percent of New Zealand homes, mainly through retail
unit Mercury Energy.  Of the shares issued, 86.5 percent will be New Zealand
owned, including 26.9 percent by retail investors and 8.6
percent by institutions, according to the statement. The
government will retain a majority 51 percent shareholding and
about 13.5 percent will be held by overseas institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  