-- In La-La Land, America’s Silliest Election
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2013-05-10T19:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/in-la-la-land-america-s-silliest-election.html
Move over, Mark Sanford:  Los
Angeles ’s mayoral race may be America’s dumbest political
campaign this year.  The race, between Wendy Greuel and Eric Garcetti, pits two
liberal Democrats with few apparent policy differences against
each other. Neither has offered a serious proposal for
addressing the city’s troubling fiscal problems.  In happy economic times, low-content campaigns can be a
sign of flush municipal coffers and, consequently, relatively
few pivotal policy choices for candidates to debate. If that
were the case, a mayor’s race like this would be just fine.  But Los Angeles isn’t living in an era of economic
happiness. It faces severe fiscal stresses that led it to cut
its municipal workforce by more than 10 percent from 2009 to
2012. Pension costs have risen  25 percent a year  for a decade;
now, for every dollar the city spends on wages, it pays 32 cents
into pension funds and its employees pay an additional 9 cents
on top of that. Pensions are eating the city budget, forcing
deterioration in everything from fire-response times to tree
pruning.  So this is hardly the time for Los Angeles to be having a
content-free race for mayor. Yet, here we are. These headlines
are representative: “Garcetti, Greuel Agree They Are Not So
Different.” “Greuel, Garcetti Find Different Ways to Balance
Campaigns, Kids.” “Garcetti, Greuel Focus on Independent
Leadership.” “Garcetti, Greuel Discuss Tunnel and Hollywood
Jobs in Mayoral Forum.”  Tunnel Money  That last one refers to a public forum in which both
candidates said they favored a rail tunnel from the San Fernando
Valley to West Los Angeles -- a nice thought, but the city
doesn’t have any money to pay for it. In the same forum,
Garcetti and Greuel both said they wanted more tax credits to
support film jobs -- paid for by the state legislature, for
which they’re not running.  It’s a campaign that doesn’t really matter very much. I’m
not alone in thinking this way. Just 21 percent of registered
voters in Los Angeles turned out for the primary, down from 34
percent the last time there was a primary with no incumbent, in
2001. Presumably, the turnout for the mayoral election on
Tuesday, May 21, will reflect that same indifference.  The saddest part of the mayoral race is probably a text-message fight over securing the well-wishes of Kevin James, a
buffoonish former talk-radio host and Republican who finished
third in the primary.  Los Angeles is a liberal city, but it’s not that liberal,
and Republican endorsements can be particularly valuable in the
suburban San Fernando Valley. So Garcetti, who until recently
was president of the City Council, fought for, and got, James’s
endorsement. Punching back, Greuel, the city controller, sent
out a  mailer  attacking her opponent for securing the endorsement
of an “Obama-hater” who “compared Obama to a Nazi sympathizer
on national TV.”  That last part is almost true. In 2008, James gained brief
national notoriety for  shouting over and over again  on  MSNBC ’s
“Hardball” that then Senator  Barack Obama  was, like Neville
Chamberlain, an “appeaser.” Pressed by Chris Matthews to
explain what Chamberlain had done wrong, James made clear that
he didn’t know.  James got his revenge on Greuel last week, releasing a
string of  text messages  that she sent him in March, when she
also courted his endorsement.  According to the Los Angeles
Times , Greuel sent James flattering messages including “I am
stalking you :)” and “You are beloved -- I hear it a lot!” A
pro-Garcetti political action committee has been running  a Web
ad  highlighting the text messages.  This is how Los Angeles is choosing its next mayor.  Pension Weakness  Austin Beutner is a particularly distraught observer of
this vacuous mayoral race. Beutner had a successful career in
private equity and then served as first deputy mayor to current
Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  before making his own, aborted
mayoral bid. He doesn’t think much of the field he left behind.  “It’s staggering to me that the media, it’s staggering to
me the community, would find acceptable those two choices,”
Beutner told me. “The candidates are promising the sun, the
moon and the stars without any idea how to pay for it.”  Elsewhere in  California , finding ways to control pension
costs has been the dominant theme of municipal political
discussions since 2011.  In  San Diego  and  San Jose , voters recently approved ballot
measures that impose cost-saving pension reforms on public
workers; in  San Francisco , the threat of a similar ballot
measure helped the city reach a consensual (though less far-reaching) deal with its unions. These reforms are helping to
bring California into line with national practices.  Garcetti and Greuel both have long histories of ties to
public-employee unions, and they’re both walking a fine line:
expressing concern about exploding pension costs without
endorsing solutions that would alienate their public-labor
constituencies.  Both say they plan to work within collective-bargaining
guidelines to reform pensions, unlike in San Diego and San Jose,
where reformers determined that collective bargaining was
unworkable. Greuel’s and Garcetti’s campaigns expressed to me
that they hoped to avoid the sort of litigation that those
cities are facing.  Each candidate makes a weak case for how he or she would be
better at fixing pension costs. Garcetti spokesman Jeff Millman
boasted that his candidate already won pension reforms that save
the city $308 million, while serving as president of the City
Council. This number has also shown up in the  Los Angeles Daily
News  and Garcetti  touted it  at a forum last month.
Unfortunately, it’s a bogus figure.  Bogus Numbers  Millman pointed me to reports of the City Administrative
Officer of Los Angeles, showing that the city’s projected
contributions to pension funds for the 2013-14 fiscal year are
$308 million less than had been expected in 2010. That’s true,
but most of those savings were not because of Garcetti’s
reforms.  I spoke with Maritta Aspen, acting chief administrative
analyst for employee relations at the office of the CAO, and she
walked me through the numbers. About $125 million of “savings”
came from a series of accounting gimmicks that cut the city’s
payments now and will force it to pay more in the future; about
$83 million more came from better-than-expected  investment
performance  since 2010.  That leaves about $100 million in annual pension savings
that actually are a result of a deal that Garcetti struck in
mid-2011, in which city workers agreed to make larger pension
contributions in exchange for an end to unpaid furlough days.
That’s a meaningful savings: roughly a 9 percent reduction in
the city’s annual contributions to its pension funds. But it
doesn’t add up to $308 million in savings to date, and it still
leaves Los Angeles paying more than twice as much in pension
contributions as it did from 2005 to 2006.  That 2011 reform has been much less discussed in the
campaign than a 2012 reform the City Council imposed outside of
collective-bargaining negotiations and over strenuous union
objections. The 2012 reform made pensions less generous for
employees hired by the city in the future; since it doesn’t
affect current workers, the city contends that collective
bargaining isn’t required.  Because it doesn’t affect current workers, near-term
savings are slight -- $70 million over the first five years, or
about 0.7 percent of the city’s unfunded pension liability.
(Villaraigosa’s proposed fiscal year 2014 budget totals $7.7
billion.)  Both candidates have wavered in their support for the 2012
reform. Garcetti voted with a unanimous City Council to impose
the changes last year. Then, when the unions yelped, he voted to
sit down with the unions and try to work something out. Those
talks failed. In March, Greuel called for reopening the 2012
reform as part of a collective-bargaining process. Then, when
the Chamber of Commerce yelped, Greuel  walked that back , telling
the Los Angeles Times: “I believe in those pension reforms and
I do not want to roll them back.”  Union Backing  Despite these mixed signals, public-worker unions have
clearly decided that Greuel is their best choice. Working
Californians, a pro-Greuel political action committee, has
 collected $2.7 million  to spend supporting her election. Three-quarters of that money came from city unions, chiefly the one
representing employees at the city’s Department of Water and
Power. That’s the same DWP whose workers are paid salaries  20
percent higher  than at similar utilities, according to Fred
Pickel, the city’s ratepayer advocate.  Garcetti has attacked Greuel for being in the unions’
pocket. His  latest ad  calls her “the DWP’s mayor.”
Republicans, and others opposed to public-employee unions, have
tended to line up with Garcetti. Jeff Corless, one of  Kevin
James ’s campaign consultants, explained that James endorsed
Garcetti because “the DWP union and many others are spending
millions against him because Wendy has promised she’ll do
whatever they want.” Steve Soboroff, a Republican businessman
who ran third in the 2001 mayor’s race, is also backing
Garcetti.  Rank-and-file Republicans are going along: The most recent
Los Angeles Times poll has Garcetti leading by 10 points overall
but by 18 points among Republicans. Gabriel Rossman, an
assistant professor of sociology at the University of
California-Los Angeles and contributor to the conservative blog
the American Scene, put it to me this way: “I rely on balance
theory and assume that there is meaningful information in the
public safety union and SEIU endorsements for Greuel.” (The
Service Employees International Union represents 10,000 Los
Angeles municipal workers.)  The unions are mad at Garcetti for votes on the City
Council during the past four years, a period when almost every
municipal legislator in California was being forced by budget
constraints to vote against unions’ interests. But many of the
unions now lining up behind Greuel were also friendly with
Villaraigosa -- who once worked as a union organizer -- until he
ended up serving as mayor during a fiscal crisis and had no
choice but to take actions harmful to their interests.  Collecting Signatures  Greuel had the luxury of serving as controller during this
period without being responsible for any contract negotiations,
furloughs or pension changes. Before 2009, when she sat on the
City Council, she was widely viewed as more conservative than
Garcetti. If she had spent the past four years as council
president and he had spent them as controller, today’s union
support -- and anti-union support -- might well be swapped.  While the pension-reform crowd has tended to gravitate
toward Garcetti, Greuel has one key backer with a lot of
credibility on pension reform: Richard Riordan, a Republican who
served as mayor of Los Angeles from 1993 to 2001 and who has
been involved in efforts to put pension reform to a referendum
in the city.  Greuel is the third candidate Riordan has endorsed in this
year’s race. First, he backed Beutner; when Beutner withdrew, he
endorsed James. Now he’s for Greuel, but he doesn’t seem eager
to explain his reasoning and didn’t respond to a voice mail or
an e-mail seeking comment. I asked the Greuel campaign for
assistance in contacting one of their most prominent supporters,
and it demurred.  Such reticence may be more easily understood when you see
what Riordan says when he does talk to the press about Greuel.
The  New York  Times  says  Riordan “portrayed the choice as the
lesser of two evils” in an interview last month. “I don’t have
a choice; they both back the unions,” Riordan told the Times.  Riordan -- and Beutner, who hasn’t endorsed a candidate yet
-- may understand better than most reformers that the unions’
choice to line up with Greuel is hardly a clear indicator that
Garcetti is any better than she is. So those who hope to control
per-employee compensation costs in Los Angeles should perhaps
write off this election and look for other channels to achieve
change.  Pension Referendum  Riordan, who started collecting signatures too late to make
the 2012 ballot, may try for pension reform by referendum again
in 2014. Beutner has joined with Mickey Kantor, who was commerce
secretary under  Bill Clinton , to form a commission called “Los
Angeles 2020,” which will make outside recommendations on how
best to address  job creation , budget deficits and declining
municipal services.  Still, the intractability of the city’s fiscal problems may
be why the Los Angeles mayoral field has ended up being so
underwhelming. In most states, cities address their budget gaps
through a combination of tax increases and cost restraint. In
California, however, cities face intense legal and political
barriers to raising taxes. (On the March primary ballot, Los
Angeles voters rejected a 0.5 point sales-tax increase to pay
for additional public-safety services.)  On the spending side, all cities in California face many
state-level spending mandates that reduce their freedom to cut
budgets. Meanwhile, extremely powerful public-employee unions
have made it difficult to control costs per employee -- Los
Angeles is still handing out pay increases from an employee
contract agreed on in 2007 when the economy was stronger. And
civilian-worker salaries are  set to go up 5.5 percent  in January
2014.  Boxed in on all sides, city officials in California are
often left with no choice other than to cut costs by reducing
employment and therefore degrading services.  Remember this, though: Los Angeles’s fiscal problems aren’t
going away, even if they’re being ignored in this campaign. As
San Jose and other examples show, ballot measures can be
alternatives to legislation for enacting reform. Even so, it
helps to have a reform-minded mayor with credibility and a
willingness to lead on thorny fiscal issues.  For his part, Beutner remains optimistic that change will
come. “My guess is the pressure builds,” he told me, noting
that the city’s worsening fiscal problems and eroding services
will make reform unavoidable.  In other words, the mess in Los Angeles will have to get
worse before it gets better -- and neither Wendy Greuel nor Eric
Garcetti has given any indication that they will change that
dynamic.  (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  Follow him  on
Twitter.) 