-- India’s Factory Output Growth Quickens on Interest Rate Cuts
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-05-10T05:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/india-s-factory-output-growth-quickens-on-interest-rate-cuts.html
India’s industrial output in March
expanded at the fastest pace in five months after the central
bank eased  interest rates  to revive economic growth.  Production (INPIINDY)  at factories, utilities and mines climbed 2.5
percent from a year earlier after a revised 0.5 percent gain in
February, the Central Statistical Office said in a statement in
New Delhi today. The median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 2.4 percent gain.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has  cut  interest rates three
times in 2013 to help revive an economy that expanded at the
weakest pace in a decade last year, extending the only reduction
in borrowing costs this year in the major emerging nations of
the BRIC group that include China, Russia and Brazil. Moderating
investment, an extended fight against inflation and a drop in
exports have hurt growth in Asia’s No. 3 economy.  “Economic activity is still soft,” said Shubhada Rao,
chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “We are looking at
another quarter point cut, most likely in June, as macroeconomic
conditions improve and support a reduction.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration has taken
steps to boost economic growth since September by reducing
energy subsidies, allowing more foreign investment in industries
including aviation and retail, and cutting levies on capital
inflows.  The central bank forecasts  economic growth  will accelerate
to 5.7 percent in the fiscal year through March 2014, compared
with the baseline projection of 5.5 percent for the previous 12
months. In an interview with Bloomberg TV India this month, RBI
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled there was little space to
ease monetary policy further after cutting borrowing costs by 75
basis points in 2013.  Carmakers from  Maruti Suzuki (MSIL)  India Ltd. to Ford Motor Co.
reported annual car sales in the 12 months through March fell
6.7 percent, the biggest decline since 2001, as cooling growth
and high interest rates kept buyers from showrooms, according to
the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  