-- ING Said to Sublet Two Floors in Hong Kong’s Tallest Skyscraper
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-05-10T02:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/ing-said-to-sublet-two-floors-in-hong-kong-s-tallest-skyscraper.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  is seeking to sublet as
much as two floors it currently leases in Hong Kong’s tallest
building as the company reduces space following the sale of its
insurance business in the city.  The biggest Dutch financial-services firm is searching for
tenants to take up as much as 70,000 square feet (6,500 square
meters) at the  International Commerce Centre , according to two
people with knowledge of the plan, who asked not to be
identified because they’re not authorized to discuss the matter
publicly.  Vacancies in some of Hong Kong’s prime-office buildings are
rising as banks and brokerages trim staff to keep costs low amid
slowing corporate-finance activities. Credit Suisse Group AG,
which occupies 10 floors in the tower, also known as ICC, was
looking to sublet as much as 64,000 square feet of space, people
familiar with the matter said in January.  Average rents at ICC have remained largely unchanged in the
past year at about HK$68 ($8.8) a square foot a month, according
to broker  Cushman & Wakefield  Inc. Average rents in West Kowloon,
where ICC is located, rose 6 percent in the first quarter from
the previous three months, according to Cushman & Wakefield.  Virginia Lau, a spokeswoman for ING Investment Management
( Hong Kong ) Ltd., declined to comment on the company’s leasing
plan. Brenda Wong, a spokeswoman for  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. (16) , which built and manages the ICC, declined to comment on
the developer’s tenants. Sun Hung Kai is Hong Kong’s biggest
developer by market value. Josephine Lee, a spokeswoman for
Credit Suisse, declined to comment on the bank’s leasing plan
when contacted by  Bloomberg News  today.  Central Vacancy  Prime-office rents in the Central business area, the
world’s second-most expensive place to lease  office space , fell
14 percent in the 12 months ended March, according to the
realtor.  The vacancy rate in Central, where banks including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc have their regional
headquarters, was 7.3 percent at the end of the first quarter,
up 1 percentage point from a year earlier, according to Cushman.  ING is seeking buyers for insurance assets from  Asia  to the
U.S. and cutting 7,500 jobs after receiving a 10 billion-euro
($13 billion) government bailout in 2008. Last year it sold
insurance units in Hong Kong, Macau and Thailand to  Richard Li ,
a son of  Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man, for 1.64 billion euros.  Since 2007, Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank
AG are among banks that have relocated to the 118-floor ICC on
the Kowloon peninsula, across the harbor from the Central
business district on Hong Kong Island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  