-- ‘Gatsby’ Set for $50 Million Debut as Fans Rebut Critics
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/hip-hop-gatsby-set-for-50-million-debut-as-fans-rebut-critics.html
Critics can’t stand director Baz Luhrmann’s 3-D, hip-hop take on novelist F. Scott Fitzgerald’s
Roaring 20s love tale “The Great Gatsby.” Fans can’t wait.  “Gatsby,” starring  Leonardo DiCaprio  as the enigmatic,
love-struck millionaire, is forecast to generate as much as $50
million in domestic ticket sales for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner
Bros. this weekend, by far the biggest debut for Luhrmann, who’s
known for lavish, over-the-top productions including the
critically acclaimed musical “Moulin Rouge!” and a modern take
on “Romeo + Juliet.”  The Australian director embellishes the story of Jay
Gatsby’s climb into high society with 3-D graphics and a
thumping soundtrack from artists including Jay-Z, Beyonce and
 Jack White , giving the picture a modern spin compared to the
slower-moving version starring  Robert Redford  40 years ago. That
may be enough to please fans and turn a profit even if the
critics wince.  “You have people in their 30s and up who remember the book
fondly and want to see the new take on it,” said Phil Contrino,
chief analyst for researcher BoxOffice.com.  Luhrmann’s approach has mostly failed to win over movie
critics, while a marketing campaign promoting the film’s
dazzling parties and music has enticed moviegoers, according to
 Paul Sweeney , a Bloomberg Industries analyst. Of 97 reviews
compiled on Rottentomatoes.com, only 41 are positive. Yet the
users’ “want to see” rating is 98 percent.  “The 3-D gimmickry wears itself out, sometimes looking
like an elaborate, gorgeous pop-up book and other times leaving
the actors stranded in a foreground with the movie playing
behind them,”  Greg Evans , a Bloomberg News critic, wrote
yesterday.  Sell Outs  “Gatsby” showings were sold out in 27 cities, ranging
from  New York  to Nicholasville, in central  Kentucky , ticket
seller Fandango.com said yesterday. The picture accounted for 65
percent of sales of booked at the site, which showed a favorable
rating from 90 percent of fans.  The outlook wasn’t always that favorable. The film
originally was scheduled to open late last year, when it would
have faced off with DiCaprio’s “Django Unchained” for Oscar
consideration. Warner Bros. announced in August it was moving
the picture, co-produced with Australia’s  Village Roadshow Ltd (VRL) ,
to this summer. The change gave Luhrmann more time to work on
his 3-D interpretation and the music, the Los Angeles Times
reported at the time.  Dan Fellman, the studio’s head of domestic distribution,
has said he saw this weekend as an opportunity to draw film fans
not enthralled by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “ Iron Man  3” or  Paramount
Pictures ’ “Star Trek: Into the Darkness,” scheduled to open
next week.  Profit Index  A $50 million opening, the top forecast from Ben Mogil, an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis , will put
“Gatsby” in second place behind “Iron Man 3,” which is
projected to collect $71 million in its second weekend.  “There’s a large segment of the moviegoing population that
really doesn’t turn out for a movie like ‘Iron Man,’” Contrino
said in an interview.  The projections suggest “Gatsby” will turn a profit for
 Warner Bros . The movie will probably move into the black through
video-on-demand and pay TV sales, based on an SNL Kagan analysis
that examined Luhrmann’s past films and the DiCaprio titles “J.
Edgar,” “Shutter Island” and “The Aviator.”  Studios count on revenue from DVDs, video-on-demand and
movie channels like  HBO , in addition to domestic and foreign
theatrical sales. Usually they don’t make money on a picture
until it’s showing in homes.  Home Video  “It’s going to depend on home video and VOD and free TV,”
said Wade Holden, an SNL Kagan analyst. “That’s not unusual.”  “Gatsby” produced a 1.46 score on the Kagan Profitability
Index. The number represents a ratio of revenue to most costs,
encompassing estimates of sales from theaters all the way to
DVDs and free TV. One issue is whether enough people will pay
about $3 more per ticket to see a romantic drama in 3-D, he
said.  “They’re taking a risk with this, it being a 3-D film, but
I don’t know if it’s a risk that’s going to pay off,” Holden
said.  Contrino estimates “Gatsby” could take in as much as $125
million in its domestic run alone, putting it on par with the
best-performing picture in Kagan’s analysis. The film’s
production budget was $127 million, according to IMDB.com.  ‘Moulin Rouge!’  Luhrmann’s best performing movie in the U.S. and  Canada  was
“Moulin Rouge!” the 2001 release featuring  Nicole Kidman  and
Ewan McGregor. The film opened with $13.7 million and generated
a total of $57.4 million domestically, according to Box Office
Mojo.  DiCaprio’s “Shutter Island” did $128 million in the U.S.,
“The Aviator” took in $102.6 million and “J. Edgar” brought
in $37.3 million.  Luhrmann has said in interviews that he wanted cutting edge
music in “Gatsby.” Fitzgerald infused his book with references
to jazz, the hip sound of the Twenties. Hip-hop duplicates the
feel, he said.  “The best way to enjoy Baz Luhrmann’s big and noisy new
version of ‘The Great Gatsby’ — and despite what you may have
heard, it is an eminently enjoyable movie — is to put aside
whatever literary agenda you are tempted to bring with you,”
New York Times critic A.O. Scott wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  