-- Investigation Sought Over IRS Scrutiny of Anti-Tax Groups
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-05-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/irs-apologizes-for-extra-scrutiny-of-anti-tax-groups.html
The  Internal Revenue Service , under
pressure to regulate political spending by nonprofit groups, now
faces investigations into its scrutiny of some organizations
seeking nonprofit status.  The IRS acknowledged yesterday that it gave extra scrutiny
to groups that applied for nonprofit status if they had “tea
party” or “patriot” in their name.  Congressional Republicans 
and President  Barack Obama ’s administration called for probes
into how that happened.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  called the action
‘inappropriate’’ and said it should be “thoroughly
investigated.” House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, said he would hold a hearing. House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said the
chamber would conduct an investigation.  Earlier yesterday, Lois Lerner, the IRS’s director of
exempt organizations, said career employees singled out the
groups for further examination based solely on their names, not
their applications.  “They didn’t do it correctly,” Lerner said at a
conference of tax lawyers in Washington. “We would like to
apologize for that.”  At the same time, advocacy groups say the investigations
shouldn’t stop the IRS from examining whether groups spending
millions of dollars on elections, such as Crossroads GPS and
Patriot Majority USA, should be able to claim nonprofit status
and keep secret their contributors.  ‘More Difficult’  “The IRS has not been rigorous enough in its enforcement
of tax laws,” said  Paul Ryan , a lawyer with the Campaign Legal
Center in Washington. “This may make it more difficult but the
IRS needs to pull on its grownup pants and do its job.”  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the
 Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations, said U.S. tax law
prevents nonprofit groups from spending money on elections. He
said he wants to know why the IRS is not enforcing that
prohibition and why the agency gave extra scrutiny to
applications from Tea Party groups.  “Both issues require investigation,” he said.  Lerner said the number of groups seeking nonprofit status
more than doubled to 3,400 in 2012 from 1,500 in 2010. By being
categorized as nonprofit groups under Section 501(c)(4) of the
U.S. tax code, organizations don’t have to disclose their donors
even when engaging in political activity.  In this case about 75 of the 300 groups singled out for
scrutiny by IRS employees were added to the list solely because
of their names, not the information they provided.  ‘Appropriate’ Sensitivity  “They didn’t do this because there was any political bias
going on,” Lerner said. “They didn’t have the appropriate
level of sensitivity.”  Spending by groups that don’t identify their contributors
has increased since the U.S. Supreme Court, in its 2010 Citizens
United decision, removed limits on independent spending by
corporations and labor unions. Nonprofit groups spent $1 billion
in 2012 on campaigns, with more than two-thirds benefiting
Republican candidates, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based research group that tracks campaign
spending. That was triple the $300 million they spent in 2008.  “The IRS is apologizing for the wrong thing,” said
 Melanie Sloan , executive director of the watchdog group Citizens
for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. “It seemed
reasonable to ask for more information from organizations that
indicated they were political. It just shows how cowed they are
on this entire issue, that they’re even apologizing just for
doing the bare minimum of their job.”  CREW Lawsuit  CREW has sued the IRS and petitioned the agency to ban
nonprofit organizations from political spending because it says
the law requires such groups to be “operated exclusively” for
social welfare activities. Lerner said that political activity
just “can’t be their primary activity.”  Congressional Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  and House Speaker  John Boehner  of
 Ohio , yesterday criticized the IRS action.  “Who is ultimately responsible for this travesty?”
Boehner said. “What actions will the Obama administration take
to hold them accountable?”  Senator  Rand Paul  of Kentucky, a Tea Party favorite,
yesterday told reporters in  Cedar Rapids , Iowa, that he was
“offended when any kind of government entity targets people for
their political or religious beliefs.”  A national anti-tax Tea Party group rejected Lerner’s
apology.  ‘Deliberate Targeting’  “This deliberate targeting and harassment of Tea Party
groups reaches a new low in illegal activity and overreach,”
Jenny Beth Martin, national coordinator for the Tea Party
Patriots, said in an e-mailed statement.  Such criticism could make the IRS more reluctant to take
action against the nonprofits, said Lisa Gilbert, director of
Public Citizen’s Congress Watch, a Washington-based advocacy
group that supports stronger campaign finance laws.  “Many of those will try to use this particular instance of
misconduct to make it harder to enforce tax laws in the
future,” Gilbert said. “What they did was problematic and it
could make them more cautious.”  Republican senators had already pressured the IRS to leave
the Tea Party groups alone after reports last year that they had
been sent intrusive questionnaires. IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  told a House subcommittee in March 2012 that the agency
wasn’t “targeting” particular groups.  “While I’m glad to see the IRS apologize for unfairly
targeting conservative groups, this frankly isn’t enough,” said
Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on the Senate
Finance Committee who helped draft a letter to the IRS signed by
12 senators. “We need to have ironclad guarantees from the IRS
that it will adopt significant protocols to ensure this kind of
harassment of groups that have a constitutional right to express
their own views never happens again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  