-- ISE Cancels Jumbo S&P 500 Options Debut on Liquidity Concern
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-05-10T16:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/ise-cancels-jumbo-s-p-500-options-trading-on-liquidity-concerns.html
International Securities Exchange,
the second-biggest U.S. options market, withdrew plans to trade
larger-size options on the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust  amid concerns
the contracts may threaten market liquidity.  The options are 10 times larger than the existing product,
which is the most-active U.S. equity derivative and based on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. BOX Options Exchange today became
the first to trade so-called jumbo options on the S&P 500 ETF,
which was  approved  May 3 by the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Options on the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust are known by
the ticker symbol SPY. ISE made the decision public in a letter
to members today.  “The decision the ISE made not to list the jumbo SPY makes
a very good statement as to why the product makes no sense,”
 Mark Caffray , who brokers contracts on the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index and the S&P 500 at Chicago-based PTR
Inc., said in an interview. “Institutional clients don’t need
it and it just adds confusion for retail customers.”  ISE canceled its plans after getting feedback on the new
product from market makers and brokers who use the New York-based exchange to trade equity derivatives, Boris Ilyevsky,
managing director of the ISE Options Exchange, wrote in the
letter.  Liquidity Concerns  “We have concerns about the potential negative impact this
product could have and, therefore, have chosen not to join BOX
in opening them for trading,” Ilyevsky wrote. The jumbo options
“would not create incremental volume and, even worse, could
harm liquidity,” he said.  The contract is designed to give institutional investors
another way to trade the S&P 500 at a time when many asset
managers are increasing their use of ETFs as part of their
investment strategies. Institutions often use larger-size
contracts like S&P 500 index options that enable them to acquire
or sell bigger positions without signaling their intentions and
moving the market.  “Our plan is to monitor jumbo SPY’s volume trends and to
continue to be ready to trade the product if it does gain
industry acceptance,” Ilyevsky wrote. “We have taken all the
necessary steps in order to list jumbo SPY options, including
submitting an initial rule filing to the SEC that is already
posted on our website and ensuring our technical readiness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  