-- Israel Pushes for China Investment as Xi Focuses on Peace
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-05-10T04:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/israel-pushes-for-china-investment-as-xi-focuses-on-peace.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu came to  China  this week seeking more trade with the
world’s second-biggest economy. While his hosts welcomed the
overture, they were focused on the Middle East peace process.  A government spokeswoman said during Netanyahu’s visit that
China was pushing for the resumption of talks to resolve the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. President Xi Jinping put forward a
new proposal to restart talks when he met Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas, whose two-day trip overlapped with
Netanyahu’s visit.  Before Netanyahu and Abbas arrived in the country, China
offered to host a meeting between them to break a stalemate in
peace negotiations deadlocked since 2010. Though the two didn’t
take up the idea, the suggestion marked a new assertiveness in a
region where Xi may also be trying to ease a standoff between
 Israel  and  Iran , a source of Chinese oil.  “Beijing is certainly upping its game in the Middle
East,” Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the
Chinese University of Hong Kong, wrote in an e-mail. “China is
a major importer of Middle-East oil, yet its clout there has so
far been limited. The Xi administration hopes that it can exert
more influence in defusing the Iranian crisis given China’s huge
investments in oil facilities in Iran.”  Xi’s four-point proposal  to Abbas called for a halt to
settlement activities, an end to violence against civilians and
lifting the blockade of the Gaza Strip. He called for an
independent Palestinian state on the basis of the 1967 borders
with East Jerusalem as its capital.  U.S. Influence  The U.S. has long been the most important foreign power
involved in the Israel-Palestine peace process, with former
President Bill Clinton hosting the Camp David summit in 2000.
The so-called Quartet of international Middle East peace
mediators headed doesn’t include China.  China’s positions on some issues including  Syria ’s civil
war and Iran’s nuclear program have put it at odds with the U.S.
Along with Russia, the Chinese government has opposed tougher
sanctions against Iran’s atomic program and the regime of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad.  China offered a proposal for resolving the Syria conflict
when joint U.N.-Arab League envoy Lakhdar Brahimi visited
Beijing last November. The plan fell short of calling for the
removal of Assad and was never taken up.  Responsible Manner  Asked yesterday if China wants to play a greater role in
peace negotiations, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying
said her government has “always been fair and acted in a
responsible manner” and noted that envoy to the peace process,
Wu Sike, recently visited the region.  “All this is to push for the resumption of Middle East
peace talks and to strike for early progress,” Hua said.  With China supporting the Palestinian push for statehood,
Abbas said he would welcome its involvement in efforts to
resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  “China should play an important role during the process as
it is a fair country, impartial and adhering to justice,” the
Palestinian leader told reporters in Beijing during his trip.  The visits by Netanyahu and Abbas reflect ambitions by
China’s new leaders to play a bigger role in a region where it
has historically been a bystander, said Steve Tsang, director of
the China Policy Institute at the University of Nottingham in
 England .  Greater Assertiveness  “It reflects in part the greater assertiveness of China
under Xi Jinping, as Xi would like to see China being respected
more globally,” Tsang said. “I don’t think it necessarily
means that China is determined to find a solution to the most
basic of the Middle Eastern problems.”  In public, Netanyahu spoke only about economic cooperation,
saying at a meeting with Xi yesterday that the two countries
should “seize the future” using their advantages -- China as a
global power and Israel as a “global center of technology.”  “I propose that Israel in many ways be the R&D lab for
China,” Netanyahu said.  Chinese investment in Israel includes the 2011 sale of 60
percent of fertilizer maker Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd. to
China National Chemical Corp. for $2.2 billion and the
acquisition of Alma Lasers Ltd. by Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical
(Group) Co. for $240 million.  Asked if China could become a member of the Quartet,
Israeli ambassador Matan Vilnai said the Asian country’s
positions on the Israeli-Palestinian issue aren’t significantly
different from those of the U.S.,  Russia , the United Nations and
European Union.  “I think it’s complementary with America’s diplomacy” He
Wenping, director of the African Research Section at the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences, said in an interview today. “It’s
walking toward the same direction. They are not going in
opposite directions. It’s not like the Syria crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Beijing at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  