-- Italian Industrial Output Falls as Slump Shows no Sign of Easing
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-05-10T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/italian-industrial-output-falls-as-slump-shows-no-sign-of-easing.html
Italian industrial  production  fell
more than economists expected in March, indicating there is
little sign the country’s longest recession in two decades is
easing.  Output decreased 0.8 percent from February, when it fell a
revised 0.9 percent, national statistics office  Istat  said in
 Rome  today. Economists forecast a monthly decline in March of
0.3 percent, according to the median of 13 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  The euro region’s third largest economy is probably in its
eighth quarter of contraction and the slump isn’t likely to ease
until late this year or in early 2014, Finance Minister Fabrizio
Saccomanni said in an interview with La 7 television last night.
The new government of Prime Minister Enrico Letta plans a series
of tax cuts and other stimulus measures as it tries to stem the
rise in unemployment and a slump in  consumer spending .  The  economy  probably shrank “less sharply” in the first
quarter than in the previous three months, the  Bank of Italy 
said in an April 17 report.  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly
rose last month as the political paralysis that left  Italy 
without a new cabinet after inconclusive elections in February
ended with the installation ofLetta’s coalition government.  Employers lobby Confindustria forecast production increased
last month by 0.2 percent, according to a report published
yesterday. Industrial output fell 0.4 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, signaling the economy
probably contracted in the period. The statistic institute will
report first quarter gross domestic product on May 15.  Letta, whose government was sworn in on April 28, pledged a
series of tax cuts to boost growth and create jobs. Economists
estimate the measures will lead to more than 10 billion euros
($13 billion) in lost revenue in 2013. Saccomanni said last
night that the government would not have to make additional
budget cuts this year to cover the lost revenue.  In an effort to help the economy recover, former Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s government approved last month a plan to
make 40 billion euros in arrears payments to private companies
in the next two years. On May 8 state lender Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti Spa said it received more than 1,500 requests for
advances on the arrears totaling 6 billion euros.  Output fell an annual 5.2 percent on a workday-adjusted
basis, Istat said. Istat originally reported a 0.8 percent fall
of production for February.)  -- With assistance from Giovanni Salzano in Rome. Editors:
 Andrew Davis , Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  