-- Japanese Turn Foreign-Debt Buyers as Dollar-Yen Rises Above 101
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-05-10T03:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/japanese-turn-foreign-debt-buyers-as-dollar-yen-rises-above-101.html
Japanese investors turned net buyers
of foreign bonds after the longest period of selling in three
years, adding to signs that  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda’s monetary stimulus is gaining traction.  The money managers  acquired  a net 514.3 billion yen ($5.09
billion) of overseas bonds and notes in the two weeks ended May
3, according to data released from the Ministry of Finance in
 Tokyo  today. They had cut holdings of these securities in the
six weeks through April 19, the longest run of net sales since
January 2010.  The yen dropped below 101 per dollar for the first time in
four years today, a month after Kuroda unveiled a plan to combat
deflation by doubling the BOJ’s cash provisions in two years.
The dollar and Treasury yields climbed after an unexpected slide
in U.S. jobless claims rekindled speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will start to reduce its monthly bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing.  “Japanese investors seem to be starting to buy foreign
bonds gradually,” said Yunosuke Ikeda, the head of foreign-exchange strategy at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. “With U.S.
yields likely to rise, the market is tilted toward dollar
strength as the view is taking hold that an end to quantitative
easing will be discussed sometime this year.”  While the BOJ’s policy isn’t aimed at foreign-exchange
rates, Kuroda said last month that stimulus is expected to
prompt domestic investors to shift to stocks and foreign debt
from Japanese  government bonds . A weaker yen typically makes the
nation’s exporters more competitive.  A separate report from the ministry showed today that
overseas investors cut their holdings of JGBs by 3.94 trillion
yen in March, the most in three years. The securities have lost
4.7 percent in dollar terms since the BOJ’s announcement of
monetary stimulus on April 4, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  