-- Japanese Steelmakers Eye 275 Billion Yen in Cost Cuts This Year
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-05-10T08:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/japanese-steelmakers-eye-275-billion-yen-in-cost-cuts-this-year.html
Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) ,
 JFE Holdings Inc. (5411)  and  Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406) , Japan’s top three
steelmakers, plan to pare costs by 275 billion yen ($2.7
billion) this year after a global glut pushed down product
prices and curbed earnings at their iron and steel divisions.  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo, created in October by the
combination of Nippon Steel Corp. and Sumitomo Metal Industries
Ltd., will save 150 billion yen in the year to March 31 with
one-third of the cuts resulting from the integration, Executive
Vice President Katsuhiko Ota told reporters today in Tokyo. JFE
Holdings, Japan’s second-biggest steelmaker, plans 100 billion
yen in cuts and Kobe Steel targets 25 billion yen in savings.  One way to pare expenses will be to use cheaper low-grade
iron ore and coal, the companies say. The 21 percent decline in
the Japanese currency against the U.S. dollar will also make
their products more attractive compared with Asian steelmakers.  “The yen’s weakness makes steel made by domestic suppliers
more competitive as steel imports to  Japan  go down,” Nippon
Steel’s Ota said. “The second thing is that it provides an
incentive for our customers to boost production in Japan,
fueling demand for steel.”  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal didn’t provide a full-year
profit target today. The company is unable to make a reasonable
forecast because it has yet to settle raw material prices and is
negotiating product prices with customers.  Net Loss  In its first annual earnings release to consolidate the
performance of the two companies, the company had a net loss of
124.6 billion yen in the 12 months ended March 31, compared with
its Feb. 14 estimate of a 140 billion yen loss, partially aided
by the yen.  JFE Holdings last month posted a 28-fold jump in fourth-quarter profit to 17.6 billion yen, helped by a weaker yen and
cost cuts. Kobe Steel forecast net income of 35 billion yen in
the fiscal year started April 1, its first annual profit in
three years amid cost cuts, which include executive pay.  The loss at Kobe’s iron and steel business widened from a
year ago, while current profit at JFE’s steel division dropped.  Hot-rolled coil prices in  China , which accounts for about
half of global steel production, have fallen 14 percent in the
past year amid concerns about industry overcapacity and lower-than-expected economic growth.  The yen traded at 101.04 yen to the dollar as of 3:12 p.m.
in Tokyo trading. A further weakening of the yen would make
Japan “potentially the most competitive exporter,” Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts said in a May 8 report.  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo rose 1.2 percent to 260 yen at the
close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, extending its gain
this year to 24 percent. Kobe Steel rose 3.2 percent, while JFE
Holdings gained 3.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  