-- Japan Current-Account Surplus Climbs as Abenomics Sinks Yen
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r
-- 2013-05-10T01:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/japan-posts-biggest-current-account-surplus-in-year-as-yen-falls.html
  Japan ’s  current-account surplus  rose
in March to the highest level in a year as a depreciating yen
boosted repatriated earnings and brightened the outlook for the
nation’s exports.  The excess in the widest measure of trade was 1.25 trillion
yen ($12.4 billion), the Ministry of Finance said in Tokyo
today. That exceeded the 1.22 trillion yen median estimate of 23
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s revamp of Japan’s central bank
to focus on ending deflation paid off when the yen today slid
past 101 for the first time since 2009, helping exporters such
as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which now sees its highest annual profit
in six years. Sustaining a current-account surplus may help to
maintain confidence in the nation’s finances as Abe wrestles
with a debt burden  more than twice the size of the economy .  “The currency’s depreciation is buoying Japan’s income
from overseas investment at a pretty solid pace,” said Long Hanhua Wang, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 Tokyo . “A weaker yen provides support for Japanese exports.”  The cost of a weaker yen is higher import costs, reflected
in a ninth straight trade deficit in March. The current-account
surplus was 4 percent lower than the same month last year and
the income surplus widened to 1.7 trillion yen, the highest
level since March 2010, the ministry said.  Yen, Stocks  The yen was at 101.14 per dollar as of 10:52 a.m. in Tokyo
after earlier touching 101.20, the weakest in four years. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 2.9 percent to trade at the
highest since January 2008.  Economy Minister Akira Amari said today that “excessive
weakness” in the yen would affect the public. He wouldn’t
specify an appropriate level for the currency.  Toyota Motor Corp. is projecting its highest annual profit
in six years as a weaker yen boosts overseas sales. President
 Akio Toyoda  said this week that Abe’s economic policies are
helping the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  