-- JPMorgan Directors Oppose Splitting Dimon’s Role as ‘Disruptive’
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-05-10T18:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/jpmorgan-directors-oppose-splitting-dimon-s-role-as-disruptive-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s leading
directors urged shareholders to reject calls for Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  to relinquish his dual role as chairman and
chief executive officer, saying it “could be disruptive” and
against the best interests of investors.  “An inflexible approach to the question of whether one
person can serve as both chairman and CEO is not the right
answer,” according to a letter today sent to shareholders of
the New York-based company. It was signed by former Exxon Mobil
Corp. Chairman and CEO Lee R. Raymond, who serves as the board’s
presiding director, and former Johnson & Johnson Chairman and
CEO William C. Weldon, who heads the panel’s corporate
governance and nominating committee.  Proxy advisers at Glass Lewis & Co. and Institutional
Shareholder Services have told investors to vote for a separate
chairman and oust some directors. Calls for Dimon, 57, to
relinquish the chairmanship have mounted since last May, when
JPMorgan disclosed lapses in  risk controls  at its chief
investment office in the so-called London Whale episode that led
to at least $6.2 billion in losses on derivatives.  JPMorgan is the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets and deposits.  ISS on May 3 urged a vote in favor of splitting Dimon’s
roles and removing three directors.  Glass Lewis  urged
shareholders May 7 to oust three members of the four-person risk
committee as well as all three audit committee members following
internal and congressional investigations that “revealed
questionable risk-management practices at both the senior
management and board levels.”  The board’s current structure provides “appropriate
accountability to our shareholders and counterbalance to the
combined CEO/Chair role,” according to Raymond and Weldon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  