-- JPMorgan May Evade Power-Trading Ban With Swaps, ISO Says
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-05-10T23:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/jpmorgan-may-be-evading-power-trading-ban-with-swaps-iso-says.html
A  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit suspended
from market-based power trading in  California  may be evading the
ban through swap agreements with EDF Group and Cargill Inc.
subsidiaries, the state’s grid operator said.  EDF Trading North America LLC signed a swap agreement with
J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp.’s BE CA LLC unit for energy
from units at three  power plants  in California for the six
months that the JPMorgan subsidiary is banned from trading, the
California Independent System Operator Corp. said in a filing to
federal regulators yesterday. Cargill Power Markets LLC has also
acquired control of units at two plants through a swap contract,
the filing shows.  “The units covered by the EDF and Cargill contracts
together comprise the total capacity previously controlled by
JPMVEC and BE CA LLC in California,” Cal ISO said in the filing
with the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission . “There is
precedent for firms using swap contracts to secure a portion of
the profit stream from a unit, while masking the identity of a
party that has some level of control over the bidding.”  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank , was warned by FERC in
March that its personnel and two subsidiaries may face claims
stemming from a probe into bidding practices. FERC revoked J.P.
Morgan Ventures’ right to trade power at market-based rates in
California for six months starting in April, saying the firm
provided misleading information to the ISO.  Internal E-Mails  FERC said in September it had initiated a proceeding
against the energy trading unit focused on whether JPMorgan’s
energy division met its obligations to give documents to the
ISO. J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy allegedly made bids that
resulted in at least $73 million in improper payments to the
generators, according to FERC.  The investigation came to light when the commission went to
court seeking internal e-mails from JPMorgan.  FERC has stepped up scrutiny of corporations as it wields
policing powers that were expanded in the wake of Enron Corp.’s
2001 collapse. The agency has announced since January 2011 at
least 13 separate investigations of possible market
manipulation, including probes of energy-trading units at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Through contracts with EDF and Cargill, JPMorgan could be
bringing in profits during its suspension “beyond those
contemplated” by FERC in its order, Cal ISO said. The operator
recommended broad changes that would capture any situation in
which “a market participant structured transactions to evade
its suspension of market-based rate authority.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman in  New York ,
declined to comment on the California ISO filing, saying the
company is still reviewing it.  Deal Approved  California utility regulators approved a deal yesterday
under which BE CA LLC would give  Edison International (EIX) ’s Southern
California Edison unit all of its rights to energy from power-plant units in California beginning Oct. 1, when JPMorgan’s
trading suspension ends.  The tolling arrangement, which runs through May 2018,
covers power from 12 natural gas-fired units at the Alamitos,
 Huntington Beach  and Redondo Beach power plants in the Los
Angeles Basin area with a total capacity of 3,690 megawatts, the
resolution approved by the California Public Utilities
Commission yesterday shows.  BE CA previously resold some tolling and resource adequacy
rights from the units to Edison, the filing shows.  In a separate proceeding today, FERC granted an April 10
request from J.P. Morgan Ventures for rehearing on how it’ll
manage electricity sales in power markets outside California
during its six-month suspension and gave the company 15 days to
file more information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  