-- JPMorgan Accused by Harris of Illegal Collection Lawsuits
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/jpmorgan-accused-by-harris-of-illegal-collection-lawsuits.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was sued by
California over claims that the biggest U.S. credit-card lender
pursued lawsuits against defaulted borrowers based on
insufficient evidence.  From January 2008 to April 2011, JPMorgan filed more than
100,000 debt-collection lawsuits in California, taking illegal
shortcuts to obtain judgments against consumers, Harris claims
in the lawsuit filed yesterday in state court in  Los Angeles .  The bank couldn’t have won the judgments so quickly if it
had complied with minimum consumer protections under state law,
according to the complaint. Harris said in a statement yesterday
that the suit was filed to end “widespread, illegal robo-signing” of court filings without the review of relevant files
or bank records.  “Chase abused the judicial process and engaged in serious
misconduct against  California  credit-card borrowers,” Harris
said in the statement. The lawsuit “seeks to hold Chase
accountable for systematically using illegal tactics to flood
California’s courts with specious lawsuits against consumers.”  Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
didn’t immediately  yesterday to phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  According to the complaint, based on alleged violations of
California’s unfair competition law, JPMorgan sent letters to
consumers demanding payment of a balance due, claiming they may
be liable for attorney’s fees, and threatening to garnish income
and place liens on property.  The correspondence is signed by a lawyer, though no lawyer
reviewed the consumer’s file to determine whether the claims and
amounts due are correct, according to the suit.  The case is California v. JPMorgan Chase, BC508466,
California Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  