-- Kaine Says Clinton Won’t Be Hurt by Libya Criticism (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2013-05-10T21:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/kaine-says-clinton-won-t-be-hurt-by-libya-criticism-transcript-.html
The assault on the diplomatic
compound in Benghazi is more an embarrassment than a scandal and
won’t hurt former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton if she
decides to run for the presidency, Senator  Tim Kaine , a  Virginia 
Democrat, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Virginia Senator Tim Kaine.
Senator, thank you for being with us.  SENATOR TIM KAINE: You bet, Al.  HUNT: You hate the sequester. You want a balanced deal with
revenues and entitlements. Republicans won’t even go to
conference on a budget. They say, read my lips, no new taxes.
Can this impasse in any way be broken?  KAINE: Well they’re saying, read my lips, no discussion
about the budget. As you know, Republicans banged on us in the
Senate for years. The Senate won’t even pass a budget. I heard
that as a Senate candidate. I said when we get in, I’m going to
agitate to pass a budget. I got put on the Budget Committee on
March 23. The Senate passed its first budget under sort of
regular order for four years. And as soon as we did, we said OK,
now let’s go to conference with the House and find compromise,
and they won’t do it.  HUNT: Do you think that’ll be broken?  KAINE: Well we’re going to -- every day, we’re going to --
we’re going to point out their hypocrisy to them. And we’re
starting to see a number of the Republican senators saying, come
on, let’s have a conference. There’s no guarantee it’ll work,
but we’ve tried everything else and they haven’t worked. Let’s
go back to regular order.  HUNT:  House Republicans  are enacting a proposal dealing
with the debt-ceiling limit that probably will be taken up in
September or October that will prioritize payments. Now will
that give them the leverage to force some kind of a fiscal deal?  KAINE: Well, I think their -- their challenge is the -- the
fiscal dates keep getting pushed back because the deficit
projections are coming down. That’s taking some of their
argument away. But Al, I just go back to let’s just get back to
regular order. What is the chance that a conference will work if
it’s only 10 percent? Let’s get in a budget conference and do
like I did when I was governor and I had two house budgets that
were very different. Let’s sit and talk and try to find
compromise. That’s what we ought to be doing.  HUNT: Senator, most experts who’ve looked at this say that
to deal with this you have to cut back on entitlements and you
have to raise revenues. Now Obama proposed last month Social
Security and Medicare cutbacks. Took some heat from his own
party. He got nothing in return from Republicans and some anger
from Democrats. Was this a miscalculation on his part?  KAINE: Well, no. Because I think what the president has to
do is show the path forward even if you’re going to have -- get
shot at from the left and right, and presidents are used to
that. He put a package on the table, and I would say it’s really
four elements. It is targeted expense cuts, and you’ve got to be
targeted about it. The sequester across-the-board stuff makes no
sense. It is revenues, doing them the right way, not the wrong
way. It is also reform of entitlements and infrastructure
investments. Those are the four pieces of the package that we
need to look for. And the Dems traditionally don’t want to talk
about smart entitlements reforms. The Rs don’t want to talk
about revenue, but we’re not going to get the kind of deal we
need unless we -- we do both.  HUNT: Let me turn to a sensitive subject, guns. You have
supported background checks on guns, which the Senate recently
rejected. You also said this last month that the power of NRA is
vastly overstated.  KAINE: It is. It is.  HUNT: If that’s true, can the Senate come back and enact
the background check? Will they?  KAINE: Al, we can, and I believe we will. And I think -- to
be precise, I think I said the power of the NRA leadership -  HUNT: You did.  KAINE: - is overstated. Because NRA members support
background record checks. As you know, the NRA is headquartered
in Virginia. We are -- we are a second amendment-loving state,
and yet Virginians overwhelmingly believe in background checks.
And here’s the reason why. We have scar tissue. The shooting at
 Virginia Tech , the worst shooting in American history, was -- it
was a deranged individual who’d been adjudicated mentally ill
and dangerous who was able to purchase weapons because of
weaknesses in the background-check system.  We learned through our deep pain and shame, make a better
background-check system. You keep people safer. And so we fixed
some things in Virginia, but we got more to fix at the national
level. That bill is still on the floor. The amendment that we
wanted failed, but it’s going to be on the floor until January
2015.  HUNT: And you think -- you think there’ll be a -- you think
there’ll be a successful effort to reverse that?  KAINE: I do. There will be a moment where we will either
get some people to switch their mind or we’ll make a change to
the bill that will satisfy a concern. The American public
overwhelmingly support record checks, and the day will come when
we’ll pass this bill.  HUNT: Senator, you’re also a member of both Foreign
Relations and Armed Services. Let me ask you about Benghazi.
Because now it was revealed in hearings this week the deputy
ambassador over there said that we knew from the beginning that
it was terrorists. The State Department actually scrubbed and
rewrote some of the talking points. Is it clear at least that
the White House and  Susan Rice  misled by the public five days
after this incident?  KAINE: Well Al, you also know that the president the day
after the incident said this was an act of terror. So -- so some
of the battling over the wordsmithing about who said what, it
could be embarrassing, and that -- that will play out, but the
real issue is how to fix it. The accountability review board
that was empaneled in the aftermath of this -- this horrible
loss of great Americans, has made a series of very important
recommendations to improve embassy security.  HUNT: So you think it’s an embarrassment for us, but not a
scandal?  KAINE: I do not think it’s a scandal. It could be an
embarrassment. But what would be the scandal is if Congress
spends time focusing on that and not fixing the things that need
to be fixed that were laid out in very clear detail by that
accountability review board.  HUNT: If -- if  Hillary Clinton  should run for president,
would this hurt her?  KAINE: I don’t think -- again, she -- she -- one of my
first hearings on foreign relations was the hearing where she
came to talk about Benghazi. The degree to which she took
responsibility and expressed just her own remorse over the loss
of these great Americans was very palpable. And if people try to
in a casual way use this against her and they see the degree
that she really feels for her people and cares about that State
Department, I think they’ll view it as a really shallow and --
and cynical attack.  HUNT: Let’s turn back to your state. Washington Post polls
show that Democratic candidate  Terry McAuliffe  trailing the very
conservative Republican in the governor’s race, the seat that
you once held. Why is your candidate having such trouble?  KAINE: Well, they asked me that a couple days ago, Al. They
said, what do you think about this Post poll on Terry
McAuliffe’s governor race? I said I wish I had seen those
numbers in my governor’s race in 2005 because I was like double
digits down six months out and ended up winning by 5 points.
It’s early.  HUNT: Do you think Terry will win?  KAINE: I do. I do. I think it’ll be close, and it’ll be
close because off-year races in Virginia have low turnout. So a
presidential race, we were up at 65 to 70 percent. The norm in
Virginia in a governor’s race the next year would be more in the
40 to 50 percent, and lower-turnout races are more challenging.
But he’s got a good campaign. Virginia has changed. Basically,
the state electorate is better for us in 2013 than it was in
2005. I’m working hard for him. So is Senator Warner. It’s going
to be a close race, but I think we’ll win.  HUNT: Another question. You were deeply bothered by reports
of sexual assault in the military. There’s been some action
taken, but it seems to be rather pervasive, particularly in the
 Air Force . Should more heads roll?  KAINE: More heads roll and more -- more procedures should
be changed. And we’re right now, as you know, writing up the
authorizing bill for the  defense budget  for 2014. And you can be
sure this -- this is something that we’re going to put into that
authorizing bill.  HUNT: When you say heads roll, what do you mean?  KAINE: Well look, we already -- there’s already one who has
been moved aside when -- it is almost surreal that the Air Force
official in charge of dealing with sexual assault crimes is --
is arrested for sexual assault. Now an arrest isn’t -- isn’t a
proof of guilt, and yet still even an arrest in that
circumstance was strange.  HUNT: Do you still have confidence in the secretary of the
Air Force?  KAINE: On this issue, we’ve got to see a dramatic upgrade.
We have to. Secretary Hagel did something very positive right
out of the gate. He went in and sort of in an executive way
changed the ability of the sort of overseeing authorities to
reverse decisions of military juries, which had happened in a
couple of instances in the Air Force. And so that was a very
positive thing.  HUNT: Senator Kaine, thank you so much for being with us
today.  KAINE: Absolutely, Al.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 