-- Kittiratt Urges Thai Rate Cut Exceeding Quarter Percentage Point
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-05-10T05:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/kittiratt-urges-thai-rate-cut-exceeding-quarter-percentage-point.html
Thai Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said the central bank should cut the key  interest rate  by
more than a quarter of a percentage point or implement capital
controls to stem the baht’s rise, which is threatening exports.  “If anyone would suggest to cut by 25 basis points, I feel
that it’s not enough,” Kittiratt said in an interview today in
Bangkok. “It might not be even good, because it might mean that
we are thinking of using the interest-rate policy to control the
inflow. But then if you don’t do it enough, the market can
really imagine that we’ll do it again, another round too soon.”  If the central bank doesn’t cut the  policy rate  by more than
a quarter percentage point, it should refrain from any reduction
and instead “work on the  capital controls ,” Kittiratt said, a
strategy he doesn’t favor because it’s “high risk.” A baht level
lower than 29 per dollar is “way too strong,” while “well above”
30 is reasonable, he said.  Kittiratt has led criticism of central bank Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul for maintaining borrowing costs at 2.75
percent since it lowered rates in October even amid rising
inflows into  emerging markets . The two will seek common ground
over managing the  exchange rate  on May 13 when government
agencies meet with the monetary policy committee, Kittiratt said.  The baht dropped 0.9 percent to 29.66 per dollar as of
12:11 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It slumped as much as 1 percent earlier as speculation grew the
Bank of  Thailand  will cut borrowing costs after Kittiratt said
yesterday the government will meet with central bank policy
makers. The next monetary policy decision is scheduled for May
29.  The yield on the 3.625 percent debt due June 2023 fell 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.34 percent, the
lowest level since February 2012.  Policy makers around the world have moved to counter
currency gains and stimulate growth, with Vietnam and  Sri Lanka 
cutting rates today and the  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly reducing
borrowing costs yesterday, following the lead of Australia,
Europe and India.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  