-- Korea Corporate Bond Sales Halt Ahead of Central Bank Cut
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-05-10T05:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/korea-corporate-bond-sales-halt-ahead-of-central-bank-rate-trim.html
Corporate bond sales in  South Korea 
ground to a halt this week after the busiest month in six in
April as companies put borrowing plans on hold ahead of an
interest rate decision.  No companies have sold won-denominated bonds since May 6
and sales this month total 340 billion won ($308 million)
compared with 1.44 trillion won the same period of April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bank of  Korea 
lowered the benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  to 2.5 percent
from 2.75 percent yesterday, its first cut since October.  “The rate cut lowers companies’ financing costs so we can
expect bond sales to pick up,” said Kim Ki Myung, a credit
analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co., the third-ranked
arranger of note sales this year.  Yields on three-year corporate notes rated at AA- were last
at 2.92 percent, near a record-low 2.80 percent reached on March
28, data from the Korea Financial Investment Association going
back to 2000 show. Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board cut
borrowing costs as a weak yen dims the outlook for the nation’s
exports and record household debt weighs on consumption. Only
six of 20 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted the
move, while the rest forecast no change.  Yield Demand  Japan ’s currency has slid almost 11 percent against the won
since Dec. 31, harming South Korean exporters’ global price
competitiveness. Lawmakers on May 7 passed a 17.3 trillion won
supplementary budget proposal to support the economy, including
special loan programs for exporters and smaller contractors
building overseas plants.  The yield on three-year  sovereign notes  rose 8 basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, this week to 2.55 percent
today from an all-time low of 2.44 percent May 2. The yield on
2.75 percent government bonds due March 2018 is up 9 basis
points to 2.62 percent.  “Investor demand for longer-term, high-yielding bonds is
increasing” because government bond yields remain low, Tongyang
Securities Inc. analysts led by Yoo Tae In wrote in a report e-mailed May 6. “As for notes rated below A, investors will take
an issuer’s credit status into account in making their
decision.”  Artone Paper Manufacturing Co. is among companies planning
to sell won-denominated notes in coming days, preliminary
information compiled by Bloomberg show. The maker of printing
and art paper for shopping bags and advertising catalogs expects
to sell 35 billion won of secured five-year notes next week.  More Clarity  GS Caltex Corp. has issued the most local-currency bonds
this month, borrowing 300 billion won in a two-part sale May 2.
South Korea’s second-biggest oil refiner has the equivalent of
about $6.2 billion in notes outstanding, having sold 600 billion
won of securities this year, Bloomberg data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own Korean company
notes over similar-maturity government debt has narrowed to 36
basis points from 66 basis points a year ago.  Companies tend not to “sell any corporate bonds or even
bid on them ahead of a rate decision, regardless of whether the
central bank decides on a hold or a cut,” Kim Eun Gie, a credit
analyst at  Hanwha Investment & Securities Co. (003530)  said ahead of
yesterday’s central bank decision. “We’ll see more credit
market activity as early as next week after some clarity.”  A new regulation which took effect on May 6 and requires
companies to submit the same amount of documentation for private
bond deals as for public sales may also boost issuance, Korea
Investment & Securities’ Kim said.  International Sales  The government revised its policy to require companies to
report sales of short-term bonds that mature more than a year
after issuance, the Financial Supervisory Service said in an
April 24 statement on its website. The revision was made to
ensure transparency in short-term  capital markets  and prevent
regulatory arbitrage in corporate bond trades, the FSS said.  International bond sales in Korea surged to $1.56 billion
this month compared with $155 million in the same period of
April, led by Export-Import  Bank of Korea  and Korea National Oil
Corp., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. KNOC sold $630
million of notes due 2018 on May 7 at a 145 basis-point spread
over similar-maturity Treasuries.  No asset-backed securities have been sold this month.
Offerings of the notes backed by loans, leases or receivables
against assets totals 6.9 trillion won this year, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  