-- Krone Surges to One-Month High as Inflation Quickens: Oslo Mover
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-05-10T09:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/krone-surges-to-one-month-high-as-inflation-quickens-oslo-mover.html
Norway’s krone rose to the highest
against the euro in almost a month after inflation in  Europe ’s
second-richest nation per capita accelerated more than
estimated, damping interest rate cut speculation.  The currency, which has emerged as a haven from Europe’s
debt crisis, gained as much as 0.3 percent versus the euro to
trade at 7.5174, the highest level since April 16. The rise
added to the biggest three-day gain since August 2012. The
currency traded at 7.5243 as of 10:34 a.m. in Oslo, gaining
against all major currencies in a basket compiled by Bloomberg.  Norway’s underlying  inflation  rate rose to the highest
level in more than a year, a report showed. Inflation, adjusted
for taxes and energy prices, increased to an annual 1.5 percent
from 0.9 percent in March, according to  Statistics Norway .
Prices were estimated to rise 1 percent, according to the median
forecast of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “We had unexpectedly high  core inflation  in April,” Kari Due-Andresen, an economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Oslo,
said by phone. “It clearly weakens the case for an interest
rate cut.”  Norges Bank left its main interest rate unchanged at 1.5
percent this week and kept an outlook for rates to rise in about
a year from now. Policy makers said they refrained from cutting
rates again, in part as the krone had weakened 3.9 percent since
hitting a record in February on an import-weighted basis.  “What made them not cut the interest rate among other
things at the May meeting was the weak krone,” Due-Andresen
said. “Some of that will be reversed now, so we will have to
see how that develops.”  Krone strength has helped keep inflation below the bank’s
2.5 percent target since 2009. Policy makers will meet on June
20 to decide on  interest rates .  The headline inflation rate in April was 1.9 percent in the
year and consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  