-- Kuroda Says BOJ Easing Isn’t Aimed at Manipulating Rate of Yen
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-05-10T13:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/kuroda-says-boj-easing-isn-t-aimed-at-manipulating-rate-of-yen.html
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the
 Bank of Japan ’s unprecedented monetary easing isn’t aimed at
manipulating the rate of the yen, which dropped below 101 per
dollar for the first time in four years today.  “The Bank of Japan isn’t targeting the  exchange rate ,”
Kuroda told reporters ahead of a two-day gathering of Group of
Seven central bankers and finance chiefs in the U.K. starting
today. “I decline to make any comment on the exchange rate
level.”  Monetary policy  is expected to be on the agenda at the
meeting in Aylesbury, outside London. The Group of 20 last month
praised the BOJ’s steps aimed at delivering 2 percent inflation
within two years and ending more than a decade of deflation,
signaling  Japan ’s focus on supporting domestic demand was strong
enough to allow them to ignore the side-effects of a sliding yen
on their own economies.  Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari told reporters in
Tokyo today that the yen is weakening on signs of a U.S.
economic recovery, and the nation will monitor developments in
the  currency market . The yen was trading at 101.52 at 1:28 p.m.
in London today.  Also speaking in Tokyo today, International Monetary Fund
Deputy Managing Director Naoyuki Shinohara said it’s normal to
see the yen weaken with the BOJ’s easing, and current foreign
exchange levels are in alignment.  While the drop in the Japanese currency has boosted
exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp., it has drawn criticism
from competitors including  South Korea . Nations from Poland to
Australia have cut rates this week, with New Zealand’s central
bank selling the kiwi to weaken the currency.  Kuroda also said today that volatility in the Japanese
government bond market after the BOJ announced its new easing
policy on April 4 had settled down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Aylesbury, England at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  