-- Kyrgyzstan Decries Dismissal of U.S. Case Against Bakiyev
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-10T23:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/kyrgyzstan-decries-dismissal-of-u-s-case-against-bakiyev.html
Kyrgyzstan is “disappointed” with
the dismissal of a U.S. criminal case against the son of ousted
former leader Kurmanbek Bakiyev, a spokesman for the Central
Asian country’s government said.  Maksim Bakiyev, 35, was set to face an extradition
proceeding in the U.K. on May 13 for U.S. charges of conspiracy
to commit  securities fraud  and obstruction of justice.  Yesterday, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
 Brooklyn , New York, said the case against Maksim Bakiyev had
been dismissed without providing a reason. A spokesman for the
U.K.’s Crown Prosecution Service confirmed yesterday that the
U.S. dropped its extradition bid.  “We have been disappointed with the U.S. decision to drop
the case against Maksim Bakiyev,” Kadyr Toktogulov, a spokesman
for Kyrgyzstan’s current regime, said today in a statement. “We
have been seeking clear explanation from the U.S. government on
their decision as we don’t understand reasons behind it.”  Maksim Bakiyev, who headed a development agency in
Kyrgyzstan under his father’s regime, has been living in the
U.K. since fleeing the Central Asian nation after an April 2010
coup. Both the elder and younger Bakiyev were found guilty of
corruption and other crimes in Kyrgyzstan and were sentenced in
absentia this year to jail terms.  Belarus Refuge  The elder Bakiyev was given refuge in Belarus after the
coup.  The U.S. hasn’t made public the charges against Maksim
Bakiyev in court records. An Oct. 13 statement by the U.S.
embassy in Kyrgyzstan cited the alleged crimes and the
government’s effort to extradite him.  In April 2012, Brooklyn federal prosecutors filed a case
against Taiyyib Ali Munir, U.K. man, accusing him of aiding a
former “high-level government official” of an unidentified
Central Asian country in an insider-trading scheme from 2010 to
2011  Munir was initially accused in a criminal complaint of
passing inside tips about Global Industries Ltd.,  Tyco
International Ltd. (TYC)  and  InterMune Inc. (ITMN)  as part of the scheme. He
pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge and was sentenced in
January by U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein to time served,
which was less than a month in U.S. custody.  In December, the spokesman, Toktogulov, said his country
was providing information to American officials as part of the
U.S. extradition effort and hoped to make the U.S. aware of
Bakiyev’s alleged crimes in Kyrgyzstan.  “Whatever happens, we will also be making efforts on our
own to bring Maksim Bakiyev to justice,” Toktogulov said today,
adding that the country has “no extradition agreement with the
U.K. but we will still be making the case to them.”  A lawyer for Maksim Bakiyev in the U.K., Michael O’Kane,
didn’t immediately respond to two phone calls and an e-mail
seeking comment.  The Munir case is U.S. v. Munir, 1:12-cr-00648, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 