-- N.Z. Exporters Defy Record Kiwi as Wheeler Intervenes: Economy
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-10T04:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/n-z-exporters-defy-record-kiwi-as-wheeler-intervenes-economy.html
A record New Zealand dollar pushed
the central bank into its first confirmed currency intervention
in six years. It’s also forcing the nation’s biggest exporters
to innovate as the soaring kiwi squeezes returns.  Zespri International Ltd. , the world’s biggest kiwifruit
exporter, is urging growers to plant a more profitable, gold-fleshed variety that appeals to Chinese buyers. Clothing company
 Icebreaker Holdings Ltd.  offers customers a “baa-code” so they
can trace the wool in their hiking gear back to the farm raising
the merino sheep it came from.  Unique products and New Zealand’s environmental purity have
helped companies from dairy giant Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd. to medical devices maker Fisher & Paykel Healthcare Corp.
defy the local dollar’s 18 percent surge in the past three
years. Exports in the year through March climbed 17 percent from
three years earlier, boosting growth and preventing a cooling in
currency gains that prompted Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler to say this week the central bank sold the kiwi.  “Exporters have held up better than most people would have
imagined given where the currency has got to,” said  Craig Ebert , senior economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “If there was some real pain coming through and it
was starting to nobble the economy, the currency would probably
naturally correct.”  New Zealand’s  gross domestic product  expanded 1.5 percent
in the fourth quarter from three months earlier, the fastest
pace in three years. Employment rose 1.7 percent in the first
quarter, beating the 0.8 percent median forecast of economists,
according to a government report yesterday. Exports make up
about 30 percent of the economy.  Currency Conundrum  New Zealand’s dollar rose above 86 yen on April 11 and
bought 86.76 U.S. cents that day, the highest since August 2011.
The kiwi plunged on May 8 after Wheeler’s comments on
intervention. It bought 83.76 cents at 4 p.m. in Wellington.  “As a central bank governor in a small open economy you
have to be aware of the impact of the currency, and particularly
of the impact of sustained deviation of the currency away from
its longer term fundamentals,” said Darren Gibbs, chief New
Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland. “The longer
we stay at these levels the more you erode the ability of
business to continue.”  Kiwi ‘Peashooter’  Finance Minister Bill English in February likened currency
intervention to being “out in the war zone with a peashooter”
and describes the exchange rate gains as a headwind for
rebalancing the economy toward  exports. (NZMTEXP)   “We simply don’t have the capacity and are not willing to
take the risks of trying to pick a lower exchange rate when
everyone else is trying to do the same thing,” he said today in
a Bloomberg Television interview.  The RBNZ has “a mandate to conduct intervention where they
believe it is going to have some impact,” he said. “I don’t
think either they or we believe that they can pick an exchange
rate and move to it.”  Instead, the government has tried to make exporters as
competitive as possible by removing regulations, encouraging
trade pacts that remove tariffs, and managing its finances so
inflation and interest rates stay low. The central bank, which
is independent, has kept the  official cash rate  at a record-low
2.5 percent since March 2011.  Zespri, which makes payments to growers based on its export
sales, has cut supply chain costs by about NZ$30 million ($25.1
million) since 2008 while its currency hedging saved the company
NZ$70 million last year, Chief Executive Officer Lain Jager said
in an interview.  “Exchange rates at this level are very tough and it
certainly puts a lot of pressure on margins, but it is still a
sustainable business,” Jager said from his Mount Maunganui
office. “Cross fingers, we will come back into a more sensible
exchange rate environment eventually.”  Golden Kiwis  More growers saw the sense in changing to the more
profitable gold variety from the traditional green as the
exchange rate rose, he said. Growers can expect a return of
about NZ$100,000 a hectare from gold fruit compared to NZ$38,000
from green, albeit with more risks as the fruit is harder to
grow and the vines are less resilient to disease.  Zespri and Fonterra, the world’s biggest dairy exporter,
are among companies targeting  China , which surpassed Australia
as New Zealand’s biggest customer for a third straight month in
March. Fonterra expects to offer infant formula made from New
Zealand milk in some Chinese cities from mid-year, Chief
Executive Office Theo Spierings said in March.  Chinese Concerns  Zespri sent 12 million trays of kiwifruit to China last
year from 4.5 million in 2008, making inroads in a nation which
is the largest grower of the fruit, known locally as monkey
peach, said Jager. The New Zealand product commands higher
prices because of its quality and status, he said.  “We currently do not have enough supply to keep up with
demand” in China, he said. “The wealth in the cities and the
demand for food represents enormous future growth for us.”  New Zealand firms are benefiting from the quality of the
food it delivers to China and elsewhere, said Catherine Beard,
executive director of  Export New Zealand , a Wellington-based
business group that supports companies seeking overseas sales.  “Chinese consumers are concerned about eating good quality
food, and are quite concerned about authenticity,” she said.
“It’s not just clean and green, it’s the fact that we are not
corrupt, so when we say we have good food quality controls its
relied on.”  Merino Wool  Shanghai police and food-safety officials raided a market
in Minhang district last week and seized meat with “New Zealand
Sliced Lamb” labels that didn’t provide details about
ingredients, the official Xinhua News Agency reported May 5.
That followed a May 2 statement by the Ministry of Public
Security that authorities had busted a criminal operation found
to have sold rat, fox and mink meat as mutton.  Wellington-based Icebreaker only uses wool from merino
sheep raised on the slopes of New Zealand’s Southern Alps and
insists suppliers follow certain animal husbandry methods. The
New Zealand links are important as the company ships the wool to
China where the garments are made.  “We’ve put a lot of effort into explaining the
sustainability and environmental impact being managed within the
supply chain,” David Anderson, an executive at the company,
said in an interview.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Australia ’s central
cut its inflation outlook and reiterated its forecast for
“below trend” growth this year, in its quarterly monetary
policy statement. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka cut its
benchmark  interest rate  a half a percentage point to 9 percent.  G7 Meeting  Hong Kong’s gross domestic product probably expanded 2.7
percent in the last quarter from a year earlier, economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted.  Japan ’s finance ministry
said today the nation’s March current account surplus was 1.25
trillion yen ($12 billion).  Finance chiefs from the Group of Seven nations will gather
in the U.K today to begin a two-day meeting. German exports
probably increased from a month earlier in March while Italy’s
factory output may have fallen from February, Bloomberg surveys
showed.  Fisher & Paykel , a New Zealand designer and distributor of
devices used to treat obstructive sleep apnea which earns about
half its revenue in U.S. dollars, in February raised its full-year profit forecast, citing new products and operating
efficiencies.  Such innovation is being repeated around the country as
exporters look for ways to grow in spite of the currency
pressure on them, said Peter Chrisp, chief executive at  New
Zealand Trade & Enterprise , a government agency that assists
companies to break in to foreign markets.  “Problem solving is so deeply ingrained in our DNA it
becomes a competitive advantage,” he said. “As we get this
mass of cost pressure applied, what you find are companies
lurching toward this deep creativity to develop new business
models.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  