-- Navy $37 Billion Ships Seen Unsuitable Have 2-Year Window
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-10T21:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/navy-37-billion-ships-seen-unsuitable-have-2-year-window.html
The U.S. Navy has two years to
convince critics, from lawmakers to some in its own ranks, that
its troubled $37 billion Littoral Combat Ship program is worth
continuing beyond the 24 vessels already under contract.  The Navy must make its case by 2015 for 28 more of the
ships if it’s to continue the shipbuilding effort beyond the
vessels it has already committed to buy from teams led by
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)   A confidential Navy study obtained this week by  Bloomberg
News  found that the ships are too lightly armed, plans to swap
equipment for different missions are impractical and the
decision to build two versions complicates logistics and
maintenance. Failure to resolve such issues will result in
“ships that are ill-suited to execute” warfighting needs, Rear
Admiral Samuel Perez wrote in the March 2012 report.  “The Perez report underscored nagging doubts” about the
Littoral Combat Ship, according to  Byron Callan , a defense
analyst with Capital Alpha Partners LLC in Washington. He said
in an e-mail that he would be surprised if all 52 planned ships
are built and that it’s possible only those already under
contract will be completed.  As the Pentagon faces $500 billion in across-the-board
budget cuts over nine years, the Littoral Combat Ship is an
example of a troubled project that has sailed on with the
support of a military seeking the most advanced warfighting
equipment possible, companies eager to build it and politicians
hungry for the jobs created.  Shipbuilding Plan  The Navy’s latest 30-year shipbuilding plan, submitted to
Congress today, projects buying all 52 vessels by 2029, part of
a construction budget that the service estimates will average
$15.4 billion annually through 2023, up from $10.9 billion in
the Pentagon’s pending fiscal 2014 request.  The service plans to request $70.4 billion for construction
of 41 vessels through 2018, according to the plan. That includes
$28.8 billion for 10 Virginia-class submarines, $15.7 billion
for nine DDG-51 destroyers and $6.7 billion for the Littoral
Combat Ships.  “The Navy is circling the wagons as I have never seen” to
protect the Littoral Combat Ship, said Everett Pyatt, the Navy’s
deputy for shipbuilding in the 1980s and now a critic of the
ship. “They are unwilling to admit any errors.”  ‘Best-Performing’  Officials led by Navy Secretary Ray Mabus said this week
that changes in the ship already are under way to resolve the
shortcomings cited by Perez. While the Littoral Combat Ship
started out as a “mess,” it has “become one of our best-performing programs,” Mabus told the House defense
appropriations subcommittee on May 7.  Even critics of the ship, such as Senator  John McCain , said
canceling it now is unlikely because the Navy can’t wait to
develop an alternative for a small, speedy and adaptable vessel.  “This is the problem with all of these programs -- once
you get into production it’s incredibly difficult, and then
what’s the alternative?” McCain said in an interview. At a
Senate committee hearing on May 8, the  Arizona  Republican told
Navy brass, “We need to fix it, or find something else
quickly.”  No Fallback  The Navy “doesn’t have a fallback position if it killed
the program now,” said Callan, citing the need to replace the
Navy’s  FFG-7 frigates  that are being retired as well as mine-countermeasure ships that are aging.  The Navy agreed to buy four ships individually prior to
signing a contract in 2010 to purchase 20 more, with 10 each
from Lockheed and Austal.  The Littoral Combat Ship’s supporters in Congress would be
likely to block any move to stop building the vessels already
under contract, and breaking contracts would subject the
Pentagon to substantial costs and litigation, according to Ben
Freeman, a defense analyst and critic of the ship.  “We’re under contract to buy 20 ships and would have to
pay fees if the contract weren’t fulfilled,” Freeman of the
Washington-based Project on Government Oversight said in an e-mail. “Once the contract ends, however, cancellation becomes
much more likely. There are simply too many problems with the
ship, and too few missions that it can realistically fulfill.”  ‘Real Test’  The military services are required by law to document for
Congress their cases for multiyear contracts, including
projected savings over buying one ship at a time.  That’s when “the real test for the program’s continuing to
52 vessels comes,” said  Robert Levinson , a defense analyst for
Bloomberg Government in Washington.  The ship’s flaws, “combined with budget constraints, could
force the Navy to reduce the final number, significantly
redesign the ship or even cancel the buy altogether,” he said.  A steel-hulled version of the ship is being made in
Marinette,  Wisconsin , by the Lockheed-led team, and an aluminum
trimaran is being built in Mobile,  Alabama , by the group led by
Austal.  Construction costs have doubled to $440 million per ship
from an original goal of $220 million. The Navy is requesting $2
billion to buy four ships in fiscal 2014 -- two from Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed and two from Henderson, Australia-based
Austal.  Costs Double  The last four vessels in the group of 20 will be requested
next year in the Pentagon’s fiscal 2015 budget. After that, the
Navy must present its plan for the final 28 vessels, including
whether it will curtail or cut the program or go with only one
of the two designs. That’s when the program is most vulnerable
to critics.  “We understand what is at stake and will get this right,”
Vice Admiral Richard Hunt, head of the service’s LCS Council,
intended to improve the program, said in a statement.  “I have great confidence in the LCS program,” he said.
“It provides needed capability now combined with the ability to
adapt to changing requirements in the future.”  The Littoral Combat Ship was conceived in 2001 as an
innovative development program that would compress the time
needed to field a new warship, according to  Loren Thompson , a
defense analyst and industry consultant with the Arlington,
Virginia-based-Lexington Institute.  “Today, it is producing ships, but those ships do not have
all the equipment or personnel they need to accomplish planned
missions,” he said. The program’s success “hinges on bringing
capabilities into alignment with expectations over the next two
years,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Pyatt, the former Navy official, agreed that the service
has only a few years to make its case.  “I hope we can end purchases after the ships needed for
drug control, piracy control and similar low-risk tasks are
purchased,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “I think that is
about 20 ships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  