-- NBC Said Close to Hiring Turness as First Woman News Chief
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-05-10T20:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/nbc-said-close-to-hiring-itv-s-turness-as-first-woman-news-chief.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC is close to
naming Deborah Turness, the head of Britain’s ITV News, as
president of its news division, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation.  An agreement hasn’t been reached yet, according to one
person, who sought anonymity because the talks are private.
Turness would replace Steve Capus, who departed in February
after NBC’s “Today” show fell behind ABC’s “Good Morning
America” in the 25-to-54-year-old audience demographic after a
16-year run in first place.  Turness is poised to become the first woman to lead NBC
News. She would report to Patricia Fili-Krushel, chairman of the
NBC Universal News Group, and would help oversee programs
including “Today” and “NBC Nightly News With  Brian Williams .” Fili-Krushel was hired last year as part of a
reorganization to improve collaboration between NBC News, CNBC,
 MSNBC  and the Weather Channel.  Turness has been the editor of  ITV Plc (ITV) ’s ITV News since
2004, according to that company’s  website . She didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment after normal
business hours in  London . ITV News competes with BBC News in the
U.K.  The “NBC Nightly News” is the most watched of the three
evening broadcast news shows in the U.S., averaging 8.75 million
viewers a day in the current season, according to Nielsen data.  The  New York Times  earlier today reported Turness was close
to being hired.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, rose 0.3 percent to $43.08
at the close in  New York . The company, operator of the largest
U.S. cable TV service, has  increased  15 percent this year,
equaling the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s gain. ITV rose 2
percent to 130.60 pence in London and has gained 24 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  