-- Nigeria Said to Have 20 Crude Cargoes for June Still Available
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-05-10T12:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/nigeria-said-to-have-20-crude-cargoes-for-june-still-available.html
Nigeria  has about 20 crude cargoes of
loading in June available for sale, out of 66 lots scheduled for
export next month, according to four traders who participate in
the market.  That’s more than normal for this stage of the month, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is confidential. The grades remaining include Abo,
Bonny Light, Brass River, EA Blend, Forcados, Okwori,
Pennington, Yoho and at least one of benchmark Qua Iboe crude,
they said. That compares with nine March cargoes still unsold as
of Feb. 7, four traders said at the time.  Africa’s largest oil-producing nation will export 58.1
million barrels, or 1.94 million barrels a day, next month,
according to loading plans obtained by  Bloomberg News . The June
schedule includes five  Bonny Light  lots deferred from May as the
grade remains subject to a force majeure. That compares with
daily exports in May of 1.95 million barrels.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  declared force majeure, a legal step
that protects a company from liability when it can’t fulfill a
contract for reasons beyond its control, on Bonny Light exports
after closing the Nembe Creek Trunkline on April 15 to remove
oil-theft connections. The lack of reliability in Nigerian
output is putting off potential buyers, the traders said.  Qua Iboe was today priced at a premium of $3.40 a barrel to
Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It rose to the
highest in almost a month at plus $3.60 on May 3.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  