-- Nigeria Planning $1 Billion Eurobond: Finance Minister
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-10T10:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/nigeria-planning-1-billion-eurobond-finance-minister.html
Nigeria plans to sell $1 billion of
Eurobonds to finance power projects after meetings with
international investors in June, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said.  The securities will be dollar-denominated, Okonjo-Iweala
said in an interview in Cape Town, where she is attending the
World Economic Forum on  Africa . Nigeria is to host the
conference for the first time next year, she said.  Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, is tapping global
markets for the second time, taking advantage of investors’
appetite for higher-yielding assets. The government is raising
funds to boost electricity output in a country where demand is
almost double the supply of about 4,000 megawatts.  “Preparations are going full-steam ahead” to sell the
bonds, Okonjo-Iweala said. “We need $10 billion a year in
investment in infrastructure in Nigeria in order to keep up with
the needs of the country.”  Blackouts are a daily occurrence in Africa’s most populous
country with more than 160 million people. President Goodluck Jonathan said in a May 8 statement that the government cannot
alone build the infrastructure that the country needs.  Nigeria’s $500 million of bonds due January 2021 have
surged since the debut in 2011, sending yields 271 basis points,
or 2.71 percentage points, lower to 4.08 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “Our prospects are very good” for
the new sale based on the yield drop, Okonjo-Iweala said.  Oil Slump  Nigeria’s economy, the second biggest on the continent
after South Africa, may come under pressure because of declining
oil prices, Okonjo-Iweala said.  Bonny Light crude, one of
Nigeria’s main export blends, has  fallen  12 percent to $107.18 a
barrel by 11:48 a.m. in  London  since this year’s peak on Feb. 8.  “We’re quite concerned with the decline in oil prices,”
Okonjo-Iweala said. “We have to be since we get 75 percent of
revenues from oil.”  Nigeria has oil savings of $7 billion in its Excess Crude
Account and a $1 billion sovereign wealth fund to help buffer
the economy, she said. The government lost about $1 billion last
month because of missed oil production targets, said Okonjo-Iweala.  Production fell to 1.81 million barrels a day in March, the
lowest level since September 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Output averaged 2.2 million barrels a day in the
first quarter, according to figures released by state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. on April 17. That compares
with a production forecast of 2.53 million barrels a day used in
this year’s budget. The loss was due to crude theft and pipeline
sabotage, according to NNPC.  Savings Buffer  “We’ve quickly put mechanisms in place to try to recover
that,” Okonjo-Iweala said. “We expect by this coming month,
we’ll be back on stream. We also have a buffer of savings to
deal with that.”  Lower interest rates would spur growth in the economy and
help entrepreneurs borrow and invest in their businesses, she
said. Nigeria’s central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a
March interview that he wants to keep the benchmark interest
rate at a record high of  12 percent  to ensure currency stability
and control inflation.  The naira has gained 3.2 percent since the end of 2011 to
157.3 per dollar, Africa’s second best performer during the
period. Nigeria’s  inflation rate  fell to its lowest in almost
five years in March, easing to 8.6 percent from 9.5 percent in
February.  “If we can continue to work together to drive inflation
down and banks also look at their cost margins, we want to see
interest rates in a much more friendly zone to encourage the
private sector,” said Okonjo-Iweala. “I’m not going to jump in
and predict policy for the central bank. I’m not going to
speculate on what they’re going to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Cape Town at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  