-- Nissan Posts Slowest Profit Growth Among Japan Carmakers
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-05-10T06:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/nissan-reports-slowest-profit-growth-among-japanese-automakers.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  reported the slowest
annual profit growth among Japanese automakers as success in
 China  backfired when a political dispute triggered a wave of
anti- Japan  sentiment in the world’s biggest car market.  Net income  in the 12 months ended March increased 0.3
percent to 342.4 billion yen ($3.4 billion), the Yokohama,
Japan-based company said in a statement today. Next fiscal
year’s 420 billion profit forecast was the smallest among
Japan’s three largest automakers.  Nissan, which outsells all Japanese automakers in China,
was hardest hit when Chinese consumers began to shun Japanese
brands as protests flared across the country in September. All
three of Japan’s largest carmakers saw their China sales fall
for three straight quarters, though the plunge in the yen made
up for the shortfall at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co.  “The impact from China issues is significant,” said
Koichi Sugimoto, an auto analyst at BNP Paribas SA in  Tokyo .
“Even in the January-to-March quarter, there wasn’t a recovery
yet. Although they’ll improve in the second half, we can’t be
too positive.”  Brightening Outlook  Still, this year’s outlook is brighter as the weakening yen
-- it breached 100 to the dollar in U.S. trading yesterday --
bolsters profits for Japanese companies. Nissan forecast net
income will rise 23 percent to in the year ending March, the
highest in six years. The forecast was below the 475.6 billion
yen average of 23 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue will probably increase 7.7 percent to 10.37 trillion
yen, according to Nissan.  The yen has weakened against all major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe helped reverse the
appreciation of the yen in mid-November, falling more than 20
percent against the dollar. The company gains about 15 billion
yen in operating profit with every one-yen drop against the
dollar, according to the company.  Japan’s second-largest carmaker based its profit outlook on
an exchange rate of 95 yen against the dollar, and 122 yen
versus the euro. It produced about 22 percent of its cars at
home last fiscal year, compared with 44 percent at Toyota.  The Japanese currency breached 100 yen against the dollar
in  New York  trading yesterday, reaching what Nissan chief
executive officer  Carlos Ghosn  calls “neutral territory.” It
will end 2013 at 105 to the dollar and 132 versus the euro,
according to the average estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  China Slump  Nissan expects global deliveries this fiscal year to climb
to 5.3 million vehicles, led by sales of the redesigned Altima
sedan in the U.S. and the new Teana sedan in China.  In the January-to-March quarter, net income reached 110.1
billion yen, compared with the 93.6 billion yen average of five
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Operating income
climbed 48 percent to 174.4 billion yen and revenue increased 6
percent to reached 2.87 trillion yen.  Profit from Asian markets outside of Japan -- mainly China
-- fell 67 percent to 13.9 billion yen, missing the 17.4 billion
yen average of a Bloomberg survey of four analysts. Deliveries
in China, Nissan’s biggest market, fell 15 percent last quarter,
after a 32 percent drop the previous quarter.  Nissan is projecting a recovery. Deliveries will probably
climb to sell 1.25 million vehicles in China in 2013 after
falling to 1.18 million last year, helped by Teana introduced in
February, the company said.  U.S. Sales  Earnings from the  North America  climbed 80 percent to 60.2
billion yen, compared with the 66.3 billion yen average
Bloomberg estimate, after Nissan introduced revamped models
including Altima sedans, Pathfinder sport utility vehicles and
Sentra compact sedans. U.S. deliveries will continue to increase
this fiscal year, Nissan said.  Nissan is seeing improvement in the U.S. The new Altima,
Nissan’s best-seller in the U.S., outsold Honda’s Accord,
Toyota’s Camry, and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Fusion in a tightening
sedan duel in March. April sales of the Nissan sedan surged 35
percent, while deliveries fell 14 percent for the Camry and 5.4
percent for the Accord.  Incentives in the U.S. are falling to $2,443 per unit this
year through April, 14 percent lower compared with a year
earlier, according to market researcher Autodata. Yet Nissan
still has higher incentives than Toyota and Honda, which sell
more cars in the U.S.  Profit from Nissan’s home market jumped eightfold to 100.7
billion yen in the quarter ended March, compared with the 79.1
billion yen average Bloomberg estimate.  Japan Sales  Nissan sales fell in Japan last fiscal year as the
government’s subsidy program for purchases of fuel-efficient
vehicles expired in September. Deliveries in Japan may climb
this fiscal year, Nissan said today.  The Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association  expects domestic sales to fall 12
percent this year.  The carmaker will introduce the first  minicar  jointly
developed with  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  next month, as minicars
take up about 40 percent of the new car sales in Japan,
according to Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association.  In  Europe , where car sales are headed to a 20-year low on
the economic slump, Nissan posted a loss of 11.2 billion yen,
compared with the average analyst estimate of 11 billion yen
profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  