-- Nvidia Sales, Earnings Top Estimates on Graphics-Chip Demand
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-05-10T20:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/nvidia-sales-earnings-top-estimates-on-graphics-chip-demand-2-.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , a maker of graphics
processors, reported fiscal first-quarter sales and earnings
that topped analysts’ estimates as demand for high-end gaming
machines helped make up for a broader personal-computer slump.  In the first quarter, which ended April 28, net income rose
to $77.9 million, or 13 cents a share, from $60.4 million, or 10
cents, a year earlier, Nvidia said yesterday in a statement.
Sales increased 3.2 percent to $954.7 million. Analysts on
average had estimated earnings of 10 cents on sales of $940.7
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buyers of more expensive computers are still willing to
spend more for Nvidia’s newest processors to get better graphics
in games, said Betsy Van Hees, an analyst at Wedbush Securities.
That’s helping Nvidia avoid the worst of a PC slump that saw
shipments slide by a record 14 percent in the first three months
of 2013, according to researcher IDC.  “The PC-gaming industry is dominated by Nvidia,” said San
Francisco-based Van Hees, who  recommends  buying the shares.
“They do a superb job with their technology and gamers are
willing to pay for that excellence.”  Nvidia  shares  rose 4.5 percent to $14.54 at the close in
 New York , its biggest one-day gain  since  November. The stock has
advanced 19 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Gross margin , or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting the cost of production, will be about the same in the
current period as the 54.3 percent reported for the first
quarter, the  Santa Clara , California-based company said.
Analysts had predicted gross margin of 53 percent for both
periods.  ‘Quite Vibrant’  “The PC as a platform for gaming is quite vibrant,” Chief
Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang said in a telephone interview.
New free games are increasing demand for computers that offer
better graphics, he said.  Nvidia has branched out into processors that run handheld
devices, seeking to lessen its dependence on PCs -- a market
that is poised for a second straight annual decline in 2013.  In mobile phones and tablets, the company expects to pick
up orders later in the year with the Tegra 4, the latest version
of its mobile line, Huang said. Nvidia slowed the development of
Tegra 4 to accelerate the introduction of a model that has an
integrated cellular baseband chip, called Tegra 4i, to woo more
phonemakers as customers.  In order to better compete with  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , which has
more than half the market for baseband chips, companies such as
Nvidia,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  need to speed up their
introduction of such combination chips that offer high-speed
Internet connections, said Christopher Rolland, an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets & Co.  Sales in the second quarter, which ends in July, will be
about $975 million, plus or minus 2 percent, Nvidia said. That
compared with an average analyst  projection  of $1.01 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  