-- Obama Second-Term Agenda Complicated by Cabinet Delays
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/obama-second-term-agenda-complicated-by-cabinet-delays.html
Senate Republicans are delaying at
least two Cabinet-level nominations with potential effects on
industries, complicating President  Barack Obama ’s second-term
agenda.  Obama’s choices to lead the Labor Department and the
Environmental Protection Agency have been delayed by feuds over
their past positions and the policies of departments they aspire
to lead. His nominee to lead the Energy Department had been
stalled, though an agreement was reached late yesterday for a
confirmation vote.  All Republicans on a panel that was scheduled to vote
yesterday on Gina McCarthy’s nomination to head the EPA delayed
it by refusing to show up. An unidentified Republican on May 8
postponed for a week a panel vote on Labor Secretary nominee
 Thomas Perez , as party leaders announced they oppose him.  A single senator had stalled a full Senate vote on Energy
Secretary nominee Ernest Moniz.  “The confirmation process is increasingly turning into a
hostage situation,” said  Ross Baker , a political science
professor at  Rutgers University  in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  The Senate earlier this year had disputes over the
confirmations of Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Central
Iintelligence Agency Director  John Brennan .  The current delays may be a warm-up to what could be a
contentious confirmation process for Chicago businesswoman and
Obama fundraiser  Penny Pritzker  to lead the Commerce Department.  ‘Every Trick’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  denounced what he said
are Republican stalling tactics on the nominations.  “Republicans will use any procedural roadblock or stall
tactic available to deny the President qualified nominees,”
Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said on the Senate floor yesterday.
“But my Republican colleagues can try every trick in the book.
I assure you Mr. Perez will have his day in the Senate. I assure
you Ms. McCarthy will have her day in the Senate.”  White House press secretary Jay Carney yesterday said
Senate Republicans should “stop the theater” and move on with
McCarthy’s nomination. He told reporters traveling with the
president to an event in Texas that the administration remains
confident the nominees eventually will be confirmed.  Senate Republican leaders say the criticism is unfounded,
and that the recent holdups are part of a careful examination of
nominees whose records raise important questions.  “We’ve processed a lot of nominations, but some of the
nominees the president has put up are really problematic,” said
Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, the second-ranking Republican
leader. “Congress has a role to play, in terms of advice and
consent. They need to relax a bit and let the Senate do its
job.”  Nomination Roadblocks  The Cabinet-level nominations have encountered roadblocks
for different reasons.  Perez, now the  Justice Department ’s top civil rights
lawyer, has differed with Republicans over his handling of two
whistle-blower lawsuits that the Justice Department declined to
pursue. They were part of a deal in which St. Paul, Minnesota,
agreed to drop a case being appealed to the  Supreme Court  in
return for the department withdrawing from the other cases.  The Supreme Court case risked striking down an enforcement
tool used by Justice in housing discrimination cases.  At his confirmation hearing last month, Perez clashed with
Republicans over the lawsuits. Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, added muscle to growing
partisan opposition this week, calling Perez a “crusading
ideologue” with a history of twisting the law to win desired
outcomes.  60 Senators  An unidentified Republican senator invoked a seldom-used
Senate rule to delay a planned committee vote until next week.
Meanwhile, McConnell’s spokesman,  Don Stewart , said it’s clear
Perez will need backing from at least 60 senators to end
delaying tactics by opponents.  McCarthy’s detractors said yesterday that their decision to
avoid the planned panel vote had less to do with her than with
the agency’s actions. Senator  David Vitter  of Louisiana, the top
Republican on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee,
said the EPA refused to fully answer a series of questions he
posed that relate to transparency over the agency’s development
and analysis of clean-air rules. McCarthy is now the EPA’s
assistant administrator for air pollution.  MIT Professor  The confirmation of Moniz, a  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  physics professor, was approved by the Energy and
Natural Resources Committee on a 21-1 vote in April.  Senator
Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, had placed a
“hold” on a floor vote to protest the administration’s
recommended cuts to a plutonium processing plant in his home
state.  Reid announced late yesterday that an agreement had been
reached to debate and vote on Moniz’s nomination.  In 2012, Republicans -- facing record-low approval ratings
and White House accusations that they were obstructionists --
decided against holding up confirmations to protest the
president’s appointment of officials while Congress was on a
holiday break.  On Jan. 4, 2012, Obama bypassed Senate confirmation and
installed the first U.S. consumer financial watchdog -- a
position Republicans wanted to abolish -- and three new members
to the National Labor Relations Board. Republicans debated
holding up nominations, though later let judicial and executive-branch picks move through the chamber, which Democrats control
with 55 votes.  2011 Battles  This month’s delays return the Senate to the confirmation
battles of 2011. Republicans that year for months held up a vote
on former  Edison International (EIX)  Chief Executive Officer  John Bryson , Obama’s choice for commerce secretary, until the White
House forwarded pending trade deals for South Korea, Panama and
Colombia to Congress for approval.  Some nominees, including Federal Reserve board choice  Peter Diamond , withdrew their names from consideration that year
because of delays.  Obama’s nomination last week of Tom Wheeler, a venture
capitalist and former lobbyist, to lead the Federal
Communications Commission may face a confirmation fight amid a
cool reception from Senate Commerce Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat.  “What’s unusual is the number of these disputes that are
breaking out now,” said  John Pitney , a political science
professor at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, California.  He said the number of current disputes over Obama’s
nominees is partly because the balance of power didn’t shift in
Washington after the 2012 election. Republicans, he said, are
starting to look to the 2014 congressional elections, and a 2016
presidential contest when Obama will have left the stage.  “The president is now a lame duck,” Pitney said.
“Second-term presidents don’t have the same energy and
influence they had. The laws of political gravity are taking
hold, and some nominees are getting pulled down as a result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  