-- Obama Administration Defends Changing Benghazi Account
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/obama-administration-defends-changing-benghazi-account.html
Obama administration officials
insisted that the White House and State Department had a minor
role in altering an erroneous account of a deadly attack on a
U.S. compound in  Libya  last year, after internal e-mails
surfaced indicating it was shaped by political concerns.  “The White House involvement was very limited and non-substantive,”  Jay Carney , President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman,
told reporters yesterday. “The talking points reflect the
intelligence community assessment of what happened.”  The account, used by  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the
 United Nations , on Sunday television talk shows days after the
Sept. 11 attack, went through at least 12 versions with input
from administration officials, according to e-mails cited
yesterday by ABC News.  The talking points erroneously portrayed the attack that
killed U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other
Americans as growing out of a “spontaneous” protest against an
anti-Islamic video, a demonstration that was hijacked by
extremists. The administration later acknowledged the account
was incorrect.  While Republicans have said the talking points were
tailored to deflect criticism in the weeks before last year’s
presidential election, the administration has insisted that it
made only “stylistic” changes to an account originally drafted
by the Central Intelligence Agency. The e-mails cited by ABC
showed extensive revisions.  Administration officials didn’t question the accuracy of
the e-mails, while describing them as normal give-and-take in
preparing an account that was initially requested by lawmakers.  Information Abuse  In one exchange,  Victoria Nuland , a State Department
spokeswoman, objected to a passage in the CIA draft that said
the agency had warned repeatedly of “the threat of extremists
linked to al-Qaeda in Benghazi and eastern Libya,” including
“at least five other attacks against foreign interests in
Benghazi by unidentified assailants.”  Such information “could be abused by members” of Congress
“to beat up the State Department for not paying attention to
warnings, so why would we want to feed that?” Nuland said in an
e-mail to the White House and intelligence agencies. The
paragraph she challenged was deleted.  The original draft by the CIA included the incorrect
portrayal of the attack as having been “spontaneously inspired
by the protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo” over the anti-Islamic video. It also said that “Islamic extremists with ties
to al-Qaeda participated in the attack,” citing the group Ansar
al-Sharia.  ‘Issues’ Remained  Nuland urged removing references to the terrorist group,
saying it could “prejudice the investigation.” After more
revisions, Nuland said the changes didn’t resolve “all of my
issues or those of my buildings leadership,” according to ABC.  Republicans such as Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  for
months have portrayed the administration’s account of the attack
as intentionally misleading.  “I’ve known it was a cover-up for a long time,” McCain,
his party’s 2008 presidential nominee, said in an interview this
week. “The narrative of the presidential campaign was that
Osama bin Laden was dead, al-Qaeda was ‘on the run,’ decimated,
and this act obviously was only from a spontaneous
demonstration.”  Politicizing Tragedy  Republican criticism of the account reflects continuing
“attempts to politicize a tragedy that took four American
lives,” said Carney, the White House spokesman.  Administration officials defended their editing process,
saying that the talking points were crafted just four days after
the attack as intelligence agencies were still sorting through
information about the cause and perpetrators. They said they
wanted to be cautious in public comments to avoid influencing
the investigation that was under way.  “All of this information was provided months ago to
members of Congress,” Carney said. “We’re now seeing it
resurface together with sort of political assertions by
Republicans that ignore the basic facts here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  