-- Ocado Shareholders Register Protest Vote Over Executive Pay
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-05-10T16:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/ocado-shareholders-register-protest-vote-over-executive-pay.html
Almost a quarter of  Ocado Group Plc 
shareholders voted against the company’s annual remuneration
report as investors registered a protest.  The resolution to approve the report at today’s annual
meeting was opposed by shareholders owning about 23.5 percent of
the stock, Ocado said in a statement. Almost 17 percent vetoed a
share-matching award for new chairman  Stuart Rose , while 13.6
percent voted against the long-term-incentive plan.  Ocado, the U.K.’s largest online-only grocer, gave Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Steiner  a 29 percent raise for the current
year because of his “significant individual performance,” the
company said in its annual financial report published March 14.
Steiner was the only senior executive to get a salary increase.  The company, which turned reporters away from today’s
shareholder meeting, didn’t specify performance targets for the
long-term incentive plan in an April 5 document sent to
shareholders, citing “their commercial sensitivity.” The goals
are “challenging” and include delivering profitable growth
over the next three years, according to the document.  Former Chairman  Michael Grade , who stepped down today, told
the Daily Telegraph that revealing the details was unnecessary
as the board had discussed the structure with investors, the
newspaper reported May 4. According to the Telegraph, the
Association of British Insurers had demanded that Ocado publish
the details.  Under the company’s pay plan, Steiner will get 450,000
pounds ($690,000), Ocado said in its annual report. Former Marks
& Spencer Group Plc CEO Rose will be paid 200,000 pounds a year.  Bonus Ceiling  Rose has also been awarded 400,000 pounds worth of shares
once he takes up his role as chairman as part of a co-investment
plan that requires him to invest a year’s fees on appointment.
He will pay the nominal value of 9,046 pounds for the shares,
which won’t vest until three years after he starts as chairman.  The bonus payment ceiling has been raised to 125 percent of
base salary from 100 percent for Steiner and to 100 percent of
base salary from 80 percent for executive directors.  Ocado shares rose 7.7 percent to 224.6 pence at the close
of trading in London today after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised
the stock to buy, saying sales growth is set to accelerate. The
closing price was the highest since June 10, 2011.  The stock has almost tripled this year on optimism that a
new warehouse will help speed up sales growth and after the
company said in March it’s in talks with William  Morrison
Supermarkets  Plc to license some of its Web-shopping technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  