-- Lodestone Hedge Fund Said to Liquidate After Arrests
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-05-10T07:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/lodestone-hedge-fund-said-to-liquidate-after-arrests-correct-.html
The Lodestone Natural Resources hedge
fund is being liquidated following the February arrests of two
of its founders as part of an investigation into alleged  insider
trading , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The $100 million pool, which invests in commodity stocks,
is shutting down after U.K. regulators detained Chief Investment
Officer Tim Whyte and founding partner Carl Linderum for
questioning on Feb. 27, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the London-based firm is private. Neither has
been charged with any crime.  “It’s extremely difficult for investors to stay in because
of the large operational and headline risk,” said Jerome Lussan, chief executive officer of Laven Partners Ltd., a hedge-fund consulting firm in London. “That’s problematic for a firm
with just one hedge fund, because once the assets go they are
left with zero. You can’t survive on zero.”  Lodestone joins U.S. hedge funds including Diamondback
Capital LLC and Level Global Investors LP in failing to survive
an insider-trading probe. Diamondback’s founders said in
December they would liquidate the hedge-fund firm after clients
sought to pull $4.3 billion, or 74 percent of its assets under
management, following a raid by the FBI in 2010.  Whyte, 38, declined to comment on the decision to shut the
fund. His lawyer didn’t return an e-mail and phone call seeking
comment. Linderum, 36, plans to contest the regulator’s
allegations, his attorney, Elizabeth Robertson, said in a March
13 interview. Robertson, a partner at K&L Gates LLP in  London ,
didn’t respond to requests for comment today.  Search Warrants  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority arrested Whyte,
Linderum and a third London trader, GLG Partners Inc.’s Carl Esprey, people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.
The regulator, which has since been replaced by the  Financial
Conduct Authority , questioned the men for several hours before
releasing them, the people said. Six search warrants were
executed on homes and offices in the British capital and
surrounding areas as part of the investigation.  None of the three traders have been accused publicly of any
wrongdoing and the FSA didn’t identify the men by name or the
firms they worked at when it announced the arrests in a Feb. 27
 press release .  Whyte, Linderum and Ben Belldegrun started the Lodestone
Natural Resources fund last year after working together at
Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, the $37 billion hedge-fund
firm founded by  Alan Howard . Lodestone gained more than 8
percent in 2012, according to a person with knowledge of the
firm. Hedge funds focused on  stocks  rose 7.4 percent on average
last year, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Regulators Act  Esprey, 34, was a portfolio manager focused on trading the
equities of natural-resource companies at London-based GLG,
which has hedge funds with $14.2 billion of assets. He had no
immediate comment on the investigation today.  GLG’s parent,  Man Group Plc (EMG) , confirmed Feb. 27 that one of
its employees had been arrested for “actions as a private
individual,” without identifying the trader. Man Group said in
a statement that it had suspended the employee and was
cooperating with regulators.  Regulators on both sides of the Atlantic have cracked down
on hedge funds and other asset managers for trading on illicit
tips about companies. The FCA announced last week that it had
arrested a 41-year-old man and a 37-year-old woman as part of a
separate probe.  In the U.S., more than 80 people have been charged since
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and federal prosecutors
began an effort five years ago to combat trading on illegal
information by portfolio managers, analysts and company
employees. A former Diamondback portfolio manager and one of
Level Global’s co-founders were convicted by a U.S. jury in
December of participating in an insider-trading scheme that
reaped more than $72 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  