-- OGX Falls on Petronas Cash Delay and Abandoned Fields: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-05-10T21:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/ogx-falls-on-petronas-cash-delay-and-abandoned-fields-rio-mover.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil company, fell after it abandoned
offshore exploration acreage and said it won’t receive the bulk
of an $850 million oil-field sale until it starts producing.  OGX, the most shorted stock in  Brazil , declined 1.2 percent
to 1.63 reais at the close in  Sao Paulo , the lowest since April
24. It is down 63 percent this year, compared with a 9.6 percent
drop in the benchmark Bovespa index.  The explorer, based in Rio de Janeiro, will receive $250
million from the sale of a 40 percent stake in the Tubarao
Martelo oil field when the deal closes, the company said in a
statement yesterday. It will get the remaining $500 million
after it starts production and $100 million after it meets three
separate output targets. OGX agreed to sell a stake in the
field, which spans two exploration licenses, to Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. on May 8.  “The additional $100 million of payments associated with
daily production rates may take some time to realize and may not
be achieved at all,” Daniel Sensel and Gregg Brody, analysts at
JP Morgan Chase & Co., said in a note to clients today.  OGX reported 856 million reais ($423 million) in write offs
from non-commercial areas it returned to the country’s oil
regulator and costs from dry holes, according to yesterday’s
statement. The charges contributed to higher-than-expected
losses of 805 million reais in the first quarter.  The returned areas include the Tambora, Tupangato, Cozumel
and Cancun accumulations, Marcus Sequeira, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note to clients today.  “We expect the stock to continue to give back recent gains
due to vulnerable cash flow position and the relinquishment of
additional areas which has negative valuation repercussions,”
Sequeira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  