-- Tokyo Olympic Chief Says Bid Chances Unhurt by Istanbul Remarks
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-05-10T08:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/tokyo-olympic-chief-says-bid-chances-unhurt-by-istanbul-remarks.html
Tokyo Governor Naoki Inose’s  remarks
about Istanbul, which is also vying to host the 2020 Olympics,
won’t hurt the Japanese capital’s bid for the games, the
president of  Japan ’s Olympic committee said.  The  International Olympic Committee  would take no action in
connection with Inose’s remarks, in which he appeared critical
of  Turkey ’s Islamic faith, said Tsunekazu Takeda, who is also
president of Tokyo’s 2020 Olympic bid committee.  The IOC is deciding between finalists Tokyo, Istanbul and
 Madrid  to host the 2020 Olympic Summer Games and will announce
its decision on Sept. 7.  Inose issued an apology on April 30
for remarks that appeared in a New York Times story three days
earlier, saying the comments as printed didn’t reflect his
“sincere thoughts.”  “The IOC has told us that this case is closed,” Takeda
said today at a press conference in Tokyo. “There will be no
problem anymore.”  In the April 27  New York  Times article, the governor seemed
to dismiss the notion that IOC members may want to grant the
games to Istanbul in order to have them held for the first time
in an Islamic country.  “Islamic countries, the only thing they share in common is
Allah and they are fighting with each other, and they have
classes,” Inose said, according to the Times.  Apology Letter  He later acknowledged in his letter of apology distributed
by the 2020 bid’s press office that the IOC’s code of ethics
prohibits prospective host countries from criticizing one
another.  Takeda said during today’s press conference that Tokyo
would be a successful host for the games in 2020, while refusing
to answer any questions that called on him to compare the city
to its rivals.  “We are totally focused on delivering the best possible
games,” he said. “I can’t compare to tell you about the other
candidate cities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  