-- H.K. Growth Misses Forecasts on China’s Economic Slowdown
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-05-10T16:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/hong-kong-economy-grows-less-than-forecast-0-2-as-china-slows.html
Hong Kong ’s  economy  grew a less-than-estimated 0.2 percent in the first three months of this year,
the slowest pace in three quarters, as  China ’s expansion cooled.  The increase from the previous three months compared with a
revised 1.4 percent gain in the fourth quarter, the government
said yesterday. The median estimate of 13 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 0.5 percent increase.  Hong Kong’s government aims to sustain economic growth
while controlling risks in a housing market where  prices  have
more than doubled since the start of 2009. HSBC Holdings Plc and
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. reduced forecasts for the city’s gross
domestic product this year after China’s expansion missed
estimates in the first quarter.  “The sluggish recovery of major economies including China
and the U.S. will remain the major headwinds,” said Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  An additional risk is any “sharp
adjustment” of  home prices , Yeung said.  The economy gained 2.8 percent from a year earlier, after a
revised increase of the same size in the three months ended
December, the government said, reaffirming a February projection
of full-year growth of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent. Government
economist Helen Chan said the 2 percentage point range reflected
an uncertain global economic environment.  Stock Gains  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  is up 8.4 percent from this
year’s low on April 18 on speculation that improvements in U.S.
demand will counter the effects of the slowdown in China. In the
global economy, the key source of risk is the euro region,
“which is wrought with structural problems and mired in
recession,” the government said in yesterday’s statement.  Hong Kong faces overheating risks as gains in consumption
and personal debt outpace economic growth,  Norman Chan , chief
executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, told lawmakers on
May 3.  ANZ cut its forecast for the city’s economic growth to 2.5
percent from 3.7 percent after China’s first-quarter data. Daiwa
Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd., HSBC and DBS lowered their
estimates to 2 percent, 3.7 percent and 4 percent respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  