-- Monsanto, Dow Crops Face Delays as U.S. Boosts Scrutiny
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-05-10T20:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/monsanto-dow-herbicide-tolerant-crops-to-get-reviews.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  and Dow Chemical Co.
face delays in selling crops engineered to survive older
weedkillers after the the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
announced increased scrutiny of the genetically modified plants.  Monsanto crops that tolerate applications of dicamba and
Dow crops that tolerate 2,4-D will be evaluated in separate
environmental impact statements, the USDA’s Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service said today in a  statement  on its
website. The crops were previously being evaluated through
environmental assessments, which is a shorter review.  The new plants are supposed to augment Monsanto’s Roundup
Ready crops, engineered to tolerate glyphosate, a weedkiller
sold as Roundup. An increasing swath of farmland is infested
with weeds that are no longer killed by the herbicide. The
longer USDA review will delay introduction of 2,4-D tolerant
corn, marketed under under the Enlist brand, by one year to
2015, said Garry Hamlin, a Dow spokesman.  “Glyphosate-resistant and hard-to-control weeds have
spread” to 25 states in the four years since Dow began the
approval process, the Midland, Michigan-based company said in a
 statement  today. “These adverse trends will continue without
new state-of-the-art solutions like the Enlist weed control
system.”  Testing Program  Monsanto will use the longer review time to improve its
dicamba-tolerant corn and cotton by letting some farmers use the
crops in its Ground Breakers program in 2013 and 2014, the St.
Louis-based company said in a  statement . Monsanto, the largest
seed company, created dicamba-tolerant crops with  BASF SE. (BAS)   The timing of commercial introductions, which had been
anticipated for 2014 or 2015, depends on the regulatory process,
said Kelli Powers, a Monsanto spokeswoman. The USDA took 15
months to complete the environmental impact statement on Roundup
Ready sugarbeets, she said.  Dow fell 1.3 percent to $34.46 at the close in  New York .
Monsanto gained 0.6 percent to $108.12.  The number of new acres infested with Roundup resistant
weeds increased 50 percent last year, Dow said. The expanded
review for two types of 2,4-D tolerant soybeans shouldn’t delay
the anticipated start of sales in 2015, Hamlin said.  Dicamba and 2,4-D have been “safely and widely used”
since the 1960s, the USDA said. Still, many public comments
focused on how the engineered crops will increase use of the
older herbicides, as well as their impact on neighboring, non-target crops, the USDA said. Others discussed the potential for
weeds to develop resistance to those chemicals as well.  ‘Dramatic Increase’  The Center for  Food Safety , which successfully sued to
force the USDA to create environment impact statements for
Roundup Ready sugarbeets and alfalfa, said approval of the new
crops would cause a “dramatic increase” in the use of
herbicides linked to health problems. The weedkillers also can
drift onto wild plants, harming threatened and endangered
species, the center said.  “While we welcome this decision, it remains to be seen
whether the agency will undertake the required hard-look
analysis of the environmental and economic impacts of these
crops,” Bill Freese, science policy analyst for the center,
said in a statement today.  The  Biotechnology Industry Organization , which represents
makers of biotechnology drugs and crops, said it was
“disappointed” by the USDA’s decision. The action “sets bad
precedent for future consideration of safe and beneficial
genetically engineered plant products,” the organization said
in a statement today.  Public Comments  USDA received 8,200 comments, including petitions signed by
more than 400,000 people, on Dow’s applications to deregulate
2,4-D corn and soybeans. It got 500 individual comments and
31,000 form letters on Monsanto’s petition to deregulate
dicamba-tolerant soybeans and cotton.  The Save Our Crops Coalition, which includes growers and
processors of tomatoes, grapes and other specialty fruits and
vegetables, said members are pleased the USDA will examine the
“unprecedented threat” posed by dicamba-tolerant crops.
Dicamba is “one of America’s most dangerous herbicides for non-target plant damage,” the coalition said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  