-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Declines for a Second Day in New York
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-05-10T01:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/top-oil-market-news-crude-declines-for-a-second-day-in-new-york.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Crude Declines as Dollar Strengthens After U.S. Jobless Claims  West Texas Intermediate crude retreated from a one-month
high as the dollar rose against the euro after the number of
Americans filing jobless claims unexpectedly fell to the fewest
in more than five years.  Harper to Visit New York as Canada Pushes for Keystone Approval  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  will visit the U.S. next week
as  Canada  intensifies efforts to secure approval of TransCanada
Corp.’s Keystone XL pipeline.  Gasoline Imports Shrink in Mideast on Refineries: Energy Markets  The largest-ever expansion of Middle Eastern oil-refining
is poised to curb the region’s imports of gasoline, reducing
dependence on shipments from India and Singapore and sapping
margins for European and Asian processors.  ULSD Jumps to Four-Week High on Anticipation of Higher Demand  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel rose to the highest level since
April 10 on anticipation demand will increase as planting picks
up and as gasoil gained in  London .  Ethanol’s Discount to Gasoline Narrows on Tight Corn Supplies  Ethanol’s discount to gasoline narrowed on concern that
tight corn supplies before this year’s harvest will curtail
production of the biofuel.  Deutsche Bank Says Users of Corn Have Difficulty Getting Supply  Corn users are having difficulty obtaining supply because
farmer selling has slowed, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Gazprom Moscow Premium Swells as Oil Hits ADRs: Russia Overnight  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas-export monopoly, led losses among
the nations’s shares traded in  New York  as crude oil retreated
from a one-month high.  Glencore Buys Forties Crude; Mediterranean Urals Exceeds Brent  Glencore Xstrata Plc bought a cargo of North Sea Forties
crude at the highest differential in more than two months.  N.Y. Pro-Fracking Senator Has Ties to Firm With Gas Lease (2)  Senator Tom Libous, a champion of fracking in the New York
Legislature, is blocking a bill that would delay drilling for
 natural gas  for at least two more years. Passage of the measure
would harm the prospects of a real-estate company founded by
Libous’s wife and run by a business partner and campaign donor.  Chevron Wins Suit Against U.S. Over  California  Oil Deposits (2)  Chevron Corp. is entitled to unspecified damages against
the federal government in a contract dispute over oil deposits
in California worth $37 billion, the U.S. Court of Claims ruled.  U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for May 9 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly natural gas update as
released by the U. S. Department of Energy in Washington, D.C.:  N.Y. Pro-Fracking Senator Has Ties to Firm With Gas Lease (1)  Senator Tom Libous, a champion of fracking in the New York
Legislature, is blocking a bill that would delay drilling for
natural gas for at least two more years. Passage of the measure
would harm the prospects of a real-estate company founded by
Libous’s wife and run by a business partner and campaign donor.  Xstrata Credit-Default Swaps Diverge From Glencore After Merger  The cost of credit-default swaps insuring debt of Xstrata
Plc is slumping amid speculation the contracts won’t cover new
debt now that the mining company has completed its merger with
Glencore International Plc.  OPEC Crude Exports to Rise on Refiner Demand, Oil Movements Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase crude exports this month as refiners boost processing
ahead of the peak summer travel season, tanker tracker Oil
Movements said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Suncor Edmonton Refinery Restarting Operations After Work  Suncor Energy Inc.’s Edmonton refinery is restarting after
planned maintenance, the company said on a message left on a
community hot line.  Brent Pressured by U.S. Tripling Crude to Canada: Energy Markets  U.S. oil exports are poised to reach the highest level in
28 years as deliveries to Canada more than triple, helping bring
down the price of the global benchmark Brent crude relative to
U.S. grades.  San Francisco Gasoline Weakens After Shell Recovers From Upset  Spot gasoline in California weakened against futures after
Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Martinez refinery restored operations
following a unit upset.  Shell Martinez Refinery Restores Operations After Unit Upset  Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Martinez refinery in Northern
California is operating “as planned” after an upset in one of
its units, Kimberly Windon, a Co. spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  San Francisco Gasoline Weakens as Shell Martinez Restarts Coker  Gasoline on the  spot market  in California weakened as Royal
Dutch Shell Plc’s Martinez refinery was reported to restart a
coker after an unplanned shutdown.  Italy’s API, Unions Agree on Falconara Oil Refinery Restart  Workers at Anonima Petroli Italiana SpA’s refinery to vote
May 13 on draft agreement to resume Falconara operations,
according to company official who declined to be identified,
citing company policy.  CVR Wynnewood Reported Emissions Yesterday, State Says  CVR Energy Inc.’s Wynnewood refinery in Oklahoma reported
emissions for an unknown reason, according to Erin Hatfield, a
spokeswoman for the state Department of Environmental Quality.  Midwest Gas Soars to 5-Month High as Stockpiles Tumble on Work  U.S. Midwest gasoline strengthened against futures to the
highest level in more than five months as area inventories
slumped amid work at local refineries.  BP Whiting Pipestill 12 Testing Furnace, Genscape Says  BP Plc appears to be on track to restart a crude unit at
refinery in Indiana in June while “heavy work continued” on
many areas of the No. 2 coker, according to Genscape Inc., a
Louisville, Kentucky-based energy information provider.  European Gasoline Advances; Vitol Sells Naphtha: Oil Products  European gasoline barges advance for third day in four.
Vitol sells naphtha cargo, taking total this month to at least
eight shipments.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 2.5 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan fell 2.5 percent to 8.63 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  U.S. Treasury Targets Shipping Company Over Iran Oil Sanctions  The U.S. Treasury Department said today it is sanctioning
Sambouk Shipping FZC for attempting to evade international
restrictions on Iranian oil.  Saudi Aramco Seen Booking Three Tankers to Take Crude to U.S.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s biggest state-owned
crude producer, hired three supertankers to haul cargoes to the
U.S. Gulf Coast, shipbrokers said.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crude grades from the Middle East, Asia,
Africa and the Americas. Figures are in dollars a barrel, or
premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crude grades from the Middle East, Asia,
Africa and the Americas. Figures are in dollars a barrel, or
premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  U.S. Should Export Its Plentiful Natural Gas, Not Its Coal: View  President  Barack Obama ’s suggestion last weekend that he
may favor greater U.S. exports of liquefied natural gas is a
welcome sign. More exports would spur more domestic production
and help balance U.S. trade.  JPMorgan Says Energy Watchdog May Seek to Punish Units, Workers  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest  U.S. bank , was warned by
federal energy-market regulators that its personnel and two
subsidiaries may face claims stemming from a probe into bidding
practices.  Brent Declines for Third Day as U.S. Crude Stockpiles Increase  Brent crude futures fell for a third session as U.S.
inventories increased. Iraq resumed oil exports via  Turkey  today
after a halt caused by sabotage to a pipeline.  EU Said to Plan Duties Up to 67.9% on China Solar Panels (1)  The European Union is planning to impose tariffs of as much
as 67.9 percent on solar panels from China to counter unfair
pricing in the largest EU trade dispute of its kind, according
to a commerce official from the bloc.  Eni Said to Hire LNG Traders Bowler, Godoy From Citigroup (1)  Eni SpA hired Richard Bowler and Hector Godoy, formerly
liquefied natural gas traders at Citigroup Inc. in London,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Apache to Divest $4 Billion in Assets and Buy Back Shares (3)  Apache Corp., this year’s third-worst performing oil and
natural gas producer on Standard & Poor’s energy index, plans to
sell $4 billion in assets by the end of this year and buy back
shares.  Silver Ridge Cuts Size of Canada IPO by 14% to $150 Million (1)  Silver Ridge Power Inc. cut the size of its planned initial
public offering by 14 percent to C$150 million ($150 million),
the second energy IPO in Canada in the past week to scale back
its sale.  Brazilian M&A Picks Up as Asians Seek Cheaper Oilfields: Energy  Brazilian energy acquisitions, on a steady decline after a
record $57 billion deals in 2010, are showing signs of a
revival, led by Chinese and Malaysian state- owned buyers
seeking lower valuations for offshore  oil fields .  Freeport-McMoRan Says Plains Takeover Offer Is ‘Best and Final’  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. said a special
committee of its directors formed to consider the proposed
takeover of Plains Exploration & Production Co. determined the
terms of the offer are “best and final” and that the company
won’t increase its bid.  Eni Sells $1.9 Billion Stake in Italian Gas Network Snam (3)  Eni SpA, Italy’s largest oil company, sold a $1.9 billion
stake in Snam SpA, the owner of the country’s biggest natural-gas network.  OTHER MARKETS  Yen Slides to 100 Per Dollar as S&P 500 Retreats From Record  The yen slid to 100 per dollar for the first time in four
years, extending losses triggered by the Bank of Japan’s
deflation-fighting efforts. U.S. 30-year bonds erased gains
while U.S. benchmark stock indexes fell from records.  Rates Reining in Aussie Seen Beating Kiwi Peashooter: Currencies  Australia’s interest-rate cuts will prove more successful
than New Zealand’s intervention in foreign-exchange markets at
curbing gains that made their currencies the world’s best
performers since 2008.  U.S. Stocks Fall as Plosser Says He Favors Tapering Fed Stimulus  U.S. stocks retreated, following five successive records
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the  Federal Reserve  Bank
of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said he favors scaling
back the central bank’s pace of stimulus.  Equity Market Rules Are Overdue for Update, U.S. Lawmaker Says  A high-ranking Republican lawmaker plans to press
regulators to undertake a wholesale examination of its rules
governing U.S. equity markets.  Corn Drought Easing Boosts Reserves Most Since 1960: Commodities  Corn inventories in the U.S., the biggest grower and
exporter, are poised for the largest expansion since at least
1960 as production rebounds to a record from last year’s
drought.  Gold Futures Fall as U.S. Jobs Data Damps Stimulus Speculation  Gold futures fell after a report showed that the number of
Americans filing claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly
dropped last week, easing pressure on the Federal Reserve to
expand monetary stimulus.  Bangladesh Building Collapse Death Toll Reaches 1,000 Amid Fire  The death toll from the collapse of a garment-factory
building in Bangladesh two weeks ago has risen to 1,000 while a
fire at a clothing factory in Dhaka killed at least eight.  Pakistan to Vote Without Dominant Front-Runner as Taliban Attack  Pakistanis vote tomorrow in an election that marks an
unprecedented transfer of power between civilian governments, as
a campaign marred by attacks exposed the security challenges the
new administration will face.  SPORTS  Castro Leads Players Championship After Tying Course-Record 63  Roberto Castro holds a three-shot lead at 9-under par after
tying a course record during the first round of the U.S. PGA
Tour’s  Players championship . Ireland’s Rory McIlroy is second at
6-under as play continues.  Paulson Real-Estate Unit Flees Resort Lawsuit for Bankruptcy (1)  Billionaire  John Paulson  sought bankruptcy court protection
for a real estate unit of his hedge fund after executives there
were sued for alleged conflicts of interest in the asset sales
of five bankrupt resorts.  Manchester United Hires Moyes to Succeed Ferguson as Manager  Manchester United  hired Everton’s  David Moyes  as the record
20-time English soccer champion’s next manager following  Alex
Ferguson ’s retirement.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       96.09  -0.30  -0.3  Nymex     June
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    104.47  +0.13  +0.1    Ice     June
Gasoil ($/Ton)         870.50  +4.25  +0.5    Ice     June
Gasoline (c/Gal)       287.66  -0.85  -0.3  Nymex     June
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.96  -0.03  -0.7  Nymex     June
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    104.20  -0.28  -0.3    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            292.91  -0.75  -0.3  Nymex     June
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.79  +1.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,468.60  -0.3
MSCI World Index     1,495.74  -0.5
Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  