-- OPEC Crude Production Rises to Five-Month High on Saudi Increase
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-05-10T10:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/opec-crude-production-rises-to-five-month-high-on-saudi-increase.html
OPEC boosted crude output in April to
the highest in five months as Saudi Arabia increased production,
helping lower  oil prices  amid concern that global economic
growth is slowing.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries produced
30.46 million barrels a day last month, up from 30.18 million in
March, the group’s Vienna-based secretariat said today in its
Monthly Oil Market Report. That’s the most since November. The
estimates are based on secondary sources.  Brent crude  slipped 7 percent last month as  Europe 
struggled to move beyond its debt crisis and China’s growth and
manufacturing showed signs of a slowdown. The drop brings prices
closer to the $100-a-barrel target Saudi Arabia’s Oil Minister
 Ali Al-Naimi  described as “reasonable” for consumers and
producers. Brent, the benchmark for more than half of the
world’s oil, traded at about $104 today on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London .  “The continued decline in the eurozone, the significant
deceleration in the first quarter in some of the Asian economies
and the recently acknowledged slowdown in Russia all have the
potential to again push growth down,” according to OPEC, which
supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest crude exporter, pumped
9.27 million barrels a day in April, rising from 9.13 million in
March, OPEC said. That’s the most since November and compares
with the country’s own figure of 9.31 million barrels based on
its direct communication with the group.  Fragile Recovery  Global oil demand  is forecast to rise 800,000 barrels a day
to 89.66 million barrels a day this year, little changed from
last month’s estimate.  “A fragile recovery in the global economy has been visible
since the beginning of the year, but momentum has started
slowing again and growth risks are skewed to the downside,” the
organization said.  Global demand for OPEC’s crude is forecast to reach 29.84
million barrels a day in 2013, revised up by 100,000 barrels a
day from last month’s report, OPEC said. That reflects a drop
from 30.23 million last year, the group said.  The report was edited by Oswaldo Tapia, who is listed as
“in charge” of OPEC’s research division. The group appointed
Saudi Arabia’s Omar Abdulhamid this month as head of research to
replace Kuwait’s Hasan Qabazard, according to two people with
knowledge of OPEC policy who asked not to be identified because
they are not authorized to speak publicly on the matter.  OPEC’s members are Algeria,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. They will meet on May 31 in Vienna to
discuss production policy after keeping their collective target
at 30 million barrels a day in December.  The  International Energy Agency  in Paris will release its
monthly and medium-term oil market reports on May 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  