-- Morgan Stanley Joins U.S. Trip Targeting Brazil Boom
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-05-10T17:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/morgan-stanley-joins-u-s-trip-targeting-brazil-boom.html
The Obama administration is setting
out to help exporters get in on Brazil’s building boom even as
it spars with the region’s biggest economy over high tariffs,
rules favoring local companies and monetary policies.  Brazil will be the focus of a U.S. trade mission for 20
companies including Morgan Stanley,  CNH Global (CNH)  NV,  Textron
Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna Aircraft Co. and  OSI Systems Inc. (OSIS) ’s Rapiscan,
which makes airport screening devices. The delegation also will
visit  Colombia  and  Panama , where commercial investment is on the
rise.  “They’re going to be spending big bucks on their
infrastructure improvement,” Deputy Commerce Secretary  Rebecca Blank , who has led the agency for 11 months, said in a phone
interview. The May 12-18 mission is her first as agency head.  The U.S. last year exported $43.7 billion in goods to
Brazil, a 68 percent increase since 2009, when President  Barack Obama  took office and the global economic crisis depressed
global exports. U.S. merchandise sent to Colombia increased 73
percent, to $16.4 billion, and to Panama jumped 131 percent, to
$9.9 billion, during the same period.  The administration of President Barack Obama in September
threatened to retaliate against Brazil for what it called
protectionist tariff increases on goods including steel,
plastics and machinery. The Latin American nation has accused
industrialized nations of waging a currency war to weaken its
exchange rates and thus boost exports. U.S. support for cotton
farmers and Brazilian policies to favor local manufacturers also
have heightened trade tensions between the nations.  Trade Work  “There are things here to work on in the U.S.-Brazil trade
relationship,” Blank said. Those disputes are not a reason to
halt trade between the nations, she said.  “The U.S. is still a very important source of inspiration
for our manufacturers and we’re confident that with this trade
mission we will try to increase our knowledge,” Tovar Nunes,
spokesman at Brazil’s Foreign Ministry, said yesterday by
telephone from Brasilia. “We take it as sort of a healthy
injection of enthusiasm for our own business community to do
better and also work with the government to improve the business
environment in Brazil.”  Governments that complain about protectionism should check
their own policies, Nunes said. “They will be surprised to see
who is actually protectionist,” he said.  Soccer, Olympics  Brazil, the eighth-largest U.S. trading partner, plans to
invest 959 billion reals ($477 billion) on transportation,
telecommunications and energy as it prepares for soccer’s  World
Cup  in 2014 and the 2016  Olympic Games  in Rio de Janeiro,
according to the Commerce Department.  Rapiscan Systems Inc. of Torrance, California, has already
won contracts to install scanners at stadiums in two Brazilian
cities for the Confederations Cup soccer tournament this year.
It hopes those deals will lead to additional contracts for the
World Cup and Olympics, said Peter Kant, executive vice
president.  “The immediate focus in Brazil is the security business,”
he said in a phone interview. The company has established an
office in Rio to help ease what Kant said are “some very
frustrating trade and tax rules,” including those that favor
local companies. He said he hopes the trip will help make it
easier to do business in Brazil.  The U.S. should be satisfied with the bilateral
relationship because the U.S. has a  trade surplus  with Brazil,
according to Nunes. Steps Brazil took to deal with the global
economic crisis complied with global trade rules, he said.  The two nations in March 2011 also reached a cooperation
agreement to improve trade.  Failed Talks  While the U.S. has trade pacts with Panama, Colombia and
nine other Latin American nations, Brazil -- which accounts for
about 45 percent of the region’s output -- isn’t among them. The
nation was part of a bloc in 2005 that was at odds with the U.S.
over a Free Trade Area of the Americas, leading to a collapse of
the talks.  “Whether or not we have a trade agreement, you can’t
ignore” Brazil because of its size,  Eric Farnsworth , vice
president of the New York-based Council of the Americas and head
of its Washington office, said in a phone interview. While
policies favoring local producers have slowed investment in some
industries, such as oil and gas, the focus on infrastructure may
ease some of the bottlenecks hindering trade, he said.  Obama Focus  The trade mission supports Obama’s recent focus on  Latin
America , even as the U.S. pursues agreements with 11 Pacific-region countries and the 27-nation European Union. Obama visited
Mexico and  Costa Rica  last week. The 159 members of the  World
Trade Organization  this week chose a Brazilian, Roberto Azevedo,
as the trade arbiter’s director-general, further raising the
region’s profile.  Latin America is “a very high priority area for the United
States” in terms of trade, Blank said.  Vice President  Joe Biden  will visit the region the week of
May 26, according to a White House announcement on May 8. The
trip to Brazil, Colombia,  Trinidad and Tobago  “will be an
important chance to discuss our collective efforts to promote
economic growth and development, access to energy and our
ongoing collaboration on citizen security,” according to the
statement.  Security Provider  Blank is taking contractors, engineering firms, software
providers, construction companies, providers of energy services
and infrastructure financiers on her week-long trade mission.
Most of the businesses are closely held, including security
provider Condortech Services Inc. of Springfield, Virginia, and
Ghafari Associates, an engineering and construction consulting
firm based in Dearborn, Michigan.  Spokesmen for New York-based banker  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Case
New Holland Inc., a U.S. unit of CNH Global of Amsterdam,
declined to comment.  Global sporting events that will showcase Brazil through
2016 are hastening infrastructure investment.  “We see significant opportunity there between the World
Cup and the Olympics,” Rich Humphrey, senior director of
industry strategy for  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) , said in a phone interview.
The  San Rafael , California-based company, which provides
engineering and design software, is participating in trade
mission in part to promote a product that is being used in the
expansion of the Panama Canal.  Tollgrade Communications Inc. of Cranberry Township,
Pennsylvania, will join the delegation to show products that
help utilities identify threats to their power line networks.  Heightened Importance  “There’s been a heightened sense of importance” of
providing reliable energy to businesses, particularly as they
add renewable energy to their systems, said Erik Christian, vice
president of smart grid technologies at the company. “There’s
definitely been an uptick over the last 18 months, especially in
Brazil.”  Jim Jobes, operations manager Ghafari’s Brazil unit, said
the company is looking to add local partners, particularly as
more airports are taken over by private operators and upgraded.
The trip will provide “the ability to open some doors that
might not be opened otherwise,” he said.  During the three-nation visit, the delegation will meet
with ministers for trade, airlines and commerce. Blank will talk
with Panama President Ricardo Martinelli and the administrator
for the Panama Canal, which is undergoing a $5.25 billion
expansion. The mission coincides with the first anniversary of
the implementation of the U.S.-Colombia free-trade agreement.  “Colombia is launching a very ambitious infrastructure
effort” worth about $26 billion over the next four years,
Carlos Urrutia, the nation’s ambassador to Washington, said in a
phone interview. “There should be a lot of opportunities for
U.S. companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  