-- House Bill Seen Cutting $40 Billion While Ending Farmer Payments
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-05-10T17:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/house-bill-seen-cutting-40-billion-while-ending-farmer-payments.html
The House Agriculture Committee
proposed legislation that would cut farm programs by an
estimated $40 billion over 10 years and end direct payments to
farmers in favor of a growers safety net tied to crop insurance.  The  draft  released today is mostly identical to last year’s
bill approved by the committee that died without a floor vote.
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, has said the
House will take up a farm bill in the next four months.  The bill would cut spending $39.7 billion over 10 years,
according to a preliminary estimate by the Congressional Budget
Office. A majority of the reduction would come from spending on
nutrition programs, mostly on food stamps, which would drop
$20.5 billion in 10 years.  The legislation proposes tightening eligibility for the Low
Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which as been backed by
Republicans. As with last year’s bill, the draft would bar food-stamp benefits for lottery-game winners and restrict eligibility
for college students. The bill keeps an amendment to last year’s
committee version to require immigration status checks as part
of food-stamp eligibility.  The 576-page bill would reauthorize farm subsidies, federal
conservation programs and nutrition programs through Sept. 30,
2018.  Crop Subsidies  Crop subsidies would be cut by 10 percent of total
spending, more than the 2.5 percent drop for food stamps. About
$6 billion of the projected reductions would come from cuts
already enacted through required federal budget actions known as
sequestration.  The draft measure retains most provisions for the cotton
program from last year’s proposal, including the so-called
stacked income protection plan for growers as proposed by the
National Cotton Council. The draft eliminates floor prices in an
effort to settle a trade dispute.  The U.S. currently pays cotton farmers in Brazil $147
million a year to settle a disagreement over cotton subsidies in
exchange for the government of South America’s largest economy
not retaliating against U.S. exports. Brazil had sought changes
to the income plan in the 2012 farm bill, sending lawmakers in
search of language that might resolve the World Trade
Organization dispute.  Both the House bill and a draft Senate bill, circulated
yesterday, would extend sugar price supports. Candy, snack food
and beverage companies that oppose the subsidies have started
campaigning to keep the provision out of the legislation. Cane-and beet-sugar growers support the program.  Sugar Supports  The U.S. limits sugar imports and sets prices for about
5,000 growers, raising consumer costs by $3.5 billion a year,
according to an Iowa State University study. Because it helps
farmers by setting artificially higher prices rather than with
direct payments, government spending is minimal.  Because import restrictions limit competition, U.S. prices
tend to be higher than the world market. Trade groups for food
and beverage companies including  PepsiCo Inc. , Mars Inc. and
 Hershey Co.  say quotas hurt profits and cost jobs -- leaving
them with little enthusiasm for sugar programs.  The growers’ American Sugar Alliance says proposals to
strip out the provision may cause some producers to fail.  The House and Senate drafts include the same dairy plan
that stalled House action last year. Long championed by Collin
Peterson, the ranking Democrat on the House Agriculture
Committee, the proposal would attempt to stabilize milk prices
by creating a mechanism to manage supplies.  Last time around, Speaker  John Boehner  described that plan
as worse than current policy — and he’s no fan of the way it’s
done now. He once called it a “Soviet-style” system for its
intrusion into markets.  Both bills will be debated in committee next week -- the
Senate on May 14, and the House the next day.  The current extension of U.S. farm policy, enacted as part
of the New Year’s Eve spending deal, begins to expire Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  