-- How the Golden Spike Joined America's Coasts
-- B y   M a u r y   K l e i n
-- 2013-05-10T18:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/how-the-golden-spike-joined-america-s-coasts.html
Tomorrow happens to be  National Train
Day , which was designated as the first Saturday after the
anniversary of the driving of the “Golden Spike.”  On May 10, 1869, the Central Pacific and  Union Pacific (UNP) 
railroads were joined in a remote area of  Utah , completing the
first transcontinental railroad. This made the West Coast easily
accessible for the first time, along with the vast expanse
between the  Pacific Ocean  and the Missouri River. This region,
often called the “Great American Desert,” previously had been as
alien to easterners as the moon.  To most Americans, smitten with the idea of progress, the
joining of the rails signaled an opportunity for faster, more
comfortable travel across a huge distance and a gateway to the
settlement and development of the West.  “We are the youngest of people,” the  New York  Herald said,
“but we are teaching the world how to march forward.”  Railroads now spanned the continent, connecting its two
great oceans, enabling the exploitation of mineral and other
riches of the region, and improving access to the markets of the
 Far East .  Ending Wilderness  To a smaller group of people, the joining of the rails
portended the end of a vast wilderness of rugged, largely
unknown landscapes of a stark, awe-inspiring beauty. As early as
the summer of 1868, a young engineer named Arthur Ferguson,
working as a surveyor on the Union Pacific, scribbled in his
diary, “The time is coming, and fast too, when in the sense it
is now understood, THERE WILL BE NO WEST.”  As more rail lines followed, settlers arrived, towns sprang
up, mines were opened or expanded, cattlemen flooded the Great
Plains with their herds, farms dotted the once-empty vistas and
new states were formed. The great buffalo herd was destroyed
along with the tribes of American Indians who depended on them.
The economic transformation of the West -- in which railroads
had a central role -- was harsh and brutal and continues to
haunt the national psyche.  The engine of progress took time to gather steam. For
decades, the West remained economically dependent on the East;
not until World War II did it begin the frantic pattern of
growth that it has since enjoyed. The process started with the
driving of that Golden Spike in May 1869.  (Maury Klein is a professor emeritus of history at the
University of  Rhode Island  and the author of 16 books on
American history. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Maury Klein at  maurykl@verizon.net   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  