-- Moyes Wants Baines, Fellaini at Manchester Utd.: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-10T07:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/moyes-wants-baines-fellaini-at-manchester-utd-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Moyes Raid  David Moyes wants to take Everton duo Leighton Baines and
Marouane Fellaini with him to Manchester United when he starts
his new job as the English champion’s manager, the  Sun reported .  Moyes, who takes over from the retiring Alex Ferguson on
July 1, is ready to make a 15 million-pound ($23.1 million) move
for left-back Baines and could trigger the 24 million-pound
release clause in midfielder Fellaini’s contract, the Sun added.  Everton Resistance  Everton will resist any attempts by United to persuade
Baines to follow his outgoing manager to Old Trafford, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  The Merseyside club is determined to ensure there is no
exodus of its biggest playing assets and is adamant that it is
under no financial pressure to sell Baines, the newspaper added.  Next Manager  Everton may have to pay as much as 10 million pounds if it
wants to replace Moyes with Swansea manager Michael Laudrup, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Laudrup, who is on Everton’s short-list alongside Wigan
Athletic manager Roberto Martinez, signed a new two-year
contract in March which included a release clause should another
club try to hire him, the Mirror added.  Losing Lewandowski  United is about to lose out to Bayern Munich in the chase
to sign Borussia Dortmund striker Robert Lewandowski, the  Daily
Mail reported .  Dortmund informed its German rival that it could sign
Lewandowski for next season provided it agrees to a fee of 25
million euros ($33 million) by May 15, the Mail added. The
deadline will enable Dortmund to start searching for a
replacement, the newspaper said.  Pjanic Targeted  Manchester City, Tottenham and Arsenal are targeting Roma’s
attacking midfielder, Miralem Pjanic, the  Sun reported .  The 23-year-old Pjanic, who’s valued at 20 million pounds,
represented Luxembourg at under-17 and under-19 level before
choosing to represent Bosnia at senior level and has scored
seven goals in 39 games for the national team, the Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  