-- Toyota Unshackled as Abe Drives Japanese Yen Back to 100
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-05-10T08:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/toyota-unshackled-as-abe-drives-japanese-yen-back-to-100.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s half-decade of
fighting the yen is over, at least for now.  The weakening yen breached 100 against the dollar in U.S.
trading yesterday, paving the way for  Japan  to emerge from an
unprecedented and largely uninterrupted five-year stretch where
the currency’s appreciation beyond that level roiled exporters
and their ability to sell cars and televisions overseas.  The yen had last traded at 100 four years ago. While its
return to that level may usher in an era in which Toyota and
Japan’s other carmakers are no longer shackled by the currency,
they now face tougher competition than five years ago. U.S.
automakers have enjoyed a renaissance,  Germany ’s  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
is gunning for industry leadership and South Korea’s Hyundai
Motor Co. no longer is a builder of cheap, utilitarian cars.  “Japanese automakers used to enjoy great advantages over
Korean, U.S. and even German carmakers in many markets, but the
rivals have been catching up quickly and the gap is at a minimum
now,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , president of Fukoku Capital
Management Inc., which oversees about 1.5 trillion yen ($15
billion). “It’s really not going to be that simple this time.”  One hundred is not a magic number and, by historical
standards, the yen remains strong. Still, 100 is an important
technical marker because it represents a so-called 50 percent
Fibonacci retracement between its high of 75.35 in 2011 and a
decade low of 124.14 in 2007.  $100 Billion  It’s also powerfully symbolic, and investors have bought
into Japan’s recovery, driving the Nikkei 225 Stock Average to
its highest level since 2008. Toyota City-based Toyota, the
nation’s biggest company, has added more than $100 billion in
market value since the yen began sliding in mid-November, when
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, then running for office, began his
campaign to weaken the yen and end 15 years of deflation.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  has tripled in value, while Toyota has
increased 98 percent.  The yen has fallen 13 percent this year, the worst
performance out of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The British pound is the
second-worst performer, with a 2.5 percent slide. The euro
increased 1.9 percent, while the Canadian dollar climbed 1.4
percent.  The yen will decline to 105 per dollar by the end of the
year, according to the median of more than 50 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Currency Manipulator  U.S. automakers have accused the Japanese government of
manipulating its currency to gain a competitive advantage.  “The market setting the currency exchange rate is just
really, really important to global free trading rules,”  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally said yesterday
after the automaker’s annual meeting. “Any time you don’t,
that’s distorting the market. It’s not good for anybody around
the world.”  The weaker yen is giving Toyota, the world’s biggest
carmaker, the ability to project its highest annual profit since
the record 1.72 trillion yen earned five years ago.  Morgan Stanley estimates the currency boost at $1,500 per
car for Toyota. Japanese automakers will probably use the weaker
yen to add better components or accessories -- rather than cut
prices -- to win back customers from GM, Ford and Hyundai, said
Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research Corp.,
which manages about $3 billion in assets.  Postwar High  “You can use better materials to make the car a little bit
better,” said Merner. “You don’t want to cut prices. If you
cut the price, it’s hard to raise it.”  For Toyota President  Akio Toyoda , 57, currency relief
couldn’t come soon enough after battling the yen -- exacerbated
by recalls and natural disasters -- since the day he took over
in 2009. In late 2011, he was so glum he warned Japanese
automakers may collapse under the weight of a currency that had
surged to a postwar high of 75.35 against the dollar.  “We want to think of business not simply for the year
ahead, we want to think on a longer time frame, and think about
production and business that’s free of currency risks,” Toyoda
said on April 10.  Japanese corporate leaders have been waiting for the yen to
reach 100. That’s the level  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  President Takanobu Ito said the company could “balance our business,” while
Nissan CEO Carlos Ghosn called it “neutral territory.”  U.S. Bankruptcies  When the yen was weaker than 100 five years ago, Toyota was
earning almost triple Volkswagen’s net income and almost nine
times Seoul-based Hyundai. In  Detroit , GM was on its way to
losing $80 billion over a four-year stretch as the biggest U.S.
carmaker and Chrysler Group LLC headed toward bankruptcies that
would cost U.S. taxpayers $80 billion. Ford managed to survive
without bailout funds by borrowing more than $23 billion to
finance restructuring.  Then the subprime-mortgage crisis hit and the yen never
reached 100 again, except for a one-week period in 2009, when
the Japanese currency fluctuated between 100 and 101.  The global recession that ensued hit export-driven Japanese
manufacturers particularly hard because the stronger yen made
shipments to the U.S.,  Europe  and across Asia more expensive.  The earthquake-triggered tsunami of March 2011 that rocked
Japan wreaked havoc with  supply chains , followed months later by
flooding in  Thailand  that disrupted their Southeast Asian
manufacturing hub.  Humbling Recalls  Toyota also coped with the recall of more than 10 million
vehicles from 2009 to 2010 because of loose floor mats and
sticky accelerator pedals. Though probes by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration and  NASA  found no flaws in the
electronics of Toyota cars, as claimed by plaintiffs’ lawyers,
the recalls accelerated Toyota’s decline in quality scores. The
company had to wait until 2012 to return to pre-crisis levels of
quality, based on assessments from J.D. Power & Associates,
Consumer Reports and ALG Inc.  U.S. automakers used that window to reduce labor costs and
invest in building cars that rival Japanese quality across all
lines. This year, with their most competitive lineup from top to
bottom in a generation, GM, Ford and Chrysler all gained market
share in the first quarter for the first time in 20 years and
exceeded analysts’ sales estimates last month, leading the
industry to its best April since 2007.  Hyundai’s Rise  The misfortunes of Japan’s auto industry coincided with the
rise of Seoul-based Hyundai and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ,
which saw their combined share of the global auto market surge
to 8.8 percent last year from 5.5 percent in 2007, gaining more
than any automotive group during that period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Led by Chairman Chung Mong Koo, 75, the Korean automakers
used the opportunity to expand capacity from  Georgia  to Beijing
and improve the quality of their vehicles to the point that in
January 2012, Hyundai’s Elantra was crowned North American Car
of the Year by Detroit automotive journalists. The outlook is
not as bright this year, with analysts projecting Hyundai’s
slowest profit growth in five years as the won appreciates.  In Germany, Wolfsburg-based Volkswagen set out six years
ago to become the world’s biggest carmaker and a leader in
profitability by 2018. Based on operating income, it reached the
latter goal last year by earning a record 11.5 billion euros
($15 billion), trumping GM and Toyota.  Japanese automakers sought to cope with the appreciating
yen by shifting production overseas. Japan’s seven biggest
carmakers will produce 34 percent of their vehicles domestically
this year, compared with 49 percent in 2007, according to IHS
Automotive estimates. They’ve also cut other manufacturing
costs, making them ripe for a profit bonanza as the yen weakens,
said Masatoshi Nishimoto, a Tokyo-based analyst with IHS in
 Tokyo .  “Their products have more of a competitive edge compared
with five years ago,” he said. “The weaker yen is going to
improve their profitability, but not necessarily their sales. If
you look at the European market, the situation remains severe.
The North American market is also getting tougher and so are
 emerging markets , where the competition is intensifying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  