-- Pain Therapeutics, Durect Fall as Pfizer Evaluates Pill
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-05-10T14:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/pain-therapeutics-durect-fall-as-pfizer-evaluates-pill.html
Pain Therapeutics Inc. (PTIE)  plunged as
much as 50 percent in its biggest drop ever after  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
said it was reassessing their partnership on the experimental
painkiller Remoxy. A third partner,  Durect Corp. (DRRX) , also fell.  Pain Therapeutics tumbled 48 percent to $2.78 at 10:11 a.m.
New York time, after earlier touching $2.67 in its steepest
intraday fall since the shares were first sold in July 2000.
Durect declined 42 percent to 93 cents. The companies said in
regulatory  filings  today that New York-based Pfizer, the world’s
biggest drugmaker, was evaluating its plans for Remoxy.  The medicine is an extended-release oxycodone capsule
formulated to limit abuse. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
postponed approval in June 2011, after a delay in 2008 when the
regulators asked for more laboratory data. In a  letter  disclosed
by Austin, Texas-based Pain Therapeutics, Pfizer said it doesn’t
anticipate submitting a response to the FDA before mid-2015.  “Given the years of delay, additional cost incurred to
bring the program to this point and development work left in the
program, there will be much to consider,” Pfizer said in the
letter dated May 9.  Nonetheless, “there is a regulatory pathway forward” for
Remoxy, Pfizer said, citing the FDA’s comments after a March 28
hearing. Pfizer’s Remoxy team will recommend to management that
it endorse the program, Alan Litwack, Pfizer’s vice president
for global commercial development, said in the letter. There
isn’t “an exact time frame” on when a decision will be made.  Additional Studies  Pfizer will be “reaching out to you shortly” for “a
confidential discussion relating to contractual terms” between
the two companies, Litwack wrote to Pain Therapeutics.  Pfizer believes additional clinical studies will be needed
to win approval, Durect said in its filing.  Matthew Hogan, chief financial officer for Cupertino,
California-based Durect, and Pain Therapeutics CFO Peter Roddy
didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment left before
regular business hours.  Pfizer shares rose less than 1 percent to $28.77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  