-- Panasonic Profit Forecast Misses Estimates as TVs Stall
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-05-10T07:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/panasonic-profit-forecast-misses-estimates-as-tvs-stall.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  forecast annual
profit that missed analyst estimates after Japan’s second-biggest television maker continued to lose market share to
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   Net income  will probably be 50 billion yen ($495 million)
in the year started April 1, compared with a net loss of 754
billion yen in the previous year, the Osaka-based company said
in a statement today. The forecast missed the 63.7 billion-yen
 average  of 16  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  President Kazuhiro Tsuga plans to spend 250 billion yen on
restructuring during the next two years to end losses from TVs,
semiconductors, mobile phones, circuit boards and optical
devices, adding to 1.1 trillion yen spent since 2011. Panasonic,
which has lost more than  1.5 trillion yen  in the past two
financial years, fell further behind  South Korea ’s Samsung and
LG in the global TV market in 2012.  “Panasonic’s consumer electronics business is in a secular
decline,” Damian Thong, a Tokyo-based  analyst  at Macquarie
Group Ltd., said before the earnings. “Panasonic is losing
ground in televisions and lacks a significant position in
smartphones and tablets, which are central to the consumer
electronics business today.”  Panasonic rose 3.7 percent to close at 749 yen in Tokyo
trading before the announcement. The stock has gained 43 percent
 this year , compared with an 87 percent increase by  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and a 41 percent advance by Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  Operating Targets  Full-year operating profit for the maker of Lumix cameras
and Viera televisions will rise 55 percent to 250 billion yen
while sales will fall 1 percent to 7.2 trillion yen, Panasonic
said.  Tsuga announced a three-year revival plan for Panasonic in
March, outlining a target to boost the company’s operating
margin to 5 percent by eliminating losses at five divisions and
pursuing growth in businesses including housing, eco-solutions
and automotive products.  Panasonic will stay in the plasma TV business and try to
make it profitable, Tsuga said in March. The TV operation has
been unprofitable since April 2008, according to Chieko Gyobu, a
Panasonic spokeswoman. Sony,  Japan ’s biggest TV maker,  said 
yesterday its TV unit lost money for a ninth straight year.  Television Losses  Panasonic expects it television losses to narrow to 34
billion yen this year from a loss of 88.5 billion yen. Sales
will fall 16 percent to 11.5 million units this year, the
company said.  “We made significant efforts in terms of restructuring,”
Chief Financial Officer Hideaki Kawai told reporters in Tokyo
today. “More needs to be done this fiscal year and we will
carry out measures with speed.”  Panasonic’s share of revenue in the global flat-panel TV
market dropped to 6 percent last year from 7.8 percent in 2011,
according to  Santa Clara , California-based  DisplaySearch . Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung boosted its share to 27.7 percent
while Seoul-based LG expanded its share to 15 percent from 13.8
percent, according to the researcher.  Sony said yesterday net income may rise 16 percent this
fiscal year as the company expects to sell more TVs and
smartphones. The yen’s weakening to the lowest in four years is
also boosting Japanese electronics makers’ earnings from
overseas.  Currency Assumptions  Panasonic’s forecast is based on an exchange rate of 85 yen
to the  U.S. dollar . That compares with Sony’s assumption of 90
yen, while the Japanese currency traded at more than 101 yen
today.  Samsung,  Asia ’s largest electronics maker, last month
reported record quarterly profit as its smartphone sales surged.
Net income jumped 42 percent to 7.15 trillion won ($6.5 billion)
in the three months ended March 31, Samsung said April 26.  Panasonic’s long-term credit rating was cut to one level
above junk by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited challenging
market conditions, in November.  The company is considering selling a stake in its health-care unit, it said in March. The electronics maker also said it
agreed to sell a majority stake in its logistics unit as early
as in July to Nippon Express Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  