-- Senators, Blackhawks Advance in NHL as Penguins Top Islanders
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-10T04:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/penguins-beat-islanders-as-senators-eliminate-candiens-in-nhl.html
The Ottawa Senators and the  Chicago 
Blackhawks advanced to the second round of the National Hockey
League playoffs, while the Pittsburgh Penguins moved within one
game of reaching the conference semifinals.  The Senators beat the Montreal Canadiens 6-1 and the
Blackhawks defeated the Minnesota Wild 5-1 last night. Ottawa
and Chicago both won their best-of-seven series by four games to
one, while the Penguins took a three games to two lead over the
 New York  Islanders with a 4-0 win.  Tonight in the Eastern Conference, the Boston Bruins will
seal a 4-1 series win with a victory against the Toronto Maple
Leafs; and the New York Rangers visit the Washington Capitals
with their series tied at two games apiece.  In the West, the Anaheim Ducks can eliminate the Detroit
Red Wings with a win and the St. Louis Blues need a victory
against the Los Angeles Kings to remain in the series.  Cory Conacher got two goals and Zack Smith, Kyle Turris,
Daniel Alfredsson and Erik Condra also scored for the Senators
at Bell Centre in  Montreal .  At United Center in Chicago, Marian Hossa’s two goals and
scores by Marcus Kruger and Andrew Shaw gave the Blackhawks a 4-1 second-period lead. Patrick Sharp scored on a power play in
the final period.  At the Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, Sidney Crosby,
Tyler Kennedy and Douglas Murray scored in the second period and
Kris Letang added a power-play goal in the third.  Tomas Vokoun stopped 31 shots in his first playoff start in
six years and Evgeni Nabokov made 23 saves for the Islanders,
who host Game 6 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  