-- Penn National Battles MGM Again With D.C. Casino Plan
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-10T20:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/penn-national-battles-mgm-again-with-d-c-casino-plan.html
Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , operator
of 29 casinos and racetracks, proposed building a $700 million
casino resort at its Rosecroft Raceway horse track in Maryland,
13 miles south of Washington.  The project will include video-lottery terminals, table
games such as poker, and a hotel, Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based
Penn National said today in a statement.  The announcement sets up a battle to build the closest
casino to the U.S. capital.  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the
largest operator on the  Las Vegas Strip , has proposed building
one at National Harbor, a Maryland office and hotel complex 10
miles south of Washington.  Penn National, which has proposed breaking off most
properties into a real estate investment trust, fought a casino-expansion referendum last year that allowed for the additional
casino in Maryland’s Prince George’s County. MGM supported the
casino measure, which drew $95 million in spending from both
sides in the campaign.  A new Maryland casino would compete with Penn National
properties in  Charles Town , West Virginia, and in Perryville,
Maryland. A winner will be selected by the state’s Video Lottery
Facility Location Commission, possibly by the end of the year,
Erica Palmisano, a spokeswoman for the Maryland Lottery and
Gaming Control Agency, said via e-mail.  MGM, based in  Las Vegas , prevailed in a competition with
Penn this year to build a casino in Springfield, Massachusetts.
That project must still clear several more hurdles, including a
local referendum and approval by the state casino commission.  Maryland’s gambling revenue more than doubled to $378
million last year as the result of casino expansion, according
to the American Gaming Association.  Penn  rose  0.1 percent to $57.95 at the close in New York
and has gained 18 percent this year. MGM gained 3.1 percent to
$15.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  