-- Pentagon Plans to Clear Apple Devices for Network Use
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-05-10T21:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/pentagon-plans-to-clear-apple-devices-for-network-use.html
The U.S. Defense Department expects
to clear  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  mobile devices for use on its networks early
next week, a Pentagon spokeswoman said.  The move would give Cupertino, California-based Apple the
chance to eventually compete for military market share with
BlackBerry, the Pentagon’s dominant smartphone supplier, and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which gained the department’s
certification earlier this month.  An approval next week would allow government-issued devices
running Apple’s newest mobile operating system, iOS 6, to access
military networks, said Alana Johnson, a spokeswoman for the
Pentagon’s Defense Information Systems Agency.  Widespread adoption of Apple products by the military could
only occur after the Pentagon builds a mobile device management
system to secure the devices, she said in an e-mail.  Separately, the Commerce Department’s  National Institute of
Standards and Technology  on May 3 granted Apple’s iOS 6 a
certification known as the  Federal Information Processing
Standard  for protecting sensitive data, Michael Cooper, a
manager in the agency’s computer-security division, said in a
phone interview.  Agencies that bought Apple mobile devices prior to the
security approval were required to use a third-party application
to comply with federal security requirements, Cooper said. The
institute’s certification gives departments the ability “to go
out and buy these products off the shelf and know that they’re
getting security capabilities built in that meet government
standards,” Cooper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  