-- Petters Asks Court to Vacate 50-Year Prison Term for Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-10T21:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/petters-asks-court-to-vacate-50-year-prison-term-for-fraud-1-.html
Thomas Petters , the Minnesota
businessman sentenced to 50 years in prison after being found
guilty of running a $3.5 billion fraud scheme, asked a U.S.
judge to set aside his punishment.  In papers filed with U.S. District Judge Richard H. Kyle in
St. Paul, Minnesota, today, Petters said his prior attorney, Jon Hopeman, never told him about a pretrial offer from prosecutors
to cap his punishment at 30 years’ incarceration in exchange for
a guilty plea.  “But for Mr. Hopeman’s ineffective assistance, defendant
Petters would have received a far shorter sentence than
currently imposed,” according to the filing by new counsel
Steven J. Meshbesher.  Petters was found guilty of 20 criminal counts, including
fraud, conspiracy and money laundering, in a trial in December
2009.  In what prosecutors called the biggest fraud in state
history, he was accused of using his Minnetonka-based Petters
Co. to lure investor funds for fake deals to buy shipments of
consumer goods, then used the money to support his lavish
lifestyle. He was sentenced in April 2010.  Petters asked for a new sentencing hearing to be convened
at which he would be allowed to plead guilty to prosecutors’
pretrial offer and receive a reduced sentence.  Lawyer Memos  Submitted with his request were four memorandums allegedly
written by Hopeman. In two of them, the attorney logged the
overtures from prosecutor John Marti, and in a third he
purportedly said he’d told Petters no such offer had been made.  “I told Mr. Marti that as a matter of personal pride, I
did not believe that I could advise Mr. Petters to plead guilty
to a 30-year cap,” according to the fourth memo, dated Jan. 30,
2009. “I stated that this suggested that 30 years was an
appropriate sentence. I told him that my professional integrity
would not allow me to do this.”  Hopeman is an attorney in the Minneapolis law firm of
Felhaber Larson Fenlon & Vogt and a former assistant U.S.
attorney, according to his firm  biography .  “No comment except I wish Mr. Petters the best,” Hopeman
said by e-mail.  “We’re not going to comment on his motion,” Jeanne Cooney, a spokeswoman for the office of  Minnesota  U.S. Attorney
B. Todd Jones, said in a phone interview. “Our response will
come via our reply in court filings.”  The case is U.S. v. Petters, 08-cr-00364, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 