-- Philippine Peso Drops Most Since August as Yen Falls; Bonds Gain
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-05-10T04:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/philippine-peso-drops-most-since-august-as-yen-falls-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso slid the most in
almost nine months, following Asian currencies lower after a
drop in the yen to beyond 100 per dollar for the first time in
four years yesterday threatened regional exports.  Bank of Japan  stimulus policies to fight deflation have
weakened the yen 15 percent against the dollar this year and
spurred investment in Asian emerging-market assets. Foreign
investors sold $1 million more local stocks than they bought
yesterday, compared with a $14 million daily average inflow over
the past month, exchange data show. The  Philippines  will hold
elections for all local posts, the  House of Representatives  and
half of the 24-member Senate on May 13.  “The yen’s drop was a regional currency trigger,” said
Emilio Neri, an economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands.
“Inflows aren’t as aggressive, as people want to observe what
happens during the elections.”  The peso fell 0.7 percent to 41.125 per dollar as of the
noon trading break in  Manila , its biggest decline since Aug. 15,
2012, data from Tullett Prebon Plc show. It dropped 0.6 percent
this week. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in exchange rates used to price options, rose five basis
points to 4.17 percent and fell 55 basis points this week.  The Philippines may sell dollar bonds locally to refinance
existing debt, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said yesterday.  The yield on the 8 percent notes due July 2031 fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.7 percent in Manila,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The yield rose six
basis points this week.  Editors: Andrew Janes, Robin Ganguly  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  