-- PIK Note Sales Surge in Europe as Junk Yields Tumble to Records
-- B y   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2013-05-10T14:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/pik-note-sales-surge-in-europe-as-junk-yields-tumble-to-records.html
Sales of payment-in-kind notes, the
riskiest, highest-yielding debt, are surging at a record pace in
Europe as junk-rated borrowers take advantage of investors’
appetite for yield in a market paying the lowest-ever rates.  Issuance of so-called payment-in-kind bonds climbed to
$2.05 billion this year, $176.6 million short of the full-year
record set in 2008 and more than the $1.8 billion sold in the
U.S. so far in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The notes typically pay a higher coupon than cash-only bonds to
compensate for their low place in the capital structure and the
possibility issuers can pay interest with debt.  “As spreads get tighter, you may be willing to accept
something that is maybe a bit more inherently risky, but also
pays better,” said Patrick Kersting, a London-based credit
analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “As the market has
gotten tighter, the appetite to take on a bit more risk has
probably gotten a bit greater.”  Global default rates holding near 2.6 percent and central
bank stimulus worldwide are giving investors confidence to buy
riskier debt. That’s driven the average yield on junk-rated
securities down to a record 5.94 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global High Yield Constrained Index. The
spread over government bonds narrowed to 454 basis points, the
tightest since October 2007, the data show.  Toggle Payments  Banks arranging PIK deals say the notes don’t hold as much
risk as they once did because there’s a feature that allows
borrowers to “toggle” between paying in cash and debt,
enticing borrowers to pay with cash. Almost 70 percent of
investors view the emergence of PIK notes as a sign of the
market heating up, according to a Bank of America Corp. survey
of 80 investors.  Each of the PIK notes issued in Europe this year include
the toggle feature, which requires borrowers to pay interest in
cash if they have it, said Mathew Cestar, London-based head of
leveraged finance in Europe, the Middle East and Africa for
Credit Suisse Group AG. Kleopatra Holdings, the holding company
for Kloeckner Pentaplast GmbH & Co. KG, sold 225 million euros
($293 million) of PIK toggle bonds May 1, which pay 10.25
percent in cash and 11 percent if the company pays with debt
instead.  “They’re intended to be cash pay instruments,” according
to Cestar. It’s typical for the company to be required to pay 75
basis points more on the coupon rate if it tries to pay with
debt instead of cash, he said.  Familiar Credit  Investors buying into PIK deals are those already familiar
with a credit, who may be trying to add extra yield to a
portfolio that has been constrained by low interest rates,
Cestar said.  “The investors are often those who have bought something
more senior in the company’s capital structure, are comfortable
with the performance and credit quality and want to go more
junior in the structure as a way to pick up more yield,” Cestar
said.  That’s what Ariel Bezalel, the London-based manager of 2
billion pounds ($3 billion) of fixed income assets at Jupiter
Asset Management Lt., said he did with Montabauer, Germany-based
Kloeckner.  Bezalel bought the company’s 255 million euros of 11.625
percent second-lien notes due 2017 when they were issued in
July. The company reduced debt after a buyout led by Strategic
Value Partners in June, and the 11.625 percent notes have since
traded to 114.254 cents.  “With your coupon, you’re talking equity-like returns,”
Bezalel said. “With that in mind, and knowing the company is
levered comfortably below four times, we felt comfortable owning
that note.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Holley in  New York  at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  