-- Pioneer Joins Mirae Favoring Baht to Peso on Yield
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-05-10T04:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/pioneer-joins-mirae-favoring-baht-to-peso-on-yield-asean-credit.html
Philippine bonds are losing favor
among investors who are turning to  Thailand , after 10-year peso
yields tumbled below 3 percent to a record in this year’s best
rally in Asia.  Pioneer Investments in  London  said it added to Thai
holdings as scope for monetary easing gives the nation stronger
growth potential than its Southeast Asian neighbor. Mirae Asset
Global Investment Co. and Neuberger Berman Group LLC also prefer
Thai debt. Thailand’s 10-year yield is 92 basis points higher
than inflation, compared with 18 points in the Philippines.  Philippine local-currency notes handed investors more than
six times the gain in Thailand this year after the central bank
reduced interest rates on its special-deposit accounts to deter
peso purchases by foreign funds. The Bank of Thailand will
eventually bow to government pressure to lower borrowing costs
in 2013 to stem inflows that drove the baht to a 16-year high in
April, according to Mirae.  “We are in the camp of investors who believe opportunity
lies with Thai bonds vis-a-vis the  Philippines ,” Yerlan Syzdykov, a London-based portfolio manager at Pioneer, which
oversees the equivalent of $212 billion globally, said in a May
3 interview. “Our choice stems from a stronger growth
trajectory in Thailand and a stronger currency,” he said,
adding that easing in Thailand won’t alter the attraction.  Record Yield  Peso-denominated debt returned 14 percent in 2013, the most
among 10 Asia indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc ahead of
 India ’s 6.4 percent, after the Philippines won investment-grade
status of BBB- from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings Ltd.
Thai bonds, rated two levels higher, climbed 2.3 percent.  Ten-year yields in the Philippines reached a record low of
2.78 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The similar rate in Thailand fell to 3.34 percent today, the
lowest level since February 2012.  The cost to insure Thai sovereign debt from non-payment for
five years dropped 13 basis points this year to 82 and was below
the three-year average of 126, according to CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That compares with a 23 basis-point
drop in the Philippines to 83.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Rate Stance  Thailand’s Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong has
repeatedly pressed the central bank to lower interest rates as
monetary easing in developed countries boosts the allure of
Asia’s higher yields. The baht is the region’s best-performing
currency this year after rallying 3.2 percent, which threatens
to hurt manufacturers in the export-dependent economy. The peso
declined 0.2 percent.  Easing by central banks this month in South  Korea ,
 Australia , India and the euro area may encourage Thailand to
follow suit. The Bank of Korea lowered its seven-day repurchase
rate yesterday to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent.  Bank of Thailand has kept its  benchmark rate  at 2.75
percent in the last four meetings, most recently on April 3.
While the Philippines has left its equivalent at 3.5 percent
since October, policy makers instead opted to cut rates on the
central bank’s special-deposit accounts three times this year
and ban foreigners from parking money in them.  No ‘Merit’  Kim Jin Ha, the Seoul-based head of global fixed-income at
Mirae, said Thai bond yields are attractive, while levels in the
Philippines don’t “merit any buying at the moment.”  Thailand’s 10-year borrowing costs declined 20 basis points,
or 0.2 percentage point, this year, compared with a 1.4
percentage-point drop in the Philippines.  “There’s a possibility that Thailand will deliver one or
two interest-rate cuts this year as the government pressures the
central bank to act and slow the currency’s appreciation,” Kim,
whose company oversees about $55 billion globally, said in a May
7 interview. “The prospect of the rate policy is positive on
Thai bonds.”  Dollar-based investors will reap a 4.4 percent return for
holding baht-denominated bonds through the end of this year,
including interest income, compared with 2.5 percent for peso
debt, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Baht Risk  Sacha Tihanyi, a Hong Kong-based senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia, said he prefers the
Philippine peso over the Thai baht because of the risk the Bank
of Thailand will impose capital controls.  Finance Minister Kittiratt said May 7 that the central bank
has prepared measures to curb inflows if needed. The government
should limit foreigners’ investment in domestic bonds with
maturities of less than six months, Paiboon Nalinthrangkurn,
chairman of the Federation of Thai Capital Organizations, a
trade group whose seven members include the stock exchange and
securities commission, said in a May 3 interview from Bangkok.  “There is greater uncertainty in Thailand with regard to
potential Bank of Thailand measures to curb foreign inflows,”
Tihanyi, whose company was the second most-accurate forecaster
for Asian currencies over the past year, said in a May 8
interview. “I still believe that there is higher risk that the
baht suffers from additional underperformance.”  Sales Surge  Tihanyi predicts the Thai currency may weaken 2.1 percent
to 30.3 per dollar by year-end from 29.65 as of 10:57 a.m. in
Bangkok. The baht last traded around that level in January, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. He forecasts the peso will rise 0.8
percent to 40.8.  Overseas investors  purchased  about $12 billion more Thai
sovereign debt than they sold this year, compared with $31
billion for 2012 as a whole, according to the Thai Bond Market
Association. The Philippines doesn’t provide such figures.  The baht touched 28.56 per dollar on April 19 and April 22,
the strongest level since a 1997 devaluation sparked the Asian
financial crisis. The peso reached 40.55 on March 13, and in the
previous two months, the highest since 2008.  Thailand plans to sell a record 525 billion baht ($17.8
billion) of bonds in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30, a 52
percent increase from the previous year, according to the
website of the Ministry of Finance’s Public Debt Management
Office. The Cabinet approved a 2 trillion baht infrastructure
spending plan in February that will include projects such as
building 10 railway lines in Bangkok.  Spreads Widen  Yields on Thailand’s  two-year  government securities have
dropped 14 basis points this quarter, more than twice as fast as
a six basis-point decline on five-year  bonds . Shorter-term notes
are more sensitive to the outlook for interest rates, signaling
investors may be pricing in a cut in borrowing costs.  “Supply issues will be the foremost concern for investors
in Thailand, but if you look at the curve, it looks more
attractive,” Prashant Singh, managing director of local-currency, emerging-market debt at Neuberger Berman Singapore Pte
Ltd., a subsidiary of the U.S. hedge fund, said in a May 7
interview. “Philippine bonds have moved quite a bit, so it’s
going to be a tactical play to switch into Thailand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  