-- Platts Says Some Companies Stopped Sharing Gas-Prices
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-05-10T10:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/platts-says-some-companies-stopped-sharing-gas-prices-correct-.html
(Corrects story published May 9 to delete reference to
Bloomberg’s effort to reach Argus by e-mail in fifth paragraph.)  Platts, the energy information
provider owned by McGraw-Hill Cos., said that some companies
have stopped providing its reporters with the natural gas
pricing data it uses to compile its indexes.  “While there has been drop-off in data from some market
principals, we have also gained a number of new sources and our
ability to assess market value has not been hindered,” Kathleen Tanzy, director of communications at Platts in New York, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Platts receives information from many
market participants, including aggregators such as brokers.”  Platts’ competitor ICIS, a unit of Reed Elsevier Plc, said
last month that it may drop reporter-led surveys after some
clients said they mistrust the company’s assessments. It will
introduce closing-price natural gas indexes based on executed
trades to run alongside some closing index evaluations in a
testing phase for six months, it said following a consultation
that ended March 15.  The Financial Times reported yesterday that energy
companies including  Statoil ASA (STL) , trading houses and banks have
stopped submitting quotes to price-reporting agencies.  ICIS did not immediately respond to messages left with a
public relations representative and marketing manager. Simon
Smith, a head of government and regulatory affairs at Argus
Media Ltd., which also offers gas pricing indexes, didn’t
respond to a phone message seeking comment.  “The assessment process is robust and considers completed
transactions, bids and offers,” Tanzy said. “Platts publishes
an end-of-day, market-closing value. We are not at this time
contemplating an all-day index.”  ICIS Consultation  ICIS began its consultation in the wake of accusations last
year by Seth Freedman, a former reporter with the company, that
inadequate training of staff left the pricing mechanisms for the
$1 trillion European gas market vulnerable to manipulation. ICIS
said at the time its employees get “extensive training” that
equips them to challenge the information they receive. ICIS
reported in September what it described as irregular trades to
regulators. Freedman notified the Financial Services Authority
in October.  Among the public responses, Statoil said that the current
methodology used by ICIS “allows for the potential use of
incorrectly reported trades to be factored into the index
calculations, which can result in inaccurate prices being
published.”  Centrica Plc (CNA)  proposed using daily cleared natural gas
auctions as more transparent and reliable than over-the-counter
assessments. RWE AG said it doesn’t always have confidence in
ICIS gas-price assessments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  