-- ProSiebenSat.1 Offers Higher Interest Rate on Extended Loan Deal
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-05-10T14:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/prosiebensat-1-offers-higher-interest-rate-on-extended-loan-deal.html
ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG, the German
broadcaster controlled by  KKR & Co.  and Permira Advisers LLP, is
offering to pay a higher interest rate as it seeks to extend
about 1.9 billion euros ($2.5 billion) of loans, according to
four people with knowledge of the matter.  The company proposed an initial interest margin of 275
basis points, or 2.75 percentage points, more than benchmark
rates on the new term loan D3, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the deal is private. Holders of the
company’s existing term loan C and D, which offered lenders
margins of 187.5 and 250 basis points respectively, have been
invited to roll their commitments into the new facility.  The Term Loan D3 will have a July 2018 maturity and the
term loan C and D are due to repay in 2015 and 2016,  Axel Salzmann , ProSiebenSat.1’s chief financial officer, said in a
May 7 conference call. The Munich-based company, which
broadcasts Germany’s version of “The Voice”, plans to reduce
its term loans to 1.86 billion euros using 500 million euros of
proceeds from the sale of its SBS Nordic unit, he said.  Lenders that agree to the extension request and commit
funds to the new facility have been offered fees of 25 basis
points, said the people. UniCredit SpA and BNP Paribas SA are
arranging the extension process, they said.  An official at ProSiebenSat.1, who asked not to be
identified citing company policy, declined to comment on the
financing. A spokesman for KKR also declined to comment. Noemie
de Andia, a spokeswoman for Permira, didn’t return an e-mail and
telephone call seeking comment.  Higher Earnings  The company, which  competes  with Bertelsmann SE’s RTL Group
SA in Germany, generated revenues of 563 million euros in the
three months through March, it said in a May 7 statement.
Recurring earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 4.7 percent to 128 million euros and its ratio
of debt to Ebitda was 2.1 times.  Chief Executive Officer Thomas Ebeling has taken steps to
facilitate an exit for KKR and Permira, including proposing a
more than quadrupled dividend for 2012 and a conversion of
preferred into common shares. The private-equity companies
bought their holdings in 2006, according to a  statement  on the
German broadcaster’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  