-- Quinn Emanuel, Jones Day, Jackson Lewis: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/quinn-emanuel-jones-day-jackson-lewis-business-of-law.html
Quinn Emanuel  Urquhart & Sullivan LLP
will open an office in Sydney next month with Michael Mills and
Michelle Fox of Herbert Smith Freehills.  Quinn Emanuel partner James Webster, an Australian native,
will also open the office and be co-managing partner with Mills,
the firm said.  “With the shift of economic power from the Atlantic to the
Pacific, Australia has not only become a significant
international player but also a critical connection point in
Asia-Pacific,”  John Quinn , the firm’s managing partner, said in
a statement. “We will fill a niche -- a highly sophisticated
litigation firm that is not saddled with all the institutional
conflicts that large, full-service law firms have.”  Mills, a litigator, was co-head of Herbert Smith
Freehills’s insurance solutions and products liability
practices. He and Fox frequently work as a team, specializing in
complex litigation. Among their prominent cases was the
representation of the directors’ and officers’ insurers of the
HIH Group, the firm said.  Webster has been with Quinn Emanuel for 20 years. He
specializes in complex litigation in securities, class action
and entertainment, among other areas.  The office will be Quinn Emmanuel’s 13th. The firm has 600
lawyers at offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Jones Day Opens in Miami to Boost Latin America practice  Jones Day  will open an office in Miami, the firm’s first
 Florida  branch, to expand its Latin American practice and manage
a growing litigation practice in the state.  Pedro A. Jimenez, a partner in the business restructuring
and reorganization practice, will be the partner-in-charge of
the office, the firm’s 40th worldwide. Enrique Martin, who
recently joined from Greenberg Traurig LLP as a mergers-and-acquisitions partner, will be the administrative partner in the
new office.  “In years past, the Latin American practices of many major
law firms, including Jones Day, were centered in  New York City ,
primarily to access the debt and equity markets,” Stephen Brogan, Jones Day’s managing partner, said in a statement.
“Today, corporate and business leaders in Latin America have
increasingly made Miami their point of contact in the U.S.”  The new office will focus on  capital markets , mergers and
acquisitions, lending, project finance and restructuring in
Latin America. It will also have a significant focus on dispute
resolution, the firm said.  “An equally important reason for opening in Miami is to
handle the growing litigation docket coming out of that state,”
Brogan said. “Over the last half decade, Jones Day lawyers have
tried more significant civil cases to verdict in Florida than
any other leading law firm in the country.”  Jimenez joined Jones Day in 2006. He worked on the Chrysler
Group LLC restructuring and also led the cross-border
restructurings of Spansion Japan Ltd., Grupo Costamex SA and PT
Arpeni Pratama, the firm said.  “A presence in Miami is a natural extension of our
commitment to the needs of our clients that began with our
offices in  Madrid ,  Brazil  and  Mexico ,” Jimenez said in a
statement. “In addition to expanding our  Latin America 
capabilities, our Miami Office will give us the opportunity to
meet the domestic and international legal needs of the numerous
public company clients we serve in Florida, including Adecco,
CSX, Ryder, NextEra, Harris and Darden.”  Martin has practiced in Miami for more than 20 years,
providing corporate, securities, and cross-border advice to his
clients. He represented the BearingPoint Liquidating Trust in
connection with the wind-down and disposition of BearingPoint’s
assets and operations in Latin America, and also the purchaser
of the Colombian assets and operations of Xerox Corp., the firm
said.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers, including more than
400 in Europe and 200 in Asia.  Jackson Lewis’s New Dayton Office Is Third in Ohio  Jackson Lewis LLP is opening a Dayton,  Ohio , office, its
53rd nationwide, with the hire of partner Karen T. Dunlevey from
Bieser, Greer & Landis.  Scott Carroll , managing partner of the firm’s Cincinnati
office, will also hold that job in Dayton.  “Together with our Cincinnati and Cleveland locations,
our Dayton office enhances the firm’s ability to provide quality
advice and counseling to our clients within Ohio and the central
U.S.,” Vincent A. Cino, the firm’s chairman, said in a
statement.  Dunlevey counsels employers on how to reduce the risk of
litigation, including the development and implementation of
employment policies, procedures and contracts, the firm said.
Her litigation experience includes cases covering claims of
discrimination, harassment, retaliation and wrongful discharge,
and contract disputes.  Jackson Lewis has 750 attorneys.  Moves  Jones Day Hires Chicago Litigator From Greenberg Traurig  Jose A. Isasi II, a litigator with experience in the drug
and medical-device industries, joined the Chicago office of
Jones Day as a partner, the firm said.  Isasi was formerly the Chicago-based vice-chairman of
 Greenberg Traurig  LLP’s pharmaceutical, medical device and
health-care litigation group. He has been lead trial counsel in
federal and state jury and bench trials in products liability
and commercial disputes, according to Jones Day. He has also
been lead counsel in complex commercial arbitrations.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 39 offices
worldwide.  Linklaters Boosts U.S. Tax Practice With Two Partner Hires  Linklaters LLP said David Brockway and Jasper Howard have
joined its U.S. tax practice as partners in  Washington  after
leaving Bingham McCutchen LLP.  Brockway previously was chief of staff of the Joint
Committee on Taxation of the  U.S. Congress . He advises clients
on international tax planning, with a focus on corporate
acquisitions and dispositions, cross-border structured finance
and asset-based finance transactions, the firm said.  Howard was special counsel to the Internal Revenue Service
chief counsel. His experience includes advising on corporate tax
issues such as mergers and acquisitions, spinoffs and other
divestitures, joint ventures and cross-border transactions,
according to the firm.  Linklaters has more than 120 lawyers in New York and
Washington. It has about 75 U.S. lawyers in nine other
jurisdictions and lawyers at 28 offices worldwide.  Morgan Lewis Hires Litigator John Dellaportas in New York  John Dellaportas, a litigator, joined  Morgan Lewis  &
Bockius LLP as a partner in the firm’s litigation practice in
New York, leaving Duane Morris LLP.  In addition to commercial and securities representations,
Dellaportas has experience in mergers and acquisitions,
bankruptcy, antitrust and real estate matters. He successfully
represented Bruce Bent Sr., Bruce Bent II and their investment
advisory firm Reserve Management Co. in a securities fraud
lawsuit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Morgan Lewis has more than 1,600 legal professionals at 24
offices in the U.S., Europe, and Asia.  Mayer Brown Hires Vinson & Elkins Tax Partner in Houston  Energy tax lawyer Ed Osterberg, formerly of Vinson & Elkins
LLP, joined Mayer Brown LLP’s Houston office.  His practice focuses on business income taxation, with an
emphasis on corporate and partnership taxation and international
transactions, the firm said.  Mayer Brown has lawyers at offices in the Americas, Asia
and Europe.  Perkins Coie Adds Bankruptcy Partner in Los Angeles  Perkins Coie  LLP hired Sara L. Chenetz, recently a partner
at Blank Rome LLP, as a partner in the financial transactions
and restructuring group in the firm’s  Los Angeles  office.  Chenetz represents clients in restructuring, bankruptcy,
workouts, litigation and related matters, the firm said.  Perkins Coie has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices
across the U.S. and Asia.  Davis Wright Hires Former Charter Communications Counsel  Christin McMeley, who was in-house counsel at cable-television company Charter Communications Inc. for almost a
decade, joined Davis Wright Tremaine LLP as a partner in the
firm’s privacy and security practice group in Washington.  At Charter, McMeley led the company’s cable regulatory
group and government-affairs team, the firm said. She also was
the company’s chief privacy officer and implemented its first
privacy and data security program.  McMeley will advise companies on privacy compliance,
information governance, data security, public policy and
regulatory matters.  Davis Wright has about 500 lawyers at nine offices in the
U.S. and Shanghai.  Video  Could This Law School Ranking Unseat US News?  Elie Mystal, editor at Above the Law, told Bloomberg Law’s
Lee Pacchia in a Bloomberg podcast that his blog’s new law
school rankings sought to list the top 50 American law schools
by relying on an “outcome based” methodology.  Mystal said that focusing on the costs and rewards of a
legal education allows this ranking to determine which law
schools yield “the most bang for this extreme buck.”  The goal is to displace US News & World Report as the
leading arbiter of law school rankings. Mystal said his site’s
focus on legal employment, along with an often snarky attitude
that appeals to younger readers, give it a leg up on the
competition.  To download, watch or listen to this report, click here.  News  Brooklyn Law School Creates First N.Y. Two-Year J.D. Program  Brooklyn Law School is the first New York-area school to
approve an accelerated two-year J.D. program.  Students interested in the two-year program, which is
scheduled to start in the summer of 2014, will probably be
midlife or mid-career professionals or those with plans for a
nonlegal career, such as a CPA or MBA, Brooklyn Law School said
in a statement.  The two-year J.D. will require the same amount of work as
the current part-time or full-time program over a shorter
period. Students also have the option of completing a J.D. in
three or four years.  “Our institution has always been an agent of change,”
Stuart Subotnick, chairman of the Brooklyn Law School Board of
Trustees, said in the statement. “We were among the first in
the nation to welcome women and minorities, our clinical
education program began long before other law schools saw the
value in experiential learning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 