-- Rambus, Shire, Hospira, Viacom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-10T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/rambus-shire-hospira-viacom-intellectual-property.html
Rambus Inc. was ordered by a federal
judge in San Jose,  California , to pay a $250 million sanction
for destroying documents in its litigation with  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)   The fine was issued May 8 by U.S. District Judge Ronald
Whyte in the memory-chip technology patent-infringement case
that Rambus won in California seven years ago. The sanction will
be applied against whatever sum Rambus ultimately keeps of the
$349 million awarded it after a 2006 verdict finding that SK
Hynix infringed Rambus patents, Whyte ruled.  The sanction “applied as a credit against Rambus’s
judgment against SK Hynix recognizes that Rambus’s conduct was
inexcusable but not so egregious as to justify dismissal of its
infringement case,” Whyte wrote in his May 8 order. The judge
denied Hynix’s request for a new trial in the case.  The sanction “takes into account the royalty rates
negotiated and paid by SK Hynix’s primary competitors” during
the period of the alleged infringement, Whyte wrote.  Rambus’s cases against SK Hynix, and another related case
against  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , are over the companies’ use of
interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory that
acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to industry
standards and is interchangeable by product. SK Hynix and Micron
have argued Rambus destroyed records that would have proved
Rambus misled the board that sets that standard.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
Washington previously upheld Whyte’s denial of SK Hynix’s bid to
throw out the 2006 verdict finding that the company infringed
Rambus patents.  “We are pleased that the court is recognizing the value in
Rambus  intellectual property ,” Sunnyvale, California-based
Rambus said in an e-mailed statement. “We are disappointed in
the sanction that reduces the judgment awarded to Rambus, but
hope the ruling will help provide impetus to resolve this
matter.”  SK Hynix said in a statement that it plans to appeal the
decision after the judge issues his final ruling, saying the
fine was smaller than it expected.  The case is Hynix Semiconductor Inc. v.  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) ,  00-cv-20905, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Shire Wins Ruling to Block Actavis’s Lialda Copy Until 2020  Shire Plc (SHP)  won a court ruling that will help it prevent
 Actavis Inc. (ACT)  from selling generic versions of the ulcerative
colitis drug Lialda in the U.S. until 2020.  A patent on the medicine would be infringed by the Actavis
version, U.S. District Judge Donald Middlebrooks in Ft.
Lauderdale,  Florida , said in an opinion yesterday. The judge
rejected claims the patent was invalid.  Lialda, whose active ingredient is mesalamine, generated
$400 million in sales last year for Shire, or 8.6 percent of the
company’s revenue, according to Bloomberg data. Efforts to
expand the use of the drug to patients with diverticulitis to
boost sales failed, London-based Shire said in March.  The ruling “supports the innovative therapies that we
develop in order to improve the lives of ulcerative colitis
patients,” Roger Adsett, head of Shire’s gastrointestinal
business unit, said in a statement.  The patent, issued in 2004, is for a controlled-release
composition of mesalamine. Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis
claimed the patent didn’t adequately describe what Shire claimed
it covered. The judge, who ruled after a five-day non- jury trial 
last month, said Shire is entitled to an order that would block
the generic version until the patent expires.  Shire said no generic-drug companies have received
regulatory approval to sell versions of the medicine.  The case is Shire Development LLC v. Watson Pharmaceuticals
Inc., 12-cv-60862, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Ft. Lauderdale).  Hospira Sues B. Braun Over Patents for Infusion-Pump Systems  Hospira Inc. (HSP) , a maker of acute-care products, sued a U.S.
unit of Germany’s B. Braun Melsungen AG alleging infringement of
patents for drug-infusion pump technology.  B. Braun Medical Inc., based in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, is
using inventions that belong to Hospira, of Lake Forest,
Illinois, by making and selling its drug-delivery systems
without permission, Hospira contends in a complaint filed May 8
in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Hospira is the owner of the entire right, title and
interest” in the patents, and Braun should pay damages for lost
profits and legal fees and be prohibited from its wrongful
actions after a jury trial, plaintiff’s lawyers said in court
papers.  Hospira was sued in New York federal court in February over
a canceled influenza-vaccine supply contract by GlaxoSmithKline
Plc, which questioned the quality of the product.  Jason Ford, a B. Braun spokesman, didn’t immediately reply
to voice and e-mail requests for comment on the patent action.  The case is Hospira Inc. v. B. Braun Medical Inc., 13-cv-00819, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Gareth Bale Files for Trademark for Heart-Shaped Hand Image  Gareth Bale , a member of the  Tottenham Hotspur  soccer team,
filed an application with the U.K.’s Intellectual Property
Office to register as a trademark the image of a gesture he
performs each time he scores a goal in  Fédération Internationale
de Football Association  games.  According to the application, filed March 26, the athlete
seeks to register an image of two hands forming a heart shape.
In the middle of the heart shape is the number 11, which is the
number of Bale’s soccer jersey.  He said he plans to use the mark on a wide range of
products, including clothing, jewelry, watches and goods made of
leather and imitation leather.  Bale’s application was published May 3. It was filed on his
behalf by  Marks & Clerk , a London-based IP firm.  Upper Deck Seeks ‘Grandeur,’ ‘Property of,’ ‘Chirography’ Marks  Upper Deck Co., a producer of sports-star figurines and
Major League Baseball trading cards, filed three new trademark
applications that may hint at forthcoming products or product
reissues.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office , Carlsbad, California-based Upper Deck filed applications
to register “Grandeur,” “Property of” and “Chirography” in
the last week of April.  The only use specified for the marks is for trading cards.
Upper Deck said it has used “Chirography” since June 1998.
“Property of” was first used in July 2006, according to the
application. No date of first use was listed on the application
for the “Grandeur” mark.  The applications were filed on Upper Deck’s behalf by
 Pollie A. Gautsch  of G&A Legal AFC of Solana Beach, California.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Writers Seek $23 Million in Suit Against Viacom Unit Over Film  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures unit was sued for
copyright infringement by two writers who are seeking more than
$23 million in damages related to the “ G.I. Joe ” films.  According to the complaint filed May 3 in federal court in
 Los Angeles , David Elliot Fallas and Paul Lovett claim they were
two of three writers on the original “ G.I. Joe: Rise of the
Cobra ” science-fiction action film and had a written agreement
they would write the sequel.  They said they developed a “rich, vibrant sequel,
articulating unique plotlines, themes, characters,
relationships, settings, scenes, dialogue, mood, packing and
fictional invention,” for the next film. Then, in December
2009, they were informed that the studio decided to hire a
different writing team.  Fallas and Lovett said they registered the copyright for
their work, and that when they saw the sequel --“ G.I. Joe:
Retaliation ” -- they found the movie to be “substantially
similar in every material way” to their script. The movie,
which stars  Bruce Willis  and  Dwayne Johnson , was released at the
end of March.  Viacom, based in New York, didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment on the complaint. Pawtucket, Rhode
Island-based toymaker  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)  is a co-defendant with the
Viacom unit. Hasbro makes  G.I. Joe action figures , accessories
and related toys.  The case is Fallas v. Paramount Pictures Corp., 2:13-cv-03184, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  Third-Party Copyright Complaint Against Lady Gaga Dismissed  Stefani Germanotta, the singer known as  Lady Gaga ,
persuaded a federal court to dismiss a third-party complaint
against her in a copyright case involving some of her hit songs.  The original lawsuit was filed in federal court in Newark,
New Jersey, in July 2011 against Gaga’s former manager Rob
Fusari by Calvin Gaines, a New Jersey-based composer and music
producer.  Gaines sought a court declaration that he was a co-author
of songs including “ Paparazzi ” and “Disco Heaven.” He also
wanted to be named a co-producer of the master recordings for
the disputed songs, and demanded damages in excess of $1
million.  Fusari then filed a third-party complaint seeking to have
Gaga added as a defendant.  In his May 8 ruling, U.S. District Judge William J. Martini
said that federal copyright law doesn’t allow for the addition
of a defendant under the grounds sought by Fusari.  The case is Gaines v. Fusari, 2:11-cv-04433, U.s. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  