-- RBA Cuts CPI Outlook as Aussie, Mine-Boom Peak Weigh on GDP
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-10T03:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/rba-cuts-cpi-outlook-as-aussie-mine-boom-peak-damp-growth-1-.html
The Reserve Bank of  Australia  cut its
inflation outlook and reiterated its forecast for “below
trend” growth this year, driven by an elevated currency, a
crest in resource investment and fiscal tightening.  “The outlook for non-mining business investment remains
relatively weak over the next few months,” the RBA said in its
 monetary policy statement  in Sydney today. “The approaching
peak in resource investment, the high level of the Australian
dollar and ongoing fiscal consolidation are all likely to weigh
on growth over the next year or so, while at the same time the
low level of interest rates is helping to support demand.”  Governor Glenn Stevens and his board reduced the overnight
cash-rate target to a record-low 2.75 percent this week as a
benign inflation outlook gives him scope to boost industries
including construction to rebalance growth away from resource
investment. The RBA said there are signs the shift is occurring,
while warning low rates threaten to ignite housing prices.  “A key risk is that established dwelling prices rise more
quickly than assumed,” the central bank said, noting they have
risen about 4 percent from their 2012 lows. “The associated
boost to wealth and sentiment could in time generate stronger-than-expected consumption growth. If this were accompanied by a
return to increasing household leverage, it would raise concerns
from a financial stability perspective.”  Unchanged Rate  The RBA based its forecasts on an unchanged cash rate of
2.75 percent, while noting this “is slightly higher than market
expectations, which currently imply a further reduction in the
cash rate over 2013.” Traders are pricing in a 27 percent
chance the central bank will reduce rates by another quarter
point to a fresh record of 2.5 percent at the June 4 policy
meeting, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “The risk is for some disappointment on the non-mining
investment side -- especially given the on-going trend lower in
business conditions,” said Adam Boyton, chief economist for
Australia at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney, who predicts the RBA
will cut again in the third quarter.  Consumer prices will rise 2 percent in the year to December
2013, compared with as much as 3 percent forecast three months
earlier, the central bank said in today’s statement. The RBA
predicted 2013 growth of about 2.5 percent. The Australian
dollar was little changed after the release, trading at $1.0083
at 1:41 p.m. in Sydney.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  today cut its
benchmark mortgage rate by 27 basis points, the first time one
of the nation’s four major lenders passed on more than the
central bank’s reduction since October 2008.  U.S. Jobless Claims  The local currency dropped 1.3 percent against the U.S.
dollar in the space of an hour earlier today as American jobless
claims unexpectedly declined to a five-year low. The central
bank assumed a currency level of $1.02 in its forecasts.  Australia’s currency, which didn’t rise above 85 U.S. cents
between 1990 and 2006, hasn’t dropped below that level in almost
three years. The Aussie “remains at a high level by historical
standards, notwithstanding the decline in export prices and
interest rates,” the central bank reiterated today.  Australian industry has been squeezed by the currency’s
longest stretch above parity with the U.S. dollar since it was
freely floated in 1983.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden division
said last month it will cut about 500 jobs in Australia, citing
currency devaluations in competing markets.  Firms ‘Cautious’  “The bank’s liaison suggests that firms remain cautious
about hiring staff,” the RBA said. “The unemployment rate is
expected to continue to edge higher for the next year or so.”  The RBA’s 2 percentage points of rate cuts in the past 19
months are designed to boost demand and hiring in the nation’s
south and east to pick up some of the slack in the economy as
the mining investment boom peaks.  “While there are signs that this rebalancing is beginning,
there remains considerable uncertainty about how it will
proceed,” the central bank said today, adding that the pace of
aggregate employment growth across the states has been shifting
away from the mining regions. “In Western Australia, employment
growth has slowed in recent months, reflecting the weaker
conditions in the mining industry. Employment growth has
continued to pick up in New South  Wales , while labor market
conditions in Queensland look to have improved.”  Job Gains  Australian  employers  boosted payrolls by 50,100 in April,
more than four times economists’ estimates, led by gains in New
South Wales and Victoria, government data showed yesterday. The
unemployment rate unexpectedly fell. The employment gain erased
a 31,100 loss in March.  The RBA said today the outlook for export volumes remains
strong, even as mining investment is predicted to plateau.  “The increase in liquefied natural gas exports is
particularly large, and LNG is expected to account for almost
one-fifth of resource exports by 2017-18, up from 6 percent
currently,” the central bank said today.  Even so, the government will next week hand down its last
budget before elections due Sept. 14, with a deficit of A$14.5
billion ($14.6 billion) expected this fiscal year, according to
the median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Considerable uncertainty remains around the outlook for
public spending given weaker-than-expected revenue and the
fiscal consolidation at a state and federal level,” the RBA
said. “The possibility of policy changes over the course of the
year adds to the uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  