-- Record Two-Thirds of New U.S. Mothers College Educated, Pew Says
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2013-05-10T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/record-two-thirds-of-new-u-s-mothers-college-educated-pew-says.html
The percentage of new mothers with a
college education is rising to record levels, while births among
less-educated American women continue to drop, a study shows.  Two of every three new mothers had at least some college
education in 2011, according to the study released today by the
Pew Research Center. The rate has almost quadrupled since 1960,
when only 18 percent of new mothers had college experience.  “These benchmarks reflect a decades-long rise in the
educational levels of all women, as well as a decline in births
that has been particularly steep among less-educated women,”
the authors wrote. The drop in births among the less educated
intensified after the onset of the recession in late 2007.  Pew said the decline in birth rates was most pronounced
among blacks, Hispanics, young adults and low-income women, all
of whom were hit hard by the 18-month recession that marked the
worst economic downturn since the Great Depression.  Almost half of new mothers who were high school dropouts
were younger than 25, Pew said. Only 3 percent of new mothers
with a college degree were that young.  The percentage of older, college-educated mothers without
children has dropped more than 15 percent since the early 1990s,
according to Washington-based Pew. Only 22 percent of women with
a bachelor’s degree from 40 to 44 years of age had no children
in 2010, down from 26 percent about two decades ago.  Meanwhile, the number of female 40- to 44-year-old high
school dropouts who never had children increased to 13 percent,
up from 10 percent in the 1990s.  Even though births among women who have attended college
are increasing, Pew found less-educated mothers still surpass
them in the number of births. The typical mother without a high
school diploma has 2.5 children, while women with a bachelor’s
degree average 1.7 kids. Women with high school diplomas or some
college typically have 1.9 children during their lives, the
study said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 Fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  