-- True Religion to Be Acquired by TowerBrook for $835 Million
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/true-religion-to-be-acquired-by-towerbrook-for-835-million-1-.html
True Religion Apparel Inc. (TRLG) , the maker
of designer jeans worn by Megan Fox and Angelina Jolie, agreed
to be bought by TowerBrook Capital Partners LP for about $835
million.  The $32-a-share offer is 8.7 percent more than True
Religion’s closing price on May 9. The deal is expected to be
completed in the third quarter, the Vernon, California-based
company said yesterday in a statement.  True Religion, which hired Guggenheim Partners in October
to evaluate a possible sale, has lost female customers after
maintaining higher prices than competitors such as  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s 7
for All Mankind label. While  revenue  increased 11 percent last
year, True Religion’s profitability has shrunk. Operating margin
narrowed to 16.7 percent last year from 33.2 percent in 2005.  “It’s probably worth a little more, somewhere between the
mid- to high $30s, but they’re buying them, and it is a valuable
brand,” said Ivan Feinseth, chief investment officer at Tigress
Financial Partners LLC, an asset manager and merger adviser in
New York. “We are in an upswing in the economy, and the time to
buy things is when things are recovering.”  The shares  rose  8.1 percent to $31.82 at the close in New
York yesterday. They have gained 25 percent this year. The stock
closed at an all time high of $37.29 on Feb. 7, 2012.  TowerBrook is a New York-based private-equity firm founded
by Ramez Sousou and Neal Moszkowski, who also serve as co-CEOs.
Its previous retail investments include the Jimmy Choo Ltd
luxury brand, acquired by Labelux GmbH in 2011.  $323 Jeans  True Religion’s women’s Cameron Vintage “Boyfriend” jeans
cost $317 for a pair, while the women’s Carrie Patchwork Flare
jean are listed at $323, according to the company’s  website .  True Religion was founded in 2002 by Jeffrey Lubell, who
began embellishing jeans as a teen growing up in New York. He
took the company public the following year, according to its
website. True Religion operated 124 stores in the U.S. and 31
international locations as of March 31.  “We’re happy and we think this is potentially a fair
price,” said Ashley Abney, an analyst at River Road Asset
Management LLC, which has about $10 billion under management
including True Religion shares. “The stock hasn’t traded at a
multiple like this in a while.”  True Religion yesterday also reported first-quarter profit
that trailed analysts’ estimates. Profit, excluding costs
related to the review of strategic alternatives and executive
separation expenses, totaled 22 cents a share. Analysts
projected 34 cents, the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 13 percent to $120.8 million, while same-store sales increased 0.7 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG, Jefferies Group LLC and UBS AG acted as
financial advisers to TowerBrook, while Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen
& Katz served as legal counsel.  Guggenheim Securities served as financial adviser to True
Religion and the special committee of the board, while Greenberg
Traurig LLP and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP provided
legal advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  