-- Russia, U.K. Planning Joint Steps Toward Syria Peace
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-10T18:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/russia-u-k-planning-joint-steps-toward-syria-peace.html
Russia  and the U.K. are planning
joint steps to bring peace to  Syria , where a civil war has
claimed more than 70,000 lives since 2011, President  Vladimir Putin  and Prime Minister  David Cameron  said.  The two leaders agreed during “substantive and
purposeful” discussions in the southern Russian resort of Sochi
today to work together at the  United Nations  on the development
of a transitional government to take over from President Bashar al-Assad, Cameron told reporters at a joint news conference.  “We have a common interest in putting an immediate end to
violence in that country and launching a peace settlement
preserving Syria as an integral and sovereign state,” Putin
said. “On the initiative of the British prime minister we
discussed a number of possible steps and options to resolve the
crisis.”  Russia has vetoed three draft UN Security Council
resolutions condemning the Syrian government’s crackdown on
opponents and threatening to impose economic sanctions. Russia
argued the opposition was equally to blame for the violence and
that Western powers were seeking a Libya-style regime change.  Cameron, who said he “strongly” supports a peace
conference proposed by U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , said Britain and Russia
share the same “fundamental aims” of bringing an end to the
conflict, avoiding the break-up of Syria and stopping violent
extremism.  Driving Process  “The president and I have agreed that as permanent members
of the UN we must help drive this process,” Cameron said.
“Working with partners in the region and beyond, not just
bringing the regime and opposition together at one negotiating
table, but Britain, Russia, America and other countries helping
shape a transitional government that all Syrians can trust to
protect them.”  There’s “movement toward another forum with the
participation of the legitimate authorities and the opposition”
following today’s talks,  Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s spokesman, told
reporters in Sochi.  In  Washington , Kerry said the U.S. and other nations “owe
the world the best effort possible” to end bloodshed and find a
peaceful solution to the Syrian conflict.  “If the political willpower is there and shared, and if
people are prepared to compromise reasonably, there is a path
forward,” Kerry said today in an online chat on a Google Inc.
website.  If a peace conference is held, Kerry said it “will be very
clear to everybody who is prepared to be reasonable and who is
not prepared to be reasonable.”  Syrians must be “willing to compromise” in choosing the
members of a transitional government, which must then offer a
“fair choice about who their leader is going to be,” Kerry
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  