-- Saudi Arabia Seeks Stable Crude Prices, Minister Al-Naimi Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-05-10T12:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/saudi-arabia-seeks-stable-crude-prices-minister-al-naimi-says.html
Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest
crude exporter, welcomes additional supplies from other
producers that may help to stabilize prices, Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said.  “New supplies are welcome,” Al-Naimi said today in a
speech in Istanbul, where he traveled to meet  Turkey ’s energy
minister  Taner Yildiz . “They will add depth and, I hope,
greater stability to world markets.”  Saudi Arabia “remains committed to its role as a stable
and reliable supplier” that has consistently stepped up
production to offset any shortfalls, Al-Naimi said.  Brent crude prices slumped 7.6 percent this year as  Europe 
struggled to move beyond its debt crisis and Chinese growth and
manufacturing showed signs of a slowdown. The decline brings
prices in line with the target cited by Al-Naimi, who has
described $100 a barrel as “reasonable” for consumers and
producers. Brent traded at about $103 today on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London .  Saudi Arabia , the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, boosted production to 9.27
million barrels a day in April, or the most since November,
according to an OPEC estimate based on secondary sources. That
compares with the country’s own figure of 9.31 million barrels
based on its direct communication with the group.  The desert kingdom has the only significant surplus
production capacity in OPEC and has used this cushion to help
moderate global crude prices. Since 2009, Saudi Arabia has had
spare capacity of 2.5 million to 3.5 million barrels a day, Al-Naimi said in the speech.  The organization will meet on May 31 in Vienna to discuss
its output policy after maintaining a collective 30 million
barrel-a-day target in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  