-- Search for Armstrong’s Secret Sauce Is Focus of Amateur Cycling
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/search-for-armstrong-s-secret-sauce-is-focus-of-amateur-cycling.html
Organizers of the  Gran Fondo New York 
bike race don’t want an amateur  Lance Armstrong  among the 6,000
cyclists competing in the 105-mile event next weekend.  So they are spending $15,000 on drug tests sanctioned by
the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, the same organization whose
investigation led Armstrong to confess that he cheated to win
seven Tour de France championships by using performance-enhancing drugs.  With cycling participation in the U.S. up 66 percent --
there were 70,829 USA Cycling licenses  issued  in 2011, an
increase from 42,724 in 2002 -- organizers of top U.S. amateur
events are spending more on drug testing to maintain legitimacy.  “Cycling sort of carries that burden with it,” Gary Wadler, chairman of the  World Anti-Doping Agency ’s Prohibited
List and Methods Subcommittee and author of “Drugs and the
Athlete” said in a telephone interview. “When you test, it’s
the deed that counts, not just words. It’s measurable and there
is no deniability.”  Gran fondo loosely translates from Italian to “big ride,”
and Uli Fluhme, a former UBS hedge-fund attorney and co-founder
of the  New York  race, describes it as a “marathon on bikes.”  First held in 2011, the Gran Fondo New York had two doping
cases last year, its first for drug tests. This year, winners
will collect a total of $50,000 in  prizes , including an $8,000
bicycle, and the continued drug tests are drawing support from
participants. It costs $190-$300 to enter.  “This is a competitive race from start to finish and if
you’re going for the prize, you should fully expect to be
tested,” said Brian Lee, a 40-year-old  Morgan Stanley (MS)  high-yield bond salesman, who is training for July’s Ironman
triathlon in Lake Placid, New York. “Integrity is important.”  Two Dopers  Last year,  David Anthony  of the U.S. and Gabriele Guarini
of  Italy  tested positive for banned substances. Anthony had won
the 45-49 age division before a test revealed his use of blood-boosting erythropoietin, or EPO. Guarini won the 50-54 men’s
category and tested positive for oxygen-enhancing peptide
hormone use, according to USADA’s website. Both got two-year
bans and had their results erased. Neither responded to e-mail
requests for comment.  Anthony and Guarini joined a growing  list  of amateur
athletes to test positive for doping. Since 2011, at least 10
amateur cyclists have been cited for doping infractions in the
U.S., according to USADA. Anthony’s name appears three spots
below Armstrong’s on USADA’s banned list.  48 States  The gran fondo, which this year has attracted cyclists from
48 U.S. states and 70 countries, was founded by Fluhme, 38, and
his wife, Lidia Fluhme, 32, a former Wall Street investment
banker with firms including Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank AG.
The couple said they used their own savings to fund the race in
its first year and spend about $500,000 for permits to secure
the route. The Fluhmes said they didn’t test for doping in the
inaugural race due to the high costs. Testing began last year.  He wouldn’t disclose how much he has spent on the race or
whether it will be profitable.  Doping tests at the gran fondo help the Fluhmes protect
their investment, Uli Fluhme said in a telephone interview. They
wouldn’t disclose the number of tests that will be done.  “If you put on a race, make it a competition, put up
prizes and people come from all over the world to compete and
you don’t do testing, it’s like you are allowing doping,” he
said. “It’s just part of what you have to do to provide fair
racing. Of course it’s sad. But it’s the reality. It’s better
than just ignoring it.”  Doping Scandals  While professional cycling has been plagued by doping
scandals since the 1960s, a surge in recreational riders is
increasing drug use among amateurs, said Andrew Tilin, who was
banned for two years by USADA in 2011 for testosterone use as
part of research for his book, “The Doper Next Door: My Strange
and Scandalous Year on Performance-Enhancing Drugs.”  “The culture has just trickled down,” Tilin, 47, said in
a telephone interview. “It’s pathetic, frankly. Who are we
really impressing? We’re racing for PowerBars, tires and passes
to amusement parks.”  Fresh off his ban, Tilin finished 10th in the Masters B
class at the  Tour of the Gila  four-day stage race in  New Mexico 
on May 5.  “I’m staring at a check for $13,” Tilin said of his
prize.  The U.S. bicycle industry had sales of $6 billion in 2011,
up 13 percent from $5.3 billion in 2002, according to the
 National Bicycle Dealers Association .  Scenic Tour  During a gran fondo, riders can choose to race for a
fastest time or just enjoy the scenery and spend time with
friends as part of an endurance challenge.  After a 7 a.m. mass start for the May 19 race on the lower
level of the George Washington Bridge, riders head north to Bear
Mountain, New York, and back. The ride finishes in Weehawken,
New Jersey, with a 10-hour time limit. Top riders will finish in
less than six hours.  “The star is  New York City ,” said Uli Fluhme, who moved
to New York from Ireland in 2008. The ride has a total of about
8,500 feet (2,600 meters) of climbing. It’s that elevation that
the German-born Fluhme said will probably surprise non-New
Yorkers in the race.  “People think of  Manhattan  and say, ‘How great can the
riding be here?’” he said. “When you get across the bridge
into Rockland County (New York), it’s beautiful. It’s a hard
course. When I moved here, I had no idea.”  Last year’s men’s winner, which was determined by  combined
times  on the course’s four biggest climbs, was Wladimiro
D’Ascenzo, a former professional cyclist from Italy. Anthony
Fatuzzo of Fair Lawn,  New Jersey , was second.  Team Sport  While the field is limited to amateurs, many compete as
members of organized teams. Like professional races, amateur
riders work together in groups in an attempt to set their top
riders up for victory. At the New York event, winning teams are
also awarded prizes based on the times of their four fastest
finishers.  For some first-time participants, drug testers at the
finish line will be a welcome sight.  “I don’t expect to win prize money, but let’s try to keep
the playing field honest,” Solomon Rosenzweig, a 38-year-old
structural engineer from  Brooklyn , said in a telephone
interview. “I kind of hope I get picked just for the novelty of
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  