-- Seattle Group Raises Bid for NBA Sacramento Kings by $75 Million
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-05-11T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/seattle-group-increases-bid-for-nba-s-kings-by-75-million.html
A Seattle-based group led by Valiant
Capital founder Chris Hansen raised its bid for the  Sacramento
Kings  by $75 million to $625 million, five days before  National
Basketball Association team owners vote on whether to approve
relocation.  A 12-member panel of team owners on April 29 recommended
unanimously that the NBA Board of Governors reject Hansen’s bid
to buy the Kings from the Maloof family and instead accept an
offer put together by Sacramento Mayor  Kevin Johnson , a former
NBA player. A final vote of the 30 franchise owners is scheduled
for May 15.  “In an effort to further demonstrate the extent of our
commitment to bring basketball back to Seattle, we have elected
to voluntarily increase our proposed purchase price,” Hansen
said yesterday in a  blog post .  The record for an NBA team sale is $450 million, which Joe Lacob and  Peter Guber  spent to buy the Golden State Warriors in
2010.  Hansen pointed out that the ownership group, which includes
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer , has
acquired all the property needed to build a new arena and has in
place all the private funding for the venue.  “While we appreciate that this is a very difficult
decision for the league and owners, we hope it is understood
that we really believe the time is now to bring the NBA back to
Seattle, and that it is paramount that we do everything we can
to put Seattle’s best foot forward in this process,” Hansen
said.  Seattle lost its team in 2008, when the SuperSonics ended
their 41-year stay by moving to Oklahoma City and becoming the
Thunder.  Sacramento Bid  Golden State Warriors part-owner  Vivek Ranadive , the
founder of  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX) , would become the Kings’ new
majority owner and a new arena would be built in Sacramento if
NBA owners vote not to let the team relocate and the Maloofs
agree to sell to the Sacramento group.  “The NBA leadership and owners have always said that their
decision would not be dictated by a bidding war,” Johnson said
yesterday on Twitter. “I believe the owners realize that there
is far more to think about than just an increased bid. They know
what this story means to the NBA.”  The Kings have been owned by the Maloofs since July 1999.
The family reached a preliminary deal with Sacramento in
February 2012 to build a new arena, only to have the accord fall
through within two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  