-- Sebelius Solicits Companies for Health Law Publicity Fund
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/sebelius-solicits-companies-for-health-law-publicity-fund.html
President  Barack Obama ’s health
secretary has called companies and other organizations, seeking
financial contributions to help promote the 2010 health-care law
that takes full effect next year.  Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius has
telephoned executives to discuss the Affordable Care Act and
emphasize the importance of promoting it, said Jason Young, an
HHS spokesman, who wouldn’t name the companies. Sebelius hasn’t
directly solicited companies she regulates, such as insurers,
hospitals or drugmakers, Young said by phone yesterday.  The White House has increased efforts to publicize the law
as the Oct. 1 debut of health-insurance exchanges approaches. A
recent poll showed 42 percent of Americans weren’t even sure the
law was still in effect. Sebelius is using her authority to
raise money for a independent nonprofit group called Enroll
America that is promoting the health law.  “In general, what she says is that Enroll America and
other groups like them are doing important work at an important
time helping all of us get ready for open enrollment,” Young
said in a telephone interview. “If it’s a regulated entity, we
generally stop there. If it’s one of these other outside groups
or people, then we ask them to please support good work.”  Enroll America is a coalition assembled in 2011 by Ron Pollack, the chief executive officer of Families USA, a consumer
advocacy group based in Washington, to promote the health law
and help people sign up for its programs. Its board includes
executives from Kaiser Permanente, an Oakland, California-based
nonprofit hospital and insurance company, drugmaker  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and the chief executive officer
of the American Hospital Association.  March Start  The calls to executives began about March 23 and are
continuing, Young said. Sebelius’ activities were reported
earlier by the Washington Post.  Organizations that have been asked for money include
patient advocacy groups, individual health-care providers such
as doctors and nurses, churches and “companies not regulated by
HHS,” Young said. He didn’t name any of the groups.  Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the senior Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee with jurisdiction over many HHS
programs, said he would question Sebelius about her fundraising.  “Moving forward, I will be seeking information from the
administration about these actions to help better understand
whether there are conflicts of interest and if it violated
federal law,” Hatch said in a statement.  Lawyers’ Advice  Young said he has confidence that Sebelius sought advice
from department lawyers before beginning the fundraising.  Enroll America’s executive director, Anne Filipic,
described the effort to promote the law as a partnership among
government, for-profit companies and nonprofit organizations.  “We all have a lot of work to do between now and the
marketplace opening in October,” Filipic said in an e-mail,
using the Obama administration’s term for exchanges. “Secretary
Sebelius recognizes how important the work Enroll America is
doing and we’re thrilled to be working with her.”  Filipic is a former White House aide who was installed as
Enroll America’s leader in January, to direct efforts to make
sure uninsured people are aware of new coverage options under
the health law.  The law is projected by 2017 to expand medical coverage to
about 27 million people who currently lack it, primarily by
offering subsidies to buy insurance and by expanding the joint
state-federal Medicaid program for the poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  