-- SEC’s Gallagher Wants the Fed Back in its Regulatory Box
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/sec-s-gallagher-wants-the-fed-back-in-its-regulatory-box.html
Securities and Exchange Commission
member Daniel Gallagher says the  Federal Reserve  is pushing even
deeper onto his agency’s turf than Congress intended when it
rewrote the rules of financial regulation three years ago.  Gallagher, a Republican, is fanning a conflict rooted in
the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, under which the SEC lost some power to
the central bank. He has publicly criticized the Fed for
expanding its role in the so-called Volcker rule banning
proprietary trading and oversight of money-market funds.  “Some of this is very in-your-face,” Gallagher said of
the Fed’s actions in an interview. “The bank regulators seem to
be driving policy, and that has got to change.”  While saying he respects the Fed’s work, Gallagher said its
main regulatory mission -- ensuring the safety of banks and
deposits -- requires a heavy-handed approach that won’t work for
 capital markets  where investors accept they might lose money.
The regulators, he said, should stick to what each knows best.  Speaking at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in January,
Gallagher, 40, lamented that the SEC plays “second fiddle” on
the Volcker rule. In a February speech in  Washington , he warned
that Dodd-Frank, which he mostly opposed, limits “the
commission’s ability to apply its expertise and judgment.”  Gallagher’s campaign comes after the SEC has been lambasted
by lawmakers and consumer groups for its failure to properly
police  Wall Street  before the 2008 credit crisis that led to the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos.,
two of the largest brokerages subject to the agency’s oversight.  ‘No Sympathy’  Jennifer Taub , an associate professor at Vermont Law
School, said that she has “no sympathy” for Gallagher’s
position because it ignores the lessons of the Wall Street
meltdown, including the need for a regulator to watch for
problems across the financial system.  “It’s hard to believe he was conscious in 2008,” said
Taub, who is working on a book about regulatory failures.  The Fed hasn’t responded publicly to Gallagher’s criticism.
 Michelle Smith , a spokeswoman for the Fed, declined to comment.  While the Fed came in for its own criticism for its lax
oversight before the credit crisis, much of what the central
bank is doing comes with the blessing of Congress. Dodd-Frank
made the Fed the overseer of “systemically important financial
institutions” and gave it authority to regulate risky financial
activities. Dodd-Frank also set up the Financial Stability
Oversight Council to identify and respond to systemic threats.  Regional Feds  Gallagher’s view is embraced by some Republican lawmakers
and free-market analysts who argue the Fed’s push extends an
implied government protection to more areas of the financial
system, setting up the possibility of more bailouts. A
bipartisan group of 15 ex-SEC officials also stood up for their
former agency, writing a Feb. 20 letter to oversight council
members urging them to let the SEC set money-fund policy.  Former SEC Commissioner  Paul Atkins , a Republican and the
prime mover behind the letter to the oversight council, said the
signers were concerned about the SEC’s independence.  “The Fed needs to be put back in its box,” Atkins, who
when he was a commissioner hired Gallagher as a counsel in 2006,
said in an interview. “They have enough things to pay attention
to in their own backyard.”  Gallagher said he’s been monitoring other areas of emerging
conflict after comments by regional Fed officials.  Last month, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said that
banks with brokerage units should hold more capital. He said the
SEC, the primary regulator of brokers whether or not they are
units of banks, has left capital rules “largely unchanged,
despite the lessons of the financial crisis.” That makes
brokers “vulnerable to losing the confidence of funders and
counterparties” in a future crisis, Rosengren said.  Fed Backstop  The presidents of all 12 regional Fed banks put their
weight behind tougher oversight of money-market funds in a Feb.
12 letter to the oversight council. Earlier that month,  New York 
Fed President William C. Dudley argued that it may be necessary
for the central bank to provide emergency lending to money-market funds and brokerage firms, a backstop now only available
to banks. The price for that, Dudley said, would be formally
submitting to Fed regulation.  SEC Chairman Mary Jo White, new in the post after her
appointment by President  Barack Obama , hasn’t taken a stance on
the broad issues raised by Gallagher, one of two Republicans on
the five-member commission. White told oversight board members
on April 25 that money-fund reform “would best be handled by
the SEC due to the SEC’s expertise.”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  ‘Terrifying’ Prospect  The highest-profile issue shared by the SEC and Fed
involves money-market funds. The funds keep a stable value of $1
a share and have long been of concern to bank regulators because
small investors confuse them with bank accounts guaranteed by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. They played a central role
in 2008 when the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund imploded.  The Fed and the Treasury Department pressed the SEC for new
rules. Then-SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  offered a plan last year
that would have required funds to hold more capital to avert
what she called the “terrifying” prospect of another run.  Gallagher refused to back it. He said in the interview that
the measure was “created in strong consultation” with the Fed
and Treasury. “I thought it was inappropriate that other
regulators were involved in the drafting process for an SEC
rule,” he said.  Schapiro withdrew a vote on the proposal last August when
she couldn’t get the support of a majority of commissioners.  Using authority from Dodd-Frank, the oversight council late
last year took steps that could have put money funds under the
Fed. The group later backed off, saying in an April 25 report
that the SEC “by virtue of its institutional expertise and
statutory authority is best positioned to implement reforms.”  SEC Expertise  On the Volcker rule, Gallagher said much of the ground that
the regulation covers -- deciding, for instance, the difference
between hedging and trading for a bank’s own account -- is an
area where the SEC has long had expertise.  “The fact that this agency hasn’t been leading the charge
is unbelievable,” said Gallagher, who has called for regulators
to start over on Volcker after an initial version was panned for
its complexity. “We’ve been doing this for 80 years.”  Most recently, Gallagher expanded his criticism of the Fed
beyond its regulatory mission. He maintains that bond investors
need to be aware of perils they may face when the Fed stops
juicing the economy through so-called quantitative easing.  For example, if some municipalities default on their bonds
and interest rates spike, “we’ve got a real Armageddon on our
hands here,” Gallagher said at an April 16 SEC roundtable
discussion about fixed-income markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 