-- SEC’s Gallagher Says Politicians Responsible for Bond Statements
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-10T18:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/sec-s-gallagher-says-politicians-responsible-for-bond-statements.html
U.S. public officials should face
regulatory sanctions if they make misleading statements about a
municipality’s financial health, Securities and Exchange
Commission member Daniel Gallagher said in a speech.  “When we find knowing or reckless material misstatements
or omissions by public officials in connection with municipal
securities, we can, should and will take action to hold the
appropriate public officials accountable,” Gallagher, one of
two Republicans on the five-member commission, said today at the
Rocky Mountain Securities Conference in Denver.  Gallagher’s comments come three days after the SEC filed an
enforcement action against Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , over claims
the city misrepresented its fiscal condition in budget
documents, financial reports and a mayoral speech. While no
public officials were named in the action, the agency released
an accompanying report stating it would pursue the individuals
responsible for misstatements in future cases.  “As too often happens in these types of cases, the
commission did not pursue actions against individuals,” said
Gallagher, noting that even though the SEC issued a similar
report in 1996 emphasizing public officials’ responsibilities,
the agency has refrained from pursuing claims against them in
other cases.  Gallagher, 40, last month raised broader concerns about the
municipal-bond market, saying investors could be in for
“Armageddon” if some cities default on their payments and
interest rates rise.  The SEC has historically devoted “a very small proportion
of its resources” to regulation of the $3.7 trillion municipal
securities market, Gallagher said today. Regulators could
improve oversight of capital markets by merging the SEC and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees futures and
derivatives trading, he said.  “The derivative, fixed-income and equities markets may
seem unrelated, but they are very closely intertwined,”
Gallagher said. “The SEC must move toward a more sophisticated
understanding of the interplay between and among these
markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  