-- Senators Reject Pressure for Gun Background Check Shift
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-05-10T17:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/senators-reject-pressure-for-gun-background-check-shift.html
U.S. senators are resisting pressure
to reconsider their opposition to expanding background checks
for firearm purchasers, a centerpiece of President  Barack Obama ’s bid for new gun-control measures.  Republican Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire and Democrats Max Baucus of Montana and Mark Begich of Alaska are among senators
targeted in television ads or by protests outside their offices
organized by groups supporting stricter gun laws.  In a fundraising letter yesterday, Ayotte said opponents
“can’t bully me into changing my vote” against gun background
checks. The opponents, she says, are Obama, Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid and  New York  Mayor Michael Bloomberg. The
mayor, co-founder of Bloomberg LP, parent company of Bloomberg
News, is co-chairman of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, which
announced a new TV ad this week challenging Ayotte.  The senators voted April 17 against legislation expanding
firearms background checks to all commercial gun sales. Four
Democrats -- including Baucus, Begich, Mark Pryor of  Arkansas ,
and Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota -- voted with most of the
Senate’s Republicans against the measure, which failed 54-46, as
60 votes were needed to pass it.  Republicans Dean Heller of  Nevada  and Lisa Murkowski of
Alaska also face criticism for their votes against the bill, as
advocates focus on lawmakers who might reconsider it.  NRA Opposition  The Senate vote scuttled a scaled-back version of the gun-control plan Obama proposed after the Dec. 14 shootings at an
elementary school in Newtown,  Connecticut , that killed 20
children and six school employees. Parts of his plan, including
a ban on assault weapons and size limits on ammunition
magazines, were removed from the bill amid opposition by the
National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby.  Pryor, a Democrat seeking re-election in 2014 in a state
that Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  won last year
by 24 percentage points, said his position on background checks
hasn’t changed since the April 17 vote.  He said he “really hadn’t had a lot of conversations”
with supporters who might want to revive the legislation.  In her letter, Ayotte, who has been singled out more than
other Republican opponents of the measure, said she won’t change
her vote “because this legislation would have gone too far in
restricting the Constitutional rights of law-abiding gun owners,
while doing nothing to prevent a deranged individual or criminal
from obtaining and misusing firearms to commit horrific
tragedies like the one in Newtown.”  Arizona  Senator Jeff Flake, a Republican who suggested that
his declining poll ratings since the background check vote liken
him to “pond scum,” said he remains firmly opposed to an
expansion of background checks.  ‘Not Reconsidering’  “It’s too close to universal,” Flake told reporters at
the Capitol on May 7. “It defines commercial sales far too
broadly, and I’m not reconsidering my vote on that.”  Flake said he doubted supporters of the failed proposal
“could change it sufficiently because they’d lose votes on the
left.”  “I’m comfortable where I am,” he said. “I don’t feel a
need to change for political reasons.”  “Nothing has changed from my no vote,” said Georgia
Senator Johnny Isakson, another Republican criticized.  Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West Virgina, a sponsor
of the background-check proposal, has been seeking to persuade
senators who voted against the measure to change their votes or
accept revisions to the amendment to win them over.  Congress is now turning its focus to an immigration law
revision that members of both parties are pressing, which means
any effort to revive gun legislation will be overshadowed.  ‘Doubt It’  Reid, asked by reporters yesterday whether he might bring
up the background-check legislation in June, said, “I doubt
it,” because the Senate needs to work on immigration.  Still, he said, he wants to return to the legislation.  “We’re going to come back to that. Ninety percent of the
American people support that,” Reid said, referring to opinion
polls showing widespread public support for expanding background
checks.  In the past few weeks, including a week-long congressional
recess, Mayors Against Illegal Guns has run ads targeting
Ayotte, the one senator from New England to oppose the plan, and
sent survivors of gun violence and their family members to town
hall meetings to confront her and other lawmakers.  Organizing for Action, an outgrowth of Obama’s 2012
campaign, held a series of “Shame on You” protests at
senators’ offices in seven states and is planning another round
for Mother’s Day this weekend.  Montana Ads  The Progressive Change Campaign Committee has run newspaper
ads, including in 13 Montana newspapers, against the four
Democrats who voted against the measure. On May 1, the group
announced a $50,000 spot featuring a Montana grandmother
admonishing Baucus. Days after the vote, Baucus announced he
wouldn’t seek re-election to the Senate in 2014.  No plans to advance another gun measure have been announced
in the Senate. Illinois Senator Richard Durbin, the chamber’s
second-ranking Democrat and a supporter of the legislation, said
“conversations continue at a lot of different levels” in an
attempt to build support. “But I can’t tell you there’s been
any breakthroughs.”  A Democratic aide who asked not to be identified because
the discussions aren’t public said Manchin is stepping up his
efforts over the next several weeks to meet with senators who
voted against the legislation.  Possible Changes  Manchin, in an earlier interview, said some senators might
be open to reconsidering their no votes with changes to the
measure, such as exceptions to background checks for families
who trade guns through Internet transactions. Another he’s
considering would exempt individuals who live in rural areas who
purchase guns over the Internet.  Still, some of the senators whom the changes are meant to
persuade say the revisions don’t go far enough or that they
haven’t had any detailed discussions about them.  Murkowski said she hadn’t had a conversation “of
substance” with Manchin about potential changes, including the
rural exemption that Democrats are considering to try to win her
vote and that of Begich, also of  Alaska .  ‘Not Convinced’  “Then you basically have a two-tiered system in a state
like mine, and folks are looking at that and saying, ‘You know,
that doesn’t necessarily make sense either,’” Murkowski said.
“I’m not convinced that that actually gets us there.”  Pryor said he doesn’t have a “definitive list” of things
he wants changed in the bill. “I’ve told all the senators
working on this issue that if they want to make changes or draft
new legislation, I’ll certainly look at it,” he said.  Meanwhile, Ayotte, who has faced the brunt of protests and
advertisements, has made it clear she isn’t changing her
position. In her fundraising letter, she said Bloomberg and
Obama “are doing everything they can to damage me politically
for not supporting their agenda.”  In an opinion editorial that ran May 7 in New Hampshire
newspapers, Ayotte accused “out-of-state special interests” of
running “false ads” misconstruing her “efforts to prevent
gun-related violence.”  “The focus should be on fixing the existing system, which
criminals are flouting,” Ayotte wrote. “We need to make sure
we are enforcing current law and prosecuting those who attempt
to illegally obtain firearms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  