-- Senators Reject Most Border Changes to Immigration Plan
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-05-10T16:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/senators-reject-most-border-changes-to-immigration-plan.html
A Senate panel rejected Republicans’
broadest attempts to add stricter border-security rules to a
proposed immigration law, while accepting a change seeking a 90
percent apprehension rate along the U.S.-Mexico border.  In a preview of the coming Senate floor fight over the
immigration bill, Democrats who control the Senate Judiciary
Committee demonstrated yesterday that they’re open to some
Republican attempts to stiffen the bill’s border-security
provisions. They rejected more significant revisions.  “Be constructive. We are open to change,” New York
Senator  Charles Schumer , one of eight senators who authored the
bipartisan proposal, said as the panel began considering
amendments. “But don’t make an effort to kill a bill that is
the best hope for immigration reform, I believe, that we’ve had
in this country.”  The plan seeks to balance Democrats’ proposed path to
citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.
with enough border-security improvements to satisfy Republicans.  The Republican Party is trying to reconnect with Hispanics
after President  Barack Obama  won 71 percent of that group’s
votes in the November election.  The bill, S. 744, was proposed by four Senate Republicans
and four Democrats. The two Republicans in that group who also
serve on the Judiciary Committee --  Lindsey Graham  of South
Carolina and  Jeff Flake  of Arizona -- voted against several of
the broader amendments offered by fellow party members.  300 Amendments  The Judiciary panel yesterday considered what border-security goals must be met before the government would open a
path to citizenship. Committee members have filed about 300
proposed amendments, and the panel will continue work on the
bill May 14.  Among the rejected amendments was one from Texas Republican
 Ted Cruz  to replace all of the measure’s border-security rules.  “The bill has grave problems when it comes to border
security,” Cruz said. He said he would insist on putting “real
teeth in the border security elements.”  Cruz’s proposal, rejected 5-13, would have tripled the
number of Border Patrol agents along the U.S.-Mexico border and
quadrupled surveillance equipment such as cameras and drones
before any prospective citizen could be granted “registered
provisional immigrant” status.  The proposal “doesn’t really do the job and in fact would
waste money,” said Schumer, a Democrat.  U.S.-Mexico Border  Senators adopted an amendment from Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley  to require that the Department of Homeland Security
achieve a 90 percent apprehension rate along the full U.S.-
Mexico border before undocumented immigrants can begin
qualifying for eventual citizenship. The bill initially imposed
that requirement only for high-risk areas of the border.  By a vote of 6-12, panel members defeated a more expansive
amendment from Grassley that would have barred prospective
citizens from receiving “registered provisional  immigrant ”
status until the U.S. maintained “effective control of the
borders” for at least six months.  “The triggers in the bill that kick off legalization are
weak,” said Grassley, the Judiciary panel’s top Republican.  Also by a vote of 6-12, senators defeated a proposal from
Utah Republican  Mike Lee  that would have required the House and
Senate to vote to certify that border security benchmarks had
been met before undocumented immigrants could start on the
citizenship path or become legal permanent residents.  “This gives us the final say in whether or not those
triggers have been met,” Lee said.  Judiciary Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat,
opposed the measure, saying it was impractical “to wait for
Congress to act.”  Fence Proposal  The committee voted 6-12 to reject a proposal, offered by
Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, to build 700 miles of new
double-layer fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border.  Cruz said he will continue to press an amendment to
eliminate the citizenship path for those already in the U.S. He
said the bill would “be voted down in the U.S. House of
Representatives” if it contained the path to citizenship.  The fate of an immigration measure is uncertain in the
House, where Judiciary Committee Chairman  Bob Goodlatte , a
Virginia Republican, said last month that he would proceed with
a series of individual bills instead of a comprehensive plan.  Sessions  said the “step-by-step approach” the House is
pursuing is a better way of dealing with the issue than the
comprehensive Senate plan.  Speaker Boehner  Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told reporters
that the House “is going to work its will on immigration
reform.”  “This is an issue that has been around far too long, and
needs to be dealt with,” Boehner said. “I intend to see that
it’s dealt with.”  House Democratic Whip  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland said there is
a 70 percent chance that Congress will revise immigration law
because the results of the 2012 election “focused the
Republican Party, particularly the presidential wing” on the
need to address a pathway to citizenship for 11 million
undocumented immigrants.  The Judiciary panel adopted about two dozen other
amendments, including some offered by Republicans. Among them
were proposals to prohibit a land border-crossing fee and to add
certain forms of human trafficking to the violent crimes that
must be reported to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s
Uniform Crime Reporting Program.  “So far, so good,” said Texas Republican Senator  John Cornyn , adding that it was “going to go on awhile” before the
committee finishes work on the bill because “we are going to
have a lot of amendments.”  Still “serious improvements are needed,” Cruz said.
“There need to be real steps to secure the border, which the
current bill does not have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  