-- SFC Power to Sue Is for Investors’ Protection, Court Says
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-05-10T05:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/sfc-power-to-sue-is-for-investors-protection-court-says.html
Hong Kong’s securities regulator must
be able to seek asset-freezing court orders to protect
investors, the city’s top court said in rejecting Tiger Asia
Management LLC’s claim such action can only be taken after a
civil or criminal trial.  In such proceedings, the Securities and Futures Commission
“acts not as a prosecutor in the general public interest but as
protector of the collective interests of the persons dealing in
the market,” Leonard Hoffmann today wrote on behalf of a five-judge panel in reasons for the Court of Final Appeal’s April 30
ruling.  Tiger Asia, which admitted in a U.S. settlement to
illegally using inside information to trade Chinese bank stocks,
challenged the SFC’s bid to freeze its assets valued at HK$38.5
million ($4.96 million) before it had a chance to defend itself
at trial. The SFC had sought a declaration from a court under
the city’s securities’ law that the  New York  hedge-fund firm had
breached insider trading rules.  Such a declaration, followed by a criminal trial where the
company was acquitted creates the danger of inconsistent
decisions, Tiger Asia’s lawyer Anthony Grabiner said, according
to the ruling.  “That is true. These things happen,” Hoffmann wrote. “A
jury acquitted O.J. Simpson of the murder of his girlfriend but
he was found liable in civil proceedings for wrongfully causing
her death. Inconsistency is always a possibility.”  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Tiger
Asia Management LLC, Sung Kook Hwang Bill, Raymond Park, William
Tomita, FACV10/11/12/13 2012 in the Hong Kong Court of Final
Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  