-- Sharp Rises After Report of Job Cuts, Board Revamp
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-05-10T08:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/sharp-rises-after-report-of-job-cuts-board-revamp.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  rose to the highest in a
year in Tokyo trading after reports it will extend job cuts by
5,000 and reshuffle management as the unprofitable electronics
maker seeks to end losses.  The shares  jumped  6.4 percent to 450 yen, at the close of
trade, the highest level since May 1, 2012. The stock has gained
40 percent in the past five trading days.  Japan ’s benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 2.9 percent today as a weaker
yen boosted the outlook for exporters.  Sharp’s job reductions will include workers at its
headquarters and television plants in China and  Malaysia  as the
company reduces its  workforce  to about 46,000 in fiscal 2015,
the Asahi newspaper reported today, without saying where it got
the information. The manufacturer is targeting sales of 3
trillion yen ($30 billion) and operating profit of 180 billion
yen for that year, the report said.  Osaka-based Sharp is set to announce its revival plan May
14 as the company tries to restructure its unprofitable liquid-crystal-display business ahead of deadlines to  repay debt  this
year. The company, which has sold stakes to Samsung Electronics
Co. and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , has 360 billion yen of loans due June 30
and 200 billion yen of convertible bonds that mature later this
year.  “The market for its product such as LCD TVs are tough,”
said Koki Shiraishi, an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“It is hard to justify the stock price right now from the
fundamentals.”  Most of the company’s board will be replaced and Chairman
 Mikio Katayama  will resign, the Yomiuri newspaper reported,
without saying where it got the information.  The company isn’t the source of the reports on mid-term
plans and management changes, Sharp said in a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  