-- South Africa Cricket Coach Gary Kirsten Won’t Renew Contract
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-10T10:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/south-africa-cricket-coach-gary-kirsten-won-t-renew-contract.html
South Africa cricket coach Gary Kirsten won’t renew his contract in order to spend more time
with his family.  Kirsten, 45, was appointed for two years in August 2011,
with an option to renew for another two years. He had to inform
Cricket South Africa by April 30 whether he wanted to exercise
the option.  “Gary has a young family and it is understandable that he
wishes to spend more time at home,” CSA President Chris Nenzani
said in a  statement . “I would like to thank him for his
tremendous contribution to the well-being of the Proteas over
the past two years.”  The ICC Champions Trophy in  England  and  Wales  next month
will be Kirsten’s final tournament in charge.  “I would like to thank Cricket South Africa for the
confidence they showed in entrusting me with the fortunes of the
national team,” Kirsten said. “It has been a huge privilege to
represent my country as player and coach and to have been given
the responsibility of growing the team.”  South Africa moved to the top of the International Cricket
Council’s  Test rankings  last August with a 2-0 series win over
then-No. 1 England.  The Proteas also topped the one-day and Twenty20 rankings
at one point last year, becoming the first team to hold the No.
1 spot in all three formats of the game at the same time. They
currently rank fourth in ODI and sixth in Twenty20.  With the Proteas set to tour Sri Lanka and July and August
and then host  India  and  Australia  next season, Nenzani said “it
is important that we move quickly to identify” Kirsten’s
successor.  “Gary certainly leaves the Proteas in good health and,
although we are disappointed to lose him as head coach, he has
put the foundations in place to carry us forward,” he said.  Kirsten coached India to the World Cup title on home soil
in 2011 before taking over South Africa. He scored 7,289 runs in
101 Test matches as an opening batsman for the Proteas, and also
scored 6,789 runs in 185 one-day matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 