-- Spreadtrum Drops on Fed as Ctrip Soars: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-10T13:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/spreadtrum-drops-on-fed-as-ctrip-soars-china-overnight.html
(Corrects story to remove reference to Spreadtrum’s sales
forecast being below estimates in second paragraph.)  Chinese stocks fell in New York for
the first time in six days, led by  Spreadtrum Communications
Inc. , on concern the Federal Reserve will step back from more
stimulus, curbing inflows into emerging markets.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. dropped 0.2 percent to 95.67 in New
York. Spreadtrum, a mobile chip-maker, sank. Internet travel
agency  Ctrip.com International Ltd.  surged the most since 2008
as firms including Bank of America Corp. boosted their
recommendations on the shares, while AutoNavi Holdings Ltd.
advanced a ninth day amid takeover speculation.  The China-US gauge reversed an earlier gain of as much as
0.1 percent after Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the benefits of the U.S. debt buying program were
“pretty meager.” Chinese government data showed the producer
price index fell more than economists predicted last month and
an editorial in the state-run China Securities Journal opined
that the nation doesn’t need economic stimulus as leaders’
tolerance for slowing growth will be higher than the market’s.  “There was a rumor that the Federal Reserve was going to
taper its bond buying,”  Greg Lesko , managing director at Deltec
Asset Management LLC where he helps manage about $750 million
including investments in Chinese stocks, said by e-mail in New
York. “A correction should be expected.  But I don’t think the
economic data is so strong that the Fed would move yet.”  ETF Retreats  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., lost 1 percent to $38.22 in
New York, the first decline in six days. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index dropped 0.4 percent to 1,626.67 after reaching a
record high May 8.  Spreadtrum, based in Shanghai, tumbled 7.8 percent to
$19.26, the steepest one-day slump in five months. The company’s
 profit margin  narrowed to 10.7 percent in the first quarter
from 15 percent a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We remain more cautious given strong incumbent
competition and the likely research and development investments
needed” to carry out a plan for new products,  Michael Walkley ,
an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc., wrote in a note to clients
yesterday where he maintained a hold rating on the stock.  HSBC Holdings Plc. cut Spreadtrum to the equivalent of hold
yesterday.  Crude Producers  Chinese oil producers fell after crude declined.  China
Petroleum and Chemical Corp.  slid 1.8 percent to $111.11,
retreating from the highest level since April 12. American
depositary receipts of PetroChina Co. dropped 0.7 percent to
$131.11, falling for the first day this week, while  Cnooc Ltd. 
lost 1.4 percent to $189.99, the first decline in six days.  China Life Insurance Co. , the nation’s biggest insurer,
sank 2.8 percent to $42.36. The Beijing-based company’s ADRs
traded 0.9 percent below its Hong Kong stock, the first discount
since April 26, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ctrip, the biggest online travel agency in China, surged 26
percent to $29.93 in New York, the biggest daily advance since
September 2008.  The Shanghai-based company said May 8 that first-quarter
revenue jumped 27 percent from a year earlier to $187 million,
exceeding the $171.9 million mean of eight analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income for the period also beat the
average projection. Ctrip forecast sales growth of as much as 20
percent for the second quarter.  ‘Pay Off’  “Investors were looking for a mess because of Ctrip’s
profit margin issues due to its promotions, but it not only beat
in first-quarter earnings but also raised second-quarter sales
guidance,”  Kirk Adams , director of research at Wedge Partners
Corp. said by phone from Greenwood Village, Colorado.
“Obviously their investments in the business are starting to
pay off now.”  Morgan Stanley analyst  Philip Wan  raised his recommendation
on Ctrip to the equivalent to buy from equal-weight, according
to a note yesterday. He cited a “solid” performance across the
board. Wan also lifted his price target for the stock by 50
percent to $30.10.  Analysts at Bank of America and CLSA Ltd. also upgraded the
company to buy yesterday.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. , the nation’s biggest online
book retailer, jumped 3 percent to $4.48 in U.S. trading, the
highest close since January.  AutoNavi Stake  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. , a digital map content provider,
added 1.2 percent to $14.77, the highest price since September
2011.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce
company, will buy a 20 percent to 30 percent stake in Beijing-based AutoNavi, Sina Corp.’s news service reported on its
website citing several people it didn’t identify. The deal may
be announced May 13, according to the report.  Speculation of investment in AutoNavi comes after Baidu
Inc. said May 7 that it was buying PPS Net TV’s Internet video
business to merge it with video website iQiyi.com, and after
Alibaba bought 18 percent of Shanghai-based Sina’s Twitter-like
Weibo service April 29.  “There is upside room for potential acquisition targets
when many M&A activities are going on in the industry,”  Echo He , a senior analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said by
phone yesterday. “Alibaba is buying businesses to expand its
position in the mobile space before a planned initial public
offering.”  Helen Zhu , AutoNavi’s investor relations manager in
Beijing, declined to comment on “rumors or market
speculation,” according to an e-mail yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  slid 0.6 percent to 2,232.97
yesterday after rising in the previous four days, while the  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index  in Hong Kong retreated 0.2 percent
to 11,266.89, dropping from the highest level in almost two
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  