-- Clearwire Investors Get Conflicting Advice on Sprint Bid
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-10T20:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/sprint-s-clearwire-deal-backed-by-shareholder-advisory-firm-iss.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s takeover bid
for  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , slated for an investor vote on May 21,
received mixed reactions from the two biggest shareholder-advisory firms, with Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
endorsing the deal and Glass, Lewis & Co. opposing it.  ISS said that Sprint’s $2.97-a-share offer price is
reasonable, given Clearwire’s debt load and the costs it would
require for a buyer to capitalize on its spectrum -- the
airwaves that wireless devices use to connect to the network.
Clearwire, based in Bellevue,  Washington , has said it faces a
cash crunch and needs at least $1.7 billion to keep operating.  “A vote for the proposed transaction is warranted in light
of the valuation and market premium offered, amid an overarching
context of significant questions about the company’s continued
viability as a stand-alone company,” ISS said in a report.  Sprint, which already owns slightly more than 50 percent of
Clearwire, is trying to acquire the remaining stake for $2.2
billion. The two companies reached the deal in December after a
four-year joint venture struggled to build a nationwide wireless
Internet provider. Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , is
now planning to use Clearwire’s spectrum to bolster its own
network.  Glass Lewis  said that Sprint hasn’t made a compelling case
for why its offer is the best option.  Unexplored Territory?  “While there is no doubt Clearwire is in need of a
significant capital injection and its stand-alone operating
potential is heavily dependent on its ability to execute
additional strategic transactions, including spectrum sales and
debt or equity financings, it does not appear, in our view, that
the board fully explored all available alternatives.”  Clearwire investors such as Crest Financial have argued
that the company’s assets are being undervalued. Crest has even
offered to lend the company money itself to help keep it afloat.
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  also made a $3.30-a-share counteroffer for
Clearwire in January, though that bid faces an uphill fight
because of Sprint’s majority ownership.  Crest said it welcomes the Glass Lewis recommendation and
says it “strongly disagrees” with ISS’s decision. Crest says
it prefers to have Clearwire as a stand-alone company.  Clearwire shares have climbed 12 percent this year,
suggesting that at least some investors still expect a higher
bid than Sprint’s $2.97. The stock fell 0.6 percent to $3.25 at
the close today in  New York .  Sprint renewed its call for Clearwire investors to support
its offer at the meeting later this month.  “While disappointed in the Glass Lewis report, we are
pleased ISS recommends that Clearwire shareholders vote for
Sprint’s merger agreement,”  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for
Sprint, said in an e-mail. “Our agreement has the unanimous
support of Clearwire’s special committee and board, provides
Clearwire shareholders with certain, fair and attractive value
and is the best strategic alternative for the company and its
minority stockholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Nick Turner  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  