-- Sri Lanka Lowers Key Interest Rates to Spur Economic Growth
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-05-10T05:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/sri-lanka-lowers-key-interest-rates-to-spur-economic-growth-2-.html
Sri Lanka  cut interest rates more
than economists estimated to spur growth, joining nations from
 Australia  to  India  in easing monetary policy.  The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka  cut the  reverse repurchase 
rate to 9 percent from 9.5 percent and the  repurchase rate  to 7
percent from 7.5 percent, it said in a statement in Colombo
today. Five of 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted a
quarter percentage-point reduction in both benchmarks, with the
rest forecasting no change.  Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal is seeking growth of 7.5
percent this year after expansion cooled to 6.4 percent in 2012
as demand fell for the island’s exports ranging from tea to
textiles. The central bank cut rates today even as the
 International Monetary Fund  said yesterday further stimulus
should be on hold as inflation remains elevated.  “They went for a more aggressive cut to help stimulate
domestic demand,” said Sanjeewa Fernando, an analyst at CT
Smith Stockbrokers in Colombo. “The central bank will have to
keep monitoring the external front to ensure the export decline
isn’t too sharp,” he said, adding that the monetary authority
may be able to keep inflation at the “single-digit level.”  The rupee slipped 0.2 percent to 126.10 against the dollar
at 10:42 a.m. in Colombo. It has gained 1.3 percent this year.
The Colombo All-Share Index rose 0.5 percent. The yield on the
five-year bond maturing in April 2018 slipped 20 basis points,
according to Commercial Bank of Ceylon Plc.  Strong Signal  President  Mahinda Rajapaksa ’s government has pledged to
spend $1 billion annually for at least three years from 2010 on
infrastructure projects to spur growth. The central bank cut
interest rates in December after raising borrowing costs in
February and April last year and letting the rupee weaken to
tackle a trade deficit that depleted foreign exchange reserves.  “We made a fairly steep cut this time because we think
that would give a very strong signal,” Cabraal said today in a
Bloomberg TV interview with  John Dawson . “That will also make
the overall conditions rather stable, so that people will not be
looking at new rate cuts in the near future.”  The central bank also increased the reserve maintenance
period of commercial banks to two weeks from one week with
effect from June 1, to “offer greater flexibility” in managing
their liquidity, it said in a statement. The statutory reserve
ratio for lenders was maintained at 8 percent.  Policy makers around the world have moved to counter
currency gains and stimulate growth, with  Vietnam  cutting rates
today and the  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly reducing  interest rates 
yesterday, following the lead of Australia, Europe and India.  Sri Lanka’s exports have fallen for 13 months through March.
Consumer  prices  rose 6.4 percent in April from a year earlier,
among the highest in Asia.  “With inflation elevated and growth slowing, monetary
policy is facing a challenging task,” the International
Monetary Fund said in a statement yesterday. “Further stimulus
should be on hold until inflation pressures decline” and rapid
credit expansion in recent years justifies heightened vigilance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  