-- Stripper Site OK’d for Dancers’ Notice of Lawsuit Dollars
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-05-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/stripper-site-ok-d-for-dancers-notice-of-lawsuit-dollars.html
When companies resolve class-action
suits, they typically tell people about the settlement by
postcard or in publications such as the Wall Street Journal,  USA
Today  or the New York Times.  Stripper Web and Xtreme magazine weren’t the usual vehicles
for delivering the news -- until now.  A federal judge in New York approved the parties’ plan to
use those publications to notify 1,245 current and former exotic
dancers of an $8 million settlement in a wage-and-hour class
action against  Manhattan ’s Penthouse Executive Club.  The agreement would resolve a group of suits, first filed
in 2009, over claims the Penthouse Club shortchanged dancers by
classifying them as independent contractors rather than
employees. The club also owes dancers minimum wage and overtime
pay, the dancers claimed.  U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood, who preliminarily approved
the deal April 29, signed off on a plan by the parties May 9 to
use Stripper Web, an online forum that includes reviews of strip
clubs, and Xtreme, a “free guide to local adult
entertainment.” Wood’s one-page order was made public May 10.  The Stripper Web and Xtreme notices will supplement
settlement alerts mailed to the last known address of each
dancer in the class, according to court papers.  Stripper Web didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
the plan. A phone call to Xtreme wasn’t returned.  Direct Mail  Campaigns to contact class members can include direct mail
and publication in magazines including People and National
Geographic,  Todd Hilsee , whose Hilsee Group LLC offers
consulting services on class notification, said in a phone
interview. Class members are also targeted on social media and
websites. A successful notice campaign can reach from 70 percent
to 95 percent of class members, he said.  “There’s no ‘usual’ anymore,” Hilsee said. Hilsee said he
hadn’t heard of Stripper Web or Xtreme.  “Major publications, where there are large audiences, are
going to reach a large swath of the target audience,” Hilsee
said.  Wood will hold a hearing on the fairness of the settlement
on Sept. 18.  The case is In re Penthouse Executive Club Compensation
Litigation, 10-cv-01145, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  