-- U.K. Stocks Extend Five-Year High as BT Climbs on Profit
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-05-10T16:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/u-k-stocks-extend-five-year-high-as-bt-climbs-on-profit.html
U.K. stocks  climbed for a seventh
day, the longest winning streak since July 2011, led by a rally
in  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  after the telecommunications operator reported
earnings that beat analyst estimates.  BT, Britain’s largest fixed-line phone company, jumped the
most in almost four years.  Shire Plc (SHP)  rose the most in nine
months after winning a court ruling that prevents a generic-drug
company from selling a version of its ulcerative-colitis
treatment.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  dropped 4.6 percent after the
company’s platinum unit reduced the number of job cuts to
appease the South African government.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 32.24 points, or 0.5 percent, to
6,624.98 at the close of trading in London, its highest level
since October 2007. The broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also added
0.5 percent today, reaching an all-time high. Ireland’s ISEQ
Index increased 0.3 percent.  “Investors still see some scope for more upside before the
end of the week,” Craig Erlam, a market analyst at Alpari U.K.
Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mail. “BT Group is leading the
gains in the FTSE after reporting higher-than-expected profits.
The company also increased its dividend which has clearly helped
boost the share price.”  The FTSE 100 has  surged 12 percent  this year amid monetary
stimulus from central banks. It has risen 1.4 percent this week,
for a third straight week of gains.  BT Jumps  BT surged 12 percent to 309.5 pence, the biggest jump since
July 2009. The company reported a 4 percent increase in  fourth-quarter earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization to 1.67 billion pounds ($2.6 billion) as it added
high-speed Internet service customers. That beat the  average
analyst estimate  of 1.62 billion pounds in a Bloomberg survey.
BT proposed a full-year dividend of 9.5 pence a share, more than
the 8.3 pence that it paid a year earlier.  The company said yesterday it will offer its new BT Sport
channels free with broadband subscriptions to make its bundles
of phone, Internet and TV services more appealing. That pushed
the shares of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc lower.  Shire gained 4.4 percent to 2,019 pence, the largest
increase since Aug. 1. A U.S. district judge in  Florida  ruled
late yesterday that a treatment from Actavis Inc. infringes a
patent on Shire’s Lialda drug.  Lialda, whose active ingredient is mesalamine, generated
$400 million in sales last year for Shire, or 8.6 percent of the
company’s revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  rose 1.9 percent to 346.9 pence after the
tour operator narrowed its first-half operating loss by 9
percent to 289 million pounds and increased its  interim dividend 
by 10 percent. Chief Executive Officer Peter Long told Bloomberg
Television that he sees growth opportunities for the company.  Meggitt Advances  Meggitt Plc (MGGT)  climbed 3.2 percent to 515.5 pence after
Societe Generale SA raised its recommendation for the
engineering company to buy from hold. The brokerage said
Meggitt’s medium-term outlook remains strong and 2013 should see
a recovery in the so-called aftermarket.  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  surged 7.7 percent to 224.6 pence after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the
U.K.’s largest online-only grocer to buy from neutral, saying
the company will grow revenue at a faster pace.  “With capacity now less constrained, we believe Ocado can
significantly accelerate revenue growth over the next three
years,” Goldman wrote in a note to clients. “We ultimately
believe the business could take an 8 percent share of the U.K.
grocery market.”  Separately, Ocado said today that its potential alliance
with Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc will not effect its supply
agreement with the Waitrose grocery chain.  Anglo American  Anglo American (AMS)  dropped 4.6 percent to 1,591 pence after
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. reduced the number of job losses it
plans at its South African mines to about 6,000, less than half
those originally planned. The company in January put its plans
to fire as many as 14,000 workers on hold after the government
threatened to revoke some of its licenses.  International Consolidated Airlines Group lost 1.6 percent
to 275.9 pence. The parent company of British Airways widened
its first-quarter operating loss to 278 million pounds,
excluding one-off items, because of a weaker pound and 10 days
of strikes at its Spanish unit Iberia. The loss was greater than
the  average analyst estimate  of 250 million euros.  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM)  fell 3.3 percent to 97.45 pence
after Dutch insurer Achmea BV decided to withdraw 10.3 billion
pounds of assets from the investment firm controlled by hedge-fund manager  Edward Bramson .  Centamin Plc (CEY)  sank 17 percent to 37.87 pence after the
mining company said that the Egyptian State Commissioner’s
Office has produced a report on the annulment of its mine lease
in the country that it found “not positive.”  The number of shares changing hands in companies on the
FTSE 100 was 17 percent greater than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  