-- U.K. Construction Output Declines to Lowest Since 1998
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-10T13:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/u-k-construction-fell-to-lowest-since-1998-in-first-quarter.html
U.K. construction output  fell to its
lowest level in more than 14 years in the first quarter as work
on new building projects declined across the industry.  Output measured by volume dropped 2.4 percent from the
previous three months to its lowest since the fourth quarter of
1998, the  Office for National Statistics  in London said today.
That compares with the 2.5 percent decline estimated in gross
domestic product data on April 25. The revision has no impact on
GDP, which rose 0.3 percent in the period, the ONS said.  Construction, which accounts for 6.8 percent of the
economy, has been hit hard by government budget cuts and the
credit famine. Output has fallen by about a fifth from its pre-recession peak five years ago, double the decline in
manufacturing. The industry is now pinning its hopes on the Bank
of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme, government pledges to
unlock infrastructure projects, and initiatives announced in the
March budget to extend home ownership and spur house building.  With data yesterday showing no revision to industrial-production growth in the first quarter, “it doesn’t look like
that the GDP number will be substantially revised,” said  Jens Larsen , chief European economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “Construction has been one of the weakest parts of the
economy. Looking ahead, it has the potential to recover, but it
really does depend on the government initiatives coming on
stream.”  Stocks Rise  Quarterly construction data are adjusted for seasonal
factors.  Unadjusted output  rose 12.1 percent in March following
a gain of 8.7 percent in February and a drop of 5.9 percent in
January, when work was disrupted by freezing weather. It was
down an unadjusted 7.4 percent in March from a year earlier.  Recent surveys suggest the industry may be picking up
momentum. An index of activity rose to 49.4 in April from 47.2
in March, just below the level that divides expansion from
contraction, Markit and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply  said on May 2. Construction knocked 0.2 percentage
point off GDP in the first quarter and the FTSE All-Share
 Construction and Materials Index  has fallen 6.7 percent this
year compared with a 13 percent increase in the overall index.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.1 percent at 1:45 p.m.
in London, extending the highest level in almost five years as
Group of Seven finance ministers prepared to meet outside
London. As he arrived for the talks, Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  told reporters that while “stability and
confidence” had returned to the global economy, there was
“much more to do.”  Trade Gap  Separate ONS data today showed the U.K.’s  goods-trade gap 
was little changed at 9.06 billion pounds ($14 billion) in March
compared with 9.17 billion pounds in February.  Exports rose 4.9 percent on the month and imports gained
3.2 percent. A higher deficit in oil was offset largely by sales
of chemicals to countries outside the European Union, the ONS
said.  Exports to the EU, the largest market for British goods,
were unchanged, with shipments to the  recession-plagued  euro
region falling 1.2 percent. Sales to non-EU nations rose 10
percent. The services trade surplus was 5.93 billion pounds in
March, leaving a total trade gap of 3.13 billion pounds.  In the first quarter, the trade deficit in goods narrowed
to 26.4 billion pounds from 27.1 billion pounds, raising the
possibility that net trade provided a modest boost to growth.
The next estimate of GDP including a breakdown of spending in
the period will be published on May 23.  German Exports  Elsewhere in  Europe ,  Germany  said  exports  advanced 0.5
percent in March, matching economist estimates and adding to
signs that the euro area’s largest economy is starting to
recover from a contraction at the end of last year.  In  Italy ,  industrial production  fell more than economists
expected in March, indicating there is little sign the country’s
longest recession in two decades is easing. Output decreased 0.8
percent from February, when it fell a revised 0.9 percent,
national statistics office Istat said. Economists forecast a
monthly decline in March of 0.3 percent, according to the median
of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The fall in U.K. construction in the first quarter was led
by a 3.2 percent drop in new work, with all sectors posting
declines with the exception of private housing and repair and
maintenance, the ONS said.  The pound fell against the dollar following the reports and
was trading at $1.5390 at 10:58 a.m.  London  time, down 0.4
percent on the day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  