-- U.S. Winter-Wheat Crop Trails Forecast as Drought Cuts Output
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-05-10T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/u-s-winter-wheat-crop-trails-forecast-as-drought-cuts-output.html
U.S. winter-wheat production in the
year that starts on June 1 will be less than forecast by
analysts after the worst drought since the Dust Bowl era did
more damage than expected to crops in the southern Great
Plains.  Output may total 1.486 billion bushels, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said today in a  report . Analysts
in a Bloomberg survey forecast 1.494 billion bushels, on
average. Production was 1.645 billion last year, USDA data
show. Hard, red winter varieties grown in the southern
Plains and soft, red winter grain sown in the Midwest
account for about 70 percent of U.S. wheat output.  “The high Plains are still in a serious drought
situation, and so you have stress on that crop,”  Jacquie Voeks , a senior adviser at farm marketer Stewart-Peterson
Group in West Bend, Wisconsin, said in a telephone
interview before the report. “The high Plains had record
low temperatures in the month of April and experienced four
different serious freeze events. Ultimately, we will have a
lower crop.”  Output is falling  as the worst drought since the
1930’s caused winter varieties seeded in the fall from
South Dakota to Texas to go into dormancy in the least-favorable condition since at least 1985, USDA data show.  Wheat futures on the Chicago Board of Trade through
yesterday had dropped 7 percent this year, partly on
speculation that global production will increase.  Output of hard, red winter wheat, grown in the
southern Plains and used to make bread, will slump 23
percent to 768 million bushels from 1.004 billion last
year, according to the  USDA . Production of soft, red winter
wheat, used in cakes and cookies, will be 501 million
bushels, up 19 percent from 420 million bushels, the
department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 