-- U.S. View on G-7 Growth Seen as Ambiguous by Canada’s Flaherty
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-05-10T15:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/u-s-view-on-g-7-growth-seen-as-ambiguous-by-canada-s-flaherty.html
U.S. officials pushing for an easing
of austerity to aid economic growth are fostering ambiguity just
when the Group of Seven should be recommitting to debt reduction
plans, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said.  Flaherty, in an interview today before a meeting of G-7
finance officials in Aylesbury outside London, said the world’s
major economies should find a balance between growth-inducing
measures and sound fiscal policies. He singled out the U.S.
government as needing to provide more budget clarity.  “Some in the G-7 have, how to put it, ambiguous
positions,” said Flaherty, who oversees the only G-7 economy
with a stable top credit rating. “The Americans need to be more
clear where they stand on this. They seem to be wanting to
encourage growth more than fiscal responsibility.”  Flaherty spoke after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Jacob J. Lew 
said European policy makers need to “do a little better” in
fostering recoveries in economies enduring austerity measures.
After committing at a 2010 Toronto summit to cut budget deficits
in half by this year, most advanced nations are now facing
failure on that score and on a related pledge to stabilize debt
by 2016, leaving Canada increasingly isolated.  “There is a desire to have much more emphasis on
incentives on stimulus than on what they call austerity,”
Flaherty said, adding that growth and budget discipline aren’t
“mutually exclusive goals.”  Budget Pledge  Flaherty has pledged to return Canada’s federal budget back
to balance by 2015.  “One can have a budget and a budgetary plan that moves in
the medium term a country back to a fiscally responsible
position, at the same time stimulates certain parts of the
economy,” Flaherty said.  Policy makers in the U.S. and Europe seem to be placing
more emphasis on reviving tepid growth.  “We feel very strongly there needs to be the right balance
between austerity and growth,” Lew said in an interview on CNBC
Television in London today. “Overall, Europe is going to need
to do a little bit better. There’s room for progress.”  While Flaherty said Canada is most closely aligned on the
issue with Germany, even German officials acknowledge a need to
ease budget-cutting.  Governments have earned “enough room to maneuver” to act,
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Aylesbury, U.K. at  targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  