-- U.S. Posts Widest Monthly Surplus Since 2008 on Revenue
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-05-10T21:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/u-s-posts-widest-monthly-surplus-since-2008-on-revenue.html
The U.S. posted its widest  budget
surplus  in five years in April as an improving economy swelled
 tax revenue , easing pressure on lawmakers to lift the nation’s
debt ceiling.  The surplus for the month when tax payments are due
increased to $112.9 billion, the biggest since April 2008, from
$59.1 billion a year earlier, the Treasury said in its monthly
budget statement today in Washington. The median  forecast  in a
Bloomberg survey of 24 economists was for an April surplus of
$112 billion.  A strengthening economy is helping narrow a U.S. fiscal
deficit that has exceeded $1 trillion in each of the past four
years and pushed the Treasury Department near its legal
borrowing limit. U.S. employers added 1.4 million workers in the
October-April period, boosting government revenue and reducing
the need to sell debt.  “This receipts surge has bought the Treasury a lot of time
to stay under the debt limit,” Mike Englund, chief economist at
Action Economics LLC in Boulder,  Colorado , said in an interview.
“Without the pressure of the debt limit, players in Washington
have little incentive to come to a debt deal.”  The U.S. 10-year note yield was 1.89 percent at 4:09 p.m.
in  New York , after earlier touching the highest since March 26,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Red Ink  For the first seven months of the 2013 financial year that
began Oct. 1, the deficit shrank 32 percent to $487.6 billion
from the same period from a year before.  Today’s report showed revenue rose 28 percent in April from
the same month a year earlier, to $406.7 billion. Spending
increased 13 percent to $293.8 billion, it showed.  President  Barack Obama  in February signed legislation
suspending the $16.4 trillion debt limit through May 18. A later
deadline would give Congress more time to debate the ceiling,
one of the most controversial issues in Washington and the
reason of 2011 political gridlock that led to Standard & Poor’s
downgrade U.S. credit rating.  The debt limit will increase on May 19 to account for the
deficits that accrued during the suspension period. The Treasury
will then have to use its extraordinary measures to extend its
borrowing authority and keep paying bills, unless the limit is
raised or suspended again.  Fannie Dividend  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, in an interview on CNBC
earlier today, said the $59.4 billion dividend that  Fannie Mae ,
the mortgage-financier seized by U.S. regulators in 2008, will
pay the Treasury by the end of June will help avoid breaching
the limit until at least Sept. 2.  The looming threat of hitting the debt ceiling won’t force
Democrats to accept a deficit-cutting deal that they don’t like,
said Maryland Representative  Steny Hoyer , the No. 2 House
Democrat.  “Pretending that you’re going to take hostage the
creditworthiness of the  United States of America  to get your
deal done is irresponsible and not realistic,” Hoyer said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for “Capitol
Gains” airing May 12. ‘We’re not going to get a deal like
that.’’  The  U.S. Treasury  on April 29 projected it will pay down
some of the government debt this quarter for the first time in
six years as tax receipts exceed forecasts and spending
diminishes. The department has kept its quarterly refunding
auctions of debt unchanged at $72 billion since November 2010.  Higher Taxes  Lawmakers in January let a two-percentage-point payroll tax
cut expire and agreed to increase the marginal income-tax rates
on taxable income of married couples above $450,000 and
individuals above $400,000. Those changes increased the top  tax
rate  on ordinary income to 39.6 percent and raised the top tax
rates on  capital gains  and dividends.  On March 1, automatic  federal budget  cuts known as
sequestration hit after Congress and the Obama administration
failed to agree on alternative way to cut spending.  While forecast to decline to $430 billion in 2015, the
U.S.’s annual deficit will start growing again later this decade
and reach close to $1 trillion in 2023, as more  baby boomers 
join the ranks of Medicare and Social Security beneficiaries,
the  Congressional Budget Office  said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  