-- U.S. to Join Chemed Whistle-Blower Suit on Medicare Claim
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-10T22:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/u-s-to-join-chemed-whistleblower-suit-on-medicare-claims.html
The U.S. government is joining a
whistle-blower lawsuit accusing  Chemed Corp. (CHE) ’s Vitas Healthcare
unit of falsely certifying patients as hospice eligible to
collect money from Medicare.  The allegations were first made in a 2012 lawsuit filed in
Los Angeles by a physician who accused Vitas, the biggest for-profit hospice chain in the U.S., of “padding its profits at
the expense of taxpayers.”  The  Justice Department  said it would intervene in a filing
in federal court in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , where the whistle-blower case was transferred and later unsealed on May 6. The
U.S. on May 2 made similar claims its own lawsuit against Chemed
and several of its Vitas units, including those in California,
Illinois and Florida, accusing them of making false claims to
Medicare. The U.S. said it seeks to consolidate the cases.  “These are all the same claims and we’ll vigorously
defend,” Chemed Chief Financial Officer David P. Williams said
today in a telephone interview.  Vitas also  has operations  in Texas, Virginia, Pennsylvania,
 Colorado , Michigan and  Wisconsin , nine other states and the
 District of Columbia . It provided more than 5.1 million days of
hospice care last year, according to its  website . The company
was founded in 1978 and acquired by Chemed in 2004. Besides
Vitas, Cincinnati-based Chemed owns Roto-Rooter plumbing
services.  Stock Declines  Chemed fell 4.7 percent to $63.90 in  New York  Stock
Exchange trading today. The stock declined as much as 24.5
percent on May 3, the day after the government filed its case.  The hospice company generated revenue of about $271 million
in the first three months of 2013, or about three-quarters of
the company’s total, Chemed said on April 18.  “Chemed and Vitas have made significant investments in
controls, systems and procedures to uphold the highest industry
standards and to maintain compliance with all regulatory
requirements,” Williams said on May 3 after the federal
government sued. “Our compliance efforts are designed to ensure
our services are provided only to eligible patients.”  The doctor who sued in  Los Angeles , Charles Gonzales,
worked there for Vitas from 2004 to 2011, according to this
complaint.  False Claims  His lawsuit was filed under the federal  False Claims Act ,
which prohibits presenting a false claim for payment or approval
to an officer or employee of the U.S.  In his three-count complaint filed on behalf of the U.S.,
the doctor seeks civil penalties of $10,000 for each false claim
allegedly made by Vitas Healthcare and its co-defendant in that
case, Vitas Healthcare Corp. of California, plus triple the
amount of damages sustained by the federal government. Gonzales
has asked for a percentage of the total recovered by the
government.  “Many of these patients remain on  hospice care  for years
with little or no decline in health and require little in
resources from Vitas,” Gonzales alleged in the complaint.  Hospices are supposed to enroll only people who they
believe will be dead within 180 days. About 21 percent of
patients stay longer, the U.S. inspector general responsible for
Medicare reported in July 2011, and more than 200,000 are
discharged alive each year.  The cases are U.S. ex. rel Gonzales v. Vitas Healthcare
Corp., 13-cv-00344, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Missouri (Kansas City) and U.S. v. Vitas Hospice Services LLC,
13-cv-00449, U.S. District Court, Western District of Missouri
(Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  