-- U.S. Concerned Over Reports of Abuse by Nigerian Troops
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-05-10T18:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/u-s-concerned-over-reports-of-abuse-by-nigerian-troops.html
The U.S. is concerned that Nigerian
security forces may be using excessive force, including extra-judicial killings, as they fight Boko Haram militants in the
north, the embassy in the capital, Abuja, said.  “We are concerned that such an indiscriminate, force-based
approach to counterterrorism is increasing extremism and
decreasing confidence in the federal government,” the U.S.
Embassy said today in an e-mailed statement. “These tactics
tarnish  Nigeria ’s reputation as an emerging leader and a stable
democratic government.”  Between 185 and 228 people were killed in the northeastern
town of Baga when security forces responded to an attack by
suspected Boko Haram militants starting on April 16, according
to local officials. The army says 30 insurgents, six civilians
and a soldier were killed, and 30 houses were burned down. New
York-based  Human Rights Watch  said satellite images of Baga show
at least 2,000 homes were destroyed.  The Boko Haram Islamist group “has terrorized the people
of northern Nigeria, killing thousands over the past three years
with bombings, shootings, kidnappings, and coordinated attacks
on security forces,” the U.S. said. “At the same time, we are
deeply concerned by ongoing reports of excessive use of force by
Nigerian security forces in the name of combating Boko Haram.”  Independent Investigation  The U.S. asked President Goodluck Jonathan’s government to
“demonstrate its commitment to the rule of law” by ensuring
that an investigation being carried out by the National Human
Rights Commission into the incident is independent and
transparent, the embassy said. The outcome of the investigation
“must be made public” and those found culpable must be held
accountable, according to the statement.  Jonathan canceled his visit to  Namibia  yesterday on his way
back from  South Africa  to return to Nigeria and oversee the
situation, Reuben Abati, Jonathan’s spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to the U.S. statement. The president has also
encouraged an independent investigation by the human rights
commission, Abati said.  “Where there has been any case of misconduct, the persons
involved will be brought to justice,” he said. “There is no
issue therefore as to the fact that the government will ensure
accountability and the protection of the civilian population
from terrorist attacks.”  Jonathan’s office said in an e-mailed statement on April 30
that preliminary reports confirm the military’s death toll,
saying that the number of houses in the town is less than 1,000.  The military denies it targeted civilians with Defense
Ministry spokesman Chris Olukolade saying Boko Haram fighters,
armed with weapons including rocket-propelled grenades, set off
incendiaries that destroyed the houses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  