-- UN Carbon Has Biggest Weekly Gain This Year as EU Factories Buy
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-10T16:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/un-carbon-has-biggest-weekly-gain-this-year-as-eu-factories-buy.html
United Nations Certified Emission
Reduction carbon credits posted their biggest weekly gain since
Dec. 21 on speculation that factories are snapping up the
contracts to comply with European Union carbon caps.  CERs for delivery in December rose 40 percent this week to
close at 42 euro cents ($0.54) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London. That’s the highest since April 16.  Some emitters are selling European Union allowances and
buying cheaper CERs, said  Mark Owen-Lloyd , trading director at
Clean Energy Trading Ltd. in London. “Compliance buyers are
still doing the swap, but the price is being moved up by
speculators,” he said today by e-mail.  Factories, power stations and airlines in the EU carbon
market can use a limited portion of cheaper UN credits to comply
with the bloc’s emissions cap. Polluters can still claim about
300 million tons of CER offsets through the end of the decade,
according to  Trevor Sikorski , the head of natural gas, carbon
and coal at Energy Aspects Ltd. in London.  EU carbon permits for December closed 11 percent lower at
3.38 euros a ton on ICE, their biggest daily decline since April
17. They fell 11 percent this week, the most since the period
ended April 19.  UN Emission Reduction Units for December increased 2 euro
cents, or 18 percent, to close at 13 euro cents a ton on ICE.
They’ve risen 30 percent this week.  CERs are created from carbon-reducing projects in
developing countries under the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism.
ERUs are from developed nation projects under the UN’s Joint
Implementation mechanism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  