-- Hungary Gave Tobacco-Sale Rights on Party Links, HVG Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-05-10T13:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/hungary-gave-tobacco-sale-rights-on-party-links-hvg-says.html
Hungary distributed tobacco sale-permits in the city of Szekszard after members of Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s party vetted applicants for political loyalty,
the news website HVG.hu said, citing a recording from a meeting.  Applicants “need to be committed right-wingers” and the
opposition “Socialists must not win,” the news website quoted
Szekszard Mayor Istvan Horvath as telling fellow ruling-party
members. Akos Hadhazy, a party member in the city 160 kilometers
(100 miles) south of Budapest, earlier told HVG.hu that the
licenses were awarded based on political sympathies.  Horvath, who previously denied that such a meeting took
place, today told reporters that nothing illegal happened in
connection with the tobacco-shop tenders, according to the state
news service MTI. The conversation about the applicants occurred
at an “informal consultation,” he said, MTI reported.  “This is a local affair -- the Cabinet isn’t dealing with
this,” Andras Giro-Szasz, a government spokesman, told
reporters in Budapest today.  Orban is facing elections next year. Backing for his ruling
Fidesz party rose to 29 percent among eligible voters in April
from 27 percent the previous month, according to a Median poll
published May 6. That compares with 13 percent support for the
Socialists, the biggest opposition party. Median polled 1,200
adults between April 19 and 23 and the results had a margin of
error of 3 percentage points.  ‘Smear Campaign’  Hungary is limiting the distribution of tobacco products
nationwide to approved outlets in the latest industry overhaul
by Orban, who has a two-thirds parliamentary majority.  Janos Lazar , Orban’s chief of staff, denied reports yesterday that
ruling party members fraudulently influenced the allocation of
permits, blaming  Philip Morris  for a “political smear
campaign,” Heti Valasz reported yesterday.  Iro Antoniadou, a spokeswoman for Philip Morris, had no
comment when contacted by Bloomberg by e-mail and phone on May
8. Socialist Chairman  Attila Mesterhazy  has asked the chief
prosecutor to investigate the tenders, MTI service said
yesterday.  Lawmakers rushed through changes to freedom-of-information
laws last week, putting “major limits to citizens’ right to
access public information by saying only state bodies may hold
enough data to carry out large audits,” Transparency
International said in a statement on May 8.  “Notably, the amendment was proposed as civil society
groups pressed for access to the bids in a tender for tobacco
retail licenses, which reportedly went to government party
loyalists,” Transparency International said. “This law will
allow public decision makers to reject such requests.”  President  Janos Ader  returned the law to parliament on May
8, telling lawmakers to make clear that the bill doesn’t
restrict access to information of public interest. The ruling
party will “fully take into account” Ader’s request, MTI
reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  