-- Hungary to Freeze Budget Items to Escape EU Shackles
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-10T11:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/hungary-to-freeze-budget-items-to-escape-eu-shackles.html
Hungary  is freezing some budget
expenditures and is ready to take further steps, including
raising Europe’s highest bank levy, to exit the European Union’s
budget monitoring and remove the threat of funding cuts.  The Cabinet will freeze 92.9 billion forint ($412 million)
of planned spending this year and in 2014 and is ready to save
another 80 billion forint next year mostly by delaying payments
for projects such as soccer-stadium construction, Economy
Minister Mihaly Varga told reporters in Budapest today. If those
measures are insufficient, Hungary is also prepared to raise the
bank tax and the financial-transaction levy.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is seeking to escape
the EU’s excessive-deficit procedure that threatens cuts in
funding from the trading bloc, which account for 95 percent of
infrastructure development in the country. Hungary has been
under budget monitoring since joining the bloc in 2004.  “We are doing everything on our part to remove Hungary
from the hall of shame and to exit the excessive-deficit
procedure,” Varga said.  The forint traded at 292.91 per euro at 1:10 p.m. in
Budapest, from 293.01 yesterday. It has strengthened 1.1 percent
in the past five days, the sixth-best performance among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘New Measures’  Hungary implementing “new measures” would ensure that the
budget gap stays within the EU limit of 3 percent of economic
output this year and next and may allow the country to exit the
excessive-deficit procedure, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on May 3. The shortfall may be 3
percent of output this year and 3.3 percent next year, the
European Commission said.  “The first two fiscal adjustment measures should be
sufficient in size to make the” European Commission “revise
the Hungarian budget-balance forecast and that would allow
Hungary to exit the EDP by early summer,”  Zoltan Torok , a
Budapest-based analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
wrote in an e-mail.  Hungary passed multiple rounds of fiscal cuts last year to
prevent the loss of EU funds, reducing the deficit to 1.9
percent of GDP. The government is taking additional budget steps
even as it considers them “unnecessary” to meet the targeted
2.7 percent shortfall this year and in 2014, government
spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz said in Budapest today.  The government is sticking to its economic-growth forecast
of 0.7 percent for this year as the Cabinet will focus on
spending cuts in areas that will have the least impact on
economic performance, Varga said.  Orban has relied on the nationalization of private pension
funds and extraordinary levies on energy, retail and
telecommunications companies as well as  Europe ’s highest bank
tax to close budget holes. The government has said lobbying by
companies hurt by taxes and energy-price cuts are responsible
for the EU’s concerns about budget policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  