-- Tunisia Seeks to Host VW Plant to Boost Employment, Besbes Says
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-05-10T07:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/tunisia-seeks-to-host-vw-plant-to-boost-employment-besbes-says.html
Tunisia has approached carmakers
including  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to set up an
assembly line as the North African nation seeks investments to
deliver on a pledge to curb unemployment, an official said.  “We are working to attract car manufacturers, we have done
that with Volkswagen,” said Slim Besbes, adviser to the prime
minister on investment, also identifying Toyota as a company
that has been approached. “The obstacle is not the internal
situation, it’s the international context that is not favorable
to investments in this industry.”  Tunisia should be attractive because it already
manufactures components used by carmakers in  Europe  and has
experience assembling buses, said Besbes, who spoke in an
interview yesterday in  Beirut .  Tunisia was the first Arab country that saw an autocrat
toppled by street opposition. Its so-called Jasmine Revolution,
which culminated in January 2011 with the overthrow of Zine El
Abidine Ben Ali, inspired protests across the Middle East,
leading to the ouster of longtime leaders in  Egypt , Libya and
Yemen.  Unemployment fell to 16.6 percent at the end of 2012, from
18.9 percent a year earlier, said Besbes. Foreign direct
investment increased 75 percent last year, with Qatar ranking
first among foreign investors, he said.  Investment Decline  FDI in the first quarter of this year declined about 10
percent from last year because of the crisis that followed the
assassination in February of Chokri Belaid, he said. Belaid was
a secular politician opposed to the Islamist group Ennahda that
led the government elected after the fall of Ben Ali.  “Our priority goes for investments in the interior
regions, we’re stepping up the incentives and public
infrastructures there,” he said. “And we are counting on
improving security, we are convinced that security is the real
engine for investments.”  The 2011 uprising put the spotlight on the differences
between the coastal region and the interior, where there is less
access to health care and education, and where about a quarter
of the active population is unemployed, according to the
European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  