-- Urenco Holders Plan Joint Sale This Year, EON Says
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2013-05-10T16:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/urenco-holders-plan-joint-sale-this-year-eon-says.html
Urenco Ltd. shareholders may combine
to sell a majority holding in the nuclear-fuel maker this year,
investor  EON SE  said.  The processor of uranium for atomic reactors is owned by
Germany’s two largest utilities, EON and  RWE AG , and the
governments of the U.K. and the Netherlands. While EON and
Britain have said they’d like to sell, this is the first time a
joint sale by a group of the investors has been suggested. The
company may be valued at about $14 billion, the Financial Times
reported last month.  “There is the possibility to divest a majority stake of
the company together with the other stakeholders,” EON Chief
Financial Officer Marcus Schenck said in an interview in
Dusseldorf. The sale process may start this year and be
completed in 2014, he said.  The German utilities want to sell out of Urenco after
Chancellor Angela Merkel decided to close all the companies’
reactors. For the governments, a sale would raise cash as both
implement austerity measures to reduce budget deficits. The
Stoke Poges, England-based company, which reported a 23 percent
jump in sales to 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion) last year,
says increasing demand from China and India will offset the
impact of European reactor closures.  National Security  A U.K. Treasury official declined to comment beyond a
statement last month that the government was considering selling
its stake. An official at the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs
didn’t return phone calls and e-mails seeking comment. RWE
declined to comment on the sales process.  Selling a majority of the company would mean addressing the
national security concerns involved in processing nuclear
material, Schenck said. The U.K. and Dutch governments each own
a third of Urenco and the German utilities own the rest.  “We would look for a way to give special rights to the
governments regarding security aspects,” Schenck said, pointing
to the example of European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. While
that may extend the time it takes to negotiate, EON expects to
close a sale next year, he said.  The Urenco sale would be part of a 20 billion-euro disposal
program to reduce debt at the Dusseldorf-based power generator.
EON expects to get more than 2 billion euros from the sale of
its Urenco stake and two regional utilities.  EON shares were little changed at 13.16 euros at the close
in Frankfurt trading.  Additional Capital  The sale of EON’s 73 percent stake in regional utility EON
Mitte AG to the municipal minority shareholders is on the “home
stretch” and will close this year, Schenck said, declining to
comment on the valuation of the deal. EON may keep the unit’s
sales business, “which makes sense economically,” he said.  Schenck said he sees no need for additional capital in the
foreseeable future, while EON will invest 7 billion euros this
year instead of the originally planned 6 billion euros.  Acquisitions beyond 100 million euros “are not at the top
of the agenda,” he said.  EON’s move to increase its stake in  MPX Energia SA  to 36
percent and purchase two regional utilities in Turkey show
“that we have a certain room for maneuver,” Schenck said.  The company was criticized by some shareholders at last
week’s annual general meeting for placing too much emphasis on
growth outside Germany.  “We prefer to operate in a growing market which is
undersupplied, rather than in a shrinking market that is
oversupplied” like Europe, Schenck said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  