-- Turkey’s Kurtulmus Sets July Deadline for New Constitution
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-05-10T09:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/turkey-s-kurtulmus-sets-july-deadline-for-new-constitution.html
The deputy chairman of Turkey’s
ruling  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, said July 1 is its
deadline for reaching consensus on a new constitution.  “The AKP will do what it can on the new constitution until
July 1, and after that will evaluate other alternatives that
arise in the period ahead,” Numan Kurtulmus, who is also the
party’s head of economic policy, said in an interview in Ankara
yesterday. “The majority of the people have expressed their
unhappiness with the current constitution.”  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who’s led the country
since 2003, needs at least 367 votes in the 550-seat parliament
to directly replace the constitution, a legacy of a 1980
military coup. President  Abdullah Gul  said this week that he
regretted “failure” to reach consensus on a draft for a new
charter, according to a report in Hurriyet Daily News on May 8.  Erdogan’s party is also three short of the 330 votes
required to hold a referendum on the draft, meaning it needs
support of members of the opposition or independent Kurdish
lawmakers. The government is negotiating with the Kurdistan
Workers’ Party, or PKK, to end a 29-year war that’s left tens of
thousands dead and the largely Kurdish southeast of the country
trailing the west in economic development.  Kurtulmus said the government isn’t considering general
immunity for the PKK, which is listed as a terrorist
organization by  Turkey , the U.S. and the European Union. The
group began its withdrawal from Turkey on May 8, Kurdish
lawmaker Gultan Kisanak said that day. She called on the
government to “seize the opportunity to carry out reforms for
lasting peace.”  Weapons Buried  Any new constitution would have to “erase an approach that
alienates people” in the Kurdish region, Kurtulmus said, and
the ruling party expects armed struggle to end. “For us it’s
fundamental that weapons be buried as the PKK withdraws, and
that they never be brought out again.”  Turkey’s main pro-Kurdish party submitted its own proposal
to replace Turkey’s constitution to parliament on April 5. The
proposal eliminates reference to the ethnic Turkish identity as
well as reference to the Turkish national anthem and flag. It
also allows use of Kurdish as a second language and recognizes
the multi-ethnic structure of society.  “It’s clear that a new constitution is needed,” Kurtulmus
said. “After the solution process is completed, the region will
have a big economic leap, and this is also positive for the
performance of the country as a whole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  