-- Vector’s Cambium Targets Broadband in Rural Asia for Sales Boost
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-10T03:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/vector-s-cambium-targets-broadband-in-rural-asia-for-sales-boost.html
Cambium Networks, the wireless
broadband equipment business owned by Vector Capital, expects to
triple the proportion of its sales from  Asia  by providing
connections for carriers and businesses in rural areas.  Cambium’s Asian revenue will rise to 30 percent of its
total within three years, from 10 percent now, Chief Executive
Officer Atul Bhatnagar said today in a phone interview from  Hong
Kong , declining to disclose sales data. Vector bought the
business from  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  in 2011  Demand for wireless connections to industrial
infrastructure in mining, utilities and energy is rising from
Japan to Southeast Asia, Bhatnagar said. In countries with large
rural populations such as  India  and China, the penetration of
smartphones to access the Internet in remote areas is driving
the need for connections from schools and hospitals, he said.  “The Asia market is growing so aggressively with the
rising adoption of smartphones,” Bhatnagar said. “India,
China, and Southeast Asia all of have territories and
geographies where wireless is the right way to connect because
it’s greener and more cost effective” than fixed lines.  Smartphone shipments in  China  will more than double to 460
million unit by 2017, researcher IDC said in March.  Rolling Meadows, Illinois-based Cambium’s legacy as part of
Motorola Solutions means its equipment is already deployed in
thousands of networks in more than 150 countries, Bhatnagar
said. The company had previously been run under the brands
Orthogon and Canopy.  Vector Capital is a San Francisco-based private equity firm
founded in 1997 that manages more than $2 billion and is focused
on established technology businesses, according to its  website .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  