-- Venezuelan Bonds Fall as Inflation Concern Mounts: Caracas Mover
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-05-10T16:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/venezuelan-bonds-fall-as-inflation-concern-mounts-caracas-mover.html
Venezuelan bonds fell, pushing yields
to a three-week high, after data showing the fastest inflation
in three years highlighted concerns about economic stability.  The yield on the South American nation’s benchmark 9.25
percent debt due in 2027 rose 26 basis points, or 0.26
percentage point, to 9.84 percent at 12:17 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 1.95
cent today to 95.47 cents on the dollar, the biggest one-day
drop since April 16.  Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent in April from March, the
central bank said yesterday, pushing annual inflation to 29.4
percent, the highest in the world except for Iran. Currency
controls that hinder imports helped push the scarcity index,
which measures the amount of goods that are out of stock in
markets, to 21.3 percent, the highest since the monetary
authority started tracking the measure in April 2009.  “The data yesterday was quite weak with the inflation and
scarcity spike,”  Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin America
fixed-income strategy at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, said
today in an e-mailed response to questions. “It’s a reminder of
the economic stress that feeds into political stress.”  Mounting concern that the government will sell more dollar
debt after  Nelson Merentes  was appointed finance minister last
month also is pushing the 2027 bonds lower, Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts  Daniel Chodos  and  Casey Reckman  wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients today.  “Recent speculation in the local press that the government
could be looking to sell up to $5 billion of bonds to help
supply dollars to the domestic market has made markets more
defensive,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  