-- Vietnam Cuts Interest Rates as Global Monetary Easing Spreads
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-10T04:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/vietnam-cuts-interest-rates-as-global-monetary-easing-spreads.html
Vietnam  said it would cut  interest
rates  to boost economic growth, joining nations from Sri Lanka
to Australia in easing monetary policy.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam will cut the refinancing rate to
7 percent from 8 percent effective May 13, Deputy Governor
Nguyen Dong Tien said at a briefing in Hanoi today. The discount
rate will be reduced to 5 percent from 6 percent, he said.  The rate cuts are the eighth since the start of 2012 and
follow a reduction in March. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has
approved a master plan to revamp the economy and set up a
steering committee to restructure banks by 2015 after elevated
bad-debt levels crimped consumption and slowed economic growth.  “This is a good move by the central bank, as it will help
bring lending rates down to support businesses, and bolster the
economy,” Alan Pham, chief economist at VinaCapital Group, said
by phone from  Ho Chi Minh City . Today’s decision “reflects what
has already happened in the financial market, as some banks have
moved ahead to cut interest rates recently.”  The dong was little changed at 20,940 per dollar as of 11
a.m. local time. The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s VN Index
climbed 0.5 percent.  Vietnam’s  economy  expanded 5.03 percent last year, the
slowest pace since 1999. The slow restructuring of banks and
state companies contributed to the International Monetary Fund’s
decision to cut the nation’s growth forecasts for this year and
next, Sanjay Kalra, the Hanoi-based resident representative,
said in an interview on May 3.  Policy makers around the world have moved to counter
currency appreciation and stimulate growth, with  Sri Lanka 
cutting rates more than estimated today and the  Bank of Korea 
unexpectedly lowering borrowing costs yesterday, following the
lead of Australia, Europe and India this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  