-- Warburg Pincus Gets $11.2 Billion for Global Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-05-10T17:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/warburg-pincus-gets-11-2-billion-for-global-buyout-fund.html
Warburg Pincus  LLC, the owner of
Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and Interactive Data Corp., raised
$11.2 billion for its new global private-equity fund, shy of the
$12 billion target.  Warburg Pincus Private Equity XI LP, which has been raising
money for more than a year, received commitments from pension
funds, insurance companies, endowments, foundations and wealthy
individuals, with a “significant” number of new investors
coming from outside the U.S., according to a statement today
from the New York-based firm. The predecessor fund raised $15
billion in 2008, just after the peak of the buyout boom.  Warburg Pincus is among a number of large firms that have
raised smaller pools of money following the financial crisis.
KKR & Co., also based in  New York , is seeking $8 billion, about
half the size of its 2006 fund. Competition is fierce as
investors are being more selective about their commitments to
funds and cutting down on their number of private-equity
managers.  Warburg Pincus managed to raise one of the largest funds
since the financial crisis. Last month, Silver Lake Management
LLC gathered $10.3 billion for its latest fund, above its $7.5
billion target. Advent International Corp., a Boston-based firm
that invests in  Europe  and the U.S., raised 8.5 billion euros
($11 billion) for its latest fund. CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is
targeting 9 billion euros for it next buyout pool.  Warburg Pincus invests globally in energy, financial
services, healthcare, technology, media and telecommunications,
and consumer, industrial and services companies.  Last year, the firm invested more than $2.3 billion in 28
new companies and made follow-on investments in several existing
companies. Warburg distributed $6.2 billion to investors and
another $3 billion in the first quarter, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  