-- West Australian Farmers Speed Up Planting After Rain, CBH Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-05-10T02:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/west-australian-farmers-speed-up-planting-after-rain-cbh-says.html
Grain growers in  Western Australia ,
the country’s second-biggest wheat producer last year, are set
to accelerate planting of winter crops after rain this week
boosted soil moisture, according to CBH Group.  About 40 millimeters (1.6 inches) to 60 millimeters fell in
the Geraldton zone this week, Colin Tutt, general manager
operations at the state’s biggest grain handler, said by phone
from Perth. As much as 15 millimeters fell in western Kwinana
and Albany zones, he said.  Wheat climbed 6.3 percent in April, the best month since
July, on concern freezing weather may cut production in the U.S.,
the biggest exporter. Farmers in parts of Western  Australia 
started sowing crops into dry soil after below-average rainfall
in April followed above-average summer rain. Wheat production in
the state slumped 38 percent last harvest after dry weather
curbed yields, according to the Canberra-based Australian Bureau
of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences, or Abares.  “It gives a bit more confidence,” Tutt said today.
“Everybody will be up and running now and we’ll see a lot of
crop go into the ground over the next 10 days.”  The area planted to winter crops, which include barely and
canola, may total 6.5 million hectares (16 million acres) to 6.8
million hectares this year, Tutt said, reiterating a May 7
forecast. He did not give a production estimate.  New South  Wales  overtook Western Australia as the country’s
largest wheat producer last year, according to Abares. New South
Wales produced 7.1 million metric tons, while Western
Australia’s output dropped to 6.9 million tons from 11 million
tons, Abares data show.  Wheat production in Western Australia may rebound 33
percent to 9.1 million tons this season,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  said yesterday. National production may increase to
24.9 million tons from 22.1 million tons a year earlier, it said.  Wheat for July delivery dropped 0.5 percent to $7.20 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 10:47 a.m. in  Singapore ,
down 1.5 percent this month.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  