-- Westpac Sees Aussie Drop Toward 97 U.S. Cents Amid Lower Rates
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-05-10T06:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/westpac-sees-aussie-drop-toward-97-u-s-cents-amid-lower-rates.html
Australia ’s dollar will drop to its
lowest level in almost a year as investors reduce bets on gains
with the nation’s central bank poised to reduce  interest rates 
from a record, according to  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   The so-called Aussie will probably decline into a trading
range of between 97 U.S. and $1.02, with fair value at the lower
end, said Hugh Killen, Sydney-based global head of foreign
exchange at Westpac. The currency has remained above $1 for a
record stretch of more than 10 months. It yesterday dropped to
its weakest since June after the  Reserve Bank  cut  rates  to 2.75
percent on May 7.  “The recent easing is aimed at spurring domestic activity
but it’s also aimed at the currency,” said Killen in a
interview with  Bloomberg News . “The Aussie will remain overall
elevated but in a lower range, trading somewhere between a base
of 97 cents with a $1.01 or $1.02 topside. Over the coming days
and weeks we’ll see it trade down into that trend.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.0060 as of 4:04
p.m. in Sydney after yesterday touching $1.0047, the least since
June 29. It last traded at 97 U.S. cents on June 4 and is
forecast to trade at $1.01 by year-end, according to the median
estimate of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The RBA today cut its inflation outlook and reiterated its
forecast for “below trend” growth this year, driven by an
elevated currency, a crest in resource investment and fiscal
tightening.  RBA Outlook  Traders are betting policy makers will lower borrowing
costs by 28 basis points over 12 months, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG  index . The premium Australia’s two-year bond
yields offer over similar-dated U.S. notes shrank to 2.23
percentage points on May 7, the least since Oct. 22.  Added to the domestic pressure, support for the Aussie is
also being undermined by accelerating growth in the U.S., said
Killen.  The number of Americans filing claims for jobless benefits
unexpectedly dropped last week, and the average over the past
month fell to the lowest level since before the last recession,
a report showed yesterday. The nation’s unemployment rate fell
to a four-year low of 7.5 percent, data showed May 3.  “Over the medium term, we are seeing economic activity
pick up in the U.S. and it will continue to do so into the end
of this year and next year,” he said. “We could see the
beginning of a proper U.S. dollar move and that will definitely
have an impact on the Aussie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  