-- WHO Visits Saudi Arabia to Investigate Coronavirus Cases
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-05-10T10:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/who-visits-saudi-arabia-to-investigate-coronavirus-cases.html
Two  World Health Organization 
employees travelled to Saudi Arabia on May 8 to meet with local
health officials on the novel coronavirus, after an outbreak at
a hospital there.  The WHO trip was in addition to a visit by international
scientists who were invited by the country,  Gregory Hartl , a WHO
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The purpose of the WHO mission is to better understand
the situation and to provide guidance,” Hartl said. “The WHO
team may meet with some of the international scientists, but
will primarily hold discussions with the Ministry of Health.”  Saudi Arabia reported two more confirmed cases of the
virus, in a 48-year-old man and a 58-year-old man, bringing the
total number of cases in the country to 15, the Geneva-based WHO
said yesterday. Both patients are linked to an outbreak this
month in a health-care facility, and Saudi officials are
investigating, the health agency said. Thirty-three people
worldwide are known to have been sickened by the virus since
September, and 18 of them have died, the WHO said.  There hasn’t been any evidence yet of sustained
transmission of the new coronavirus, Hartl said. Limited human-to-human infection probably occurred previously in  Saudi Arabia 
as well as in the U.K., where three members of a family were
diagnosed with the illness in February.  Limited Transmission  “We know of at least two instances -- a previous event in
Saudi Arabia and the event in the U.K. -- where there was likely
limited human-to-human transmission, but as of this moment there
has not been any sustained, community-level spread,” he said.
“What we know today may not apply tomorrow, as this is a
rapidly evolving event.”  France reported its first confirmed case of the infection
this week. The patient had traveled to the  Middle East , where
the first cases of the virus were reported last year, according
to the  World Health Organization . Her roommate, doctor and a
nurse have been hospitalized for tests in Valenciennes, in
northern  France , France Info  reported  on its website.  Coronaviruses are a family of pathogens that cause
illnesses ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, which sickened more than 8,000
people and killed 774 in 2002 and 2003, according to the WHO.
While the new virus is related to the one that causes SARS, it
appears far less transmissible, the WHO has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  