-- Won Drops Most in Three Months as Yen Breaches 101; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-10T06:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/won-drops-most-in-two-months-as-yen-breaches-100-seoul-mover.html
The won dropped the most in three
months on speculation South Korean authorities will favor
depreciation to support exporters as the yen’s decline makes
Japanese rivals more competitive.  Government bonds  declined.  The yen slid to 101 per dollar for the first time in four
years, extending declines spurred by the Bank of  Japan ’s
stimulus measures to fight deflation. BOJ’s aggressive monetary
easing has a big impact on South Korea, Bank of Korea Governor
Kim Choong Soo said at a briefing yesterday after the central
bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  by
a quarter percentage point to 2.5 percent.  The won fell 1.4 percent to 1,106.39 per dollar in  Seoul ,
the biggest drop since Jan. 28, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped 0.8 percent this week. One-month implied
volatility in the won, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, rose 108 basis points, or
1.08 percentage points, today and 69 basis points this week to
7.68 percent, the data show.  “As the yen continues to fall after breaching the 100
level, overseas investors are shedding emerging-market assets
and buying the dollar,” said  Park Hyun , a currency trader at
Woori Bank Co. in Seoul. “Although it’s still uncertain about
the intervention by the government, Governor Kim’s comment about
the weak yen’s impact on South Korea made traders nervous.”  The won has strengthened 13 percent against the yen this
year and weakened 3.8 percent against the dollar. That makes it
harder for exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co. and Hyundai
Motor Co. to compete against Japanese rivals overseas.  Financial Support  The government said on May 1 it will add 11.1 trillion won
($10 billion) of financial support this year for companies,
including small- to medium-sized exporters, grappling with the
sliding yen. The drop in the Japanese currency is a concern as
it threatens market stability, Governor Kim said yesterday.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 rose one basis point today and 11 basis points
this week to 2.63 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  