-- TMX Group Profit Matches Estimates as Financings Drop
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-05-10T13:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/tmx-group-profit-matches-estimates-as-financings-drop.html
TMX Group Ltd. , owner of the Toronto
Stock Exchange, said first-quarter profit matched estimates as
trading volume dropped and fewer companies sought financings.  TMX’s net income was C$37.8 million ($37.5 million), or 70
cents a share, the Toronto-based company said today in a
statement. Revenue was C$172.2 million. The numbers from a year
earlier aren’t strictly comparable because a new company was
formed by the sale of the exchange owner to a group of banks and
pension funds.  TMX said it had profit of 78 cents a share excluding some
items, matching the average  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Revenue missed estimates.  TMX fell 1.8 percent to C$52 at 9:35 a.m. in Toronto. The
 stock  has gained 2.5 percent this year.  “Macroeconomic conditions continue to affect TMX Group’s
operational and financial performance,”  Thomas Kloet , chief
executive officer with TMX, said in a conference call today.
“The cyclical slowdown in commodities means economies like
Canada’s will suffer somewhat. The most pronounced effect of
these macroeconomic factors has been on our equities listings
and trading business.”  Trading on TMX’s equity markets, including the Toronto
Stock Exchange, TSX Venture and Alpha, fell 22 percent to about
38.5 billion shares in the quarter from a year earlier,
according to company statistics. Financings on the Toronto Stock
Exchange and TSX Venture fell 42 percent to C$9.84 billion, the
company said.  ‘Big Pause’  “When you’re in Canada, you live and die by resources,”
 Arthur Salzer , chief executive officer with Northland Wealth
Management, said on the phone from Toronto on May 7. His firm
manages C$225 million. Salzer doesn’t own shares of TMX and is
not interested in buying the stock due to weakness in the
Canadian equity market.  “We had 10 very nice years of resources doing quite well,
climbing higher and trading more. There is now a very big pause
in the resource cycle we will have to live through,” Salzer
said.  TMX announced a deal with FTSE Group to combine their
fixed-income index businesses into a joint venture, the FTSE TMX
Global Debt Capital Markets, on Feb. 27. TMX owns a 25 percent
stake in the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  