-- Yuan Snaps Three-Day Gain as Central Bank Fixing Forces Retreat
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-05-10T09:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/yuan-snaps-three-day-gain-as-central-bank-fixing-forces-retreat.html
China ’s  yuan  halted a three-day
advance as the central bank lowered its fixing by the most in 10
months, forcing the currency to weaken to stay within the
permitted trading range.  The People’s Bank of China cut the  reference rate  by 0.15
percent to 6.2016 per dollar today, 1.15 percent weaker than the
spot rate’s closing level yesterday. The spot rate is allowed to
diverge from the fixing by a maximum 1 percent. The  Dollar Index (DXY) 
jumped 1.1 percent yesterday after claims for U.S. jobless
benefits unexpectedly dropped to the lowest level in more than
five years. The yuan climbed to a 19-year high this week after
Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged to announce this year a plan on
capital-account convertibility.  “The yuan fixing is in reference to a basket of currencies
so it falls on the dollar’s strength,” said Tommy Ong, the Hong
Kong-based senior vice president of treasury at DBS Bank (Hong
Kong) Ltd. “The yuan’s gradual appreciation trend is intact as
China will allow more gains before the capital account is fully
liberalized.”  The yuan declined 0.18 percent to close at 6.1417 per
dollar in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. That trimmed this week’s advance to 0.23 percent,
an 11th week of gains. The currency touched 6.1307 yesterday,
the strongest level since the government unified official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  RQFII Quotas  China can’t be “blindly optimistic” about its inflation
outlook at a time when uncertainties remain in areas such as
property and farm produce prices, the central bank said
yesterday. The bank will push forward interest-rate
liberalization and reform of the  exchange-rate  mechanism, it
said.  Consumer prices  climbed 2.4 percent from a year earlier in
April, more than March’s 2.1 percent gain and within the
official 3.5 percent inflation goal for this year.  China Asset Management Co. and CSOP Asset Management Co.
said they won a combined 4 billion yuan ($651 million) of
investment quotas under the  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor program this week. China is on course to
allocate the whole 200 billion yuan RQFII quota, Z-Ben Advisors,
a Shanghai-based consultancy, said in a note yesterday.  “Granting out new RQFII quota shows that China’s intent to
open its capital account is genuine,” said DBS Bank’s Ong.
“That could further boost demand for the yuan.”  In  Hong Kong , the yuan dropped 0.16 percent to 6.1444 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It rose 0.17
percent this week in a sixth straight weekly gain. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards fell 0.3 percent today, paring this
week’s gain to 0.07 percent. The contracts traded at 6.2190, a
1.2 percent discount to the onshore exchange rate.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
climbed 29 basis points, or 0.29 percentage point, to 1.89
percent this week. That’s the highest level since Dec. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  