-- Yum’s China Sales Slump 29% in April on Chicken Safety Concern
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-05-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-10/yum-s-china-sales-drop-29-in-april-amid-chicken-safety-concerns.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
and Pizza Hut dining chains, said sales at stores open at least
12 months fell 29 percent in  China  in April as customers
remained concerned about the safety of its chicken and the
spread of bird flu hurt demand.  Analysts projected a 27 percent drop, the average of five
estimates compiled by researcher Consensus Metrix. Sales dropped
36 percent at KFC while gaining 5 percent at Pizza Hut, the
Louisville, Kentucky-based company said in a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday. Yum’s same-store sales fell 13 percent in March in the Asian nation.  Chief Executive Officer  David Novak  has been trying to
reassure consumers and revive sales in China after a former
supplier was investigated for selling chicken with too much
antibiotics. The restaurant company, which last year got 51
percent of its  revenue  from China, is now facing a deadly
outbreak of bird flu in the Asian nation.  “Publicity surrounding Avian flu in China has had a
significant, negative impact on KFC sales,” Yum said in the
filing. “Historically, the impact of this publicity has
initially been dramatic at KFC but relatively short-lived.”  Yum fell as much as 2.5 percent in extended trading in New
York yesterday, after closing up 1.2 percent at $70.36. The
 shares  have gained 6 percent this year, while the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Restaurants Index climbed 14 percent.  ‘Operation Thunder’  In April, Yum reiterated its  forecast  for a “mid-single
digit” decline for 2013 profit excluding certain items.  Yum, which has more than 5,400 locations in China, has been
trying to boost sales with a marketing campaign dubbed
“Operation Thunder” after its  supply chain  was investigated.
The owner of  Pizza Hut  has also pledged to improve  food safety 
and tighten standards for its suppliers in the Asian nation.  “We continue to remind consumers that properly cooked
chicken is perfectly safe to eat,” Novak said in a statement on
April 23 after the company reported first-quarter earnings.  Earlier this week,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  reported that same-store sales in its Asia-Pacific region fell 2.9 percent in
April. The decline was partially due to the Avian flu in China,
the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company said in a statement.  Same, or comparable, store sales are an indicator of a
company’s growth because they include only older, established
locations.  Yum has about 39,000 restaurants globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  