-- 
‘Captain America’ Opens at No. 1, Knocks ‘Potter’ From Top

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-07-25T21:05:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/-captain-america-opens-at-no-1-knocks-potter-from-top-spot.html
“Captain America: The First
Avenger” opened as the top film in the U.S. and  Canada  this
weekend, collecting $65.1 million in ticket sales for  Paramount
Pictures  and dethroning “ Harry Potter .”  “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2” dropped to
second with $47.4 million after opening last week with a weekend
record of $169 million, researcher  Hollywood.com  Box-Office said
today in an e-mailed statement.  “Captain America,” starring  Chris Evans , is the latest
superhero from the Marvel comics library to reach the big
screen. The movie, distributed by  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount, is
one of several, including the “Iron Man” movies, leading up to
next year’s “The Avengers.” In that picture, numerous Marvel
heroes join forces to defend Earth from evil-doers.  “It reaffirms that people do want to see comic book
movies, that there’s a giant appetite for the material, and that
they aren’t going to go away any time soon,” Karie Bible, a
box-office analyst at  Exhibitor Relations , said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Superhero films have produced mixed results this year.  Paramount’s “Thor,” based on a Marvel character, was made
for about $150 million and generated $446 million in global
ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo .  ‘The  Green Lantern ’  Warner Bros .’ “The Green Lantern,” drawn from parent
company  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s D.C. comics unit, took in $146.8
million worldwide against a budget of $200 million, according to
the box office tracker.  News Corp (NWSA) ’s “X-Men: First Class,” also
a Marvel-inspired film, cost about $160 million to make and had
sales of $347 million worldwide.  “‘The Green Lantern’ was disappointing, but comic book
movies are alive and well,” Bible said.  In “Captain America,” Evans plays Steve Rogers, a brave,
scrawny man deemed unfit for military service during World War
II. He is picked for a government-sponsored experiment that
endows him with superior strength, speed and reflexes. Because
of his courage and new physical capabilities, he is chosen for a
highly dangerous mission to thwart a Nazi plot. The film cost
about $140 million, according to the  Internet Movie Database .  The weekend’s other new film, the R-rated romantic comedy
“Friends With Benefits,” was third with sales of $18.6
million. The film stars  Justin Timberlake  and  Mila Kunis  as
friends who try to maintain a sexual relationship without
emotional attachments.  Weekend Revenue  The premise of the  Sony Corp. (6758)  film is similar to that of
“No Strings Attached,” a Paramount release that featured
 Ashton Kutcher  and  Natalie Portman . That movie, released in
January, cost $25 million and generated $148 million in
worldwide ticket sales.  Among returning films, “Transformers: Dark of the Moon,”
came in fourth with $12.1 million in receipts. The Paramount
Pictures release has taken in $325.8 million domestically since
it was released on June 29.  “Horrible Bosses,” a comedy with  Jason Bateman  and  Kevin Spacey , fell to fifth place from third, taking in $11.9 million
for Warner Bros. The film has generated $82.6 million in sales
since its July 8 release.  Revenue for the weekend for the top 12 films rose 17
percent to $181.3 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com
said. Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 6.4
percent, while attendance is down 7.8 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for July
22 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  