-- 
Amy Winehouse Tributes Paid as Police Probe Star’s Death at 27

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-07-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/amy-winehouse-tributes-paid-as-police-probe-grammy-winning-singer-s-death.html
Musicians paid tribute to  Amy Winehouse , the singer and songwriter who has died aged 27.  Police inquiries were continuing last night and a post-
mortem is taking place today into the death of the U.K. star,
who shot to fame with “Rehab,” won five  Grammy Awards  and sold
more than 5 million albums. That number is set to rise, with the
U.K.’s  Official Charts Company  reporting a surge in downloads
and sales of Winehouse’s songs yesterday.  Winehouse’s name joins a list of other singer-songwriters
who died aged 27:  Brian Jones ,  Jimi Hendrix , Janis Joplin,  Jim Morrison  and Kurt Cobain among them.  “She was my musical soulmate and like a sister to me,”
Winehouse’s producer Mark Ronson said in a statement yesterday.  “It’s just beyond sad,” singer  Lily Allen  said in a post
on Twitter. “She was such a lost soul, may she rest in peace.”  “Amy is the finest female singer Britain has ever produced
by a long, long way,” Mick Hucknall, the leader of Simply Red,
said in an e-mailed release.  Winehouse was found dead at her home in north London just
after 4 p.m. on July 23, London Police Superintendent Raj Kohli
said in a statement. The cause of death remains “unexplained,”
he said. Police asked reporters not to speculate as British
newspapers reported that she had died from a drugs overdose.  “Amy was an artist of immense proportions,”  Tony Bennett 
said in a statement. He recorded the pop standard “Body and
Soul” with her at Abbey Road Studios in  London  in March.  Brightest Stars  Winehouse became one of the brightest young stars in music
with hits such as “Valerie” and “Love Is a Losing Game,”
mixing R&B, jazz and soul. Since 2007, she was in the news as
much for her personal problems as for her music.  Paparazzi watched her every move as she battled alcohol and
drug addictions and suffered from poor health, depression and
eating disorders. She ran into trouble with the police and in
her marriage.  Winehouse’s first album, “Frank” (2003), showcased her
rich contralto voice. Her raw talent drew comparisons to Nina Simone, Billie Holiday and Sarah Vaughan as well as the more
recent stars Macy Gray and Lauryn Hill. Her second album, “Back
to Black,” led to critics calling her the finest British female
voice since Dusty Springfield. Many singers who followed her,
such as Kate Nash, Allen and Duffy, were labeled “the new Amy
Winehouse.”  Winehouse’s record company Universal said her sales were
boosted by her 2008 Grammy success. She tied the record for the
most awards for a female artist in a single night: best new
artist, best record, best female vocal, best song (for
“Rehab”) and best pop vocal album (for “Back to Black”). She
also won  Ivor Novello  songwriting prizes in the U.K.  ‘I Can Sing’  “I knew I could sing,” Winehouse said in a 2004 BBC
interview. “But I always thought everyone could sing, that
everyone was born with a singing voice. Yes, I can sing, I have
a good voice but there’s so many people that can and do.”  As she became more famous, Winehouse’s appearance became
distinctive: lots of tattoos, enlarged Cleopatra kohl wings
around her eyes, bigger heels, shorter skirts, and her beehive
hair piled ever higher. Her pictures were everywhere: stumbling
out of bars, dressed only in bra and shorts, clutching
cigarettes and bottles. The U.K. tabloids called her
Declinehouse, Wino and Wineglass.  Amy Jade Winehouse was born in London on Sept. 14, 1983, to
a taxi-driving father, Mitch, and pharmacy-technician mother,
Janis. She grew up in Southgate, north London. Her Jewish family
played records by singers such as Dinah Washington and  Frank Sinatra . A young Amy also liked hip-hop and started writing
songs at age 14, going to the Sylvia Young Theatre School. She
was expelled at 16 for piercing her nose. She also attended the
BRIT School funded by the U.K. record industry.  Girl Groups  Winehouse’s musician friend Tyler James passed her demo
tape to Universal, which was offering a contract for a jazz
vocalist and snapped her up. Winehouse shied away from cover
versions, commercially the safest course that someone with her
voice might follow, and co-wrote most of the songs on “Frank.”
Ronson, brought in to produce her next album in 2006, added the
sound of the girl groups of the 1960s.  Winehouse’s personal and musical lives were linked in the
lead track, “Rehab.” Reports began to focus on her weight loss
and bulimia. She appeared drunk on TV shows and when her
management urged her to have treatment, she wrote the song in
refusal with the chorus lyrics echoing, “They tried to make me
go to rehab, I said no, no, no.” Like Holiday, she channeled
her own anguish into songs and drugs.  Live in London  The album’s second single “You Know I’m No Good” was
knowingly ironic and also led to the title of a DVD, “I Told
You I Was Trouble: Live in London.”  Ronson also had a hand in Winehouse’s hit “Valerie,”
originally on his album “Version” and a cover of a song by the
Zutons.  “Back to Black” -- a lament comparing a fading romance to
a death -- followed Winehouse’s short split with boyfriend Blake
Fielder-Civil. They married in secret during a trip to  Florida 
in May 2007 and became inseparable, though Winehouse said she
would attack him when she was drunk.  Fielder-Civil’s father urged fans to boycott her music,
saying he feared the couple would commit suicide or overdose.
When Winehouse was taken to the hospital and canceled part of a
European tour, her spokesman said she needed rest. Newspapers
said she had taken a mix of alcohol, cocaine, heroin and a
ketamine tranquilizer.  Prison, Divorce  The tour resumed, though in October, Winehouse and her
husband were arrested in  Norway  for possessing cannabis. Later,
Fielder-Civil was among those arrested on a charge of trying to
pervert the course of justice after an assault on a pub owner.
He remained in custody and pleaded guilty in June 2008. On July
21, he was sentenced to 27 months in prison for the crime. Two
years later, Fielder-Civil and Winehouse divorced.  Her concert dates since were shambolic. She forgot the
words to songs and ran offstage for frequent breaks. She was
booed, reduced to tears and swore at audiences. Amid the furor,
her U.S. dates were canceled.  Winehouse was initially denied a U.S. visa to travel to the
2008 Grammy ceremony. She was later allowed entry, though she
was advised not to travel, so she performed via satellite.  In January of that year, U.K. newspaper the Sun released a
video of a woman it said was Winehouse smoking  crack cocaine .
The video was passed to police, who questioned the singer
without charging her.  She returned to the stage in May, though by the following
month she was diagnosed with early-stage emphysema. Her father
said her lungs were only at 70 percent of capacity because of
smoking cigarettes and crack cocaine. He said that if she
carried on, the condition would become fatal.  Offbeat Phrasing  Winehouse’s decline was sadly obvious to critics following
her career. We listened to her brief torch-singing of “Love is
a Losing Game” at the U.K. Mercury Prize show in 2007. From
there it was all downhill, with offbeat phrasing at the Mandela
birthday concert and Glastonbury in June 2008. Soon the concerts
got too painful to listen to.  Last month, Winehouse canceled what was supposed to be a
12-stop European tour after an embarrassing appearance in
 Serbia . During the first show in Belgrade she was jeered and
booed as she stumbled around the stage, unable to remember
lyrics. Her spokesman, Chris Goodman, said she would take time
off to recover.  Winehouse and her record company, Island, both said she had
worked on material for a third album. Deluxe versions of her
earlier CDs were released to fill the gap. Her last emails to
journalists and fans said was launching a clothing range with
 Fred Perry , planned more concerts and was setting up a website,
Lioness, to promote new music.  Now fans will be playing “Back to Black” in her honor,
with its lines “Goodbye.. I died a hundred times.”  “The popularity of Amy’s music is being demonstrated, with
sales of her albums rocketing by 37 times over the past 24
hours,” Martin Talbot, managing director of the British
Official Charts Company, said in an e-mailed release today.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net ;  http://twitter.com/# !/Mark_Beech.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net ;
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  