-- 
Anglo American, Xstrata, Exxaro Workers Strike at South African Coal Mines

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-07-24T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/anglo-american-xstrata-exxaro-workers-strike-at-south-african-coal-mines.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and
 Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  workers last night started a strike over
pay at South African mines producing coal for use in local,
European and Indian power plants.  “It has started,”  Lesiba Seshoka , spokesman for the
National Union of Mineworkers, said by phone from Johannesburg
yesterday.  About 30,000 workers may participate in the action, Frans
Barker, lead negotiator on behalf of the coal producers, said
last week. The strike began at 6 p.m. Johannesburg time, with
the start of the night shift.  The National Union of Mineworkers, or NUM, South Africa’s
biggest labor union, wants a 14 percent pay increase, while coal
producers are offering 7 percent, and 8.5 percent to entry-level
employees. Steel, oil and chemical workers stopped work this
month to demand above-inflation increases while gold and
platinum miners have also threatened industrial action. Annual
consumer inflation was at 5 percent in June, the highest in 15
months.  The country’s Richards Bay Coal Terminal is the largest in
 Africa , shipping about 63 million metric tons annually,
including to power plants in Europe and India. The terminal had
2.99 million tons of stockpiles at the end of June.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the largest domestic coal buyer,
had “relatively high” stocks, Barker said last week. Anglo and
Exxaro are the largest suppliers of the fuel to the state-owned
utility, producer of 95 percent of South Africa’s electricity.  A 2008 power shortage that shut the country’s largest mines
for about five days was caused partly by a lack of coal. NUM-
affiliated Workers at Eskom, which burns about 120 million tons
of the fuel a year, last week also rejected a 5.5 percent pay
offer.  Optimum Coal Holdings (OPT)  Ltd., Kangra Coal Ltd. and Delmas
Coal Ltd. are among other companies whose workers are striking.
Closely held Delmas Coal has offered a 7.5 percent increase for
entry-level workers and 6 percent for other miners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in London at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net 
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  