-- 
Marchionne Rushed In Where Ghosn Feared to Tread in Chrysler Rebound: Cars

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t ,   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-07-24T22:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/marchionne-rushed-in-where-ghosn-feared.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  seized an opportunity in the U.S. after
 Renault SA (RNO)  CEO  Carlos Ghosn  concluded there was too much risk.  Ghosn turned down the chance to buy Chrysler LLC in 2008 at
the height of the recession, opening the door for Marchionne to
swoop in and receive 20 percent of the American carmaker without
paying any cash in exchange for technology and management.  “We pulled out because we were seeing a very dramatic
crisis happening,” Ghosn said in an interview last month. “I
still think we made the reasonable decision.”  Marchionne since then has done everything to prove his
rival wrong, pursuing a rapid integration of Fiat and Chrysler
that will include using the basic architecture for vehicles
across brands, combining top management and sharing factories.
Fiat last week raised its Chrysler stake to 53.5 percent,
reaching a majority two years earlier than originally planned.  Even before a botched industrial espionage probe in  France 
that bruised his reputation, Ghosn had ruled out a deeper
integration of the 12-year-old alliance with Nissan Motor Co.
for the time being. Renault owns a 43.4 percent stake in Nissan,
which in turn holds 15 percent of Renault. Prior to dropping the
Chrysler talks, Ghosn had said adding a U.S. partner would make
sense. Tie-up talks with General Motors Co. failed in 2006.  “Ghosn seems to have stopped halfway, and Marchionne is at
least saying he wants to go the full nine yards,” said Erich Hauser, a Credit Suisse analyst in  London . “Marchionne’s trying
something different, and so far it looks like he might be
right.”  Profit Margins  Since Fiat took management control of Chrysler in June 2009,
the Italian carmaker’s shares have jumped 91 percent, almost
double Renault’s 52 percent gain. The French carmaker, with a
market value of 11 billion euros ($15.9 billion), currently
trades at a 39 percent discount to the value of its holdings in
Nissan, Volvo AB and Daimler AG, which are valued at 18 billion
euros. Fiat’s market capitalization is 9.1 billion euros.  Fiat, minus the industrial operations the company spun off
on Jan. 1, posted an operating margin last year of 3.1 percent,
while Renault’s return on sales was 2.8 percent.  Chrysler aims to almost triple what the carmaker calls
modified operating profit to more than $2 billion in 2011 from
$763 million last year, and to earn as much as $500 million in
net income. Modified operating profit excludes interest, taxes
and items such as pension-related costs.  Not Enough  Marchionne has sought to push past Ghosn as a consolidator
after concluding that alliances don’t squeeze enough value out
of the partnership. Ghosn disputes that thesis, citing joint
purchasing and other cost reductions achieved at Renault-Nissan.  Marchionne may announce a merged management structure for
Fiat and Chrysler as early as tomorrow, when he reports Fiat’s
second-quarter earnings with Chrysler consolidated into the
results for the first time, according to two people familiar
with the matter. They declined to be identified discussing the
restructuring before it’s announced.  The CEO has laid out a plan to use common technology for
Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge and Alfa Romeo models. He’ll
probably receive an additional 5 percent of Chrysler without
paying any cash later this year when Chrysler builds a fuel-
efficient car using Fiat underpinnings. Marchionne will end up
paying about $2 billion to reach a 58.5 percent holding.  Ghosn this year has been mired in a botched spying
investigation in France after falsely accusing company managers
of espionage. The fallout led to the resignation of his second-
in-command,  Patrick Pelata , and concessions to the French
government, Renault’s largest shareholder, that included
spending more time at Renault and less at Nissan.  ‘Sun King’  “In his early days at Fiat, Marchionne used to call Ghosn
the Sun King,” said Giuseppe Berta, a professor at Milan’s
Bocconi University who knows the Fiat CEO personally. “He said
you needed sunglasses to stand close to him. Now things have
changed.”  Ghosn told investors in February when announcing targets
for Renault that a merger was “not feasible” as part of the
mid-term strategy because of opposition at both carmakers.  While Nissan’s revenue has risen by almost 50 percent in
the decade since Renault pulled the company from the brink of
bankruptcy following a 1999 stake purchase, its rescuer’s sales
have shrunk 3 percent. Nissan is now the larger of the two.  “Renault is the main shareholder in a company that’s fast
outgrowing it, which means there is frustration on all sides,”
Paris-based Deutsche Bank analyst Gaetan Toulemonde said.
“Nissan staged a spectacular recovery, while Renault is still
on the starting block, with the same problems today as 10 years
ago.”  Marchionne cites the imbalance within Ghosn’s alliance as a
reason for his determination to push for a full integration.  Failed Mergers  “You can’t have a subsidiary that makes more money than
the parent,” Marchionne said in an April interview. “It goes
beyond questions of governance. It doesn’t work.”  The Renault boss maintains that car-industry takeovers are
often doomed to fail, citing examples such as Daimler AG’s
merger with Chrysler, which was unwound in 2007, or a Renault-
Volvo tie-up plan abandoned in 1993. Marchionne also must still
prove that his plans for a merged Fiat-Chrysler will really work
once it’s fully implemented.  “The Renault-Nissan alliance began in 1999, an era of
rapid consolidation among automakers,” said Rachel Konrad, an
alliance spokeswoman. “Twelve years later, the alliance is the
only major partnership still intact and still creating value
every year -- 1.5 billion euros in synergies in 2010 alone.”  ‘Compelling Mission’  Ghosn and his top managers, who were offered a deal from
the U.S. government similar to what Fiat received, ended the
talks two years ago because absorbing Chrysler might have left
Renault-Nissan too vulnerable to the unfolding economic
downturn, the CEO said.  “We didn’t know how bad the storm was going to be,” Ghosn
said in a June 28 interview.  Other reasons that contributed to the decision were a weak
product-development pipeline and management exodus at Chrysler,
as well as the overlap between the U.S. sales networks of
Chrysler and Nissan, one person familiar with Ghosn’s thinking
said. Because Fiat was not present in the U.S. market at the
time, Marchionne also had more to gain from the acquisition.  “The integration is a compelling mission for both Fiat and
Chrysler, with no alternatives, which wasn’t the case for Nissan
and Renault,” said Carlo De Benedetti, honorary chairman of
holding company Compagnie Industrali Riunite SpA and a former
Fiat CEO. “It is much easier to work in America on integration
of two companies than in  Japan .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 