-- 
Latvia May Elect New Prime Minister After Referendum

-- B y   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-07-29T12:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/latvia-may-elect-new-premier-after-referendum-sinks-parliament.html
(Corrects currency conversion in 14th paragraph of story
published on July 25.)  Latvians may elect a new premier to
lead the country’s deficit-cutting government after a weekend
referendum dissolved parliament and propelled a new party to the
top of opinion polls.  Almost 95 percent of voters on July 23 backed former
President Valdis Zatlers’s call to dismiss lawmakers as part of
an anti-corruption drive. The wave that swept away parliament
drove Zatlers’s Reform Party, founded in June, into a first-
place tie with the pro-Russian Harmony Center in opinion polls,
followed by Premier Valdis Dombrovskis’s Unity party.  Zatlers and Dombrovskis are seeking to weaken the so-called
oligarchs who amassed wealth and power as the Baltic nation sold
state assets after the  Soviet Union  collapsed. The former
president, who has endorsed Dombrovskis’s austerity policies,
has said he wants to nominate his own candidate for prime
minister after the Sept. 17 general election.  “It is most likely that we will see a reformist government
coalition being formed after the elections,” Copenhagen-based
Danske Bank A/S said today in an e-mailed note to investors.
“We would also stress that, while the Unity Party and
Dombrovskis are proven reformers there is considerable
uncertainty about the actual policies of the Reform Party.”  The Reform Party and Harmony Center, which represents
Russian speakers who make up almost a third of the population,
were each backed by 17.5 percent of those surveyed in a Latvijas
Fakti poll published July 22 by the  Baltic News Service . Unity
ranked third at 11.7 percent, down from 14.7 percent in June.  Austerity Measures  The Union of Greens & Farmers, led by former Ventspils
Mayor Aivars Lembergs, one of three men Zatlers named as
oligarchs when he called the referendum on May 28, was supported
by 8.1 percent of the 1,000 people surveyed, followed by the
 National Alliance  at 6.3 percent. No margin of error was given.  Unity expects to join the Reform Party in the next
government and wants to continue its policy of cutting the
budget deficit while keeping so-called oligarchs out of power,
said Defense Minister Artis Pabriks, a party board member.  Dombrovskis helped implement austerity measures equal to 16
percent of gross domestic product after Latvia turned to the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5
billion-euro ($10.6 billion) bailout in 2008. The country
returned to credit markets last month, with investors seeking
seven times the $500 million of 10-year bonds on offer.  No Political Turmoil  “We do not expect significant political turmoil over the
coming months,” said  Annika Lindblad , a Helsinki-based analyst
at Nordea AB, in an e-mailed note. “The financial situation of
the state is stable at the moment and the events in late May --
the dissolution order and the presidential elections -- did not
rock the boat.”  Latvia’s five-year credit-default swaps, used to protect
against non-payment or speculate on a the creditworthiness of a
borrower, rose 7 basis points to 219 at 10:30 a.m. in London,
according to data provider CMA. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Latvia ’s debt is rated BBB- by  Fitch Ratings , the lowest
investment grade and on par with Portugal and  Hungary .  Latvia’s “biggest worry” is inflation as it recovers
after the economy shrank by almost a quarter during the global
financial crisis, according to the International Monetary Fund.
The economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, after returning
to growth in the third quarter of 2010, the IMF estimates.  Unity and Reform probably won’t get the necessary 51 seats
in the 100-member parliament to form a government, forcing them
to include the “relatively radical” National Alliance or
Harmony Center in a coalition, Pabriks said by phone yesterday.  ‘No Choice’  “The government won’t have a choice but to form a
coalition with nationalist forces,” because the differences
with Harmony over the Soviet-era may be impossible to bridge, he
said. That may be “risky as nobody can predict whether they
will stick to their radical views or become moderate.”  Latvia needs to find an additional 110 million lati ($221
million) of savings to meet its pledge to bring the  budget
deficit  below the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP next year,
qualify for euro adoption in 2014, Dombrovskis said July 6. The
shortfall was 7.6 percent in 2010.  The deficit-cutting program is evidence of either the
“silliness” or the “guile” of international lenders, Janis Urbanovics, head of Harmony Center’s parliamentary group, said
yesterday by phone.  Economists who claim the economy is stable are “enemies or
simply incompetent,” Urbanovics said. Latvia should alter its
IMF program and pursue closer cooperation with  Russia , he said.  The next government may revolve around Zatlers, 56, whose
lack of experience is a risk, according to Ivars Ijabs, a
political analyst at the University of Latvia. Zatlers was a
surgeon before he was called to the presidency by the defunct
 People’s Party  four years ago, when he was allied with
politicians such as Lembergs who he now considers oligarchs.  “People who backed Zatlers at the referendum hope that he
is kind of a knight on a white horse who will change their lives
forever,” Ijabs said. “He won’t -- and that scares me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kira Savcenko in  London  at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  