-- 
Australia’s Evans Is First Tour de France Champ From Southern Hemisphere

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-24T22:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/australia-s-evans-is-first-tour-de-france-champ-from-southern-hemisphere.html
Cadel Evans  became the Tour de
France’s oldest winner in 88 years after taking the yellow
jersey on the next-to-last day in a time trial.  The Australian is also the first rider from the southern
hemisphere to win cycling’s biggest event. Runner-up in 2007 and
2008, Evans at age 34 is the oldest winner since Henri
Pelissier, who was a month older when he finished first in 1923.  “It’s the accumulation of 20 years of work on my part,”
Evans told Fox Sports. “Finally everything went right.”  Evans won the 21-stage race by 1 minute, 34 seconds after
crossing the finish line in Paris following a 59-mile ride from
Creteil in which the leading cyclists, abiding by tradition,
didn’t compete for places in the overall standings.  Andy and Frank Schleck, brothers from  Luxembourg , finished
second and third of the 198 riders who began the 2,132-mile race
on July 2. Evans overtook them in the standings two days ago in
a time trial in Grenoble to become the third holder of the
yellow jersey in as many days.  Andy Schleck , 26, is runner-up for a third straight year,
while Frank Schleck, 31, finished third, 2 minutes, 30 seconds
behind Evans. It’s the first time brothers have made the same
podium of the race. France’s  Thomas Voeckler , leader until three
days ago, was fourth and defending champion  Alberto Contador 
fifth.  Mark Cavendish  of the U.K. won the sprint finish yesterday,
his fifth stage win this year to secure the green jersey for the
points winner for the first time.  Spain ’s  Samuel Sanchez  won the
King of the Mountains polka dot jersey.  ‘Completely Unsuitable’  Evans, who wrapped himself in an Australian flag on the
podium, says his 5-foot-8 frame makes him “completely
unsuitable” for most of that country’s sports that require
speed or size. He became a professional road-bike cyclist at age
24 with Italy’s Saeco team after winning the mountain bike  World
Cup  series in 1998 and 1999. He divides his time between homes
in  Switzerland  and Barwon Heads,  Australia .  His career has been interrupted by accidents and he
occasionally has lost his cool, head-butting a television camera
with the top of his helmet in 2008. He broke his collarbone
three times in 2003 and last year rode the last 12 stages of the
Tour de  France  with a broken elbow.  “He’s a born fighter, who knows how to suffer on his
bike,” Carlos Sastre, who beat Evans to the 2008 title, said in
an interview. “He knew he had a chance of winning this year and
he raced very intelligently.”  Andy Schleck, a more talented climber, made “a lot of
errors” and his Leopard-Trek team was too concerned about him
and his brother Frank instead of putting its full backing behind
one of them, according to Sastre, whose Geox team wasn’t
invited. Contador’s preparation may have been disturbed after he
failed a drug test last year, Sastre added.  Contaminated Beef?  Contador blamed the finding on contaminated beef and was
acquitted by the Spanish cycling federation in February. The
 World Anti-Doping Agency  and cycling’s ruling body is appealing
the decision, with a hearing scheduled to start Aug. 1. Russia’s
Alexandr Kolobnev is the only rider so far known to have failed
a drug test at this year's Tour.  Brian Cookson, a British member of the management committee
of cycling’s governing body, said the race had been one of the
cleanest in years.  “We’ve been seeing the riders exhausted when they should
be exhausted,” Cookson said in an interview. “We’ve seen human
frailty and grand deeds. It’s been one of the best Tours in many
years.”  Slowed by Crashes  As Contador was slowed down by crashes, Evans began his
seventh  Tour de France  with second place in the opening two
stages -- the second a team time trial for BMC Racing -- and won
stage four to the Mur-de-Bretagne. He defended his position in
the standings in the Pyrenees and Alps, counterattacking into
the wind on stage 18 to the Col du Galibier to limit Andy
Schleck’s advantage.  A time-trial specialist, Evans started the stage two days
ago 57 seconds behind Andy Schleck and four seconds behind Frank
Schleck. The Australian propped himself on the handlebars and
churned the pedals over the rolling 26-mile course, sweat
pouring from his face, to finish second in the trial and take
the yellow jersey.  “The real highlight of it all was the last three to four
kilometers of the time trial,” Evans said of the three-week
Tour. “I knew we were on the right track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  