-- 
Phelps-Led U.S. Relay Team Loses to Australia, France at Swimming Worlds

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-07-25T05:44:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/australia-wins-men-s-400m-freestyle-relay-at-fina-world-championships.html
Michael Phelps started slowly at the
2011 World Swimming Championships as the U.S. failed to defend
its 400-meter freestyle relay title in  Shanghai .  The four-man U.S. team, which also won the gold medal at
the 2008 Beijing Olympics, finished third behind Australia and
 France  yesterday. Phelps, the winner of 14 Olympic golds,
trailed Australia’s James Magnussen after the opening leg and
the U.S. team finished almost  a second behind  Australia’s
winning time of 3 minutes, 11 seconds.  It was the first time since 2007 that the U.S. men lost a
relay of any kind at the world championships or  Olympic Games .
Phelps said the team will use the result as an incentive to do
better at the biennial world championships, which end Aug. 4.  “It’s tough not starting out the way we want to,” the 26-
year-old said after the race. “It stinks, but it’s going to
give us some of motivation for the rest of the meet.”  Phelps, who has said he’ll retire after the 2012 Olympics
in  London , is swimming today in the men’s 200-meter freestyle
qualifying, with the final scheduled for tomorrow.  Medals will be awarded today in the men’s 50-meter
butterfly and 100-meter breaststroke, and the women’s 100-meter
butterfly and 200-meter individual medley.  The Netherlands won the women’s 400-meter freestyle relay
yesterday, finishing ahead of the U.S. and Germany.  Italy’s Federica Pellegrini beat Britain’s Rebecca Adlington and Camille Muffat of France in the individual 400-
meter freestyle, with South Korea’s Park Tae Hwan becoming the
men’s champion as he outpaced  China ’s Sun Yang and Germany’s
Paul Biedermann.  The world championships are the last major international
swimming meet before next year’s Olympics in London. Yesterday
was the start of the swimming competition, while the
championships also include diving, open water swimming,
synchronized swimming and water polo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  