-- 
Australian Government Wants to Calm ‘Fear’ of Carbon Tax Plan

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-07-24T03:51:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/australian-government-to-calm-carbon-tax-fear-.html
Australia ’s government will try to
calm public “fear” that its plan to tax companies for carbon
pollution will raise costs for households, as Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s popularity slumps to an all-time low.  “We will methodically go around explaining this to
people,” Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said in an
interview on Channel 10 television today. “When we have the
opportunity to go through the facts with people, the fear starts
to drop away very quickly.”  Australia expects to raise about A$27.8 billion ($30.2
billion) in three years by making polluters pay an initial
charge of A$23 per ton of carbon dioxide from July 2012,
increasing the price by 2.5 percent a year, plus inflation until
the tax gives way to a cap-and-trade system in 2015. Gillard
announced the carbon proposal on July 10.  While the Labor government has secured support for the tax
from Greens and independent lawmakers, whom Gillard relies on
for a majority in parliament, 53 percent of Australians in a
July 18 Nielson poll said they would be worse off under carbon
pricing.  “The government is going to stick to its guns,” Combet
said. “We will continue to explain this to people, in
particular that the price impacts are modest, and to meet that
there are tax cuts and increases in pensions and other benefits
that mean nine out of 10 households receive some assistance.”  Support for the Labor government fell one percentage point
to 26 percent, a record low, according to the Nielson poll. The
government last week started a A$25 million advertising campaign
on television networks to promote the plan.  Carbon Permits  Under the plan, the government will provide A$9.2 billion
in the form of free carbon permits over three years to assist
the biggest-polluting businesses.  The tax may cut profits and jobs, threatening some mines
with closure in the world’s largest coal exporter.  Newcrest
Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s biggest gold producer, said July 21 the
levy will cut net profit after tax by 1 percent to 3 percent
during the first three years of operation.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  said last month the plan would
have an impact on the company’s growth and jobs.  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s largest airline, said it will raise air fares.
The Australian Coal Association said overseas buyers of coal may
switch to other nations and force the closure of mines at home.  Coal mining companies in Australia will be required to pay
for fugitive emissions -- gas emitted naturally from coal
operations -- while receiving A$1.3 billion in compensation,
with the biggest polluters getting assistance over six years.
Other so-called trade-exposed industries such as steel producers
will also receive assistance.  “This is a difficult political environment at the moment
but this is a critical reform for the future of the country and
future generations,” Combet said. “We have to play our part
internationally in tackling  climate change .”  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  has said Australia’s low unemployment,
record trade and a strong investment pipeline made the
introduction of a carbon tax feasible in the face of global
economic uncertainty.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  