-- 
Barclays Discusses ‘Boris Bike’ Olympic Expansion With London Government

-- B y   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-07-24T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/barclays-in-funding-talks-for-boris-bikes-olympics-expansion.html
London Mayor  Boris Johnson ’s office
is in talks with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  about additional sponsorship for
his cycle-hire initiative as the program is to be expanded for
next year’s  Olympic Games .  Expanding the project toward the Olympic park in the east
of the city and adding a further 2,000 cycles by spring 2012
will need additional funding in the “low millions” of pounds,
according to Kulveer Ranger, Johnson’s transport adviser. The
mayor’s office is also looking at “contributions from other
third parties,” he said in an interview on July 19.  “We’re looking to expand the  scheme , which will go beyond
what we originally said,” Ranger said in an interview at  City
Hall . ‘In that case you would always talk to your main sponsor
and say ‘the scheme’s getting bigger, can you give us more
money?’ So we’re having that discussion now.”  Barclays is paying 25 million pounds ($41 million) for five
years, with the distinctive “Boris bikes” featuring the
lender’s branding. A spokesman for Barclays confirmed it was in
talks about extra funding, saying the program had been a success
for the bank. Since the initiative began in July last year more
than 5.7 million journeys have been made on the 6,000 bikes,
Ranger said.  While Johnson had pledged in his 2008 election manifesto
that the program wouldn’t cost taxpayers anything, he said at
the launch event there was a need to “be realistic” about when
it would make money. In February, Johnson said Barclays could
“cough up another 25 million” pounds in recognition of the
support British taxpayers had given to the finance industry.  Sponsorship  The Barclays sponsorship was intended to cover a quarter of
the annual 20 million-pound cost, with as much as 15 million
pounds coming from users. Transport for  London  is scheduled to
publish a report detailing costs after the first year of
operation is completed.  “Operationally, we were expecting to break even in about
three or four years on the first part of the scheme,” Ranger
said. “What we’ve found is the scheme is so popular, once we’ve
launched, everybody wants it.”  Initially covering the Royal Parks and nine central
boroughs, Transport for London announced last year it would be
extended to cover the Canary Wharf financial district and other
areas in the City’s East End. Ranger described the expansion
toward the Olympic park as a “key target.”  About 320,000 visitors are expected to come to London in a
year’s time for the Olympic and Paralympic Games, which will
feature five permanent stadiums, including the centerpiece
Olympic Stadium and Aquatics Centre, according to the London
2012  website . The games may contribute as much as 1.5 billion
pounds to London tourism between 2007 and 2017.  Infrastructure Investment  In December, Ranger had said the program may become
profitable at some stage. Last week, he stressed that
infrastructure investment would always be likely to require some
form of subsidy.  “This is public-sector infrastructure, we have to
subsidize every element of public transport there is in this
city, whether it be buses, railway or tube trains,” he said.  Another issue that is likely to affect operational
profitability, Ranger said, is the mix of users, with the
initial plan having been to offer access to the program to both
casual users and registered members. Casual users, who pay on a
per day basis, weren’t allowed to use the cycles until November,
which has affected revenue projections, Ranger said.  A 30-minute ride is free to members, one hour costs 1 pound
and two hours 6 pounds. A cycle can be hired for a maximum term
of 24 hours for 50 pounds.  “I think Londoners think it’s extremely good value for
money,” Ranger said. “It’s the cleanest, greenest form of
transport.”  Docking Stations  Dimitri Lungo, a customer service representative, 23, who
pedals from his home in Bethnal Green to work in the City
financial district, said a lack of docking stations was often a
problem. “If you are in a rush you obviously can’t just leave
your bicycle anywhere,” he said.  Ranger said it is very hard to tackle this issue, as
popular areas such as Soho, Waterloo and the City suffer from
heavy usage and overcrowding during rush hour periods.  Another source of complaint has been Serco Plc, the
program’s operator, overcharging people. Last month, Johnson
said in Assembly questioning that about  15,000 people  have been
overcharged to date, adding that all of them were refunded.  Ranger said there have been “some accounting
difficulties” with Serco which “they’ve readily
acknowledged.” The Mayor’s office is satisfied with Serco
performance and does not plan to change the operator.  Serco declined to comment on any issues relating to the
cycle-hire program, referring questions to Transport for London.  ‘Excellent Value’  Plumber Andrew Sirfis described the program as “excellent
value for money” with quality good enough. “You are not going
to win any races on them, but they are functional.”  While Paris’s “Velib” program -- combining the words for
bicycle and freedom -- proved popular with users when it was
introduced in 2007, at least 3,000 bikes were stolen in the
first year.  For London, the figure is 15, with the bikes weighing in at
23 kilograms. This makes them more practical for shorter trips
and helps reduce their appeal to thieves. The bikes also feature
a distinctive design, with the Barclays branding, something that
is unlikely to change, according to Ranger.  “At the moment we have a great sponsorship with Barclays,
I don’t think that we’ll look to change that in any way unless a
different sponsor comes along,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kira Savcenko in London at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net 
NI ENVTOP
NI EXCLUSIVE
NI UK
NI COS
NI CYCLING
NI LNTOP 