-- 
BHP, Bank of Ireland, BSkyB, Ryanair: U.K., Irish Equity Preview

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-25T06:54:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/barclays-kesa-electrical-songbird-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
that may have unusual share-price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  Futures on the benchmark FTSE 100 Index slid 0.6 percent to
5,857.5 at 7:54 a.m. in  London . The FTSE 100 rose 35.13 points,
or 0.6 percent, to 5,935.02 on July 22. The FTSE All-Share Index
gained 0.7 percent to 3,088.36, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
advanced 1.4 percent to 2,927.38.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)   and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  :
Workers of Anglo American, Xstrata and Exxaro Resources Ltd.
have started a strike over pay at South African mines producing
coal for use in local, European and Indian power plants. Anglo
American advanced 1.2 percent to 3,025 pence, while Xstrata’s
stock rose 0.6 percent to 1,357.5 pence.  Bank of Ireland Plc (BKIR ID): Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said the state agreed to sell a 1.12 billion-euro ($1.6
billion) stake in the Dublin-based bank to a group of unnamed
investors. The private sector will hold a minimum of 68 percent
in the lender following the share sale this week.  The Sunday Times reported that the Irish government has
held talks with a Canadian investment fund about a possible
investment in Bank of Ireland, without citing anyone. The shares
fell 1 percent to 10.1 euro cents in Dublin.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  : An ex-Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
brokerage executive asked a district judge not to allow Barclays
to dismiss his demand for $19.6 million in bonuses, according to
a court filing.  Separately, Rory Gilbert, the managing director and head of
high net worth business in the U.K. and Ireland at Barclays
Wealth, has been appointed as private banking head for the
 Middle East  and north Africa, replacing Soha Nashaat. The shares
retreated 0.1 percent to 239.6 pence.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  : Workers at BHP’s Escondida site
voted to prolong a strike at the world’s biggest copper mine
that drove up metal prices last week amid concern that other
mines in  Chile  may join the action. The workers, who seek higher
production bonuses and better job conditions, agreed to extend a
one-day stoppage on July 22 after talks with management broke
down, a union leader said. BHP’s shares rose 0.6 percent to
2,373 pence.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  : Investor
Crispin Odey backed  James Murdoch  as chairman of the U.K.
commercial broadcaster amid pressure to review his position at a
meeting next week, the Sunday Telegraph reported. The stock was
unchanged at 741 pence.  Charter International Plc (CHTR)  :  Melrose Plc (MRO)  
said it is willing to consider raising its proposed offer for
Charter to reflect any information that shows it has materially
undervalued the company. Charter’s shares rose 0.8 percent to
786 pence, while Melrose increased 1.4 percent to 368 pence.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  : The maker of Johnnie Walker scotch and
Smirnoff vodka plans to invest 56 billion naira ($368 million)
in expansion of its Nigerian unit, Guinness Nigeria Plc, THISDAY
reported. The stock advanced 0.8 percent to 1,271 pence.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  : The U.K. maker of controls that
help run Whirlpool Corp. washing machines may pay about 500
million pounds ($816 million) to dispose of a 4.2 billion-pound
pension portfolio, the London-based Times reported, without
saying where it got the information. The stock gained 1.5
percent to 302.7 pence.  Irish Life & Permanent Plc (IPM ID): Northern Rock Plc may
bid for the U.K. buy-to-let unit of Irish Life & Permanent, the
Sunday Business Post said, without citing anyone. An Irish Life
spokesman told the Dublin-based newspaper it expects significant
interest in the unit, which is called Capital Home Loans. Irish
Life’s shares plunged 20 percent to 4 euro cents.  Kesa Electrical Plc (KESA LN): Weight Partners Capital LLP
has joined the bidding for Kesa’s Comet unit, the Sunday
Telegraph newspaper reported, without saying where it got the
information. The stock increased 0.3 percent to 133.8 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  : The lender received “a
number of credible bids” for the branches it is selling, said a
spokeswoman who declined to be identified because of company
policy.  Separately, Lloyds is considering an initial public
offering for the 632 bank branches it is trying to sell after
receiving only two formal bids, the Sunday Telegraph reported,
without saying where it got the information. The shares fell 0.9
percent to 47.1 pence.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  : Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. denied a report that Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  is flying to the U.K. this week for takeover talks with
LSE. The shares jumped 3.2 percent to 1,057 pence.  National Grid Plc (NG/)  : The operator of the U.K.’s
power and natural gas networks said it started the year with a
“solid operational and financial performance” and also
reaffirmed its outlook for 2011-12. The shares rallied 1.3
percent to 610 pence.  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  : A dispute between
Reckitt and an Indian manufacturer has disrupted global condom
supplies, the Financial Times reported, citing a Citigroup Inc.
research report.  The company reported second-quarter adjusted net income of
418 million pounds, a 13 percent gain at constant rates of
currency exchange. Analysts had estimated adjusted net income of
412 million pounds, according to the median estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock rose 2.1 percent to 3,478 pence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  : Bank of China
Ltd. joined the list of possible buyers for the $5 billion
plane-leasing business from RBS, the London-based Sunday Times
reported, without saying where it got the information. The
shares gained 2.3 percent to 36.9 pence.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  : The Nigeria Union of
Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers has suspended a proposed
three-day industrial action that would have begun on July 25
over the sale of  oil wells  by Shell’s local unit, the Guardian
reported.  Separately, Shell and ConocoPhillips won draft air permits
for oil drilling in Alaska’s waters, the Environmental
Protection Agency said. The stock advanced 0.2 percent to 2,275
pence.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  :  Europe ’s biggest discount
airline said first-quarter earnings were little changed at 139.3
million euros ($200 million) after higher fuel costs eroded
gains from rising passenger numbers. Profit was forecast at
156.8 million euros, according to the average of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares surged 4.8 percent
to 3.46 euros.  Songbird Estates Plc (SBD)  : Songbird’s Canary Wharf and
Qatari Diar will develop the area around Shell’s London
headquarters, the Sunday Times reported without saying where it
obtained the information. The stock dropped 0.3 percent to 148
pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  