-- 
Republicans Back Short-Term Debt-Limit Agreement, Risking Veto From Obama

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-24T22:23:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/boehner-said-to-tell-republicans-no-deal-yet-as-obama-to-meet-pelosi-reid.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  plans to
press ahead with a shorter-term increase in the U.S. debt limit
than President Barack Obama has requested, he told lawmakers
today, defying a veto threat and signaling continued stalemate
in the  U.S. Congress  as time runs short for a deal.  Boehner told rank-and-file Republicans during a conference
call this afternoon that they needed to pull together as a team
to block Obama, who has asked for a $2.4 trillion borrowing
boost in the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling, from obtaining the
money all at once, without any guarantees of spending cuts. His
remarks were described on condition of anonymity by a person
familiar with the discussion.  The speaker said that no one is willing to default on the
full faith and credit of the U.S., according to the person.  The comments indicated that Boehner plans to force action
on his plan to provide only a temporary borrowing boost of about
$1 trillion accompanied by spending cuts of at least as much,
tying the remainder of the debt-ceiling increase Obama has
requested to further cuts in the future. The White House says
Obama would veto such a measure.  U.S. stock futures fell, indicating the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index will slump after rallying within 1.4 percent of a
three-year high, as failure to raise the federal debt limit
intensified concern of a default.  The contract on the  S&P 500 Index  expiring in September
declined 1.2 percent to 1,325.50 at 7:01 a.m. in  Tokyo . The  U.S.
dollar  fell against the euro, yen and Swiss franc.  Upfront Authority  Boehner told Republicans Obama wants the borrowing
authority all upfront so lawmakers don’t have to deal with this
again until after the next election, the person familiar with
the comments said. To stop him, Boehner said, Republicans need a
vehicle that can pass in both houses. Speaking to a group that
includes a large proportion of Tea Party-backed freshmen intent
on slashing spending, Boehner said the path forward might
require some of them to make sacrifices to maximize their
leverage.  Yesterday, Boehner told his members that he wanted to send
markets a positive sign by the time Asian markets began opening
this afternoon that Congress would strike a deal to break the
impasse over raising the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit.  With no evidence that such compromise has been reached,
President  Barack Obama  is meeting at the White House with Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi .  The dollar weakened to $1.4390 per euro as of 6:01 a.m. in
Tokyo from $1.4360 in  New York  at the end of last week. The
greenback fell to 78.35 yen, and touched a four-month low of
78.12 yen, from 78.54 on July 22. It fetched 81.17 Swiss
centimes from 81.92 last week after reaching a record low 80.33
on July 18. The yen traded at 112.75 per euro from 112.77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  