-- 
BP Breakup Worth $100 Billion to JPMorgan on Strategy Doubts

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-07-25T16:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/bp-breakup-worth-100-billion-to-jpmorgan.html
Robert Dudley  could unlock $100
billion for  BP Plc (BP/)  investors by following ConocoPhillips and
splitting up Europe’s second-biggest oil producer.  BP, trying to recover from last year’s Gulf of Mexico
disaster, has lagged behind its three larger rivals this year,
rising 1 percent in London even as oil peaked at $127 a barrel.
Conoco’s decision to split its refinery arm from its exploration
and production business led analysts at banks including UBS AG,
Bank of America and JPMorgan Cazenove to recommend BP look at a
similar move.  Chief Executive Officer Dudley’s efforts to revive BP have
been undermined by a failed exploration deal with  Russia ’s OAO
Rosneft and the prospect of billions of dollars of fines from
the spill. JPMorgan Cazenove said BP’s assets are worth about
about 800 pence a share, equal to a total market value of about
$248 billion. The company currently trades at about $147
billion.  “On a sum of the parts basis, BP is ludicrously
undervalued,” said JO Hambro Capital Management Group Ltd.’s
Clive Beagles, who helps manage 3.8 billion pounds ($6.2
billion) of securities including more than 100 million pounds of
BP shares. “Perhaps that means they need to take as radical a
route as  ConocoPhillips (COP) , or articulate a better strategy.”  The company’s 40 percent discount to the total value of its
assets compares with an industry average of 27 percent, JPMorgan
Cazenove analyst Fred Lucas said.  Marathon Gains  ConocoPhillips’s spinoff plan follows a similar move by
 Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  Shares in Houston-based Marathon have gained
23 percent since it announced its split on Jan. 13 even as a new
refining company with a market value of $14.4 billion was
created.  BP shares are down 28 percent since the Macondo oil spill,
compared with a 13 percent gain for shares of larger rival  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  over the same period.  BP rose 1 percent to 475 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.  London 
market close. Shell rose 0.3 percent today, while the benchmark
FTSE 100 stock index slipped 0.2 percent.  BP spokesman  Robert Wine  said the company has no plans to
split up its refining and marketing operations, known as
downstream, and the so-called upstream business of exploration.  “The principle of a split deserves a good airing,” said
Ivor Pether, a  fund manager  at Royal London Asset Management,
who has about 300 million pounds invested in BP. “The U.S.
government would block any such proposal while Macondo
liabilities are outstanding, but there are enough notes out
there on the possibility to merit a considered response.”  Profit Forecasts  BP may report a profit of $6 billion for the second quarter
on July 26 after a record loss a year earlier, a Bloomberg News
survey of 10 analysts shows. Two days later, Shell will probably
say profit was $6.6 billion for the period, compared with $4.5
billion in the second quarter of 2010.  “Conoco spinning out downstream activities keeps the
debate going about the benefits of integration,” said Tim Mann,
a fund manager at  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the second-largest
shareholder of BP and Shell. “For Shell there will be a lot of
focus on project delivery, and investors will be interested in
any signals on the dividend now a major investment phase is
completing.”  Shell sold its first cargo from the Pearl gas-to-liquids
plant in Qatar in June. The project, the product of a $19
billion investment, will reach full capacity next year.  Dividend Outlook  Shell will raise its dividend to 46 cents a share from 42
cents a share over the next two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg based in part on options trading. BP will
maintain its dividend at 7 cents a share, half the pre-spill
level, until at least 2013.  BP has spent more than a decade paring down its refining
arm because of overcapacity in  Europe  and the U.S. BP plants can
process about 2.7 million barrels of crude a day, down from 3.2
million barrels in 2000. The proposed sale of two of its five
U.S. refineries will subtract about another 700,000 barrels of
capacity.  “Once they’ve sold Carson and  Texas City , they won’t have
much refining left and it would be difficult to exit
completely,” said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at London-based
broker Brewin Dolphin that holds about 70 million BP shares.
“Why not break up into various upstream businesses? Bob has
steadied the ship, but it should be doing better than this.”  Since taking over in October, Dudley has overseen the sale
of $25 billion upstream assets in  Argentina , Colombia, Pakistan
and Vietnam and said he will focus the company on exploration.
He signed a $7 billion deal with  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  to
explore offshore  India . The proposed $8 billion tie-up with
Rosneft to explore Russia’s Arctic Kara Sea was blocked by the
billionaire partners in the TNK-BP venture.  “Splitting up an  oil company  can make for quicker decision
times as well as sharper capital and other  resource
allocation ,” said Andrew Steinhubl, a partner at management
consultant Bain & Co. in Houston. “Whether the model fits for
the larger companies remains to be seen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  