-- 
Cable Says BOE Should Expand QE in ‘More Imaginative Ways’ to Boost Growth

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-24T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/cable-says-boe-should-expand-qe-in-more-imaginative-ways-to-boost-growth.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable
called on the Bank of England to expand  money supply  if demand
continues to falter following a promise by Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  to support economic growth.  Cable said the central bank should consider quantitative
easing, or buying securities to increase the money in
circulation, beyond its existing purchase of 200 billion pounds
($326 billion) of mostly  government bonds . Data this week will
show second-quarter U.K. economic growth slowed as weak  consumer
spending  restrained a recovery, economists said.  The right approach “is not for the government to relax its
fiscal discipline, we have to keep that going,” Cable told  BBC
Television  in London yesterday. “It’s about the Bank of England
pursuing policies such as low interest rates, which is also
helping our  exchange rate  down, and also using an expansion of
quantitative easing, perhaps in more imaginative ways, not just
acquiring  government securities .”  The government coalition has relied on bank Governor Mervyn King to pursue an ultra-loose monetary policy by keeping
interest rates at 0.5 percent even as inflation reached 4.2
percent in June, more than double the 2 percent target set by
Osborne. Critics including the opposition Labour Party say the
government’s plan to erase the deficit with the deepest spending
cuts since World War II has shattered  consumer confidence .  ‘Growth Strategy’  Economists including Danny Gabay at Fathom Financial
Consulting say the central bank’s purchase of government
securities has failed to feed through into the real economy and
has instead been used by banks to strengthen their financial
positions.  Cable and Osborne will be given 24 hours advance reading of
the gross domestic product figures which are due on July 26.
Osborne today said he will push ahead with plans he calls the
“growth strategy” later this year, which aim to remove burdens
on companies. The plan doesn’t involve scrapping his five-year
fiscal plan by loosening fiscal policy.  “We have to earn our living, take risks and go for
growth,” Osborne wrote in the Sunday Telegraph today. “The
measures I announced in the budget are being implemented, but we
will need more. In the autumn I will do that.”  Gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent, according to the
median of 32 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey, which
compared with a 0.5 percent increase in the first quarter and an
equal contraction in the final quarter of last year. The
government’s March annual budget has expected a 0.4 percent
expansion in the second quarter.  Supply Disruptions  Output was hit in the second quarter by supply disruptions
stemming from the earthquake in Japan, while plants shut down
and workers booked vacations to take advantage of consecutive
four-day weekends in April to mark Easter and the royal wedding.
 Bank of England  policy makers left their benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low this month and warned that the current economic
weakness may persist “for longer than previously thought”
while inflation could rise above 5 percent.  Ed Balls , who shadows Osborne in Parliament and is
responsible for economic policy for the Labour Party, said this
week’s figures will be evidence that the government’s plans
aren’t working and reiterated calls to loosen public finances
and cut taxes.  “He has decided to put us in a new Greek-style trap,”
where low growth means there’s a shortfall in tax revenue, Balls
told Sky News today. “It’s not working.”  Debt Ceiling  Cable told the BBC that the biggest risk to the British
recovery now that euro-area countries have agreed to a new
bailout for  Greece  comes from a U.S. failure to lift its debt
ceiling because of “a few right-wing nutters in Congress.”  U.K. manufacturing growth slowed in June, while expansion
among services companies remained “below trend,” Markit
Economics Ltd. said in reports this month. Consumer confidence
fell as Britons grew more pessimistic about the outlook for the
economy,  Nationwide Building Society  said on July 21.  Four of the economists surveyed forecast a contraction in
the second quarter, with Hetal Mehta at Daiwa Capital Markets
Europe Ltd. projecting a 0.3 percent drop in GDP. At the other
end of the range is Azad Zangana at Schroders Plc, with a
forecast for growth of 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  