-- 
Cable Seeks Less Control of U.K. Media by Murdoch, Moguls

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-24T13:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/cable-wants-less-u-k-media-controlled-by-murdoch-other-moguls.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
said he wants companies such as  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  to
control a smaller share of the country’s media as the government
and regulators overhaul practices following the phone-hacking
scandal.  “Having media moguls dominating is deeply unhelpful,”
Cable said today on  BBC Television . “What I want to see is a
set of clear unambiguous rules about market shares so that we
don’t have a dominant player.”  Cable said he wants statutory limits on how many media
outlets a single organization can own and a “presumption
against cross-ownership in press and television.”  The shape of future rules will depend on an inquiry led by
Lord Justice Brian Leveson into possible illegal activities at
U.K. newspapers and police investigations into them, Cable said.
The minister lost his power to rule on News Corp.’s now-
abandoned bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  last year
when undercover reporters recorded him saying that he had
“declared war” on Murdoch.  Cable said today that lawmakers from his Liberal Democrat
party had been subject to “heavy lobbying” from News Corp.
executives when he was in charge of reviewing the BSkyB bid.
Executives from Murdoch’s company threatened to use their
newspapers to undermine the Liberal Democrats if the party
didn’t give its backing to the bid, The Observer newspaper
reported, citing a senior party official.  James Murdoch  Police officials, politicians, journalists and newspaper
publishers will be called to give evidence under oath in the
Leveson inquiry, announced earlier this month by Prime Minister
 David Cameron .  Cameron said July 22 that News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating
Officer  James Murdoch  still has questions to answer over the
hacking of phones by reporters at the News of the World
newspaper.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  -- Editors: Jerrold Colten, Ana Monteiro  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  