-- 
China Orders High-Speed Rail Review, Fires Officials After Crash Kills 39

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-07-25T16:39:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/china-s-rush-to-build-high-speed-train-lines-criticized-after-deadly-crash.html
China  ordered a two-month inspection
of rail safety and fired three officials after 39 people were
killed in a high-speed train crash three days ago.  “We should have a thorough inspection and rectify any
possible safety issues,” Rail Minister Sheng Guangzu said in a
statement on the ministry’s  website  yesterday. The official
Xinhua News Agency said two American citizens were among the 39
dead. The news service said the toll had increased to 40, then
retracted the report, saying a traffic accident victim’s death
had been mistakenly included in the higher tally.  CSR Corp., the nation’s biggest trainmaker by market value,
fell the most in almost three years in  Shanghai  trading, while
 China Eastern  Airlines Corp. and China Southern Airlines Co.
rose on speculation the accident may damp high-speed rail
investments. China has built the world’s biggest high-speed rail
network in less than five years, luring travelers from planes.  “China is building too quickly,”  Zhao Jian , a professor
of economics at  Beijing Jiaotong University , said by telephone
on July 24. “The result is this kind of accident.”  In the disaster, a bullet train that had broken down after
being struck by lightning was rear-ended by another locomotive,
Xinhua said. The crash, which pushed four coaches off a viaduct,
injured about 192 people, according to the rail ministry.  One of the trains was running from Hangzhou to Fuzhou, the
capital of  Fujian province  on the coast, and the other was
heading from Beijing to Fuzhou, Xinhua said. There were more
than 1,400 passengers on board, the agency said, citing Zhao Yide, the mayor of Wenzhou.  CSR Slumps  CSR fell 8.9 percent to 6.04 yuan in Shanghai trading
yesterday, the biggest decline since August 2008. In Hong Kong,
it tumbled 14 percent to HK$5.98, the lowest in more than one
year. Rival China CNR Corp. dropped 9.7 percent in Shanghai to
5.87 yuan.  CSR, based in Beijing, made one of the trains involved in
the crash while the other was built by the company’s venture
with Bombardier Inc., a press officer for the Chinese company,
who only gave her surname, Li, said by phone yesterday.
Bombardier’s Beijing-based spokeswoman Flora Long said she was
unable to comment because she was traveling. Calls to the
Canadian company’s office in the city went unanswered.  After the crash, Long Jing was fired as head of the
Shanghai Railway Bureau, along with deputy chief He Shengli and
Li Jia, the head of the bureau’s committee of the  Communist
Party of China , Xinhua said, citing the rail ministry. The
Shanghai bureau oversees rail operations in the area of the
crash.  Wang Yongping , a spokesman for the ministry, bowed to
apologize for the crash at a televised  press conference  July 24.  Beijing-Shanghai Disruptions  The collision is the latest setback for China’s bullet-
train program. The $34 billion Beijing-Shanghai high-speed rail
line, the world’s longest, has suffered major delays from storm-
related electrical breakdowns at least three times since it
opened on June 30.  “In so many areas, there is the lack of an adequately
trained -- and perhaps more importantly, experienced --
workforce, along with tried-and-tested management oversight at
the operational level,” Bill Barron, a visiting scholar at the
Division of Environment at  Hong Kong  University of Science and
Technology, said in an e-mail. “Given the pace of expansion,
how could there be?”  China Southern, the nation’s biggest domestic carrier,
gained 3.4 percent to close at HK$5.17 in Hong Kong, and China
Eastern climbed 4.8 percent.  Bombardier  Bombardier is among overseas companies that have benefited
since China introduced its first high-speed track in 2007. China
plans to have 16,000 kilometers (9,944 miles) of such lines by
2015, the government said in January.  Bombardier won a $4 billion contract in September 2009 to
build 80 high-speed passenger cars with China South Locomotive &
Rolling Stock Corp. The company said in July last year its
venture with CSR, Bombardier Sifang Qingdao Transportation Ltd.,
won an order for additional 40 high speed trains.  In addition to technical faults, China’s spending on its
railways has generated accusations of graft.  Liu Zhijun, an advocate of bullet trains, was fired as
railway minister in February for “severe” disciplinary
violations as part of a corruption probe, Xinhua said. Su Shunhu, deputy chief of the transportation bureau of the
Ministry of Railways, is under investigation on suspicion of
taking bribes, the 21st Century Business Herald reported on July
22, citing an unidentified ministry official.  “I don’t think China should develop this high-speed, high-
cost system,” Jiaotong University’s Zhao said. “The last
railway minister did not follow any scientific development
approach and this is the result. This is not only a technical
problem but a management problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  