-- 
China High-Speed Trains Collide, Killing 35

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-24T12:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/china-high-speed-trains-collide-killing-35-people-2-.html
Two of  China ’s high-speed trains
collided in the eastern province of Zhejiang, killing at least
35 people and injuring 210, prompting the railway ministry to
call for nationwide emergency safety check on the lines.  The accident occurred late yesterday near Wenzhou when a
train lost power after reportedly being struck by lighting and
was rear-ended by the second train, the state-run Xinhua News
Agency said, citing the provincial emergency office. Four
coaches fell off a viaduct after the collision, it said, citing
investigators.  President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  sent Vice
Premier Zhang Dejiang to Wenzhou, 1,380 kilometers south of
Beijing, to oversee rescue and investigation work, Xinhua said.
A total of 21 trains starting from Zhejiang’s provincial
capital, Hangzhou, were suspended after the crash, it said.  The crash is the latest incident to hit China’s fledging
high-speed railway network with the Beijing-Shanghai bullet
train, the world’s longest high-speed railway, delayed at least
three times since it started operation on June 30. China has the
world’s biggest bullet-train network and yesterday’s accident
will raise public concerns about the safety of the system.  One of the trains involved in yesterday’s crash was running
from Hangzhou to Fuzhou, the capital of  Fujian province  on the
coast, and the other was heading from Beijing to Fuzhou, Xinhua
said. There were more than 1,400 passengers on the trains, it
cited Zhao Yide, the mayor of Wenzhou, as saying.  Officials Fired  Long Jing, head of the Shanghai Railway Bureau, Li Jia,
head of the bureau’s Committee of the  Communist Party of China ,
and He Shengli, deputy chief of the bureau, were dismissed and
will be subject to investigation, the Ministry of Railway  said 
on its website today.  Railways minister Sheng Guangzu went to the ministry’s
center in Beijing to take control of the rescue operation and
later traveled to Wenzhou, Xinhua said earlier.  China plans to have 16,000 kilometers (9,944 miles) of
high-speed track by 2015, the rail ministry said in January. It
will also spend 2.8 trillion yuan ($434 billion) on railways in
the five years ending 2015 to pare pollution and boost links in
rural areas, benefiting companies such as China South Locomotive
and Rolling Stock Corp. Ltd. and China North Locomotive and
Rolling Stock Corp. Ltd., the country’s two leading train
makers.  Graft Allegations  Liu Zhijun, an advocate of bullet trains, was fired as
railway minister in February for “severe disciplinary
violations.” Su Shunhu, deputy chief of the transportation
bureau of the Ministry of Railways, is under investigation on
suspicion of taking bribes, the 21st Century Business Herald
reported on July 22, citing an unidentified ministry official.  The public expressed concern about high-speed trains in
messages online after the accident, Xinhua said.  “Who dares to take bullet trains or high-speed trains?”
it cited a comment from a person named Su Yan on the website of
the Wujin News. “The operational safety of China’s railways is
seriously challenged, and it’ll be a long and tough process to
earn customers’ trust again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  