-- 
Daley Says Obama Would Veto Plan If Doesn’t Extend Into 2013

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-24T13:40:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/daley-says-obama-would-veto-plan-if-doesn-t-extend-into-2013-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  would veto a
deal to raise the debt ceiling if it doesn’t extend the limit
through 2013, White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  said,
warning that “markets around the world” would react negatively
to a short-term measure.  “We’ve got to get past this debt ceiling vote” Daley said
on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “It’s time to get some
certainty.”  Daley spoke as congressional negotiators were working on
reaching a deal after talks broke down between the
administration and  House Republicans . Obama is pressing for a
debt-ceiling increase before the Aug. 2 deadline set by the
Treasury Department that will extend beyond next year’s
elections.  In a separate interview on the Fox News Sunday program,
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said a framework
for a deal “‘is not in place as we sit here.”  He said the Obama administration never put forward a plan
for dealing with the debt limit and the deficit. “At some point
they’ve got to lay their cards on the table,” he said.  Daley said the U.S. is now getting into a situation where
“markets around the world will question whether the political
system can come together and compromise.”  He endorsed an approach under consideration by Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  and Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
to allow Obama to raise the debt ceiling without congressional
approval. “It would not be this sword being held over the
American people’s heads once again,” he said.  Removing Uncertainty  Daley said company chief executives want  Washington  “to
take out the uncertainty in the system” and that the reason
ratings agencies are considering a downgrade is “they don’t
have faith that this political system of ours can deal in a
serious way with the deficit.”  The markets could turn tumultuous if a plan isn’t
negotiated over the weekend, said Christian Cooper, head of U.S.
dollar derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies & Co.  “The markets will be under very real pressure at the open
because the assumption will be there is really no resolution to
this,” Cooper said. “The breakdown in negotiations has crossed
the line from the political posturing of the last few weeks to
potentially a very real crisis.  “The Tea Party is effectively playing Russian roulette
with the  bond market  and they will, with certainty, lose,”
Cooper said, referring to a faction of Republican lawmakers that
has ratcheted up the pressure for deep cuts in federal spending
to curb the deficit. Jefferies is one of 20 primary dealers that
trade with the U.S. Federal Reserve.  Warning on Markets  Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  told congressional leaders
at a White House meeting yesterday with President Barack Obama
that delaying a deal risked an adverse reaction from credit-
rating companies and financial markets. He noted Asian markets
open tonight, said an official familiar with the meeting.  Boehner is pressing for at least $3 trillion in spending
cuts in a two-step plan to accompany a debt-limit increase, a
congressional aide said.  Under Boehner’s plan, a first vote this week would provide
a down payment on spending reductions toward the $3 trillion
goal, with the debt limit raised only a dollar for each dollar
of initial spending cuts, a Republican aide said. Another vote
on more spending cuts would be held later, before the short-term
debt increase was exhausted under the scenario.  Boehner offered the plan to a bipartisan group of
congressional leaders at a meeting in his Capitol Hill office
last night after withdrawing the day before from negotiations
with Obama on a broader deficit-reduction deal.  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said Democratic
lawmakers “will not make working families and the middle class
sacrifice without also calling on everyone to contribute their
fair share.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  