-- 
German Stocks Advance for Fifth Day; BMW, Daimler, Leoni Shares Lead Gains

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-25T16:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/deutsche-bank-sartorius-thyssenkrupp-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks advanced for a fifth
day, the longest winning streak in three weeks, as Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG led carmakers higher and  Leoni
AG (LEO)  raised its earnings forecast.  BMW and Daimler rose more than 1 percent. Leoni, a maker of
automotive electrical cables, jumped the most in three months.
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc (DLG)  climbed 4.2 percent after reporting
second-quarter earnings.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest bank, followed a selloff in European lenders as
President  Barack Obama  and Congress failed to reach a deal on
increasing the U.S. debt limit.  The benchmark DAX Index rose 0.3 percent to 7,344.54 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge climbed 1.5 percent last
week after euro-area leaders agreed to a second bailout for
 Greece . The measure has still lost 2.4 percent from this year’s
high on May 2 amid concern that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis will
derail the economic recovery. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also added
0.3 percent today.  UBS AG strategists upgraded European equities to
“overweight” and downgraded U.S. stocks to “underweight,”
saying valuations in the euro region “look very attractive”
compared with  North America . The DAX is trading at 12.1 times
its companies’ reported earnings, near the cheapest since 2008.  “With near-term concerns about Europe to the side and U.S.
markets near the highs of the year, risk reward currently favors
European markets,” New York-based strategist Jeffrey Palma
wrote in a report to clients dated yesterday. “Last week’s
commitment by European Union leaders to the euro-zone project
has helped to calm fears.”  BMW, Daimler  BMW and Daimler, the world’s biggest makers of luxury cars,
climbed 2.7 percent to 73.52 euros and 1.1 percent to 53.04
euros, respectively. Carmakers were among the best performers
across Europe today.  Leoni rallied 5.5 percent to 42.22 euros after saying it
expects sales of about 3.6 billion euros and earnings before
interest and taxes of about 230 million euros in fiscal 2011.
Its earlier target was revenue of about 3.4 billion euros and
Ebit of about 210 million euros.  Dialog Semiconductor gained 4.2 percent to 14.65 euros, the
highest in more than two months, after the supplier of complex
analog and digital integrated circuits posted second-quarter
Ebit of $13.1 million.  Sartorius AG (SRT)  preferred shares jumped 6.2 percent to 34.08
euros, the biggest gain in almost two months. The maker of
laboratory scales and filtering equipment raised its forecast
for 2011, saying sales in constant currencies will grow by 8
percent to 10 percent and operating earnings before interest,
taxes and amortization as a share of revenue will rise to 14.5
percent to 15.5 percent.  Norma, Nordex  Norma Group rose 2.3 percent to 18.87 euros as the maker of
fasteners and joining technology raised its forecasts for growth
in sales and operating earnings.  Nordex SE added 1.2 percent to 5.24 euros as the
alternative-energy company’s U.K. unit won an order to supply 21
 wind turbines  to the Scottish Baillie Wind Farm.  Commerzbank lost 4 percent to 2.71 euros, ending three days
of gains. Banking shares posted the worst performance among 19
industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
declining 2.8 percent.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  told Republicans that
there’s no agreement on a plan for raising the ceiling before a
default threatened for Aug. 2, risking a cut to the nation’s AAA
credit rating. As Democrats and Republicans endorsed dueling
plans for raising the debt ceiling,  China , the top holder of
American debt, said it remains confident an agreement will be
reached before the deadline, according to Xia Bin, an adviser to
the People’s Bank of China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  