-- 
Deutsche Bank May Boost Quarterly Profit on Jain’s Investment Bank Unit

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-07-24T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/deutsche-bank-may-increase-quarterly-profit-on-investment-bank.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  may say second-
quarter profit rose, driven by the  investment banking  unit run
by  Anshu Jain , as speculation mounts that he may be in line to
co-lead Germany’s biggest lender.  Net income probably rose to 1.3 billion euros ($1.9
billion) from 1.16 billion euros in the same period a year
earlier, according to the average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit was 2.06 billion euros in the
first quarter.  Deutsche Bank, which has begun the search for a successor
to Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , is counting on
consumer banking acquisitions and gains from investment banking
to meet a goal of 10 billion euros in operating pretax profit
this year. The Frankfurt-based lender stands to lose more than
300 million euros from writedowns on Greek debt after European
leaders forged a 159 billion-euro aid plan for Greece that
leaves private investors footing part of the bill, analysts at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. led by Dirk Hoffmann-Becking said in
a note last week.  “They’ve been able to increase market share in investment
banking over the last few quarters,”  Olaf Kayser , a Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg analyst based in Mainz, said. The second
quarter “was pretty challenging for trading as volatility and
uncertainty over what will happen in the European debt crisis
cut trading revenue.”  ‘Good Path’  Deutsche Bank has fallen 1 percent in Frankfurt trading
this year, valuing the company at 36 billion euros. That’s less
than the 7.5 percent decrease for the Stoxx 600 Banks Index, of
which it is a member.  Pretax profit at the corporate banking and securities unit
is projected to rise to 1.18 billion euros in the second quarter
from 779 million euros a year earlier, while analysts are
forecasting earnings from asset and wealth management will gain
to 165 million euros from 65 million euros. Profit at the
private and business clients division may rise to 475 million
euros from 233 million euros.  “While other banks had problems, as you could see in
recent figures from U.S. firms, Deutsche Bank was able to win
clients and is on a good path,” said Kayser, who recommends
investors buy Deutsche Bank shares.  The German bank leapfrogged Barclays Plc to first place in
international bond underwriter rankings this year and boosted
its market share to 7.3 percent in the second quarter from 5.9
percent in the same period a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The lender underwrote 5.1 percent of global
equity offerings in the three months through June, up from 3.8
percent in the second quarter of 2010, according to the data.  Stamp Out  Euro-area leaders announced the new aid package for  Greece 
on July 21 in an effort to stamp out the 21-month sovereign bond
crisis. Banks pledged to participate in a bond exchange and debt
buyback program as part of the deal and to provide financing of
54 billion euros to Greece from mid-2011 to mid-2014, for a
total of 135 billion euros through the end of 2020, the
 Institute of International Finance  said.  “The focus this quarter will be on the macroeconomic and
political issues,” said  Matthew Clark , a London-based analyst
at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. “It is unavoidable that the
company’s fixed-income business was affected” by risk aversion
amid  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Revenue from equity sales and trading was projected to fall
to 800 million euros in the second quarter from 943 million
euros in the first, while analysts are estimating fixed-income
sales and trading revenue of 2.69 billion euros in the period,
down from 3.65 billion euros in the first three months of 2011.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the U.S. bank that makes most of
its money from trading, reported second-quarter profit that fell
short of analysts’ estimates as fixed-income revenue plunged 63
percent from the first quarter. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
investment bank reported a smaller-than-expected 17 percent
decline in trading revenue on July 14, while the same business
at Citigroup Inc. fell 21 percent.  “I’m looking for Deutsche Bank to post some good numbers,
but to say everything is fine would be wrong,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst with Mediobanca SpA in  London  who is
“neutral” on the stock. “The second half of the year will be
challenging, with trading volumes likely to remain low and a
lack of confidence undermining issuance and advisory activity.”  German public auditors may recommend that banks and
insurers write down the value of their holdings in Greek
government bonds in second-quarter earnings reports, Petra
Wiedefeldt, a spokeswoman for the Institute of Public Auditors
in  Germany , said July 19.  Sovereign Risk  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment on possible writedowns ahead
of the company’s July 26 earnings release.  Deutsche Bank had net sovereign risks related to Greece of
1.6 billion euros, 8 billion euros to  Italy  and 2.28 billion
euros to  Spain  as of Dec. 31, the Frankfurt-based company said
in March.  The German lender is likely to meet its plan to reach 10
billion euros in pretax profit this year, said Norddeutsche
Landesbank Girozentrale analyst Michael Seufert in Hanover, who
recommends investors buy Deutsche Bank shares.  “The biggest challenge remains the uncertainty on the
markets and among investors,” Seufert said. “Sustained  risk
aversion  in the second half of the year could negatively affect
the business volume in trading and cripple initial public
offerings as well as merger and acquisition activities.”  Ackermann Succession  Deutsche Bank also faces speculation over the succession of
Ackermann, 63. Supervisory board member Marlehn Thieme said in a
July 12 interview that she urged him to become chairman and that
she’s open to replacing him with a dual CEO structure.  The lender is considering making the India-born Jain, 48,
co-CEO alongside a German-speaking management board member such
as Juergen Fitschen, 62, to allay domestic doubts about Jain’s
ability to fulfill the political role of leading the bank,
people with knowledge of the matter said this month.  Chairman  Clemens Boersig  is ready to step down at the
annual shareholder meeting next May if Ackermann accepts Jain
and Fitschen as co-CEOs, Die Welt newspaper reported yesterday,
without citing anyone.  “The succession issue is still in focus but it isn’t
decisive,” said Seufert. “If Juergen Fitschen is named, that
could just prolong the succession discussion because he is
closing in on retirement and investors will wonder who will
succeed him. Hugo Banziger or Stefan Krause might make better
choices in that respect.”  Banziger, 55, is the chief risk officer, while Krause, 48,
is Deutsche Bank’s finance chief.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  