-- 
Diced Up Dubai Office Towers Frustrate Big Clients With Tangle of Owners

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-07-25T07:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/diced-up-dubai-office-buildings-give-big-clients-little-to-like.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  searched for
more than two years for new headquarters in Dubai, where more
than 40 percent of the office properties sit empty. In the end,
the U.K.’s third-largest bank decided to build its own tower.  Companies like Standard Chartered, which will occupy eight
of the new structure’s 13 floors, often have a hard time finding
large blocks of  office space  because many buildings have
numerous owners, according to Robin Pugh of  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL)  He assisted the bank in its search in 2008 and 2009.  “For large occupiers, it’s actually quite difficult to
find space under single ownership,” said Pugh, head of agency
work for the Chicago-based broker. Buildings with multiple
landlords “are not suitable.”  Dubai’s landlords are trying to fill empty commercial space
that’s equal to about nine Empire State Buildings and rising.
Most properties built over the next two years will be held under
so-called strata title, where different investors own one or
more floors. That will make it harder for renters to find large
spaces with a single owner.  Standard Chartered  agreed with Gulf Resources Development
and Investment LLC to build a 13-story tower near the Burj
Khalifa, the world’s tallest building. The bank committed to
leasing eight of the floors for at least 15 years and will make
a total investment of about $140 million.  The company shunned the 30-story  Boulevard Plaza  towers
nearby because they have several owners, which would make
modifying the space more difficult, Pugh said. Developer Emaar
Properties PJSC, which built the towers, didn’t respond to e-
mailed questions about the number of owners.  Speculation Driven  During Dubai’s property boom from 2002 to mid-2008,
developers sold sections of yet-to-be built apartment and office
buildings to investors who often resold them to turn a quick
profit. Many office buyers had no experience of managing
buildings or dealing with commercial clients and gave little
thought to finding long-term tenants.  Negotiations with multiple landlords tend to be long and
frustrating, said Ian Albert, regional director at property
broker Colliers International. Even when a majority of a
building’s owners agree on rents and terms, one will often hold
out for a better deal, knowing that the tenant is eager to
complete an agreement, he said.  “Corporate occupiers don’t want to deal with multiple
landlords,” Albert said. “It may have worked for residential
towers, but the commercial market doesn’t operate the same
way.”  Big Tenants  Companies needing more than 800 square meters (8,600 square
feet) of space tend to steer clear of commercial buildings with
strata titles, Albert said. That effectively rules out a large
portion of Business Bay and  Jumeirah Lakes Towers , leaving
smaller businesses to pick up the slack.  Most of the new office supply will be under strata title
over the next two years. About 41 percent of the 13.1 million
square feet of space due to be completed this year will be held
by multiple owners. That will soar to 81 percent of the
additional 12.7 million square feet to be completed in 2012,
said Matthew Green, head of United Arab Emirates research at CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc. By the end of last year, 22 percent of
Dubai’s 61 million square feet of commercial space was held by
multiple owners.  Strata titles were first introduced in  Australia  in 1961 to
help manage apartment blocks owned by various landlords. They
divide a building horizontally, creating layers of management
for a mixed-use development, according to Ludmila Yamalova, a
partner at law firm HPL Yamalova & Plewka JLT.  Regulations Catch Up  In 2007 Dubai introduced a law to govern ownership of
jointly owned properties modeled on an Australian version.
However, the law wasn’t enforced until regulations were issued
by the  Real Estate Regulatory Agency  in 2010, Yamalova said.  In the last nine months, RERA started moving away from the
Australian model and is now devising its own rules, she said.  When a building has several owners, it’s more likely that
one or more will be unable to take part in its management
because they are out of the country or financially distressed,
Yamalova said.  “It’s a lot more difficult to manage a building coherently
if one of the owners decides not to pay his service fees or if
the tenant wants changes to the space that requires the approval
of landlords,” she said. “Who pays for what can become a very
big issue.”  Empty Space  Office vacancies in Dubai stand at 44 percent and are
expected to surpass 50 percent over the next year as more
properties are completed,  Jones Lang  said on July 5. In the
central business district, vacancies reached 27 percent.  The Dubai Financial Market Real Estate Index, which
includes Emaar, Arabtec Holding Co. and Union Properties PJSC,
has declined 14 percent this year. The benchmark Dubai Financial
Market General Index has fallen 6.8 percent.  Office construction is only cost-effective for companies
that need large spaces, Jones Lang’s Pugh said. Standard
Chartered was able to reach a deal that would allow it to lease
a custom-built space that is designed to fit its needs from the
location to floor plates and cladding, said Christopher Harris,
the bank’s regional head of projects.  The cost of modifying an existing building is often high
when it has numerous landlords. Upkeep and maintenance can also
prove time-consuming and difficult, Harris said.  Single Entity  “We want to be in a building that is managed well and
maintained well to keep it looking like a class A building for
its life span,” he said. “When you have a single entity you
tend to get serious facilities management in place and that’s
really important.”  Builders are doing foundation work on Standard Chartered’s
new headquarters, located about 7 kilometers (4.3 miles) from
the bank’s other offices in the  Dubai International Financial
Centre , and the tower will start to rise in the next four
months, Harris said. At least 1,250 employees will be working
there by the end of 2012.  Office tenants aren’t the only ones turning to new
construction to meet their needs. Dubai-based Emirates, the
world’s biggest airline by passengers, in March agreed to buy
land from Meydan LLC to build 528 houses. Dubai has thousands of
vacant homes and Jones Lang estimates that another 54,000 will
come onto the market from 2011 to 2015.  Not Suitable  “The housing specifications we need for our pilots aren’t
currently available in the market,” Ali Mubarak Al Soori,
Emirates’ executive vice president of project management and
Procurement said in March. “The location of this project near
Dubai’s airport and the safety of a gated community for the
families of pilots, who are always traveling, are very
important.”  State-owned  Meydan  will develop the community, to be known
as Meydan Heights. It will include a shopping center, children’s
playgrounds, pools and other amenities. Emirates will acquire
the project on a 15-year lease-to-own basis.  So far, landlords have done little to address the ownership
issue as prices and rents decline. Office values fell 16 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, Jones Lang estimated.
Average prime rents excluding the Dubai International Financial
Centre stood at 1,615 dirhams ($440) a square meter, down from
more than 4,300 dirhams in the fourth quarter of 2008.  The issue of numerous landlords isn’t impossible to
overcome, Colliers’ Albert said. Building owners can elect
boards with the authority to hire property brokers and negotiate
rents based on agreed limits.  Management Committees  “Owners must look into central committees or management
agents for their buildings, who have clear mandates of what
parameters to work with to secure a deal,” Albert said. “The
agent can then negotiate as a single point of contact for all
the landlords.”  That solution is hampered by the slow progress in
instituting owners associations in Dubai. So far, not a single
association for either residential or commercial buildings has
been formed.  Although interim associations have been started and
registered with the real-estate regulator, “those associations
are temporary and still don’t have the legal standing,”
Yamalova said. “The law is still very much in its infancy and
the implementation isn’t there yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 