-- 
Majid Al Futtaim Raises $1 Billion Loan After Delaying Bond

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-07-24T06:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/dubai-s-majid-al-futtaim-raises-1-billion-loan-for-refinancing-expansion.html
Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC raised
$1 billion from a group of banks to refinance debt after the
operator of Carrefour SA stores in the Middle East delayed plans
to sell bonds.  The financing comprises a three-year revolving credit and a
five-year  term loan , the Dubai-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The facility will be used for early refinancing
of a $1 billion loan maturing in July 2012 and to build a
“liquidity buffer,” the company said.  The loan “has helped to lengthen the average maturity of
our debt,” Daniele Vecchi, treasurer of Majid Al Futtaim, said
in the statement. “To strengthen our financial profile further,
we will continue to focus on diversifying our sources of funding
and tapping the bond market continues to be a priority.”  Majid Al Futtaim earlier this month delayed a plan to sell
five-year bonds after price bids were below its expectations.
The company, which develops shopping malls across the  Middle
East  and North Africa, plans to invest $3.5 billion expanding in
Egypt, Lebanon, Syria and the United Arab Emirates.  The company posted a loss of 144 million dirhams ($39 
million) in 2010 compared with a profit of 479 million dirhams
in the preceding year. Long-term debt stood at 8.5 billion
dirhams at the end of 2010, according to its bond prospectus.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Credit Agricole SA,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  were the lead arrangers of the loan,
Majid Al Futtaim said in the statement today.  Union National
Bank , Arab Bank,  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) ,  Samba
Financial Group (SAMBA) , Mashreqbank PSC,  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank
PJSC (ADCB) ,  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)  and AK Bank were also involved in
the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  