-- 
Growth Probably Slowed in Second Quarter: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-24T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/economy-in-u-s-probably-slowed-in-second-quarter-as-consumers-retrenched.html
The  U.S. economy  probably expanded
in the second quarter at the slowest pace in a year as higher
fuel costs crimped consumer spending and supply disruptions
limited production, economists said before a report this week.  Gross domestic product, the sum of all goods and services
produced in the nation, rose at a 1.8 percent annual pace after
a 1.9 percent gain in the previous three months, according to
the median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before the Commerce Department’s July 29 report. Home sales
languished and  consumer confidence  dimmed, other data may show.  Americans’ purchases last quarter grew at the weakest pace
since the recession ended in 2009, reflecting limited job growth
that may keep holding back the world’s largest economy. That is
among reasons Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month that the
 Federal Reserve  needs to keep all policy options open.  “The soft patch has hung around a little longer than
expected,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “A lot of the
slowdown can be blamed on temporary factors, but not all of it.
Consumers faced several headwinds, which caused them to ratchet
down their spending.”  The GDP estimate is the first of three for the quarter,
with the other releases scheduled for August and September when
more information becomes available.  Consumer purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose at a 0.8 percent annual pace from April
through June, the slowest since the same three months in 2009,
following a 2.2 percent gain, according to the survey median.  ‘More Uncertainty’  “There’s probably more uncertainty right now in many
people’s minds about the economy,” Jim Young, chief executive
officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific Corp., said in an
interview on July 21.  One area of weakness was auto purchases. Cars and light
trucks sold at an average 12.1 annual rate in the quarter, down
from a 13 million  pace in the first three months of the year,
according to industry data.  Higher expenses for necessities like food and energy may
have curtailed spending on less essential items. The cost of a
gallon of regular gasoline climbed in May to about $4 a gallon,
the highest in almost three years, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest auto group.  The absence of faster job growth is also discouraging
shoppers. The  unemployment rate  climbed to 9.2 percent in June
while payrolls grew by 18,000, the smallest gain in nine months,
Labor Department figures showed on July 8.  Consumer Sentiment  A July 29 report may show the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index of consumer sentiment fell in July to the
lowest level since March 2009, when the economy was still in a
recession, economists predicted. A similar measure from the New
York-based Conference Board dropped this month to the lowest
level since October, according to economists surveyed.  The pessimism is consistent with the dim outlook for
employment at the start of this quarter.  San Jose , California-
based  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s largest networking-
equipment maker, on July 18 said it plans to cut about 6,500
jobs worldwide. Also last week,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
announced it will reduce about 1,000 jobs, and  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  said it’ll offer a voluntary separation plan to 6,500
employees.  “Recent economic data are clear -- the U.S. economy is
still struggling to emerge from the Great Recession and unable
to move to a path of vibrant and sustainable growth,” Dan
DiMicco, chairman and chief executive officer at steelmaker
 Nucor Corp. (NUE) , said on a July 21 teleconference with analysts.  Parts Shortages  A shortage of Japanese-made parts after the earthquake and
tsunami in March also caused supply disruptions for U.S.
companies, restraining production. In addition, the government’s
inability to agree on a budget and debt-limit increase may also
be making companies reluctant to order new equipment and hire.  Demand for durable goods in June increased 0.3 percent,
after a 2.1 percent gain, economists forecast Commerce
Department figures will show on July 27.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest construction and
mining-equipment maker, posted lower-than-expected profit for
the first time in 10 quarters after the Japanese earthquake
reduced sales, demand slowed in  China  and manufacturing costs
rose.  Shares of manufacturers have trailed the broader market
since the beginning of the year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index has risen 4.9 percent this year,
while the broader S&P gauge is up 6.9 percent.  Housing remains the economy’s weak link as foreclosures
mount. The Commerce Department may report on July 26 that sales
of new homes ran at a 322,000 annual pace in June, little
changed from 319,000 a month earlier, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “In the very near term, the recovery is rather fragile,”
Fed Chairman Bernanke told lawmakers on July 14. “We just want
to make sure that we have the options when they become
necessary” to stimulate the economy.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  