-- 
European Bank Stocks Avoid ‘Abyss’ as Investors Remain Wary

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-25T14:47:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/european-bank-stocks-avoid-the-abyss-as-investors-remain-wary.html
European bank stocks, which posted
their best three-day rally in a year last week, may struggle to
maintain those gains as investors expect more writedowns,
capital raisings and more contagion from the debt crisis.  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index tumbled as much as 3.1 percent as
today in  London . The gauge jumped 5.7 percent last week after
the European Union extended debt maturities for Greece and
announced a plan to enhance a rescue fund to buy bonds and
recapitalize lenders. The initiative didn’t spell out a way to
avoid debt-crisis contagion outside of Greece, investors said.
Making banks raise capital as governments cut spending may hurt
economic growth, they said.  “They made a huge patch, but it is still a patch,” Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior strategist at Nordea Investment Management
in Copenhagen, which oversees $220 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “We are not out of the woods yet.”  The Stoxx Banks gauge is still trading for 20 percent less
than the average price estimate of analyst projections tracked
by Bloomberg, and 20 percent below the reported value of their
assets, as Europe’s 21-month debt crisis sent borrowing costs
from  Greece  to Italy soaring. The industry index has
underperformed all other 18 groups in the broader Stoxx 600
since the start of 2010, having lost 18 percent in the period.  Brussels Agreement  After eight hours of talks in Brussels on July 21, leaders
announced 159 billion euros ($229 billion) in new aid for Greece
and cajoled bondholders into footing part of the bill. They also
empowered their 440 billion-euro rescue fund to buy debt across
stressed euro nations after a market rout the previous week
sparked concern the crisis was spreading. The fund can also aid
troubled banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators.  The Stoxx banks index jumped 4.1 percent on July 21 as
expectations grew that the EU would agree on a further bailout
of Greece, posting its best session in six months and the
biggest three-day gain since July 2010. The measure was down 2.7
percent at 3:45 p.m. today in London, with Italian and Spanish
banks including Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl,  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP)  and Bankinter SA losing at least 4 percent as both
countries’ bonds dropped.  Banks including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA)  will report results this week, their first since both
Europe’s bank stress tests and the details of the Greece’s new
rescue package.  Austerity’s Impact  “All the news has done is bought Greece some time to grow
its way out of the problem,” said Oliver Brown, who oversees
230 million pounds ($375 million) as investment director at R.
C. Brown in Bristol, England. Brown said he had sold banks
including Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Frankfurt-based
 Commerzbank AG. (CBK)  “If growth was sedate or to slip into
recession, some European banks would have insufficient capital
to cover the impairments they’d have to make,” he said.  Jamie Dannhauser, an analyst at Lombard Street Research in
London, said austerity plans in the region may worsen the
economic situation and hurt banks’ earnings as growth “could be
looking pretty awful over the next six months.”  The European Commission forecast in May the euro zone may
grow 1.8 percent in 2012. Greece’s gross domestic product may
shrink 3.8 percent this year before growing 0.6 percent in 2012,
the Commission predicted this month. The economy contracted 4.4
percent last year.  Bank Holdings  Europe ’s biggest banks stand to lose 20.6 billion euros on
their Greek  government bonds  after lenders in the region pledged
to contribute to the new rescue package. Europe’s 90 largest
banks hold about 98 billion euros of Greek debt, according to
the European Banking Authority. Any writedown would come as the
EU proposed on July 20 boosting minimum capital and liquid
assets at more than 8,300 banks to stave off insolvency.  Some investors increased their bank holdings in light of
the agreement in Brussels.  Frederic Jeanmaire, who helps oversee about 30 billion
euros at Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. in London, bought
Intesa, Societe Generale SA and BBVA, moving from
“underweight” to “neutral” positions.  Equity strategists led by  Edmund Shing  at  Barclays Capital 
upgraded European banks to “marketweight” in a July 22 note.
Veronika Pechlaner, who helps manage 1.1 billion pounds at
 Jersey , Channel Islands-based Ashburton Ltd., also said she
bought European bank stocks.  “We’ve probably avoided the abyss, now let’s look at what
the earnings have done,” Jeanmaire said in an interview.
“Should earnings be less bad than expected, that could continue
the rally.”  Dexia, Commerzbank  Investors bought shares of banks that have fallen the most
in the 21-month debt crisis.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , trading
at half the value of its assets, climbed 28 percent last week.
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , the Belgian bank valued at 0.4 times its assets,
surged 19 percent. Commerzbank, which slumped 65 percent since
September 2009, rose 13 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised
its recommendation on the shares to “conviction buy.”  Italy’s Banca Popolare rose 10 percent over the week.
Portugal’s  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  and Spain’s  Banco Popular
Espanol SA (POP)  also led gains, advancing no less than 10 percent.  “As we expect material positive improvement in the bond
spreads over the next few days and weeks, we expect this
discount to revert and the stocks in our coverage to move toward
target prices and beyond,” analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. led by Dirk Hoffmann-Becking and Marcello Zanardo wrote in a
note to clients on July 22. They rate  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
 Societe Generale (GLE) , Credit Suisse and UBS “outperform” and
target each bank to have at least 72 percent of gains.  ‘Sticking Plaster’  Bertie Thomson, who helps oversee 1.5 billion pounds in
European equities at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said he is
“significantly underweight” in European banks, owning only
Nordea Bank AB in Stockholm and London-based  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN) , and plans to stay that way.  “The Brussels agreement is a ‘sticking plaster,’” Thomson
said in a telephone interview. “It still seems to me that if
you look at the crisis as a whole, there’s not the political
will to actually overturn what needs to be done, which is fiscal
union. You’re not going to sort out these peripheral problems
until there is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  