-- 
Hamilton Says He’s Back in the Formula 1 Title Fight After Germany Victory

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-24T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/lewis-hamilton-of-mclaren-wins-german-formula-one-grand-prix.html
Lewis Hamilton  said he’s “back in
the fight” for the Formula One drivers’ championship after
winning the German Grand Prix at the Nurburgring.  The 26-year-old Briton climbed one place to third in the
standings after his second victory of the season, on 134 points
through 10 of 19 races. Defending champion Sebastian Vettel of
Red Bull leads on 216 points, followed by teammate  Mark Webber 
on 139. Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  has 130 points.  McLaren’s Hamilton finished ahead of Alonso and Webber
yesterday. Vettel took fourth from Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  after
a quicker pit-stop in the closing moments of the 60-lap race.  “The fight for the world championship will be very, very,
very hard,” Hamilton said in a McLaren team statement. “We’re
back in the fight though, and I really hope we can carry this
forward and keep the momentum going.”  Hamilton displayed the aggressive overtaking style of his
2008 series championship to lead four times as he clinched the
16th win of his career.  “Great job, guys, great job,” he said to his team over
race radio on crossing the line. “Thank you so much for pushing
so hard, the car was really nice to drive.”  Vettel has now gone two races without a win, following
Alonso’s victory at Silverstone two weeks ago, after taking six
of the opening eight races to establish a commanding series
lead.  Second Straight Pole  The 24-year-old Vettel wasn’t on the front row of the grid
for the first time this season. It was Webber’s second straight
pole position, with Hamilton in the No. 2 spot. Vettel started
third, followed by Ferrari duo Alonso and Massa.  Hamilton continued his qualifying form at the start of the
race to surge into the lead.  The race then developed into a three-way contest as the
lead interchanged between Hamilton, Alonso and Webber.  Germany ’s
Vettel, meantime, dropped back in a mistake-prone performance in
front of his home crowd.  By three-quarters way through, the race settled down with
Hamilton maintaining his lead after he made the most of new
tires to overtake Alonso.  Eight laps from the end, Hamilton went into the pits,
dropping briefly to third place behind Alonso and Webber. Alonso
then pitted, while Webber continued in the lead until he had to
change tires, allowing Hamilton to clinch the win. Vettel then
snatched fourth.  “The pit-stop at the end was fantastic. As I came out it
was nice to see the Ferrari still stationary,” Vettel said in a
team statement. “We have homework to do. McLaren and Ferrari
were very quick in the race and we need to come back to the pace
they have.”  ‘Authoritative’  Hamilton has been criticized this year after getting
involved in crashes, though he managed to stay out of trouble
yesterday as McLaren recorded its third win this season. It’s
second in the constructors’ standings with 243 points.  Red Bull 
leads with 345, with Ferrari third on 192.  His teammate  Jenson Button  had less luck, being forced to
quit on lap 35 with a hydraulic issue after recovering from a
slow start to fight back through the field to sixth.  McLaren Team Principal Martin Whitmarsh described
Hamilton’s win as “one of his best, a scintillatingly
authoritative performance.” He also tipped Button to “bounce
back” in the next event, the July 31 Hungarian Grand Prix in
Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  