-- 
Food Costs Rising as Coke, Chipotle Pass on Commodity Gains

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-07-25T14:39:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/food-costs-rising-as-coke-chipotle-pass-on-commodity-increases.html
Food prices in the U.S. may be
rising faster than the government  forecast  as companies
including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Safeway Inc. and  Chipotle Mexican Grill
Inc. (CMG)  pass higher commodity costs on to consumers.  Rallies in meat, grain and dairy products since February
may mean the increase in food costs will surpass the 3 percent
to 4 percent that the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  predicts,
said Christopher Hurt, an agricultural economist at  Purdue
University  in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana . The USDA today left its
forecast for this year’s gains unchanged and said 2012 prices
will increase 2.5 to 3.5 percent.  “Food inflation will continue to increase through this
summer to this fall,” Hurt said July 19 in a speech in
Washington. “We can’t replenish supplies until a new crop comes
in, and that puts a lot of basic pressure on food prices.”  Costs for groceries and restaurant meals rose 3.7 percent
in the 12 months through June, government data show. During the
period, rice, wheat, corn, soybean and milk futures touched the
highest levels since at least 2008. Yum! Brands Inc., owner of
the KFC and Pizza Hut restaurant chains, said July 13 that U.S.
commodity costs this year would rise as much as 7 percent, after
previously predicting a 6 percent increase.  Corn futures rose 76 percent in the 12 months through July
22, wheat jumped 16 percent, raw sugar advanced 71 percent, and
rice was up 65 percent. Cattle and hog futures climbed at least
21 percent.  Coca-Cola Prices  Coca-Cola, the world’s largest soft-drink maker, said July
19 it will raise North American drink prices 3 percent to 4
percent in the second half of 2011, after 1 percent to 2 percent
increases in the second quarter. The Atlanta-based company cited
higher costs for raw materials, including fruit, metal and oil
used to make plastic packaging.  Futures for orange juice traded in  New York , which is used
in Coca-Cola’s Minute Maid beverages, were up 37 percent in the
past year through July 22 as inventories declined. Coke, which
also uses corn as a sweetener, is trying to stay ahead of
inflation by managing retail costs, Gary Fayard, the chief
financial officer, said in an earnings conference call July 19.  PepsiCo Inc., a Coke competitor and the world’s biggest
snack-food maker, said last week that profit will increase more
slowly than projected, partly because of commodity costs.
Spending on raw materials will rise at the high end of its
forecast of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion this year, from a base
of $18 billion, Hugh Johnston, the chief financial officer of
Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo, said in a conference call.  Covering Inflation  “We will try to cover as much of the commodity inflation
as we can,” Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  said.  Chipotle Mexican Grill, a Denver-based burrito chain whose
share price has more than doubled in the past year, reported
July 19 that second-quarter profit was less than analysts
estimated as commodity costs rose. Chief Financial Officer Jack Hartung said costs for avocados, dairy and meat are rising and
he expects food inflation of about 5 percent this year.  Food inflation was “stronger than expected” at
Pleasanton, California-based Safeway supermarkets, with prices
rising 2 percent in the second quarter, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Steven Burd said July 21 on a conference call
with analysts.  Damping Effect  Food and fuel increases have hurt demand, “and that’s
particularly true for that segment of our shoppers that believe
we’re still in a recession, which is the largest segment” of
customers at Safeway, the fourth-largest U.S. supermarket chain
by sales, he said.  Inflation may be able to stay within the USDA’s range
should crop inventories improve, said Mark Waller, a grain
economist at  Texas A&M University  in  College Station ,  Texas .
Adverse weather and oil prices, which have averaged just under
$100 a barrel this year, could quickly send food costs higher,
he said.  “There’s an awful lot of uncertainty because of where we
are in the crop cycle,” Waller said by telephone last week,
noting that the Midwest heat wave may decrease production.
“With the late planting of some crops and the really dry
conditions, crop production is vulnerable over the next 60 days
to any additional problems.”  Food prices measured by the Bureau of Labor Statistics rose
0.2 percent in June. The USDA left all of its estimates for
different food categories unchanged in today’s report, except
for processed fruits and vegetables, reducing its estimated
increase by 1.5one-and-a-half percentage points to a range of
1.5 percent to 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  