-- 
Geithner Says House Must Start Debt Deliberations Monday to Meet Deadline

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-07-24T15:16:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/geithner-says-house-must-start-debt-limit-process-tomorrow.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he hopes lawmakers can agree on the framework of a
debt-limit agreement today because the  House of Representatives 
must start deliberations tomorrow to meet the Aug. 2 deadline.  “They need to get this process moving in the House by
Monday night,” Geithner said today on ABC’s “This Week”
program. “To achieve that deadline, they need to have a
framework that they know with complete confidence will pass both
houses of Congress that is acceptable to the president. That
should happen today.” When asked if he thinks a deal will be
reached today, Geithner said, “I hope so.”  Geithner said two types of plans are being discussed: One
is a “comprehensive, balanced” plan including spending cuts
and “ tax reform  that would generate revenues,” which President
 Barack Obama  is still negotiating with House Speaker  John Boehner . The other, proposed by Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  and Majority Leader  Harry Reid , would put in place
“some up-front savings, but then establish a special committee
with exceptional powers that could legislate quickly.”  Republicans yesterday challenged a presidential veto threat
by preparing for a short-term extension of the $14.3 trillion
debt limit, hardening partisan differences in the face of
warnings that a stalemate risks roiling financial markets as
soon as tonight.  Reid’s Reaction  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, declared himself “deeply
disappointed” with a Republican stance that’s “pushing us to
the brink of a default.”  Michael Steel , Boehner’s spokesman,
said a short-term extension, which would mean another vote on
the nation’s borrowing authority before the 2012 elections, is
“inevitable.”  Geithner, during a separate appearance today on CNN’s
“State of the Union,” said a deal that doesn’t go through the
2012 elections wouldn’t get to Obama to sign because “it will
not make its way through the Senate. So that’s not a viable
option. Now there’s nothing wrong with doing this in stages, but
what we can’t do is leave the threat of default hanging over the
American economy. That’s like a tax on all Americans. It’s
deeply irresponsible.” Geithner also appeared today on “Fox
News Sunday.”  Geithner told congressional leaders at a White House
meeting yesterday with Obama that delaying a deal risked an
adverse reaction from credit-rating companies and financial
markets. He noted Asian markets open tonight, said an official
familiar with the meeting.  Market Reaction  “You can’t tell,” if investors would react negatively
tonight if a deal isn’t reached, Geithner said on CNN today.
“You can never know.”  Geithner also said Obama “absolutely” remains involved in
the talks and said it’s “not true” that Obama and Boehner are
no longer negotiating.  Geithner said the Obama administration and Boehner had
never agreed on a deal to raise $800 billion in revenue.  “The president and the speaker got very close,” Geithner
told ABC. “But there was a whole range of things yet to be
resolved at that point when the speaker pulled out on Friday.”  Geithner said using the 14th Amendment to avoid default is
“not a workable option.” He said the administration has
“looked at his very carefully.”  14th Amendment  Some Democrats in Congress have discussed the idea of
claiming presidential authority to continue borrowing without
congressional approval based on an interpretation of the
Constitution’s 14th Amendment.  “This is a critical test for the American political
system,” Geithner said. “It’s a critical test for Congress and
for the Republican leaders in Congress, because the eyes of the
world are on us.”  The Treasury secretary reiterated his view that Republican
leaders understand that the U.S. can’t allow a default.  “If you listen to them carefully, Speaker Boehner, Senator
McConnell have said unequivocally that this country will not
default, we will meet our obligations,” he said. “The problem
is, they have a vocal, loud, frankly irresponsible minority.”  Geithner declined to discuss any possible contingency plans
if the debt limit isn’t raised.  “We will do everything we can to mitigate the damage,”
Geithner said on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “We do not
have the ability, only Congress has the ability, to make sure
that people get their payments on time.”  “We write 80 million checks a month,” Geithner said.
“There are millions and millions of Americans that depend on
those checks coming on time. Not just people that supply our
military, but people who get Social Security benefits, Medicare,
Medicaid benefits. And we cannot put those payments at risk, and
we do not have the ability to limit the damage on them, if
Congress fails to act in time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  