-- 
Singapore Stocks: CapitaLand, Jardine Cycle, Midas, Nera Telecom

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-07-25T09:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/global-logistic-mermaid-singtel-singapore-equity-preview.html
Singapore ’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  fell
0.4 percent to 3,171.55 at the close. Five stocks dropped for
each that rose in the gauge of 30 companies.  Shares on the measure trade at an average 14.7 times
estimated earnings, compared with about 15.6 times at the end of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  Developers: Shares of the nation’s biggest real-estate
companies declined on concern the government will introduce
additional measures to curb property prices after government
data released last week showed the growth in housing prices in
the second quarter moderated. “Private  home prices  continued
its upward trend despite cooling measures,” Fera Wirawan and
Bryan Lim, analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, wrote in a
note to clients dated July 22. “We believe that the government
may look to introduce further measures to curb the exuberance.”  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
developer by market value, slipped 1 percent to S$2.92.  City
Developments Ltd. (CIT)  , the second-largest homebuilder in
the city-state, dropped 1.7 percent to S$10.74.  Jardine Cycle & Carriage Ltd. (JCNC)  , the automotive
distributor that gets about 89 percent of sales from  Indonesia ,
climbed 2.8 percent to S$48.72. Toyota Astra Motor, a unit of
Jardine Cycle’s PT Astra International, is confident it can
maintain its share of the Indonesia car market at 36 percent,
Marketing Director Joko Trisanyoto said on July 22. Toyota Astra
sold 152,283 vehicles in the first half, compared to 140,396 in
the same period a year earlier.  Midas Holdings Ltd. (MIDAS)  , a supplier of aluminum
alloy profiles used in train carriages in  China , slumped 3.9
percent to 61 Singapore cents on speculation a deadly high-speed
train accident will prompt the Chinese government to slow
construction and reduce investments. The accident is “hugely
negative” for the nation’s railway infrastructure-related
companies, including Midas, Tan Han Meng, an analyst at DMG &
Partners Securities Pte, wrote in a note to clients.  Nera Telecommunications Ltd. (NERT)  , a supplier of
wireless equipment to the telecommunications industry, fell 3.9
percent to 37 Singapore cents. The company said second-quarter
net income declined 16 percent to S$2.5 million ($2.1 million)
from a year earlier.  SATS Ltd. (SATS)  , the ground-handling services provider
partly owned by Temasek Holdings Pte, lost 1.5 percent to S$2.58.
The company said Chief Executive Officer Clement Woon resigned
to pursue his “personal interests.” Tan Chuan Lye, executive
vice president, was named as the acting CEO while the company
starts a global search.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 