-- 
Gruebel’s Goals Obsolete as Capital Demands, Markets Weigh on UBS Profit

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-07-25T08:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/gruebel-s-goals-obsolete-as-markets-capital-crimp-ubs-profit.html
Oswald Gruebel , chief executive
officer of  UBS AG (UBSN) , is facing a credibility gap: analysts and
investors don’t take his profit target seriously.  The 67-year-old CEO may have to reduce his goal for pretax
profit of 15 billion Swiss francs ($18.3 billion) in 2014 by as
much as 20 percent, or scrap it, as tougher capital standards
and sluggish markets weigh on results, according to analysts’
estimates. The Zurich-based bank may report a 36 percent drop in
second-quarter net income tomorrow, analysts estimate.  UBS is in an “intensive process” of assessing the impact
of regulatory changes and markets on profits and will probably
present the results of the review in November, Chairman Kaspar Villiger said this month. For Gruebel, backing off the forecasts
he made in 2009 would suggest he misjudged UBS’s ability to
rebound from the biggest loss in Swiss corporate history.  “Getting to 15 billion francs by doing all the right
things isn’t going to work,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “The regulation has
changed, the world has changed, the business mix has changed.
Gruebel is a trader and he needs to make a decision on how to
change his positioning.”  UBS fell 1.8 percent to 14.05 francs by 10:52 a.m. in
Zurich trading, valuing the company at 53.8 billion francs.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  proposed
stricter capital rules for lenders worldwide last year and the
Swiss government, which rescued UBS with a 6 billion-franc
capital injection in 2008, came up with additional demands for
UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  This may make some investment-
banking businesses unviable at the same time that  risk aversion 
among clients concerned about  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is
hurting earnings.  ‘Huge Step’  UBS’s investment bank, which piled up 57.1 billion francs
in cumulative losses during the three years through 2009, is at
the heart of the dilemma over targets. While Gruebel has called
earnings performance at the unit, run by Carsten Kengeter, “not
yet satisfactory,” he hasn’t scaled back its ambitions.  By cutting the target, “he’d be admitting that UBS isn’t a
bulge-bracket investment bank anymore,” said  Simon Maughan ,
head of sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd. in  London .
“That’s a huge step for them to take. That’s what shareholders
want to hear them saying, that’s what the regulator wants to
hear them say, I think that’s what the Swiss politicians would
be happy to hear them say. The only people that don’t want to
say that are the people at UBS.”  No One ‘Believed’  Gruebel came out of retirement two-and-a-half years ago to
help repair UBS, after boosting profitability at Zurich-based
Credit Suisse in his previous CEO role. Kengeter, 44, joined in
December 2008 from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to help restructure
the fixed-income business. He became co-head of the investment
bank in 2009, and sole CEO last November. The division aims to
almost triple pretax profit to 6 billion francs by 2014 from 2.2
billion francs last year.  UBS declined to make Gruebel available for an interview
before the second-quarter earnings report.  Even if markets improve, analysts estimate the bank would
make only 11.3 billion francs in 2013 pretax earnings, according
to the mean estimate of 18 surveyed by Bloomberg.  “No one has really ever believed in these targets,” said
 Florian Esterer , who helps manage about $60 billion at
Swisscanto Asset Management in Zurich. “The share price has
never behaved as if these targets were taken seriously.”  UBS, which jumped 16 percent in Zurich trading on the day
the bank named Gruebel CEO, fell 18 percent since he set
earnings targets in November 2009 before today. The 46-company
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index fell 22
percent in the period.  Hires and Departures  UBS may report tomorrow a drop in second-quarter net income
to 1.28 billion francs, according to the mean estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, from 2.01 billion francs in the
year-earlier period. The investment bank may report a 55 percent
slump in pretax profit to 590 million francs.  Gruebel and Kengeter have been trying to revive earnings at
UBS’s investment bank for two years. They hired more than 1,700
people across the investment bank and brought in new business
heads, including Rajeev Misra and Yassine Bouhara, former
executives at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Europe’s biggest investment bank
by revenue, to replace people that left or were fired. They’ve
increased risk-taking to improve earnings opportunities.  The measures have brought limited benefits. UBS’s share
among the nine biggest investment banks of revenue from trading
stocks and bonds and advising clients on capital-market
transactions and mergers doubled from 2009 to 2010, yet it
remained the lowest among competitors.  There have also been departures, including four of the 10
business heads that reported to Kengeter this year.  Gruebel Impact  Slashing earnings targets for the investment bank may have
a demoralizing effect on employees, said Esterer.  “What Gruebel says has, of course, a strong effect inside
the bank,” Esterer said. “Gruebel said ‘we want to reach this,
we want to have an investment bank again.’ If he backtracks now,
he’ll have even more problems with retaining people.”  UBS has blamed low client activity for the slow recovery in
revenue. The unit’s costs amounted to 81.7 percent of revenue in
2010, the highest among the nine biggest investment banks. That
compares with Gruebel’s target of 70 percent for the investment
bank and between 65 percent and 70 percent for the group. The
CEO said in February he would cut expenses if revenue didn’t
increase.  UBS may stick to some targets, such as the cost-income
ratio, capitalization levels and return on equity, while
abandoning specific profit goals, which are hard to predict
given the appreciation of the Swiss franc, said Dirk Hoffmann- Becking, a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  Job Cuts  “If you focus your guidance on controllable parameters,
which you can then manage at least through cost reductions if
you can’t get the top line to work, then that’s something the
market can build confidence around, in particular when it comes
with some action,” Hoffmann-Becking said.  The investment bank, which already cut about 6 percent of
jobs in the first quarter, may slash 700 more positions, mostly
in the back office, a person familiar with the situation said.
The bank may cut about 5,000 jobs across divisions to save 1
billion francs in annual costs, Swiss newspaper Tages-Anzeiger
said this month, citing unidentified “insiders.”  Because UBS, like other banks, increased salaries after
criticism over bonuses in the aftermath of the credit crisis, it
may have to cut as much as 30 percent of staff at the investment
bank to readjust to the new environment, MF Global’s Maughan
said. The division had 17,628 employees at the end of March.  Pressure Will Build  In 2013, the investment bank may be more than 2 billion
francs away from reaching its pretax profit target, while the
gaps for the  wealth management , wealth management Americas and
asset management divisions may be about 800 million francs, 300
million francs and 400 million francs, respectively, according
to Wheeler’s estimates.  “It’s all about how long can we wait for the environment
to improve and the reality is that UBS can wait less time than
everybody else,” Maughan said. “The pressure will just build
on them from shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 