-- 
InterContinental Hotels Aims to Close Value Gap to U.S. Rivals

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-07-24T23:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/intercontinental-hotels-aims-to-close-value-gap-to-u-s-rivals.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) 
Chief Executive Officer Richard Solomons aims to convince
investors that the U.K.-based owner of the  Holiday Inn  brand is
worth more than it’s being given credit for.  The hotelier’s shares trade at a multiple of 19.3 times
earnings, less than U.S. competitors such as Marriott
International Inc. and Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide,
which have price-to-earnings ratios of 28.3 and 42.2
respectively. Solomons said he’s aiming to close that gap.  “We are undervalued relative to U.S. competitors,” the
49-year-old executive said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Denham,  England . He cited the stability of
InterContinental’s midscale hotels during the 2009 recession,
its ability to generate cash, reduce debt and increase its
dividends faster than competitors.  Solomons’ message is starting to be heard.  InterContinental
Hotels  shares have risen 1.6 percent this year, while Starwood
has fallen 4.8 percent and Marriott is down 16 percent. For the
valuation differential to close further, the CEO may need to
persuade European investors that they should pay as much as
their U.S. counterparts would for a company that makes most of
its income from hotel franchising and management.  “IHG stock is primarily owned by European investors and
these investors tend to pay less than their American
counterparts for franchise-based businesses,” said  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets. Investors are also
inclined to pay more for income from high-end hotels than for
mid-scale properties such as Holiday Inn, he said.  Higher Profit  About 30 percent of InterContinental Hotels’ shareholders
are located in  North America , according to Solomons, the former
chief financial officer who succeeded Andrew Cosslett as CEO.  “We will push hard to get the message across, but
ultimately, the results will speak for themselves,” he said.  The hotelier said in May that first-quarter profit gained
28 percent as it raised revenue per room in  China  and the U.S.,
its biggest market. First-half earnings are due on Aug. 9.  Solomons said he’s “pretty confident” on the outlook for
both business and leisure travel.  “Occupancy is rising and rates are starting to move off of
that,” the CEO said. “The big guys are winning share.”  Bookings made through mobile technology have jumped more
than tenfold since last year to $10 million a month, according
to Solomons, who said much of that is from new customers.  InterContinental Hotels operates about 3,800 of its 4,400
properties under franchise agreements and owns less than 1
percent of them.  Barclay New York  “In five years we will still have capital invested in
hotels, but it will probably be different hotels” as the
company expands, said Solomons, who expects to announce his
successor as chief financial officer “soon” after a search
that involved internal and external candidates.  The company, which also owns the Crowne Plaza and boutique
Indigo hotel brands, has spoken to potential buyers of the
Barclay New York property that it put on the market at the start
of the year, according to the CEO. It is looking for the “right
partner” to allow it to continue managing the property and to
spend $100 million on refurbishment, he said.  The hotelier doesn’t have to make acquisitions to grow, the
CEO said. The company’s “significant financial firepower” may
also be used for dividends, he said.  “We will continue to drive great results and outperform
the competition,” Solomons said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 