-- 
Investors Raise Bullish Commodity Bets by Most in Year as Economy Expands

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-07-25T07:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/investors-boost-bullish-commodity-bets-on-global-growth-to-stay-resilient.html
Funds boosted bets on rising
commodity prices by the most in almost a year on speculation
that the global economic recovery will prove resilient.  Speculators raised their net-long positions in 18
commodities by 16 percent to 1.26 million futures and options
contracts in the week ended July 19, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the biggest gain since early August.
Bullish silver holdings climbed to the highest since May 3.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index rose for a fourth
consecutive week, climbing to a one-month high on July 21.
Commodity prices have gained even as the U.S. and  Europe  contend
with debt crises. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities gained 2.7
percent last week as European leaders announced a plan to stem
the turmoil.  “There will be a pick-up in U.S. growth and also in
Japanese growth in the third quarter,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham, Alabama, said in a phone interview.
“We haven’t seen any evidence of a hard landing in  China . If
there is some type of resolution in Europe, even if it’s a
short-term one, that could create a boost too.”  European leaders announced a 159 billion-euro ($229
billion) aid plan for  Greece  on July 21, allaying concern that
the sovereign-debt crisis will spread. U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Congress failed to reach a deal on raising the debt
limit. U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  plans to press ahead with
a two-step debt-limit extension that Obama has threatened to
veto, fueling concern the nation is lurching toward a default as
early as Aug. 2 and jeopardizing its AAA credit rating.  Futures and Options  Hedge funds  and other money managers lifted their net-long
silver position by 19 percent to 24,740 futures and options
contracts, the third straight gain, data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission showed.  The metal will reach a record $70 an ounce by March as
physical demand climbs in  Asia  and investors seek a haven asset,
Mike Frawley, the global head of metals at Newedge USA LLC, said
in an interview last week. Silver prices rallied 2.7 percent to
$40.122 an ounce on the Comex in  New York  last week. The all-
time high was $50.35 reached in January 1980.  Investors also increased their net gold holdings by 7.3
percent to 238,319 contracts, the most since October 2009. The
metal advanced to a record $1,624.30 an ounce in trading today.
Holdings in crude oil jumped 8 percent to 182,285 contracts, the
most since June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  