-- 
Japan Ends All Analog TV Broadcasts in Asia’s First Transition to Digital

-- B y   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-07-24T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/japan-ends-analog-tv-broadcast-after-58-years-first-in-asia.html
Japan  ended a 58-year era of analog
television broadcast yesterday, becoming the first Asian nation
to complete the transition to digital transmission.  Cathode-ray tube TVs, usually with a curved screen and a
protruding box at the back, could no longer display programs
without adding a special tuner after the switchover yesterday
afternoon. Public broadcaster NHK news and Pocket Monsters
cartoon series were among the popular shows that shifted
completely to digital beaming.  The switch by Japan, which follows similar moves by the
U.S. and  Germany  in the past three years, frees up air waves
that may later be allocated to mobile-phone operators such as
 Softbank Corp. (9984)  who want to improve service. With more than 90
percent of Japanese households already owning flat-screen TVs,
some purchased with recent incentives, the switchover may damp
sales of new sets.  “Consumers, who were forced to replace their TVs because
of a policy won’t likely have a motivation to buy another one
for a while,” said Koki Shiraishi, an analyst at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Co. Of the more than 100 million TV
sets in Japan, about 60 million to 70 million have been replaced
in the past four years because of the transition, he said.  South Korea , the U.K. and  France  are also planning to
switch off analog systems to allow for other uses of the radio
spectrum, according to a December  research  by Japan’s Ministry
of Internal Affairs and Communications.  Shrinking Domestic Market  Japan announced its plan to completely shift to the more
efficient digital technology in 1998, saying consumers would be
able to enjoy better-quality pictures and services such as
 weather forecasts  and baseball player profiles on screen.
Recording a week of program can be done more easily with digital
TVs and subtitles for people with hearing problems.  Pictures and sound information were encoded and sent in
analog signals since the birth of cathode-ray tube TVs.  While the transition gives opportunities for mobile-phone
operators, declining demand for flat-panel TVs will likely hurt
some TV makers that rely on their home market, said Ichiro
Michikoshi, an analyst at Tokyo-based BCN Inc.  “With domestic market shrinking, there should be a
reshuffle among Japanese TV makers,” said Michikoshi. “TV
makers will have to go abroad.”  Sales of TVs in Japan may tumble 44 percent this year, and
47 percent next year after jumping 63 percent to a record $13.2
billion in 2010, researcher DisplaySearch forecast in May.  Sharp Corp., the top TV seller in Japan, sells 56 percent
of its TVs at home, according to DisplaySearch.  Sharp, Panasonic  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the nation’s largest appliance maker, sold
41 percent of its sets in Japan, the researcher said. The Osaka-
based maker of Viera televisions may report an annual loss at
its TV unit in the year started April 1, Chief Financial Officer
Makoto Uenoyama said last month.  Sharp, the biggest seller of TVs in Japan, forecast revenue
from its LCD sets will decline 15 percent to 680 billion yen
globally in the current fiscal year. The company had turned the
TV operation profitable in the year ended March 31.  Sales of TVs more than doubled during the fourth week of
June, according to GfK Marketing Services Japan Ltd., as
consumers rushed to replace older conventional models that can’t
receive digital signals.  Japan’s digital broadcasting will take up only two thirds
of radio bands used by analog system, according to a government
statement in January. The government plans to use the freed
spectrum to improve mobile phone services, traffic information
services, disaster preventative measures and a new business of
broadcasting exclusively for mobile gadgets.  Mmbi, Inc., a venture set by a group of Japanese companies
led by  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , Japan’s largest mobile-phone carrier,
won the only slot to offer multimedia broadcasting for mobile
phone users in September last year, beating another group led by
 KDDI Corp. (9433) , the nation’s No. 2 mobile-phone operator.  Softbank, the exclusive provider of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone in
Japan, is seeking a government approval to use part of the
spectrum freed by analog broadcast to improve its data
transmission. The company’s plan to spend 1 trillion yen ($13
billion) in the two years from April 1 is based on an
expectation it will get some spectrum allocation, President
Masayoshi Son said May 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 