-- 
Kids With Snouts, Aroused Klansman Romp in Chapmans Show: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-07-24T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/kids-with-snouts-aroused-klansman-cavort-in-chapmans-show-martin-gayford.html
The art duo Gilbert & George
famously describe themselves as “two men, one artist.” What
about the equally celebrated aesthetic twosome Jake and Dinos Chapman (who coincidentally once worked as assistants to G&G)?  I ask them that question in an interview. “We’re two boys,
lots of artists,” Dinos replies.  There certainly is something more than a little boyish
about the Chapmans, whose latest work is on show at the  White
Cube  gallery’s two  London  sites. Perhaps “teenage” would be a
more precise description of an artistic enterprise that revels
in horror-comic violence, practical jokes, outrage to
conventional good taste and lovingly detailed model-making.  The current dual exhibition has a novel twist to which the
title gives the clue: “Jake or Dinos Chapman.” Normally, they
collaborate closely. On this occasion they worked separately,
and didn’t see each other’s efforts until a fortnight before the
shows opened. So was there surprise when each brother revealed
his efforts to the other?  “It was mildly familiar,” Jake says, “how I imagine
senile dementia to be -- you see things that have an uncanny
familiarity.” In the installation, the productions they made in
seclusion have been mixed together. Would they say who made
what?  “No,” says Dinos. It would take a very close observer of
the Chapmans to be sure of the division. I suspect that Dinos
(born in 1962), the elder and more jokey one, is responsible for
the boisterous one-liners; for example, a sculpted group of
hooded children gazing at a painting of a gothic woodland scene.
When you walk around the figures, you discover that from each
cute childish face protrudes the sinister snout of a beast.  Nazis in Uniform  And perhaps it was Jake (born in 1966) -- more wordy and
theoretical -- who crafted the multiple pastiches of abstract
sculpture at Mason’s Yard. Which Chapman came up with the black-
faced, uniformed Nazis who gaze in consternation at these
examples of “decadent” art is anyone’s guess. In any case,
neither sibling does anything startlingly new in these shows.  Apart from abstraction and Nazis -- the latter a bit of a
Chapman cliche -- there are Baroque religious sculptures (with
areas of skin unpleasantly peeled back) and a painting in the
style of Bruegel contemplated by an aroused Ku Klux Klansman.
Business as usual for the boys, you may say.  Underlying the cross-cultural knockabout is a philosophical
point. The Chapmans think that the heroic, individual artist
expressing his or her vision and emotions -- Rembrandt,  Van Gogh , Tracey Emin -- is a myth.  Art Overlaps  “What we make has more in common with other art than it
does with Jake and Dinos as people,” says Dinos. “I find it a
strange idea that there are individuals. I don’t think that they
exist.”  So what does exist? “Overlaps,” Jake promptly says. “The
idea of thinking of art as a continuum of ideas is much richer
and more interesting.”  Agreed, the Chapmans’ work is not about their feelings.
It’s a cut-up of high culture and low culture, good taste and
bad taste. The paradox is that a distinct personality
nonetheless emerges -- a blend of aggressive laddish humor and
cool post-modernist theorizing.  They collaborate, Dinos muses, because they know each
other. “It would be pointless to phone up someone you’d never
met,” he says. Joint creation works, Jake adds, because it’s
dysfunctional.  “When it stops working,” Dinos says, “I’ll sack him.”  “Jake or Dinos Chapman” runs through Sept. 17 at  White
Cube , 25-26 Mason’s Yard, London SW1, and 48 Hoxton Square, N1.
Information:  http://www.whitecube.com  or +44-20-7930-5373.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 