-- 
NFL Player Representatives Said to Plan Balloting Today on Labor Agreement

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-25T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/nfl-player-representatives-said-to-plan-vote-tomorrow-on-labor-agreement.html
National Football League player
representatives plan to vote today on a labor agreement already
approved by NFL owners. Player support of the proposal may allow
the richest and most watched U.S. sports league to reopen for
business this week after a four-month shutdown.  The NFL Players Association sought to clear up final
details yesterday on the proposed 10-year agreement in
preparation for a vote today, according to two people familiar
with the players’ decision. The people requested anonymity
because they were not authorized to discuss the situation
publicly.  Approval of the new labor contract requires a majority vote
from player representatives for the 32 teams. ESPN reported that
a completed deal is considered a formality and the NFLPA planned
a news conference for today in  Washington , where its 13-member
executive committee has gathered.  NFLPA spokesman Carl Francis said in an e-mail message
yesterday that he could neither confirm nor deny the player
representatives would be meeting today.  Owners approved the deal 31-0, with the Oakland Raiders
abstaining, four days ago at a meeting in Atlanta.  If players support it, they probably would be able to
report to training complexes as soon as July 27, when teams
would also be able to negotiate contracts with their own
players. The NFL said last week that teams would open facilities
to players two days after the NFLPA’s executive committee
accepted the labor deal and settlement terms for outstanding
lawsuits.  The league also said teams would be able to sign free
agents starting the day after the NFLPA recertifies as a union,
which ESPN reported may happen as soon as July 29.  $120 Million Payrolls  The deal would cap team payrolls at about $120 million this
season, with players receiving another $22 million or so in
benefits, according to a copy of the agreement released by the
NFL. The players must receive at least 47 percent of the
league’s revenue, projected at a record $9.3 billion in 2011,
throughout the 10 years of the package.  The agreement also would include a new rookie pay system
that limits how much teams can spend on first-year players.
Current players may stay in the league’s medical plan for life
and will have more days off, with fewer offseason practices.  The deal also would provide between $900 million and $1
billion for retiree benefits.  The NFL in March locked out players, who dissolved their
union and sued in federal court, claiming antitrust violations
and wage fixing, led by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees .  The work stoppage, which ended 24 years of labor peace,
began about five weeks after the  Green Bay Packers  defeated the
Pittsburgh Steelers 31-25 in the Super Bowl title game that drew
the largest television audience in U.S. history.  An agreement today would avoid missing one or more rounds
of preseason games, which the league estimates are worth about
$200 million in revenue a week. The NFL last week canceled the
Hall of Fame Game -- the preseason’s first game -- between the
Chicago Bears and St. Louis Rams on Aug. 7 in Canton,  Ohio .  The regular season is scheduled to open Sept. 8 when the
Packers host the  New Orleans Saints .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net 
Erik Matuszewski in New York, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  