-- 
North Dakota Soggy Wheat Fields Seen Dimming Prospects for Spring Harvest

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-07-24T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/north-dakota-soggy-wheat-fields-dimming-prospects-for-spring-crop-harvest.html
Wheat production in  North Dakota ,
the biggest U.S. grower, may lag behind government estimates
after unrelenting rains delayed planting and made fields more
vulnerable to damage from hot summer weather.  Spring wheat, used to make bread and pizza crust, is
maturing at the slowest pace in the state since 1995, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show. The agency, which already
expects the crop to plunge 16 percent, said it may revise the
forecast after another survey of farmers affected by record
floods and rain. Analysts and industry officials begin a three-
day tour of fields tomorrow.  Keith Deutsch, who farms 3,000 acres (1,214 hectares) of
crops including spring wheat and durum in Plaza, North Dakota,
said he stopped planting on June 10, about 10 days later than
usual, because fields were too muddy. About 30 percent of his
land went unseeded because crops planted after that date would
be in danger of damage from heat and pre-harvest frost.  “I’m disappointed, honestly,” said Deutsch, who still
farms some of the same ground his grandfather claimed in 1902.
“Some of the later-planted stuff I’ve noticed didn’t come up
too good, because it was too wet when we seeded, and then more
rain came in on top of that.”  Participants in the annual Wheat Quality Council tour,
meeting today in Fargo, North Dakota, will take field samples
from farms across the state to gauge the size of the harvest.  Durum Outlook  The USDA estimates that North Dakota may  produce  233.7
million bushels of spring wheat this year, less than the 277.2
million harvested in 2010, according to a July 12 report. The
durum crop, the largest in the U.S., may plunge 56 percent from
last year to 29.1 million bushels, the agency said. Durum is
used to make pasta.  Production might be even lower. The USDA is collecting
updated acreage information this month from farmers in four
states, including North Dakota. Many farmers hadn’t finished
seeding when the agency conducted surveys for its previous
report, which was released June 30 and indicated 6.35 million
spring-wheat acres were sown in North Dakota.  The USDA’s planting forecast for the state may be as much
as 1 million acres too high, said John Ulrickson, a broker and
crop consultant at The Money Farm, a grain-market adviser based
in Casselton, North Dakota. Recent high temperatures and
humidity also may leave crops more susceptible to disease,
threatening to reduce yields further, he said.  ‘Disappointing Crop’  “Overall, it’s going to be a disappointing wheat crop in
North Dakota,” Ulrickson said in an interview. “Where it’s too
wet, the crops have turned yellow from standing in water, and
you’ve got some suffering from  scab  and  wheat streak mosaic . The
weather can’t change enough to make it a good crop.”  Prospects for lower production may push wheat to $9 a
bushel on the  Minneapolis Grain Exchange , which trades the
spring variety grown in North Dakota, Ulrickson said. Futures
for September delivery closed at $8.385 a bushel on July 22, up
1.8 percent for the week. The commodity has climbed 31 percent
in the past year, reaching $10.78 on May 26, the highest since
April 2008.  As of July 17, 47 percent of North Dakota’s spring wheat
entered the heading stage, meaning the head of the grain pushes
through the top of the stem, according to the USDA. That marked
the slowest pace of maturity in 16 years, and compared with 88
percent at the same time last year.  ‘Never Seen Before’  “We’re going to see a lot of stuff that people have never
seen before” on the tour, Ben Handcock, the executive vice
president of the Wheat Quality Council, said by telephone from
Pierre,  South Dakota . “As we go north, the wheat will get
younger and younger. There’s probably no headed wheat in the
northern third of the state, or very little.”  The tour will travel west from Fargo to Mandan, North
Dakota, tomorrow, before heading northeast to Devils Lake on
July 27. Last year, the tour forecast North Dakota production at
281.7 million bushels, or 1.6 percent above the USDA’s final
2010 estimate.  Western parts of North Dakota got as much as three times
the normal amount of  rainfall  in the past 90 days, according to
the  National Weather Service .  Flooding  on the Souris River in
June set a record in Minot, the state’s fourth-largest city,
spurring evacuations and inundating fields in northwestern
areas, the North Dakota State Climate Office said.  Crop Conditions  About 73 percent of U.S. spring-wheat crops were rated good
or excellent as of July 17, according to the USDA.  Conditions 
were unchanged from the previous week, and below a year earlier,
when 82 percent of crops got the top rankings.  “We’re feeling a little more comfortable about the crop
than we were a month ago,” because government ratings haven’t
deteriorated, Jim Peterson, the marketing director of the
Mandan-based North Dakota Wheat Commission, said by telephone.
“But it’s certain, with the late planting and variable
maturities, that there’s going to be susceptibility issues right
up through harvest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  