-- 
North Korean Vice Minister Kim Will Meet Bosworth in U.S., Yonhap Reports

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-24T07:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/north-korean-vice-minister-kim-will-meet-bosworth-in-u-s-yonhap-reports.html
North Korean Foreign Ministry
official Kim Kye Gwan will meet U.S. envoy on the country
 Stephen Bosworth  in New York, the first dialogue between the two
governments in more than a year, Yonhap News reported.  Kim, the first vice minister of foreign affairs, will
travel to the U.S. around July 28, Yonhap said.  North Korea ’s
nuclear arms and food aid will be among issues to be discussed
when he meets U.S. officials including Bosworth, according to
the report, which cited unidentified diplomatic officials.  The planned visit follows comments from U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  that the U.S. won’t back a return to
multinational talks with the North until it stops provocative
actions, starts dismantling its atomic-weapons program and halts
arms trading. North Korea agreed with  South Korea  this week to
try to revive the six-party negotiations aimed at freeing the
peninsula of nuclear weapons.  “We remain firm that in order for six-party talks to
resume, North Korea must take steps to improve North-South
relations,” Clinton said yesterday at an Asian security meeting
on the Indonesian island of Bali, where the North and South
Korean nuclear envoys and foreign ministers also met.  North Korea’s uranium enrichment activities violate its
commitment under a 2005 joint statement by the parties involved
in talks as well as United Nations Security Council resolutions,
Clinton said.  Proliferation  Kim Jong Il ’s regime continues to transfer arms overseas
and pursue proliferation activities in violation of Security
Council resolutions, said Clinton, who also criticized the north
for two attacks on South Korea that killed 50 people last year.
North Korea denies involvement in the sinking of the Cheonan
warship in March that killed 46 South Korean sailors.  The U.S. has been putting pressure on North Korea to
abandon its weapons program through sanctions and political
isolation.  The six-party forum last convened in December 2008. The
Asean Regional Forum this week is one of the only annual events
attended by diplomats from all the countries involved.  The U.S. and North Korea last had a formal dialogue in late
2009, Yonhap said. Kim’s visit will by limited to  New York  by
 the U.S. Department of State , Yonhap said.  The U.S. and North Korea don’t have diplomatic relations,
though the North maintains a legation at the United Nations
headquarters in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  