-- 
Norway Shooting Suspect Breivik Is Ordered Into Isolation for Four Weeks

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r ,   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-07-25T17:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/norway-killing-suspect-may-explain-motives.html
Anders Behring Breivik, in custody
for killing 76 people in a Norwegian shooting rampage and
bombing, must spend four weeks in pre-trial detention with no
contact with the outside world.  Judge Kim Heger said after a 30-minute closed court hearing
that Breivik, 32, can receive no visits, nor send or receive
letters for the entire eight-week period he will be detained.
Breivik told the hearing that he planted the July 22 bomb in
Oslo and killed people at a youth camp on Utoeya island as he
sought to inflict the “greatest possible loss” to the ruling
 Labor party  that ran the camp, Heger said.  The court and prosecutors are concerned Breivik may hinder
the investigation by contacting possible accomplices. He told
the hearing there were “two more cells in our organization.”
If convicted on the two counts of Acts of Terror he has been
charged with, he could receive a maximum sentence of 21 years in
prison, Norway’s toughest punishment.  Given the “seriousness, the extent and character of this
case, the court considers the arguments for isolation are
immense,” Heger said after the hearing.  “Nothing like this has ever happened in Norway, it’s an
extraordinary case,” Geir Engebretsen, President of the Oslo
District Court, told reporters before the hearing.  Revised Fatalities  Armed with a pistol and semi-automatic rifle, Breivik
killed 68 people at a youth camp held by the Labor party on
Utoeya island, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) from Oslo. He
killed eight more in a car bomb blast earlier that day in the
government district of the capital. Police today revised down an
earlier estimate of a total of 93 casualties.  “He said he believed his actions were atrocious, but in
his head they were necessary,” Breivik’s defense lawyer Geir
Lippestad told  Norway ’s TV2 on July 23.  In his manifesto, the suspect said that he made an
application for a Glock 17 and that he acquired a semi-automatic
Ruger Mini 14. He said that he also owned a Benelli Nova Pump-
Action and a 308 win bolt rifle. The police have declined to say
what make of gun he used for the attacks or how he acquired the
weapons.  While Breivik admitted to the dual attacks, he did not
plead guilty, Heger said.  ‘Sharp Signal’  “The operation was not intended to kill as many people as
possible, but to give ‘a sharp signal’ to the people that can’t
be misunderstood,” Heger said, citing Breivik’s comments in
court. “As long as the  Labor Party  follows its ideological line
and continues to deconstruct Norwegian culture and import
Muslims en masse so they must take responsibility for this
treason.”  Breivik appeared calm and composed during the proceedings
and told the court he expected to spend the rest of his life in
jail, police prosecutor Christian Hatlo said at a separate press
conference.  If Breivik were convicted, prosecutors may ask that he be
imprisoned longer than 21 years on the grounds that he might
repeat a violent crime and that a 21-year sentence wouldn’t be
sufficient to prevent that, police spokeswoman Carol Sandbye
said yesterday. Were that to happen, Breivik would need to be
retried every five years, she said.  21 Years  Protestors outside the court shouted angrily at vehicles
they thought might contain Breivik, and at his lawyer as he
entered the courtroom.  “I would have liked to see him get 21 years per person he
has killed,” said Alexander Roine, 24.  In a 1,500-page English manifesto posted on the Internet
hours before the killings, Breivik described nine years of
planning for the attacks and his vision for revolution in  Europe 
led by the Knights Templar. He wrote that the massacre would
serve as a tool to market the manifesto.  In the document entitled “2083 -- A European Declaration of
Independence,” which Breivik began writing while he was still a
member of Norway’s opposition Progress Party, he described how
the attacks would form part of a crusade against “cultural
Marxism” and the rising “Islamization” of Europe. Large
sections of the document have been copied from Theodore Kaczynski’s 1995 manifesto, according to the Norwegian political
analysis website  Document.no .  Kaczynski, known as the Unabomber, is serving a life
sentence in federal prison in Colorado for mail bombs that
killed three people and injured 23 others in the U.S.  ‘Save Norway’  “What the court understands the accused believes that he
needed to carry out these acts in order to save Norway and
Western Europe from among other things cultural Marxism and
Muslim take over,” Heger said.  Breivik also posted a four-part video summarizing his
manifesto on YouTube. The chapters are titled “The Rise of
Cultural Marxism,” “Islamic Colonization,” “Hope,” and
“New Beginning.” 2083 refers to the year a new European
identity will emerge. The video, which featured pictures of
Breivik in a military uniform and pointing an assault rifle in a
wet suit, has since been removed.  Progress Party  Breivik became a member of the anti-immigrant Progress
Party, Norway’s second biggest, in 1999 and paid his membership
fees until 2004, party spokesman Mazyar Keshvari said in an e-
mail July 23. Breivik was also a member of the party’s youth
movement from 1997 to 2007, acting as deputy chairman for one of
the local Oslo chapters.  Breivik on his Facebook page lists John Stuart Mill’s “On
Liberty,” George Orwell’s “1984” and Franz Kafka’s “The
Trial” among his favorite books. “World of Warcraft” and
“Modern Warfare” were his preferred video games. Most of his
postings, the last of which was on July 18, relate to music
videos.  Breivik mentions German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  by name in
his manifesto, and refers to her Christian Democratic Union
party as “cultural Marxists.”  “One person with a belief is equal to the force of 100,000
who have only interests,” said the single posting on a Twitter
account bearing Breivik’s name, made on July 17, paraphrasing
Mill, an English philosopher and economist.  U.K. police are assisting Norwegian officials with the
probe to see if there is any connection between British and
Norwegian extremist groups, a spokesman for British Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said today. There was no link between the
perpetrator and  Germany , the Interior Ministry in Berlin said.  The attacks in the country that hosts the Nobel Peace Prize
were the deadliest in Europe since about 350 people were
massacred at a school in Beslan,  Russia , in 2004. Breivik’s
rampage on the island lasted 90 minutes, during which he is
alleged to have called on the youth to come to him for police
protection, before shooting them point-blank.  About 97 people were injured in the attacks, of whom 67
were from the island shootings, Oslo’s acting police chief
Sveinung Sponheim said at a press conference yesterday. Norway’s
Crown-Princess Mette-Marit’s step-brother is among the deceased,
the Royal Castle confirmed today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ; 