-- 
Mohamed Bin Hammam Banned for Life by Soccer Governing Body FIFA

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-24T12:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/mohamed-bin-hammam-banned-for-life-by-soccer-governing-body-fifa.html
Mohamed  Bin Hammam  was banned for
life by soccer’s governing body after being found guilty of
bribing voters in his attempt to defeat incumbent Sepp Blatter
for the presidency of FIFA.  The decision came after a two-day hearing in Zurich that
Bin Hammam didn’t attend. It follows a six-week investigation by
former U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation head Louis Freeh
into allegations Bin Hammam offered stacks of $40,000 to members
of the Caribbean Football Union.  “Mr. Bin Hammam is hereby banned from taking part in any
kind of football-related activity at national and international
level, administrative, sports and any other, for a period of
life,” Petrus Damaseb, deputy chairman of FIFA’s ethics
committee, said at a news conference yesterday.  Bin Hammam, a 62-year-old Qatari, rejected the findings and
maintained his innocence.  “We did not do anything wrong,” he told BBC Radio 5 Live’s
Sportsweek program today. “We played in compliance with the
rules and regulations of FIFA. I did not provide money for
distribution, or for buying votes or for bribing. I paid the
expenses of the congresses, the travel expenses, daily
allowances.”  Bin Hammam said the decision was certain even before his
case went before the ethics committee. He said he was being
punished for standing against Blatter for the presidency.  ‘Full of Revenge’  “Exactly, there is nothing else,” he said. “The ban for
life has already been written before the investigation started.
I was expecting it actually. The ban for life, that shows
how much these people are angry, how much they are full of
revenge.”  Earlier, Bin Hammam’s lawyer said his client would take the
legal fight further.  “He will continue to fight through the legal routes that
are open to him,” Eugene Gulland told reporters. “The FIFA
ethics committee has apparently based its decision on so-called
circumstantial evidence which, as our case has clearly
demonstrated, is bogus and is founded on lies by senior FIFA
officials.”  Bin Hammam’s exit follows the resignation last month of
 Jack Warner , a FIFA vice president, who was accused of helping
Bin Hammam’s bribery effort; he denied wrongdoing. FIFA has been
struggling with bribery accusations against board members and
corruption allegations involving the staging rights for its $4
billion  World Cup  after Russia and Qatar were selected to host
the 2018 and 2022 events.  Senior Official  Bin Hammam is the most-senior soccer official to have been
expelled. He and Warner, as well as two lower ranked Caribbean
officials, were initially suspended following an internal
inquiry on May 29, three days before FIFA’s presidential
election. Blatter was voted in for a fourth four-year term after
Bin Hammam withdrew from the race before his suspension.  FIFA yesterday suspended Debbie Minguell and Jason
Sylvester, the two Caribbean officials, for one year, Damaseb
said. FIFA executive committee member Chuck Blazer of the U.S.,
who informed the ruling body of the bribery, was also warned for
comments he directed at Caribbean soccer officials.  The corruption claims have hurt FIFA. Sponsors, former
players and fan groups have all demanded the organization change
the way it governs itself. Blatter said future World Cups would
be chosen by representatives of all 208 member associations, not
by the 24 senior executives who have decided up until now. He’s
also promised a raft of other measures as part of a “zero
tolerance” approach to wrongdoing.  “The decision was in keeping with the declared policy of
the committee to show zero tolerance towards unethical
behavior,” Damaseb said, adding he’ll ask FIFA for further
investigations into other Caribbean soccer officials at the May
meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  