-- 
Oil Falls in New York After U.S. Lawmakers Fail to Reach Debt Agreement

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-07-25T06:32:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/oil-falls-in-new-york-after-u-s-lawmakers-fail-to-reach-debt-agreement.html
Oil declined for the first time in
five days on concern a failure to reach a deal on raising the
U.S. debt limit may cause the nation to default, threatening the
economy of the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures slipped as much as 1.1 percent after House Speaker
 John Boehner  told Republicans that there’s no agreement on a
plan for increasing the ceiling before a default threatened for
Aug. 2. Standard & Poor’s has warned there is a 50 percent
chance it will lower the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating by
one or more levels. Greece’s long-term foreign currency debt was
cut three steps by Moody’s Investors Service today.  “It weighs on sentiment about demand prospects in the U.S.
and adds to the uncertainty of what is an uncertain time at the
moment,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who predicts oil will
average $113 a barrel in the third quarter. “The longer-term
structural problems in  Europe  still remain and it’s likely to
continue to be a risk for global growth for some time.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as $1.13 to
$98.74 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $98.88 at 4:27 p.m. Sydney time. The
contract advanced 2.7 percent last week, its fourth weekly gain.
Prices are 25 percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for September settlement dropped as much as 99
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $117.68 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract
traded at a premium of $18.93 a barrel to U.S. futures, compared
with a record close of $22.63 on July 14.  Financial Investors  Republicans prepared to force action on a shorter-term
extension of the limit than President  Barack Obama  has
requested, defying a veto threat. Obama would veto a measure
that doesn’t extend the limit into 2013, White House Chief of
Staff Bill Daley said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” yesterday.  “For the financial investors, if the debt issue is not
really resolved, they may cut a portion of their risky assets,”
said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Co. in
 Tokyo . “Crude oil is a kind of risky asset, so people may cut a
part of their portfolio.”  Any debt-limit increase must pass both the Republican-
controlled House and the Democratic-run Senate and be signed by
Obama. Democrats have resisted cuts to entitlement programs such
as Social Security and Medicare and called for higher taxes,
while Republicans have insisted a debt ceiling be accompanied by
corresponding spending cuts and no tax increases.  Hedge funds  raised net-long positions in crude oil by 8
percent to 182,285 in the week ended July 19, according to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of
Traders report.  Market Warning  Daley warned “markets around the world” would react
negatively to a short-term measure offering less than $2.4
trillion in borrowing authority. A Republican congressional
official said Boehner, speaking by telephone to lawmakers, is
reporting that discussions are continuing.  Even if Congress raises the limit in time to avert a
default,  Standard & Poor’s  might lower the U.S. AAA sovereign
credit rating to AA+ with a negative outlook if a deal isn’t
accompanied by a “credible solution” on the debt burden, it
said in a report July 21.  “In the event of a U.S. default, the dollar should weaken
further and as a consequence  oil prices  should rally, at least
until a commonly agreed solution to the U.S. situation is
reached,” said John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Riyadh-
based Banque Saudi Fransi. “As of yet, oil prices have not yet
priced in a U.S. default outcome fully.”  ‘React Negatively’  The dollar slipped 1.2 percent versus the Swiss franc, 0.2
percent against the yen and 0.1 percent versus the euro. S&P 500
futures expiring in September declined 0.9 percent to 1,328.70,
and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares in the region slipped
1.1 percent.  “Politicians in  Washington  will try their best to avert
the U.S.’s first default in history,” said Ehsan Ul-Haq, a
senior market analyst with KBC Energy Economics in Walton-on-
Thames,  England . “But if they fail to agree, markets will most
probably react negatively. However, the reaction is not likely
to be as severe as in the case of fears of Greek debt contagion
spreading to other European countries.”  Crude prices dropped 11 percent in the second quarter amid
concern Europe’s crisis threatened to derail the economy and
temper oil demand. European leaders announced 159 billion euros
($229 billion) in new aid for  Greece  on July 21. They also
empowered their 440 billion-euro rescue fund to buy debt across
stressed euro nations.  Greece’s sovereign credit rating was cut three steps by
Moody’s, which said in a statement today that the European
Union’s financing package for the debt-laden nation implies
“substantial economic losses” for private creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  