-- 
Mortgage Bond Sales Poised to Break Slump as Yields Compress: Japan Credit

-- B y   K o m a k i   I t o   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-07-25T05:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/mortgage-bond-sales-poised-to-break-slump-as-yields-compress-japan-credit.html
Sales of mortgage bonds are poised
to rise for the first time in five years as the securities help
fill a void created by utilities that pulled debt sales
following the world’s worst nuclear disaster since 1986.  Japan  Housing Finance Agency sold 172.7 billion yen ($2.2
billion) of 1.64 percent bonds tied to home loans on July 22
that yielded 52 basis points more than government bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
coupon of 1.92 percent and spread of 68 basis points on
residential mortgage-backed securities issued in March.  The narrowing spread in the mortgage bond market reflects
increased demand by banks and insurers seeking investment
alternatives to utility debt, which account for 20 percent of
outstanding corporate bonds in Japan.  Standard & Poor’s  forecast
offerings of RMBS may increase in 2001 for the first time in
five years after nuclear-plant operators stopped selling debt
after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami crippled  Tokyo
Electric  Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, leading to a
downgrade of the utility to below investment grade.  “Life insurers and banks are buying RMBS because of the
tightening we’re seeing since the disaster and as they seek for
investments in the credit market,” said Yukio Egawa, chief
strategist and the head of the research division at Shinsei
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Investments for utility bonds are
flowing into the RMBS market, which still offers attractive
spread.”  Fixed Rate  Japan Housing buys home loans from financial institutions
and packages them as securities for sale to investors. It also
offers a loan where the interest rate is fixed for as long as 35
years, according to its  web site .  About 1.7 trillion yen of S&P-rated mortgage bonds were
issued in 2010, 16.2 percent less than 2009, according to the
debt-grading company. Japan Housing accounted for 90 percent of
the offerings, with the rest by private financial institutions,
mainly banks, according to a report from S&P dated July 8.  Sales will likely continue as Japan Housing’s “Flat 35”
loan, which offers some discounts, runs until the end of the
year, according to S&P. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, using
data from the agency’s outlook,, forecasts issuance to total
2.36 trillion yen in the current fiscal year through March 2012,
590.4 billion yen more than the business year ended March 31.  “We want to buy more RMBS,” said Yasuharu Takamatsu,
deputy president and head of investments at Meiji Yasuda Life
Insurance Co., Japan’s third-largest life insurer. “But we are
unable to buy the targeted amount because it’s gotten way too
popular now.”  Shrinking Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own mortgage-backed
securities instead of government debt has declined to 24 basis
points as of July 22 after surging to 32 basis points on April
1, Nomura Securities Co. index data show. The premium was 12
basis points before the earthquake.  In the U.S., where defaults on subprime home loans
triggered the global credit freeze in 2008, the yield premium on
mortgage bond securities versus  government bonds  rose to 45
basis points as of July 22 from 38 basis points at the end of
2010, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Mortgage
Master Index.  Home loans from the worst-hit regions -- Iwate, Miyagi and
Fukushima prefectures, make up 2.4 percent of assets pooled to
back mortgage notes for this month’s sale, 0.8 percentage point
less than last month, according to Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley.  ‘Limited’ Impact  “This month’s sale will have hardly any impact from the
Great East Japan Earthquake,” Nobuhiko Anbiru, senior credit
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report
dated July 14. “Other than the fact that the earthquake will
have some effect on cash flows, the impact on credit worthiness
of the agency will be limited.”  Demand for mortgage bonds is rising after Kansai Electric
Power Co., Japan’s second-largest operator of nuclear reactors,
and regional power provider Kyushu Electric Power Co. pulled
bond offerings last month. Sales of corporate bonds fell 35
percent to a five-year low of 1.82 trillion yen in the three
months through June 30, compared with a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The absence of utility bonds with high rates and
relatively large issuance are prompting financial firms to go
after RMBS as the spreads tighten,” said Hisayoshi Nogawa, a
structured credit strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan
Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Life insurers have favored RMBS because of the
relative duration it offers and we will likely see continued
demand from them.”  Falling Yields  Japanese mortgage holders are taking advantage of the
lowest borrowing costs in the developed world. The  Bank of Japan 
has kept the benchmark overnight rate between zero and 0.1
percent since October and is buying assets ranging from
corporate debt to real-estate investment trusts to try to beat
deflation.  The yield on Japan’s 10-year government bond slid to an
eight-month low of 1.06 percent last week and was at 1.09
percent today. That’s the least among 32 bond markets tracked by
Bloomberg. Ten-year debt yields 2.825 percent in Germany and
2.992 percent in the U.S.  Japan’s two-year overnight index swap rate, an indication
of what traders expect the central bank’s key  interest rate  will
average during the period, was at 0.0875 percent, signaling no
change in the BOJ’s current target range of zero to 0.1 percent.  Liquidity Watch  To be sure, while RMBS will provide higher yield for
insurers, liquidity will be less than Japanese government bonds,
said Kenji Kawada, senior analyst at Moody’s Japan KK in Tokyo.  “If RMBS starts to make up a bigger portion of insurers’
portfolio, it is important to see the potential impact,” he
said.  The trend by investors seeking alternatives to utility
bonds may continue to push demand for mortgage bonds higher
until government lawmakers pass a measure to compensate victims
of the nuclear disaster, said BNP’s Nogawa.  Japan aims to create an entity to handle claims against
Tokyo Electric, according to a draft of the bill. The third-
party body will issue bonds to fund compensation, be allowed to
acquire assets owned by the utility, and receive bank loans that
are guaranteed by the government, according to the bill.  “I’m hearing that demand for RMBS is too high now that
investors are struggling to secure the amount they want,”
Nogawa said. “Given how there is money that needs to be
invested, this trend will likely continue for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net ;
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  