-- 
RBA to Raise Rates Three Times in Coming Year on Mining Boom, Access Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-24T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/rba-to-raise-rates-three-times-in-coming-year-on-mining-boom-access-says.html
Australia’s central bank will
increase  interest rates  three times in the coming year as a
mining boom boosts wages and helps the economy recover from
natural disasters, a Deloitte Access Economics report showed.  High resource prices and strong demand will boost
Australian incomes and there won’t be enough workers to satisfy
jobs growth, and that will push up wages, the Business Outlook
report released in Canberra said.  “That boils down to a strong demand-weak supply scenario
of the kind that makes central bankers sweat,” the research
company said, forecasting “three official interest rate
increases in the coming year -- though none in the next little
while.”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens has kept
the official cash rate unchanged since November 2010 as the
economy recovered from the country’s costliest floods and the
labor market lost 5,400 jobs between April and June, the weakest
quarter since 2001. At 4.75 percent, the rate is the highest
among the world’s developed economies.  Increased lending rates and a high Australian dollar, which
has gained 22 percent in the past year, will crimp non-mining
areas like tourism, manufacturing, farming and retailers,
“intensifying” pressures from a two-speed economy, according
to the report.  “The two speed economy pressures on the industrial
landscape are intensifying,” the report said. “Many families
are doing it tough and the likes of the retailers would hurt
like hell if rates rose further.”  Australia ’s recovery from flooding earlier this year in
Queensland, the nation’s biggest coal-exporting state, is taking
longer than forecast, the report said, reflecting comments from
the central bank last week.  The economy will grow 1.9 percent in the year ended June 30
and 3.5 percent the following year, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra on 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  