-- 
Treasuries Drop After Pimco’s El-Erian Says U.S. May Lose Rating

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-07-25T13:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/treasuries-decline-after-obama-lawmakers-fail-to-agree-over-debt-ceiling.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 30-year
yields to a two-week high, after Mohamed A. El-Erian at Pacific
Investment Management Co. said the U.S. may lose its AAA debt
rating even if lawmakers reach a plan to avoid a default.  The long bond led declines. El-Erian, whose firm runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, said a compromise on raising the
borrowing limit this close to the Aug. 2 deadline will leave the
rating “extremely vulnerable.” President  Barack Obama  and
House Speaker  John Boehner  are in a stalemate over how to
increase the ceiling so the U.S. can keep servicing its debt.
The Treasury will sell $99 billion of notes this week.  “It’s all about what’s going on in D.C.,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “It’s the concerns over no resolution to the debt
ceiling issue. Every time we get new concerns over it, the long
bond underperforms. The longer we wait, the greater the chance
of a downgrade of U.S. debt.”  Thirty-year bond yields climbed eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 4.34 percent at 9:21 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the highest
level since July 8. The price of the 4.375 percent security
maturing in May 2041 dropped 1 3/8, or $13.75 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 19/32.  Ten-year yields increased six basis points to 3.02 percent.
They rose six basis points last week, reaching 3.04 percent on
July 21, the highest level since July 11, still below the 10-
year average of 4.05 percent.  Note Auctions  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year securities
tomorrow, the same amount of five-year notes the next day and
$29 billion of seven-year debt on July 28. The amounts are the
same as at the past nine offerings of the three securities.  Talks between Republicans and Democrats on the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling have reached an impasse.  Boehner told fellow Republicans on a conference call
yesterday they needed to pull together to block Obama’s attempt
to win a $2.4 trillion increase in the debt-ceiling without any
guarantees of spending cuts. He’s considering a plan that would
provide an immediate, stopgap borrowing boost of about $1
trillion tied to the same amount of spending cuts, and future
votes on further spending reductions tied to the remainder of
the debt-limit increase.  Obama would veto such a measure, White House Chief of Staff
Bill Daley said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press,”
warning that “markets around the world” would react
negatively.  Reid Package  The Senate’s top Democrat,  Harry Reid , readied his own
proposal, which would hand Obama the full $2.4 trillion in
additional borrowing authority he has requested, enough to last
through the 2012 elections. It’s tied to $2.7 trillion of cuts
that would leave Medicare and Medicaid untouched, a Senate
Democratic aide said yesterday on condition of anonymity.  “In most likelihood, a last-minute political compromise
will avoid a default but will leave the AAA rating extremely
vulnerable,” El-Erian, the  Newport Beach , California-based
chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer at
Pimco, wrote in an e-mail.  Bill Gross , who runs the $243 billion  Pimco Total Return
Fund (PTTRX) , increased his holdings of Treasuries to 8 percent of
assets in June from 5 percent the previous month, according to
the company’s website.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the
government will run out of options to prevent a default on Aug.
2 unless the debt ceiling is increased. The impasse has boosted
the chance  Standard & Poor’s  will cut the U.S. credit rating
from AAA within three months to 50 percent, the company
reiterated on July 21.  China  Confident  China central-bank adviser Xia Bin said he’s confident U.S.
leaders will agree on a plan. China is America’s largest
creditor, holding $1.16 trillion of U.S. debt.  “What would the U.S. do if an agreement were to fail?”
Xia, who is based in Beijing, said today in a telephone
interview. “They will definitely reach an agreement.”  Greece ’s long-term foreign currency debt was cut three
steps to Ca from Caa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, which said
the European Union’s financing package for the debt-laden nation
implies “substantial economic losses” for private creditors.  ‘Train Wreck’  “The sovereign debt crisis is a slow-moving train wreck,”
said  George Goncalves , head of interest rate strategy at Nomura
Holdings Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly
with the  Federal Reserve .  Derivatives show it’s riskier to hold German bunds than
Treasuries even as the U.S. faces a possible default.  Credit-default swaps tied to bunds jumped about 39 percent
this month, pushing the cost of insuring against losses above
that for  U.S. debt . That hasn’t happened since April. All 20
strategists and economists surveyed by Bloomberg say yields on
10-year German securities will rise by year-end, after falling
as investors sought a haven from the region’s debt turmoil.  Bond traders are concerned at the costs  Germany  will face
as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  leads the bailout of cash-strapped
partners among the 17 nations that share the currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  