-- 
Japan’s Food-Chain Threat Multiplies as Fukushima Radiation Spreads

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-07-25T08:59:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/threat-to-japanese-food-chain-multiplies-as-cesium-contamination-spreads.html
Radiation fallout from the wrecked
Fukushima nuclear plant poses a growing threat to  Japan ’s food
chain as unsafe levels of cesium found in beef on supermarket
shelves were also detected in more vegetables and the ocean.  More than 2,600 cattle have been contaminated,  Kyodo News 
reported July 23, after the Miyagi local government  said  1,183
cattle at 58 farms were fed hay containing radioactive cesium
before being shipped to meat markets.  Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano has said officials
didn’t foresee that farmers might ship contaminated hay to
cattle ranchers. That highlights the government’s inability to
think ahead and to act, said Mariko Sano, secretary general for
Shufuren, a housewives organization in  Tokyo .  “The government is so slow to move,” Sano said. “They’ve
done little to ensure  food safety .”  Aeon Co., Japan’s biggest supermarket chain, said today
4,108 kilograms (9,056 pounds) of beef suspected of being
contaminated was inadvertantly put on sale at 174 stores across
Japan. Supermarkets started testing beef after the Tokyo
Metropolitan Government found radioactive cesium in slaughtered
cattle this month.  The government on July 19 banned cattle shipments from
Fukushima prefecture, though not before some had been
slaughtered and shipped to supermarkets. A ban on shiitake
mushrooms from another part of Fukushima was introduced on July
23 because of cesium levels, the health ministry said.  Seafood Concerns  “Some areas still have high radiation dosages and if you
also eat products from these areas, you’ll get a considerable
amount of radiation,” said Sentaro Takahashi, a professor of
radiation control at  Kyoto University  in western Japan. “This
is why the government needs to do something fast.”  Radiation in food is measured in becquerel, a gauge of the
strength of radioactivity in materials such as Iodine-131 and
Cesium-137.  As much as 2,300 becquerels of cesium a kilogram was
detected in the contaminated beef, according to a July 18
statement from the health ministry. The government limit is 500
becquerels per kilogram.  Seafood is another concern after cesium-134 in seawater
near the Fukushima plant climbed to levels 30 times the allowed
safety standards last week, according to tests performed by
Tokyo Electric Power Co, national broadcaster NHK reported.  Voluntary Testing  “We need to monitor the cesium 134 level detected in
seawater around the plant,” Tetsuo Ito, the head of the Atomic
Energy Research Institute at Kinki University in central Japan,
said by phone today. “The increase could be from seawater
churned by swells from the recent typhoon, but it’s possible
that contaminated groundwater leaked from the plant.”  Japan has no centralized system to check for radiation
contamination of food, leaving local authorities and farmers
conducting voluntary tests. Products including spinach,
mushrooms, bamboo shoots, tea, milk, plums and fish have been
found contaminated with cesium and iodine as far as 360
kilometers from Dai-Ichi.  Hay contaminated with as much as 690,000 becquerels a
kilogram, compared with a government safety standard of 300
becquerels, has been fed to cattle. Cattle with unsafe levels of
the radioactive element were detected in four prefectures, the
health ministry said July 23.  Radioactive Decay  A becquerel represents one radioactive decay per second,
which involves the release of atomic energy that can damage
human cells and DNA, with prolonged exposure causing leukemia
and other forms of cancer, according to the  World Nuclear
Association .  Four months after the earthquake and tsunami damage to the
Fukushima plant, local governments short of equipment, staff and
funds are struggling to test all farm products.  The government is considering whether it’s feasible to test
all cattle to prevent shipments of tainted meat to market,
according to Yasuo Sasaki, senior press counselor for the
agriculture ministry.  On June 6, Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency
said the plant released about 770,000 tera becquerels of
radioactive material into the air between March 11 and March 16,
doubling an earlier estimate.  That’s about 14 percent of the radiation emitted in the
Chernobyl disaster in modern-day Ukraine. About 2 million people
in Ukraine are under permanent medical monitoring, 25 years
after the accident, according to the nation’s embassy in Tokyo.  While 203 people were hospitalized and 31 died after the
explosion at Chernobyl, about 400,000 children are considered to
have received significant doses of radiation to their thyroid
that merit monitoring, the embassy said.  Cases of thyroid cancer in  Belarus , which neighbors
Ukraine, increased for at least 10 years after 1986 in children
younger than 14 and for almost 20 years among 20-24 year olds,
according to research by Shunichi Yamashita of Nagasaki
University, who was appointed as an adviser to Fukushima
prefecture on  radiation exposure .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  