-- 
Renaissance Capital’s Tchakarov Comments on U.S. Debt, Markets

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-07-24T16:57:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/renaissance-capital-s-tchakarov-comments-on-u-s-debt-markets.html
Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, comments on how U.S. debt talks
may affect emerging markets. He spoke by telephone from the
Russian capital today.  “I think that when the markets open on Monday not only
emerging markets but all markets will fall, because
unfortunately the deadline is approaching.”  “The closer the deadline, the more nervous markets will
become. So I definitely think that tomorrow we are going to have
some decline in the market.”  “Russia may suffer even a little bit more than the average
emerging market economy.”  “Most investors and analysts are operating under the
assumption that some resolution will be found before Aug. 2.
There does not seem to be appetite in  United States  or public
support for a default. This is very different than back in 2008
during the Lehman case, when there was a desire in the public
domain for major investment bank collapses. Again, I think the
lesson was learnt and at this point in time the assumption is
this will not happen. It is difficult to speculate how much
markets will fall, but one thing is sure: the closer we get to
the deadline, the bigger the losses will be.”  “If the United States were not to pass an increase in the
debt ceiling, interest rates in the United States would probably
rise. And because of the very interconnected global market, this
would mean that  interest rates  around the world would rise,
including in emerging markets. Even more so, because usually
what happens is that when interest rates in developed economies
increase, interest rates in emerging markets rise more, because
actually markets place a certain risk premium on investing in
emerging markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  