-- 
S&P 500 Profit Pain Ends in Greece as Sales From Europe Drop

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-07-25T20:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/s-p-500-profit-pain-ends-in-greece-as-europe-revenue-drops-to-21-of-total.html
For all the anxiety about  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis, U.S. companies depend on the region for a
shrinking portion of sales.  Europe accounts for about 21 percent of Standard & Poor’s
500 Index revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from
185 companies that disclose results for the region. That’s down
from 23 percent in 2008. The companies posted a 10 percent drop
in their European sales during that period, the data show.  Concern that Greece will default and trigger another global
financial crisis has curbed the S&P 500 this year, leaving the
index with a 1.9 percent loss since reaching its 2011 peak of
1,363.61 on April 29. Financial reports show companies from
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  to  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  may be shielded
as sales in the U.S. and emerging markets grow.  “There’s enough good news out there that we think U.S.
equities are going to overcome Europe,”  David Goerz , the San
Francisco-based chief investment officer at HighMark Capital
Management Inc., said in a telephone interview on July 20.  “What we do see is that there’s still tremendous
opportunities for U.S. companies,” said Goerz, whose firm
manages $17.2 billion. “Companies seem very focused on the
bottom line, and they continue to produce very high profit
margins that just aren’t dissipating.”  Greek Debt  Greek public debt that ballooned to 1.43 times gross
domestic product has contaminated Europe’s financial markets and
sent government bond yields in  Italy  and  Spain  to records last
week before leaders announced measures to keep the crisis from
spreading. The euro gained 1.4 percent to $1.4360 last week.  At Intel in Santa Clara,  California , and Benton Harbor,
Michigan-based Whirlpool, reliance on Europe is shrinking as
Latin America and  Asia  become bigger sources of sales.  The S&P 500 rose 2.2 percent to 1,345.02 last week after
companies from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to Morgan Stanley and Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. topped analysts’ profit estimates and Europe
pledged support for Greece to end the region’s debt crisis.  The index retreated 0.6 percent to 1,337.43 today as a
political stalemate over raising the U.S. government’s debt
ceiling intensified, spurring concern the nation will default.  Company Profits  For the 128  S&P 500  companies that have posted quarterly
results since July 11, earnings climbed an average of 19
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Between July 20 and
July 22, analysts boosted estimates for S&P 500 profit during
the final three months of 2011 by 2.3 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the biggest two-day increase for the
quarter after the current one in records going back to 2006.  “Having Europe on board with the recovery certainly helps,
but I do think we can carry on if it’s not,”  Jack Ablin , who
oversees $55 billion as chief investment officer for Chicago-
based Harris Private Bank, said in a July 20 phone interview.
“It seems the on-the-ground analysts are right. They’re inside,
they’re talking to companies, and they’re doing it in a way that
they’re able to ignore a lot of these daunting headlines, and
seeing that the fundamentals are still going to be there.”  Sales at Coca-Cola, the world’s largest soft-drink maker,
would still rise 14 percent this year if its European business
disappeared, Bloomberg data show. Revenue in the region has
slipped to 14 percent of the company’s total from 17 percent in
2008. The Atlanta-based company said last week that second-
quarter revenue climbed 13 percent in  Latin America  and 15
percent in Coca-Cola’s Eurasia and Africa division.  Intel, Whirlpool  Europe plunged to 13 percent of Intel’s sales in 2010 from
24 percent in 2000. The contribution from the Asia-Pacific
region almost doubled to 67 percent, helping the world’s biggest
chipmaker beat analyst earnings and revenue projections for the
past eight quarters, Bloomberg data show. On July 20, Intel
forecast more third-quarter sales than analysts projected,
bolstered by first-time purchases in emerging markets. The
shares are up 1 percent since the report.  About 17 percent of sales at Whirlpool come from Europe,
down from 21 percent in 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That translates to 8.1 percent of 2010 operating profit. The
world’s largest appliance maker would see an 11 percent increase
in earnings this year, without any help from Europe, according
to analyst projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Worldwide Panic  Wasif Latif, vice president of equity investments at USAA
Investment Management Co. in San Antonio, which oversees $50
billion, said in a telephone interview on July 21 that a
collapse in European earnings brought on by the sovereign debt
crisis could spur panic worldwide and U.S. shares would plunge.  The 32 European nations tracked by Bloomberg had combined
gross domestic product of $18 trillion in 2009, more than the
U.S. at $14.1 trillion. Losses similar to the 2008 financial
crisis would bleed into U.S. profits through local operations,
Latif said.  “The global capital markets and the economies of the world
are so intertwined and interlinked, a crisis in one corner of
the world cannot be ignored by the rest of us,” Latif said.
“Part of me says I’d rather not know what the ultimate impact
would be because of what we saw in ‘08.”  A sovereign default or a  credit event  in Europe “would
likely trigger contagion to the core euro-area economies with
severe economic consequences,” according to an International
Monetary Fund staff report released July 19. To avoid such a
reaction, euro-area leaders decided last week in Brussels to
empower their 440 billion ($632 billion) rescue fund to buy debt
across the 17 nations that share the common currency.  Moody’s Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded  Greece ’s sovereign
credit rating by three steps to Ca today, saying the European
Union plan implies “substantial” losses for private creditors.  Government measures to bail out indebted countries will
keep Europe’s crisis from spurring losses like those from the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. in September 2008,
according to First Citizens BancShares Inc.’s Eric Teal. The
 Federal Reserve  and  U.S. Treasury  didn’t create the Troubled
Asset Relief Program or organize aid efforts until after Lehman
Brothers filed for bankruptcy and sent the S&P 500 down 4.7
percent twice in the same week.  “If the prospects are that the contagion spreads to other
European countries and their financial institutions and it grows
to become a systematic problem, then it would have a Lehman-
level impact,” Teal, who helps manage $4 billion as chief
investment officer at First Citizens in Raleigh,  North Carolina ,
said in a July 20 telephone interview. “But if it’s smaller
than that, which seems to be the case here, investors will get
past it. With all of that, our favorite market is still the
U.S.”  S&P 500 Valuations  Sales in the S&P 500 will rise to $1,041.45 a share this
year, the highest ever, analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
show. Earnings are forecast to gain 18 percent to $99.60 a
share. Profits from all countries in Europe represent about
$17.92 of that amount, data from Bank of America Corp. and
Bloomberg show. Should Europe default or the crisis worsen
enough to push those earnings to zero, analysts’ projections
show the S&P 500 would earn $81.67 a share.  At the lower level, the S&P 500 is trading at 16.5 times
earnings, in line with the average using reported results of
16.4, Bloomberg data starting in 1954 show. The index has been
trading at about 14.9 times reported profit this month and 13.4
times 2011 projections.  Beating Estimates  S&P 500 companies are beating analyst estimates by 8
percent during this second-quarter earnings season. During the
three-month period that ended June 30, the index slipped 0.4
percent, the first quarterly drop in a year. While investors may
have shied away from equities as European concerns took hold,
companies are proving they’re positioned to weather the region’s
woes.  “The mistake that earnings forecasters have made is
underestimating how good companies can be in growing earnings in
a very slow-growing global economy,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-
based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment Management,
said in a telephone interview on July 21. His firm manages $550
billion. “Modest growth in the developed world plus reasonably
good growth in the emerging world, I think, puts the whole story
together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  