-- 
Samsung May Have Surpassed Apple, Nokia in Second-Quarter Smartphone Sales

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-25T06:48:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/samsung-may-have-surpassed-nokia-apple-in-second-quarter-smartphone-sales.html
Samsung Electronics Co., maker of
the Galaxy mobile phone, may have surpassed  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  in smartphone sales for the first time on demand for
devices that run on Android software, a research company said.  Samsung is estimated to have sold between 18 million and 21
million smartphones globally in the April-June quarter, compared
with 16.7 million for Nokia and 20.3 million iPhones,  Neil Mawston , a London-based analyst at  Strategy Analytics , a
research company based in  Boston , said in an e-mailed response
to questions on July 22. The data exclude tablet-computer sales.  The estimates show  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android is gaining ground
on Apple in smartphones as Nokia, which is turning to Microsoft
Corp. for software support, struggles to keep up with the pace.
Samsung, which also produces low-end phones that aren’t capable
of downloading applications, has said it aims to more than
double sales of high-end devices this year.  “Samsung’s Android portfolio is selling strongly in most
regions,” said Mawston. “Samsung stands a reasonable chance of
capturing the top spot on a quarterly basis if it can continue
expanding its Android portfolio across high-growth markets like
 China  and  Brazil . Samsung and Apple will be at similar levels in
smartphones by the end of the year.”  Catching Nokia  Including basic phones, Samsung will probably have a 20
percent share this year, compared with Nokia’s 26 percent,
closing the gap between the world’s two largest handset makers
to the narrowest ever, he said.  Samsung wasn’t immediately able to verify the figures, said
Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for the Suwon, South Korea-
based company.  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple,
declined to comment.  Cherry Gong, a Nokia spokeswoman in China, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Samsung fell 0.4 percent to 847,000 won at the 3:00 p.m.
close in Seoul, while  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index lost 1
percent. The shares have declined 11 percent this year.  Samsung’s global smartphone sales had lagged behind Nokia,
Apple and  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  in the first quarter,
according to researcher International Data Corp.  The South Korean company’s sales are accelerating after it
began selling the  Galaxy S II , a successor to its best-selling
Android device introduced last year to counter Apple.  New Galaxy  Samsung planned to roll out the model in 120 countries
through 140 operators from May, the company said in April. The
latest Galaxy handset went on sale last week in five cities in
China, including Beijing and  Shanghai , as the company seeks to
make a push into the world’s largest market for mobile phones.  The latest 4.27-inch Galaxy phone, unveiled in February,
helped Samsung more than double operating profit at its mobile
phone business in the second quarter, according to five analysts
polled by Bloomberg News.  Apple reported net income that beat estimates on July 19,
lifted by record sales of iPhones and iPads. In contrast, Nokia
reported its first quarterly loss since 2009 as the Finnish
company struggles to sell handsets based on its 10-year-old
Symbian software.  Cupertino, California-based Apple plans to introduce a new
iPhone in September that boasts a stronger chip for processing
data and a more advanced camera, two people familiar with the
product said last month.  Lawsuits  Apple sued Samsung in April, claiming the Galaxy products
“slavishly” copied technologies and designs used in the iPad
and iPhone. The suit against Samsung added to its patent fights
with Android-device makers including Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498) , with the Google software gaining market
share.  Android’s share will rise to 44 percent by 2015 from 39
percent this year, according to a forecast by IDC. Global sales
of smartphones will soar 55 percent to 472 million units this
year, according to the researcher.  Samsung is also tapping consumers looking for lower-priced
models with devices using its own Bada software. It plans to
introduce a new model based on the system in the second half,
J.K. Shin, head of Samsung’s mobile-phone division, said July 20.  The debut of a new iPhone may slow the momentum for Samsung,
Mawston said.  “Samsung will need to work hard to hold off that
competitive threat,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  