-- 
O’Hair Wins Golf’s Canadian Open to End 12-Tournament Prize Money Drought

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-25T04:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/sean-o-hair-wins-pga-tour-s-canadian-open-in-playoff-over-kris-blanks.html
Sean O’Hair  couldn’t hold back the
tears after his playoff win at golf’s Canadian Open, where he
ended a season-long slump in which he failed to earn any prize
money in nine of his previous 12 tournaments.  O’Hair, 29, collected his fourth career U.S. PGA Tour title
by beating fellow American Kris Blanks with a bogey on the first
hole of a playoff yesterday at Shaughnessy Golf & Country Club
in  Vancouver .  “It’s been a humbling year,” O’Hair, whose last win came
at the 2009 Quail Hollow Championship, said in a televised
interview. “It’s been a tough road and I’ve had a lot of people
help me to get to this point.”  O’Hair received $936,000 for the win, which came four days
after he struggled in the tournament’s pro-am competition.  “I played horrific,” O’Hair said at a news conference
about his final practice round. “Wednesday night was my worst
point of the whole year. I didn’t know how I was going to play
this week and to be sitting here is amazing.”  O’Hair’s best previous finish this year was a tie for 16th
at the Crowne Plaza Invitational in May and he missed the cut
for weekend play in 10 of his previous 17 starts.  O’Hair and Blanks went to the playoff after finishing tied
at 4-under par through 72 holes, one shot better than Andres Romero of  Argentina .  Only five other players finished below par in Vancouver,
including Adam Hadwin, who was seeking to become the first
Canadian to win the tournament since Pat Fletcher in 1954. The
23-year-old Hadwin, who plays on the Canadian Tour, birdied
three of his final seven holes to finish at 2 under par.  The Canadian Open was the first PGA Tour event without a
bogey-free round by any player since the 2010 U.S. Open at
 Pebble Beach . It was the first non-major tournament without a
bogey-free round since the 2008  Players Championship . The
average score of 2.52 strokes above par was the third-highest
this season, trailing the British Open and Honda Classic.  The  PGA Tour  now moves to White Sulphur Springs,  West
Virginia , for the $6 million Greenbrier Classic, which is
 scheduled  for July 28-31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  