-- 
South African Strikes May Spell Bleak Future For One-in-Four Without Work

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-25T09:44:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/south-african-strikes-may-spell-bleak-future-for-one-in-four-without-work.html
Work stoppages in South Africa may
reach record levels this year as unions demand inflation-busting
pay increases that threaten to deter investment and worsen the
25 percent unemployment rate.  Strikes by petroleum, chemical, engineering and packaging
workers curbed factory production and interrupted supplies from
refineries owned by  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/) 
this month, causing fuel shortages. Tens of thousands of coal
miners employed by companies including  Anglo American Plc (AGL) ,
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  have also downed tools and
gold and platinum miners have threatened to follow suit.  “For some of the labor leaders to be absolutely insistent
and inflexible about double-digit salary increases, is not
sustainable,” Bonang Mohale, chairman of Shell’s South African
unit, said by phone from Johannesburg on July 20. “We end up
having fewer, not more jobs. In this ultracompetitive
environment, if you as a country aren’t growing, you’re dying.”  Workers won average pay raises of 5.2 percentage points
over the inflation rate last year and 3.2 percent in 2009, more
than in  Brazil , the U.S. or any country in the European Union
except for Bulgaria. Pay increases have outstripped productivity
gains for three years, adding to industry costs, even as a 38
percent surge in the rand against the dollar since the start of
2009 damps exports. The rand fell 0.4 percent to 6.7999 per
dollar at 11:26 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Strikes and Unemployment  The jump in costs has made companies, which fired a million
workers following the recession in 2009, reluctant to re-hire.
 Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK) , South Africa’s second-biggest grocer,
this month said it plans to fire 3,137 workers, or 8.6 percent
of its workforce, to trim labor costs.  The 25 percent jobless rate, the highest of 61 countries
ranked by Bloomberg, is little changed from a peak of 25.3
percent in the third quarter of last year, even though the
economy has expanded for seven successive quarters. The number
of people in work fell 14,000 to 13.1 million in the first
quarter, the statistics agency said on May 3.  Unions representing about 320,000 workers in the metals and
engineering industries agreed to 8 percent pay increases for the
next two years on July 17 after downing tools for two weeks. Oil
industry workers, who are demanding pay raises of at least 10
percent, have been on strike since July 11.  South Africa ’s
inflation rate is 5 percent.  Coal Miners  Coal miners, who are demanding a 14 percent pay increase,
went on strike yesterday, said  Lesiba Seshoka , spokesman for the
National Union of Mineworkers. Managers have offered 8.5
percent, according to Frans Barker, their lead negotiator, who
estimates the labor action may involve about 30,000 workers.  Share of Anglo American, the largest investor in South
African mining, fell 68 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 334.78 rand at
11:29 a.m. in Johannesburg, while those of Exxaro dropped 2.51
rand, or 1.4 percent, to 183.99 rand.  De Beers, the world’s largest diamond company, has been
contending with a separate strike since July 22, when some of
its South African employees walked off the job after failing to
win raises of as much 10 percent. The company, which says it is
still assessing how many workers have downed tools, is offering
7 percent increases.  Wage talks affecting 160,000 gold industry workers resume
today and unions say they will strike if their demands for a 14
percent increase are not met. Employers, including  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , are offering maximum 5.5
percent increases.  Labor Relations  “Companies are very quietly agreeing to high wage
settlements and then just laying off workers,” Loane Sharp, an
analyst at  Adcorp Holdings Ltd. (ADR) , a Johannesburg-based
recruitment company, said on July 15. “They are not going to
stop.”  South Africa lost a record 14.6 million days to strikes
last year, compared with a peak of about 9 million under
apartheid in the 1980’s, Jackie Kelly, an analyst at Andrew Levy
Employment, a Johannesburg-based research company, said on June
21. Strike action is expected to escalate 22 percent this year,
Sharp said.  The adoption of the Labor Relations Act in 1995, which
promoted collective bargaining, has fueled strike action,
according to Adcorp. The  World Economic Forum ’s 2010 Global
Competitiveness Report, which ranked 139 countries, found South
Africa had the eighth-highest level of industrial conflict.  “Labor relations are much more contentious in South Africa
than other emerging market economies,” the World Bank said in a
July 20 report. “This is an implicit tax on investment, partly
explaining why global investors, armed with options, have
eschewed long-horizon opportunities in South Africa.”  Investment Record  Investment as a percentage of gross domestic product was
21.7 percent in South Africa last year, compared with 48.8
percent in  China , 37.9 percent in  India  and 32.5 percent in
 Indonesia , according to the  International Monetary Fund . Foreign
direct investment in South Africa was 11.4 billion rand in 2010,
0.004 percent of GDP.  “Businesses can make do with less labor,” Jac Laubscher,
group economist of Cape Town-based  Sanlam Ltd. (SLM) , the biggest
South African-based life insurer, said on July 18. Strikes and
rising labor costs “just make it more attractive for them to
mechanize.”  South African labor unions point to pay awards for
management that outstrip anything workers are receiving to
justify their own demands.  Inequality  A study by accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers found the
median salaries of executive directors of the 40 biggest
companies on the Johannesburg exchange rose 23 percent to 4.8
million rand ($709,000) last year, while their short-term
bonuses surged 58 percent to 3.8 million rand.  South Africa’s Gini coefficient, a measure of income
inequality, is 0.68, according to the Treasury, one of the
highest in the world and higher than at the end of apartheid. A
reading of zero means complete equality, while a reading of one
means complete inequality.  “Wage negotiations should not be viewed in isolation, but
treated as one of the tools to be used to address the triple
crisis of poverty, unemployment and inequality,” the 2-million
member Congress of South African Trade Unions said in a July 7
e-mail. “The most concrete way to address this inequality is to
close the wage gap.”  As workers and managers win higher wages, Shell’s Mohale
says the chances of the 12 million unemployed finding work are
diminishing.  “The country is now gripped in an extremely pessimistic
mood,” he said. “When business is pessimistic, it errs on the
side of caution at a time we need to be expansionary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders in  London  at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 