-- 
Stoltenberg Faces Norway Grief as Island Killings Turn Paradise Into Hell

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-25T15:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/stoltenberg-faces-norway-grief-as-attacks-turn-paradise-to-hell.html
Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is
struggling to steer  Norway  through its deepest trauma since
World War II as the Nordic bastion of equality comes to grips
with last week’s mass killings by a right-wing extremist.  Sixty-eight people were gunned down on July 22 at a Labor
Party youth camp on the island of Utoeya, northwest of Oslo.
Stoltenberg, who leads the Labor Party, said that the “paradise
island of my youth” had been “transformed into hell.” The
killer, 32-year-old Norwegian national Anders Behring Breivik,
confessed to the shooting and a separate bombing that killed
eight people. Police today revised down an earlier estimate of
93 casualties.  Norway, the world’s second-richest nation per capita after
Luxembourg, is reeling from  Europe ’s worst attack since the 2004
school massacre in Beslan,  Russia , claimed about 350 lives. Home
to Europe’s lowest jobless rate and biggest  budget surplus ,
Norway must now come to terms with a threat of violence normally
associated with less stable societies, the prime minister said.  “We are a small, peaceful nation,” said Stoltenberg, 52.
“We’re not used to dealing with terror. We’ll not be naïve,
we’ll understand that violence is also something that can hit
our society.”  Terrorism Threat  Norway didn’t take the threat of terrorism seriously,
according to a  2009 U.S. diplomatic memorandum  distributed by
Wikileaks and posted on the Aftenposten newspaper’s website. The
document focused on the threat of Islamist attacks.  President  Barack Obama , who received the Nobel Peace Prize
in Oslo in 2009, told reporters that the attacks demonstrate the
need for enhanced intelligence sharing.  The assassin, a former member of Norway’s anti-immigrant
Progress Party, is described on a Facebook page bearing his name
and image as a conservative Christian who is critical of Islam
and fond of hunting.  Breivik had disguised himself as a police officer before
opening fire on young  Labor Party  members. About 600 people had
been gathered on the island at the time, Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said.  The July 22 attacks are the first examples of mass murders
by a right-wing extremist in Europe since 1980, when a neo-
fascist group killed 85 people in Bologna and an Oktoberfest
massacre in Munich left 13 dead. In the U.S., Timothy McVeigh
blew up a federal building in  Oklahoma City  in 1995, killing 168
people. McVeigh was executed in 2001.  Norwegian Politics  The Norwegian attacks may shift voter sentiment against the
Progress Party, the second-biggest party in parliament,
political analysts said.  A poll conducted by Norfakta earlier this month showed the
opposition Progress and Conservative parties combined would
obtain a majority in the national assembly if a vote were held
now, beating Stoltenberg’s three-party coalition.  Before the attacks, voters for “the right, the Progress
Party and the Conservatives, had been much more enthusiastically
rallying around their parties,” said Frank Henrik Aarebrot, a
political scientist at the University of Bergen.  Norway’s political parties are discussing how to handle
campaigning before local elections due on Sept. 12, said Hans
Amundsen, a spokesman at the prime minister’s office.  Xenophobia Legitimized  Extremist groups have gained ground in Scandinavia as fear
of Islamist attacks helps to legitimize xenophobia, said Mikael
Ekman, who worked at  Sweden ’s anti-fascist Expo magazine with
the late Stieg Larsson, best known for his “Girl With The
Dragon Tattoo” trilogy.  “It’s more OK today to be an Islamophobe,” he said in a
phone interview in Stockholm. “It’s more okay to have racist
views. It has become more accepted.”  Sweden’s September elections saw the anti-immigrant Sweden
Democrats enter parliament for the first time. In  Finland , the
anti-immigrant True Finns boosted their voter support fourfold
in April elections, making them parliament’s third-biggest
party. In  Denmark , the minority Liberal-Conservative coalition
has governed with the backing of the euro-skeptic, anti-
immigration Danish  People’s Party  since 2001.  Norway’s Stoltenberg said he hopes his voters can continue
to support Labor Party ideals “without being afraid” after the
killings. “I will try to do what I can to keep Norway an open,
democratic society,” he said.  The revelation of the killer’s identity puts to rest
speculation that the attacks were perpetrated by groups linked
to al-Qaeda.  “Some good may come from all this,” said Lina Moen, a 29-
year-old Oslo resident. “People shouldn’t jump to conclusions
that this is the work of Islamic terrorists. Norwegians can be
bad people too.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  