-- 
Succeeding Blankfein at Goldman May Be Hurdle Too High for Cohn

-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-24T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/succeeding-blankfein-at-goldman-may-prove-hurdle-too-high-for-no-2-cohn.html
Michael Ovitz, the former Hollywood
agent whose company was said to have created enemies “the way a
hurricane produces raindrops,” first met Gary Cohn over lunch
at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s headquarters in June 2009.  The two men, one the founder of the most powerful talent
agency in the entertainment business, the other president of the
most profitable securities firm in Wall Street history, have
been in daily e-mail contact since, Ovitz said. They talk by
phone three or four times a week.  During a trip to the Caribbean in December, Ovitz, now an
investor, visited Cohn on the Turks and Caicos Islands. Cohn,
50, a silver trader who worked his way up to the No. 2 position
at Goldman Sachs, “was always on the phone, off in a corner,”
Ovitz said. Cohn later told the former chairman of Creative
Artists Agency Inc. he had been working on the deal to sell $1.5
billion of shares in Facebook Inc.  Ovitz, who received a severance package estimated at $140
million when he was fired in 1996 after 15 months as president
of Walt Disney Co., said he’s impressed with Cohn. Any Goldman
Sachs director who doesn’t want him to succeed  Lloyd Blankfein 
as chief executive officer should have his “head examined,”
Ovitz said. “He’s a trader. He has that whole feel in his body
and brain and fingertips.”  Blankfein, 56, who marked his fifth anniversary as head of
the New York-based bank on June 28, said he doesn’t have plans
to step down. The firm’s shares have fallen 19 percent this year
and 8 percent since he became CEO.  Subprime Securities  Goldman Sachs hasn’t been able to shake its reputation as
the bad guy of Wall Street.  The firm paid $550 million to settle a case brought by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last year accusing it of
fraudulently marketing securities linked to subprime mortgages,
without admitting to or denying the allegations. U.S. Senator
 Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who heads the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations, accused the firm of misleading
clients and Congress, and the bank has been subpoenaed by the
Manhattan District Attorney’s office.  In a May 4 note to investors, William Tanona, a UBS AG
analyst who worked at Goldman Sachs, said “near-term”
management changes were likely.  ‘Culture of Commerciality’  As president, chief operating officer and the only company
executive besides Blankfein on Goldman Sachs’s board, Cohn
should be the obvious candidate to succeed him. He isn’t, say a
dozen current and former colleagues who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak about
succession plans or didn’t want to jeopardize their
relationships with the firm.  Cohn’s biggest handicap may be the qualities that got him
to the No. 2 spot at Goldman Sachs, the colleagues say: an
abrasive style, an appetite for risk and a long association with
Blankfein, who also started at the company in metals. The two
vacationed in the Mexican resort  Cabo San Lucas  before their
2006 promotions, sent their children to the same school and
represent the shift from  investment banking  to trading, which
now produces most of the revenue at the firm.  “Gary and Lloyd embedded the culture of commerciality,”
said Tanona, referring to a focus on making money. “There was
no surprise that Goldman’s risk-taking era was under the eye of
both Lloyd and Gary.”  Ovitz and Daniel Rappaport, a former chairman of the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange, where Cohn served on the board, both
said the Goldman Sachs president could be “abrasive.” Ovitz
said the toughness “is positive” and that an executive can’t
be “all peaches and cream.”  Cohn, 6-foot-3 and 220 pounds, can be intimidating, two
former colleagues said. He would sometimes hike up one leg,
plant his foot on a trader’s desk, his thigh close to the
employee’s face, and ask how markets were doing, they said.  ‘Questionable Things’  Former Bear Stearns Asset Management CEO Richard Marin said
Cohn’s arrogance is at “the root of the problem” at Goldman
Sachs. “When you become arrogant, in a trading sense, you begin
to think that everybody’s a counterparty, not a customer, not a
client,” Marin said. “And as a counterparty, you’re allowed to
rip their face off.”  George Collins, a former CEO of asset manager T. Rowe Price
Group Inc., said that while Cohn is qualified to lead the bank,
there are other considerations for the bank’s board.  “Goldman has a problem right now,” he said. “And I’m a
client of Goldman. There are some questionable things that they
have done in this financial crisis.”  Collins served with Cohn on the board of American
University in  Washington  until 2005, when Collins resigned in
protest over a multimillion-dollar severance package for the
school’s president, a deal Cohn helped negotiate.  “If they feel strongly enough you have to make a break,
obviously you make the break,” he said.  ‘I’m Your Guy’  Cohn, who declined to comment for this story, grew up in
the Cleveland suburb of Shaker Heights, the son of an
electrician who became a real estate developer, and received a
bachelor’s degree from American University’s Kogod School of
Business in 1982. He bluffed his way into his first  Wall Street 
job as a trader on Comex, a New York commodities exchange, he
said in a 2009  commencement address  at the school.  On a day off from a job selling window frames and aluminum
siding at the home-products division of United States Steel
Corp., Cohn spent a few hours at Comex. He cadged a ride to the
airport with a trader, according to the speech. In the taxi, the
man said he needed someone to help trade options.  “No problem, I’m your guy,” Cohn said.  He was invited to an interview the following Monday and
spent the weekend preparing by reading Lawrence G. McMillan’s
“Options as a Strategic Investment” four times, according to
Cohn’s account. He got the job.  ‘Pungency of Fear’  His boss, Charles Federbush, said in an interview that he
tried to teach new clerks “not to get emotional.” Federbush’s
brokerage, Volume Investors Corp., was placed into receivership
in 1985, and in 1992 he was sentenced to three years’ probation
after pleading guilty to conspiracy and fraud.  Cohn went off on his own as an independent silver trader on
Comex in 1983. Donna Redel, who became the first woman to head
the exchange in the early 1990s, said the trading floor smelled
like sweat and had “the pungency of fear.” Martin Greenberg,
who preceded Redel as chairman, said he once choked another
colleague over a trade.  “He was tough,” Greenberg said of Cohn. “Gary got in
with the right people, worked his ass off and used his head.”  Redel, who said there was no truth to a tale that she
stabbed a colleague with a pencil -- she said she was using her
hands defensively and wasn’t holding anything -- described Cohn
as “firm,” “strategic” and “driven.”  Starting at Goldman  “Every day you are competing, and every day you are
playing to win,” Cohn said in his commencement speech. “So
remember, wake up every morning and figure out how to win.”  In 1990, Cohn was hired by Goldman Sachs’s J. Aron & Co.
unit, which traded commodities and currencies. Blankfein, a
former tax lawyer, had joined J. Aron eight years earlier as a
gold salesman and became a Goldman Sachs partner in 1988.  It was a tumultuous time for Goldman Sachs, the largest
private partnership on Wall Street. Chairman and Senior Partner
John L. Weinberg retired in late 1990, leaving Robert Rubin and
Stephen Friedman to share his responsibilities. Rubin left to
join the Clinton administration about two years later.  In 1994, rising interest rates led Goldman Sachs’s bond
traders to rack up losses. Friedman decided to leave, was
replaced by Jon Corzine, and as dozens of partners departed the
firm sold about 4 percent of the company to help shore up its
capital. Cohn, based in  London  at the time, was invited to
become partner that year.  Clients or Competitors  Blankfein became co-head of J. Aron in 1994 and two years
later tapped Cohn as global head of the commodities businesses.
A former partner remembers accompanying Cohn that year to a
meeting with another commodities-trading firm in a developing
country. Cohn delivered a warning that the company could do
business with Goldman Sachs or Goldman Sachs would find a way to
compete with it, according to the person.  Treating companies as both clients and competitors was
typical in the commodities market, where the largest producers
are also some of the biggest traders, according to the former J.
Aron partner.  Three former employees said it was an approach that
Blankfein, Cohn and their colleagues spread through other
trading businesses as they climbed the ranks of the fixed-
income, currencies and commodities unit, known as FICC, the top
revenue contributor at the company.  Ramping Up Risk  In December 2003, Cohn became co-head of the firm’s global
securities businesses, which include FICC and equities. The next
year, the bank’s pretax profit from trading and principal
investments was $5.04 billion, more than 12 times as much as
Goldman Sachs’s investment-banking business, and an increase of
44 percent from the previous year.  As the bank’s balance sheet swelled, its average daily
value-at-risk -- or VaR, a measure of the sum that could be lost
on a given day -- hit a record $92 million in the first quarter
of 2006, the year Cohn was promoted to co-president. Goldman
Sachs executives said in an earnings conference call that
equities, in particular derivatives, drove that figure. VaR was
more than $100 million at the end of 2006 and, after breaking
records for six consecutive quarters, hit $184 million in 2008.  Enforcing Discipline  Cohn pushed to build bigger trading businesses and take
more risks, including in the mortgage-bond market, according to
two former partners.  Goldman Sachs’s mortgage business lagged behind those of
rivals such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. because the firm’s
managers questioned whether the returns were worth the risks,
according to one of the partners. Cohn, who gained oversight of
the unit by 2000, supported its requests for more capital, more
people and the ability to take bigger risks, the partner said.  The mortgage team continued to take on risk until December
2006, when 10 days of losses alerted senior executives to a
problem, according to documents released by the firm and the
U.S. Senate. The executives met with Daniel Sparks, the head of
the unit, and told him to curb the size of the team’s subprime
bets, according to documents.  While strict in enforcing risk-discipline and making
mortgage traders adhere to the firm’s value-at-risk model, Cohn
also understood their concerns that the model was flawed,
according to the former partner. He wasn’t afraid to lose money
if a trade had been thought out and described, the partner said.  Risk’s Rewards  “If there is one thing out of this on how to stand out,
it’s take risks,” Cohn said in his 2009 commencement address.
“Everything I’ve done in my career, and everything that most of
you have done to this point, is to take risks.”  The risks have paid off. Cohn has taken home more than
$61.5 million in salary and cash bonuses in the past five years,
plus restricted stock valued at $61.3 million when granted, even
with no bonus in 2008. His investments in funds managed by
Goldman Sachs have paid $53 million over the period, according
to company filings. Cohn was the firm’s largest employee-
shareholder after Blankfein as of March 7. At last week’s
closing price, his 1,956,249 shares were worth $265 million.  Cohn and his family have an apartment on New York City’s
Park Avenue, another co-op on the Upper East Side and a house
near the ocean in Sagaponack, New York.  He travels on business about 40 percent of the year, and
when he’s home puts in 11- or 12-hour days, often followed by
bank-related dinners, according to a person who works with him.
He checks his e-mail and makes calls until midnight. At the
office, he is a sounding board for Blankfein, walks the floors
and spends most of his time meeting with clients, investors and
the firm’s business heads, the person said.  ‘Based in Jealousy’  At Nymex, where he became a director in 1997, Cohn’s
success at Goldman Sachs was a liability and he “wasn’t very
well-liked,” said Rappaport, the former chairman. Traders
wondered about the firm’s relationships with gold-mining
companies and OPEC ministers, he said.  “Some of it, I’m sure, is based in jealousy,” he said.
“Goldman always seemed to be on the right side of the market.”  In 2000, a year after Goldman Sachs went public, Cohn
approached Rappaport with a proposal to join an over-the-counter
electronic market for metals and energy trading. The bank was
developing, along with Morgan Stanley, BP Plc and others, what
would become IntercontinentalExchange, or ICE.  “Things that Gary wanted to implement were things that
would encroach upon the floor-trading franchise,” Rappaport
said. “It would basically, which is how it actually evolved,
put the floor community out of business.”  Secret Talks  Cohn held secret talks with a group of Nymex executives
that included Rappaport, the former chairman said. When the
proposal was brought to the board, members were offended that a
small group had been holding conversations and that directors
were given a “short window” to decide, according to Rappaport.  “If there was a sensitive issue coming up for board
discussion, he wouldn’t show any sensitivity,” he said of Cohn.
“That happened, without exaggeration, 100 times.”  Neal Shear, who headed commodities at Morgan Stanley at the
time and worked with Cohn on the development of ICE, said the
issue “wasn’t about sensitive or not sensitive. It was about
the way the world was going to work.”  The electronic exchange, which now owns the world’s largest
credit-default swaps clearinghouse, started that year without
Nymex, whose board rejected the plan.  Conflict of Interest  The exchange’s executive committee asked a law firm to
examine Cohn’s role, and it concluded that Cohn shouldn’t have
been involved in the talks because he had a conflict of
interest, according to a 2000 article in Securities Week, an
industry newsletter. No legal action was recommended, according
to the article, citing people familiar with the matter.  “We never saw a conflict,” Richard Schaeffer, the Nymex
treasurer at the time, said in an interview. “It is sour grapes
from people.”  Chris Grams, a spokesman for Nymex, now owned by Chicago-
based CME Group Inc., declined to comment.  Cohn was more willing to seek compromise at American
University. In 2005, an anonymous letter was sent to the
school’s board, accusing President Benjamin Ladner of using
university funds to buy $100 bottles of wine, pay for a personal
French chef and spend weekends in  Europe .  After investigating the allegations, the trustees voted to
dismiss Ladner. Cohn was named to a three-person committee that
helped negotiate an exit package of about $3.7 million. Four
board members, including former T. Rowe Price CEO Collins and
Paul M. Wolff, a partner at law firm Williams & Connolly LLP in
Washington, resigned in protest.  ‘Very Disappointing’  “I like Gary,” Wolff said in an interview. “I found him
pleasant to deal with. Ultimately, I found him very
disappointing. He was far more willing to seek accommodation
than he was to take a firm stand.”  Leslie Bains, chairwoman of the board, also stepped down. A
managing director of Citi Private Bank, she said that while she
was unhappy with Ladner’s severance, Cohn had been dedicated to
the school.  “You put American University first and move on,” she said
of Cohn, who’s still on the school’s board and also a director
of the Harlem Children’s Zone and the NYU Langone Medical Center
in New York.  Two of Cohn’s friends, Ovitz and  Orin Snyder , a litigation
partner at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP in New York, said there’s
more than one side to Cohn’s personality.  “He’s wildly compulsive about his business, as opposed to
his personal life, where he’s incredibly loose and fun to be
with,” said Ovitz, whose Hollywood agency was likened to a
hurricane in a 2002  Vanity Fair profile  by  Bryan Burrough . “He
can be stern. He can be gentle.”  SoulCycle Companions  Snyder, who has represented Facebook,  Freddie Mac , LeBron James and Goldman Sachs, has known Cohn since they bonded about
15 years ago at birthday parties they went to with their kids.
The lawyer said that while Cohn can be blunt, he hasn’t seen him
aggressive, “if by aggressive you mean unduly harsh, unduly
punitive, or unduly sharp.”  Snyder and Cohn go to concerts and sporting events
together, drink an occasional glass of tequila and attend
spinning classes at SoulCycle, a cycling studio.  “Why I’m attracted to him is, to be honest, I don’t want
to sound too conceited, but I’m a good guy and he’s a good
guy,” Snyder said.  Another reason is that Cohn “cares deeply about people,”
he said.  “If something is not right, sometimes he has trouble
letting it go: If someone slights his kid, someone does
something in business that he doesn’t like,” Snyder said. “He
has high expectations for people. I think he just gets
disappointed.”  Silent Treatment  Cohn recently told a colleague he can’t remember the last
person he yelled at, and when upset with someone he now gives
the silent treatment, the colleague said.  Cohn displayed his brusque side before Goldman Sachs’s
annual shareholder meeting in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , on May 6,
when a reporter asked if he would meet to talk over a cup of
coffee. Cohn said he didn’t drink coffee. The reporter asked
about tea. “I don’t drink hot beverages,” Cohn said.  The same brusqueness was evident last year at Minetta
Tavern, a restaurant in New York that serves $26 hamburgers.
Cohn ran into an analyst who covers Goldman Sachs for one of the
country’s largest banks, having dinner there with his wife. When
the analyst said hello, Cohn asked if the place weren’t too chic
for him, according to the analyst, who asked not to be
identified because he wasn’t authorized by his firm to speak.  Yankees Cufflinks  That treatment can also extend to shareholders and clients,
according to a person who attended one of a series of August
2009 meetings Cohn held with Boston institutions, both investors
in and clients of the bank. Cohn wore  New York Yankees 
cufflinks, taunting the clients and investors ahead of a four-
game series against archrival  Boston Red Sox , according to the
person, who spoke anonymously because he didn’t want to
jeopardize his relationship with Goldman Sachs. He said he
couldn’t imagine Blankfein or Chief Financial Officer David Viniar doing the same thing.  The baseball-team cufflinks were part of a running joke,
the person who works with Cohn said, and some Boston clients
answer Cohn’s calls with jokes at New York’s expense.  Blankfein and the board haven’t said anything publicly
about the next CEO. Besides Cohn, candidates may includeJ. Michael Evans, a 53-year-old Canadian who oversees Goldman
Sachs’s business in growth markets and  Asia , and London-based
Michael Sherwood, 45, co-CEO of Goldman Sachs International.
Goldman Sachs has never chosen a chairman or CEO from outside
the company in its 142-year history.  Snyder said he isn’t worried about Cohn, whether his friend
makes it to the top or not.  “He’s going to be fine whether he’s the president of his
block association, or the president of Goldman Sachs, or the
president of  Gary Cohn  Inc.,” Snyder said. “He’s a winner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 