-- 
North Korea Officials Set to Hold Nuclear talks in New York, Clinton Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-25T02:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/u-s-n-korea-plan-nuclear-talks-in-new-york-clinton-says-1-.html
U.S. and North Korean officials will
meet in  New York  this week to discuss the next steps to reviving
multinational talks on the North’s nuclear-weapons program,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday.  The invitation to First Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye Gwan
followed discussions between North and South Korean officials at
a regional security forum in Bali,  Indonesia , Clinton said in a
statement. The U.S. trip will be “an exploratory meeting” to
determine if the North is willing to meet commitments made in
earlier talks and make genuine efforts at scrapping its nuclear
weapons program, she said.  “We do not intend to reward the North just for returning
to the table,” Clinton said. “We have no appetite for pursuing
protracted negotiations that will only lead us right back to
where we have already been.”  North Korea  and South Korea on July 22 agreed to try to
revive the six-party forum on the North’s nuclear-weapons
program, with the first formal discussions in months signaling a
thaw in relations between the two foes after more than a year of
rising tension. The U.S., China,  Russia  and  Japan  are also
participants in the group.  “We view this as a preliminary session in which we are
going to lay out very clearly our expectations for what will be
necessary to resume not only six-party talks, but direct
engagement between the  United States  and North Korea,” Kurt Campbell, the State Department’s Assistant Secretary for East
Asian and Pacific Affairs, told reporters today.  U.S. Demands  Campbell said that the U.S. needs to see “very clear pre-
steps related to nuclear issues, related to proliferation
concerns” for talks are to continue.  South Korea  isn’t expecting “dramatic” progress in
relations with the North, although the meeting in Bali may open
the gate for discussions, Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan said on
YTN Radio today.  North Korea’s uranium enrichment activities violate its
commitments under a 2005 joint statement by the parties involved
in the talks as well as United Nations Security Council
resolutions, Clinton said in Bali.  North Korea continues to transfer arms to clients overseas
and pursue other proliferation activities in violation of
Security Council resolutions, she said, according to prepared
remarks that were handed out to reporters.  Attacks Condemned  Clinton also criticized North Korea for two attacks on
South Korea that killed 50 people, spurring the U.S. to come to
the defense of its ally and pressure  China  to rein in Kim Jong- Il’s regime.  "The United States stands by our ally South Korea, and our
commitment to its security is non-negotiable," she said.  The six-party talks last convened in December 2008. The
 Asean  Regional Forum in Bali is one of the only annual events
attended by diplomats from all countries involved.  North Korea and South Korea remain technically at war after
their 1950-1953 conflict, in which the U.S. and China fought on
opposite sides, ended in a cease-fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  