-- 
U.S. Stock Futures Decline After Lawmakers Fail to Reach Debt-Ceiling Deal

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-07-25T05:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/u-s-stock-futures-decline-after-lawmakers-fail-to-reach-debt-ceiling-deal.html
U.S. stock futures fell, indicating
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will drop after rallying within
1.4 percent of a three-year high, as President  Barack Obama  and
Congress failed to reach an agreement on raising the federal
debt limit, intensifying concern the nation will default.  S&P 500 futures expiring in September declined 1 percent to
1,327.20 at 2:31 p.m. in  Tokyo . Dow Jones Industrial Average
futures lost 127 points, or 1 percent, to 12,494.  House Speaker  John Boehner  told Republicans that there’s no
agreement on a plan for raising the ceiling before a default
threatened for Aug. 2. A Republican congressional official said
Boehner, speaking by telephone to lawmakers, is reporting that
discussions are continuing. The impasse has boosted the chance
S&P will cut the U.S. credit rating from AAA within three months
to 50 percent, the company said July 21.  “It’s a major disappointment that they can’t come to a
compromise of some sort,” James Dunigan, chief investment
officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management, said in a
telephone interview. The firm oversees $109 billion. “We came
down to the 11th hour. There’s an increasing likelihood that
without a significant deal the chances of a debt downgrade will
rise. If you re-rate the safest security in the world,
everything else gets re-rated against that.”  The  S&P 500  closed at 1,345.02 on July 22. When the measure
climbed to 1,363.61 on April 29, it was the highest level since
June 2008. U.S. equities rallied last week as  Europe  pledged
support for  Greece  to end the region’s debt crisis and companies
from Apple Inc. to Morgan Stanley and Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. beat earnings projections.  Greece’s sovereign credit rating was cut three steps to Ca
from Caa1 today by Moody’s Investors Service, which said the
European Union’s financing package for the debt-laden nation
implies “substantial economic losses” for private creditors.  Most Since March  Negotiations in  Washington  over the nation’s debt limit
have whipsawed U.S. stocks. The S&P 500 jumped 1.6 percent on
July 19, the biggest gain since March, amid optimism Obama and
congressional Republicans would agree to raise the ceiling
before an Aug. 2 deadline. Stocks fell the next day on concern a
Senate plan to help the nation avoid default faced resistance
from  House Republicans .  Republicans prepared to force action on a shorter-term
extension of the limit than Obama has requested, defying a veto
threat. The president would veto a measure that doesn’t extend
the limit into 2013, White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley said
in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press” yesterday.  Daley warned that “markets around the world” would react
negatively to a short-term measure offering less than $2.4
trillion in borrowing authority.  ‘I Hope So’  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he hopes
lawmakers can agree on the framework of a debt-limit agreement
because the  House of Representatives  must start deliberations
July 25 to meet the Aug. 2 deadline.  “They need to get this process moving in the House by
Monday night,” Geithner said yesterday on ABC’s “This Week”
program. “To achieve that deadline, they need to have a
framework that they know with complete confidence will pass both
houses of Congress that is acceptable to the president.”  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said on the “Fox News
Sunday” program that while he’d prefer a bipartisan package,
“if that’s not possible,” House Republicans are “prepared to
move on our own.” “There is going to be a two-stage process,”
Boehner said. “This is about what’s doable.”  Both S&P and Moody’s Investors Service are weighing a
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating. Even if the country
defaults on some obligations after Aug. 2 and pays bondholders,
S&P said short- and long-term interest rates would rise by 0.50
percentage point and 1 point, respectively.  ‘Driving the Bus’  “The rating agencies are driving the bus here,”  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor
Inc., said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees $4
billion. “What’s going to matter is what they say.”  The S&P 500 has erased 81 percent of its loss since April
29 as corporate profits topped analyst estimates. Since July 11,
82 percent of S&P 500 companies that released quarterly results
beat the average analyst earnings estimate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Between July 20 and July 22, analysts
boosted estimates for S&P 500 income during the final three
months of 2011 by 2.3 percent. That’s the biggest two-day
increase for the quarter after the current one in data going
back to 2006.  “Corporations are in far better shape than our federal
government and households,” McCormick said. “If you get that
government debt concern out of the way, you can see consumers
potentially spending more and corporations making even more
money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  