-- 
U.S. Stocks, Treasuries Drop on Rival Debt Plans

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-25T20:36:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/u-s-stock-futures-dollar-decline-as-gold-gains-as-u-s-debt-talks-stall.html
U.S. stocks fell, pulling the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from a two-week high, and
Treasuries and commodities declined as a political stalemate
over raising the federal debt ceiling intensified.  The  S&P 500  slipped 0.6 percent to 1,337.43 at 4 p.m. in
New York after losing as much as 1 percent. The 30-year Treasury
yield rose six basis points to 4.32 percent. Oil lost 0.7
percent, retreating for the first time in five days. The Dollar
Index was little changed and gold and the Swiss franc touched
records. Greece’s 10-year bond halted a four-day gain as Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation’s rating by three levels.  The S&P 500 pared its loss to less than 0.1 percent in
early afternoon trading amid optimism lawmakers will reach a
compromise, then resumed its decline as Senator  Charles
Schumer ’s criticism of a deficit plan by House Speaker John
Boehner fueled concern the two sides were still far apart.
Republicans and Democrats are pressing ahead with dueling plans
for raising the debt ceiling amid a fight over how to shrink the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt and quell market concerns about a
potential default Aug. 2.  “Without this being resolved, in general, it holds back
our economy,” Constance Hunter, chief economist at Aladdin
Capital Management in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. Aladdin oversees $12 billion. “The lack of clarity
about our fiscal situation is very problematic for business.”  Dow Leaders  Travelers Cos. and Boeing Co. lost more than 1.6 percent to
lead declines among 26 of 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . Financial shares in the S&P 500 slipped 0.8 percent as
a group and contributed the most to the index’s decline among
the 10 main industries. Kimberly-Clark Corp. fell 2.1 percent
after reporting a decline in second-quarter profit, hurt by
higher costs for commodities. E*Trade Financial Corp. rallied
5.6 percent after hiring Morgan Stanley to explore a sale.  The S&P retreated after rising last week to within 1.4
percent of a three-year high. The index closed at 1,345.02 on
July 22. When the measure climbed to 1,363.61 on April 29, it
was the highest level since June 2008. The gauge rallied last
week as Europe pledged support for  Greece  to end the region’s
debt crisis and companies from Apple Inc. to Morgan Stanley beat
analysts’ earnings projections.  Negotiations in  Washington  over the nation’s debt limit
have whipsawed U.S. stocks. The S&P 500 jumped 1.6 percent on
July 19, the biggest gain since March, amid optimism that
President Barack Obama and congressional Republicans would agree
to raise the ceiling. Stocks fell the next day amid concern a
Senate plan to help the nation avoid default faced resistance
from  House Republicans .  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring  U.S. debt  rose, sending credit-default
swaps on Treasuries up three basis points to 56.15, approaching
the highest in 17 months, according to CMA.  Two-year Treasury yields increased two basis points to 0.42
percent and 10-year yields added four points to 3.01 percent.  “You’d think in the longer run that if there’s something
truly catastrophic kind of on the horizon, or truly a market
changing event, that we’d see a bigger move than we’ve seen,”
 Guy Lebas , the chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “The U.S. bond markets, and Treasuries in
particular, have proven remarkably resilient in the face of all
these risk factors, most of them coming out of Washington.”  Debt Debate  The government can avoid a default for at least a month
after the Aug. 2 deadline set by the Treasury Department, said
 John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC. The
 Federal Reserve  and the Treasury can work together to generate
enough cash for two or three months, Silvia, who is based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu.  House Speaker  John Boehner ’s two-step debt-limit plan would
raise the U.S. borrowing limit by up to $1 trillion and later by
about $1.6 trillion while requiring larger spending cuts,
according to Republican aides. The plan would require $1.2
trillion in spending cuts in the first phase and up to $1.8
trillion in the second step, the aides said. Congress would be
required to vote by the end of this year on a constitutional
amendment for a balanced budget, one aide said.  ‘Far From Perfect’  “This plan is far from perfect, but it adheres to our
principles of ensuring that spending cuts are greater than any
debt hike and it includes no tax increases,” Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, said in a statement.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat,
prepared his own proposal, which would hand Obama the full $2.4
trillion in additional borrowing authority he seeks -- enough to
last through the 2012 elections -- tied to $2.7 trillion in
spending cuts that would leave Medicare and Medicaid untouched,
said a Senate Democratic aide.  “This is an offer that the Republicans can’t refuse, all
of the cuts in Senator Reid’s proposal have been supported at
one point or another by Republicans,” Schumer, the New York
Democrat, said at a news conference in Washington today.
“If they refuse this offer, it simply means they want to 
default, for whatever reason.”  Overseas, the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.3 percent,
halting a four-day rally. Banks led losses, with Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA,  Italy ’s second-biggest lender, dropping more than 8
percent.  Greece’s 10-year yield climbed 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 14.79 after retreating from a high of 18.2
percent on July 18. Greece’s credit rating was cut three steps
by Moody’s Investors Service, which said the European Union’s
rescue for the nation will cause “substantial” losses for
investors.  Franc Rallies  The Swiss franc strengthened against all 16 major peers,
gaining 1.6 percent against the 17-nation euro and rallying as
much as 2.1 percent to a record $1.2467. The Dollar Index, which
tracks the currency against those of six trading partners,
slipped 0.1 percent. The euro dropped 0.2 percent against the
yen.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index tumbled 3 percent, the most in
six months, and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.4
percent. CSR Corp. and  China  CNR Corp., China’s biggest train
makers, led losses in Shanghai after a weekend collision killed
at least 36 people and prompted the government to order a rail-
safety inspection.  The Turkish lira weakened 1.2 percent against the dollar on
growing concern that the country’s record current-account
deficit may leave it vulnerable to a drop in risk appetite. The
lira pared an early decline of as much as 2.2 percent after the
central bank said it suspended daily dollar purchases.  Cocoa, sugar and cotton dropped at least 1.9 percent to
lead declines in 18 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
Index, which lost 0.6 percent. Corn and soybean futures slumped
at least 1.2 percent, the most in three weeks, amid speculation
that rain and cooler weather will bolster crop development in
the U.S., the world’s biggest producer.  Gold for immediate delivery rose for a second day, rising
as much as 1.4 percent to a record $1,624.07 an ounce. Crude oil
for September delivery retreated 0.7 percent to $99.20 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, following four weeks of
gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  