-- 
Pimco’s El-Erian Says U.S. Vulnerable to Downgrade Even If Default Avoided

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-07-25T14:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/u-s-vulnerable-to-downgrade-el-erian.html
The U.S. government may lose its AAA
credit rating even if lawmakers reach a plan to avoid a default,
said  Mohamed A. El-Erian , whose Pacific Investment Management
Co. is the world’s largest manager of bond funds.  “In most likelihood, a last-minute political compromise
will avoid a default but will leave the AAA rating extremely
vulnerable,” El-Erian, 52, the  Newport Beach , California-based
chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer at
Pimco, wrote in an e-mail. “Stock markets around the globe will
look to price in a greater uncertainty premium on account of
political squabbles in the world’s largest economy and the
increasing risk that it may lose its sacred AAA rating.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  plans to press ahead with a
shorter-term increase in the U.S. debt limit than President
 Barack Obama  has requested, he told lawmakers yesterday, defying
a veto threat and signaling continued stalemate in the Congress
as time runs short for a deal. The impasse has boosted the
chance  Standard & Poor’s  will lower the U.S. credit rating from
AAA within three months to 50 percent, the company said July 21.  Treasury Prices  Ten-year Treasuries fell, extending last week’s drop, as
Republicans and Democrats prepared dueling plans for raising the
U.S. debt ceiling, unable to break a partisan stalemate. Yields
on benchmark 10-year notes rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.02 percent as of 10:02 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after climbing six
basis points last week. That’s still below the five-year average
of 3.72 percent. Thirty-year yields climbed five basis points.  U.S. stocks slid today, with the  S&P 500 Index  down after
rallying within 1.4 percent of a three-year high, as failure to
raise the federal debt limit intensified concern of a default.
The benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks lost 0.6 percent to
1,336.53, while gold futures earlier reached a record of
$1,624.30.  El-Erian said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu that it will be a
“big, big mess” if the U.S. defaults, spurring a sell-off in
equities, the  U.S. dollar  and commodities excluding gold.  ‘No Other Country’  “Remember there is no other country that can step in to
replace the U.S.,” he said in the interview. “The U.S. is the
supplier of the reserve currency. The U.S. is the provider of a
financial system that intermediates other people’s savings and
investments. The U.S. is a AAA. The question is whether the U.S.
can maintain a AAA.”  El-Erian said that while “risk assets” would eventually
rebound even if the U.S. were to default, investors should be
cautious before buying them, particularly in the two to three
days after the event, because of other uncertainties such as the
European debt crisis.  Boehner told rank-and-file Republicans during a conference
call yesterday that they needed to pull together as a team to
block Obama, who has asked for a $2.4 trillion borrowing boost
in the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling, from obtaining the money all
at once, without any guarantees of spending cuts. His remarks
were described on condition of anonymity by a person familiar
with the discussion.  Total Return Fund  Pimco’s $243 billion Total Return Fund, managed by  Bill Gross , has returned 3.76 percent this year, beating 68 percent
of its peers. The company revised how it listed asset holdings
last month to show that its flagship fund held  U.S. government
debt . Gross boosted the fund’s investment in the securities to 8
percent of assets in June from 5 percent in May, according to a
Pimco report this month.  The  U.S. economy  probably expanded in the second quarter at
the slowest pace in a year as higher fuel costs crimped consumer
spending and supply disruptions limited production, economists
said before a report this week. Gross domestic product rose at a
1.8 percent annual pace after a 1.9 percent gain in the previous
three months, according to the median forecast of 69 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department’s July
29 report.  “The debt ceiling debacle unambiguously translates into an
intensification of the already-strong headwinds facing U.S.
growth and employment creation,” El-Erian said in the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  