-- 
Hungary Economic Confidence Falls for Third Month After Export Demand Drop

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-07-24T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/hungary-economic-confidence-declines-to-lowest-since-april-2010.html
Hungary’s economic-sentiment index
declined for a third consecutive month in July, dropping to its
weakest since April 2010, as confidence amid businesses and
consumers worsened, research institute GKI said.  The index fell to minus 16.0 from minus 13.9 in the
previous month, Budapest-based GKI said in an e-mailed
statement. The business confidence index dropped to minus 6.9
from minus 4.4 in June while the consumer confidence index fell
to minus 42.0 from minus 41.0 in the previous month.  Industrial output grew at the slowest rate since 2009 in
May after a slump in export demand, which has fueled the
country’s economic recovery from its worst recession in 18
years. Hungary is looking to the euro region, which buys 60
percent of the products it makes and assembles including Audi
cars and Nokia phones, to boost growth.  Sentiment in the industry, whose exports pulled the country
out of recession, “deteriorated palpably in July,” GKI said.
“The sentiment index in the industrial segment dropped
especially significantly, the deteriorating trend has been in
place for a quarter now.”  The weakening outlook affects all areas of industry and
reflects growing pessimism about production and orders, GKI
said. Sentiment in the construction area continued its downward
spiral, while the confidence index for retail and service
companies improved marginally, the institute said.  Hungary’s economy expanded 2.4 percent on the year in the
first quarter, the most since the first three months of 2007.  Industrial production advanced a workday-adjusted 2.6
percent from a year earlier in May, the slowest since December
2009, after rising 9.7 percent in April. Output dropped 0.8
percent on the month.  The GKI indexes are calculated based on a balance of
positive and negative answers to questions about the outlook for
the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  