-- 
Hunt: Debt Fight Is Secondary to Jobs in 2012 Election

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-07-24T15:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/hunt-debt-fight-secondary-to-jobs-in-2012-election.html
For all the frenzy in Washington on
debt and deficits, President  Barack Obama ’s political
strategists realize jobs are more important in next year’s
elections; they see the two different scenarios.  In one, voters conclude that while the incumbent is a nice
fellow, the administration’s policies have failed, the economy
isn’t getting better and whatever the reservations about the
opposition, change is needed. The other (more likely, the
advisers insist), is that while times remain tough, the
president inherited a huge mess, has made a good start in
cleaning it up and has a vision for where we need to go that’s a
lot better than the one put forth by Republicans.  If 2012 brings the equivalent of this year’s Japanese
trauma or Greek crisis and persisting higher gas prices, with a
relatively anemic 1.5 percent to 2 percent growth and
joblessness stuck around 9 percent, the first scenario may be
more likely.  If these external wounds are minimal, investor and consumer
confidence improves, growth is double that bad-case scenario
number, with unemployment moving closer to 8 percent, Obama
becomes difficult to beat.  Top White House economic and political advisers are
uncertain where the balance lies. Asked what gas prices likely
will be a year from now, a leading administration expert admits:
“Nobody has any real clue.”  Mixed Messages  On the political-economy front there are mixed messages of
late. After playing on Republican turf all year, the president
has captured the public high ground in the ferocious fight over
the debt and deficits. He can maintain that advantage as long as
the debt ceiling doesn’t lapse and global markets crater.  He has been criticized since last December for failing to
embrace the recommendations of the deficit commission he
appointed that was led by  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles . The
White House view is that by staying on the sidelines, they
forced the House Republicans to unveil Representative Paul Ryan’s budget, which, with its huge Medicare cuts, has proven
wildly unpopular with the public. This, the president believes,
has given him the leverage he needed in the current negotiations.  On the other hand, the recent economic news has been gloomy.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded its economic forecast for
next year, predicting the unemployment rate would drop only
“modestly” to 8.75 percent at year’s end. Stories of layoffs are
dominating headlines.  Vote Indicator  David Plouffe , the White House political guru, says voters
focus on their own personal situation and don’t “vote based on
the unemployment rate.” Experience suggests that’s misleading.
The jobless rate, and its direction, usually is a good
psychological and political indicator of the electorate.  Since World War II, no incumbent president has been elected
with a jobless rate higher than 7.2 percent. That was the number
when  Ronald Reagan  won a landslide victory in 1984; in the 40
years before that no president had been re-elected with an
unemployment rate of more than 5.3 percent.  Many Democrats say that if the economy is on an upswing a
year from now, the president can persuasively argue he’s
clearing up the disaster he inherited -- in the financial and
automobile industries in particular -- and set the stage for
better economic times ahead. That is, if the unemployment rate
is declining.  “If the arrow is pointing in the right direction he’ll have
a good case,” says John Sasso, a top Democratic political
strategist.  Electoral College  More instructive than national data may be the numbers in
the important states. There are two caveats: too much attention
is paid to the Electoral College; with the exception of the 2000
election, it always follows the popular vote. And there are
other factors: two of the three states with the highest
unemployment rates,  California  and  Rhode Island , are certain to
be in the Obama column 15 months from now. The three states with
the lowest jobless rate, all under 5 percent,  Nebraska  and  North
Dakota  and South Dakota, are just as certain to vote Republican.  Nevertheless, it’s instructive to look at the blue states
(which went for Obama in 2008) that’ll be most hotly contested
this time.  When it comes to jobs numbers, they can be divided almost
in half. In June, four had unemployment rates well above the
national average:  Nevada  (the highest, at 12.4 percent),
 Michigan ,  Florida , and  North Carolina . Ohio, with an 8.8 percent
jobless rate last month, is close to the national average. It’ll
be a tough slog in these states, which have a combined 84
electoral votes. (Adjusting for Census changes, Obama won the
Electoral College 360 to 178.)  Battleground States  Other battleground states, such as  Pennsylvania ,  Colorado ,
 Virginia  and  Wisconsin , have unemployment numbers below the
national average, though they all have added more than 100,000
people to the jobless ranks over the past three years.  There are many uncertainties. It’s never wise in politics
to count chiefly on your opponents’ shortcomings. Still, a
Republican field that is privately viewed as second-rate by many
party leaders and that could be forced to the right by
conservative activists isn’t the stuff of a formidable general-
election campaign.  And while jobs will be a bigger voting issue than deficits,
the current high-stakes battle between  House Republicans  and the
president will shape next year’s debate. With their preference
for cutting back on Medicare and Social Security instead of
raising taxes on higher-income Americans, the Republicans are
getting clobbered in polls of voters.  Debt-Ceiling Victory  If the debt ceiling is increased, avoiding a potential
cataclysm -- an outcome cherished by more than a few Tea Party-
affiliated House Republicans -- the president has a chance to
stay on the offensive on the deficit issue, particularly if he
offers significant budget cuts and revenue increases now and
next year that are supported by the public.  Obama certainly has lost any shot at short-term stimulus,
except possibly extending the payroll-tax cut for workers.
Finally, the man hailed only three years ago as the best
political communicator since Reagan has to belatedly offer a
vision of America’s economic future and jobs outlook.  Whether the jobless rate is closer to 9 percent or 8
percent a year from now, Obama will be in trouble if he doesn’t
rise to this challenge.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 