-- 
Forlan Joins His Forefathers as Uruguay Secures Record 15th Copa America

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-25T05:03:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/uruguay-defeats-paraguay-3-0-to-win-record-15th-copa-america-soccer-title.html
Diego Forlan  scored twice as Uruguay
beat  Paraguay  3-0 to win its record 15th Copa America soccer
championship and move ahead of archrival  Argentina .  Forlan, the winner of the Golden Ball as the best player at
the 2010  World Cup , got goals in the 41st and final minute at
the Estadio Monumental in  Buenos Aires  last night after  Luis Suarez  had put Uruguay ahead in the 11th minute.  Uruguay’s first title in  South America ’s continental
championship since 1995 took it one clear of Argentina in 43
editions of soccer’s oldest international tournament. Uruguay
beat the host and pre-tournament favorite in the quarterfinals.  “This really means a lot for me because my grandfather won
it, my father won it and now I have also done it,” Forlan said
in comments on the Copa America website. “Three generations
have won this trophy. The name of Forlan will stay in history.”  Paraguay, the 1953 and 1979 champion, had been seeking its
third title after advancing to the final without having won a
single game. The Paraguayans drew all three group games and
needed penalty kicks to get past  Brazil  and  Venezuela  in the
quarterfinals and semifinals following scoreless draws.  Last night’s win also earned La Celeste, as Uruguay’s team
is known, a berth at the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup in Brazil.  Liverpool striker Suarez put Uruguay ahead with a deflected
left-foot shot that beat Paraguay goalkeeper Justo Villar via
Dario Veron’s leg and the left-hand post. It was Suarez’s fourth
goal at the 12-nation event and he was later named as the
tournament’s best player.  Tied Record  Forlan made it 2-0 four minutes before halftime, scoring
his first goal in 13 international matches with a left-foot
drive that left Villar flat-footed. Forlan’s 31st goal for
Uruguay tied the record of Hector Scarone.  The Atletico Madrid striker sealed the win by finishing a
counterattack in the final minute. Substitute Edinson Cavani hit
a cross-field pass to Suarez, whose cushioned header set up
Forlan to hit a first-time shot past the advancing Villar.  “We got in the final because we had guts and luck,”
Villar told the tournament website. “Forlan and Suarez are two
lions, they are among the best strikers in the world.”  Of the region’s top four teams in the FIFA world rankings,
only  No. 18  Uruguay, with a population of 3.3 million, made the
semifinals to follow up its fourth-place finish in  South Africa 
last year.  “We wanted to show that the World Cup was no accident,”
Suarez said.  Uruguay beat Argentina 5-4 in a quarterfinal penalty
shootout, while Brazil’s bid to win its fifth title in the past
six editions ended when it missed all four of its penalty
attempts against Paraguay.  It was only the second time in the Copa America’s 95-year
history that neither Brazil nor Argentina made the semifinals of
a tournament in which at least one of them took part.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  