-- 
India Panel Said to Advise Easing Limits on Wal-Mart, Tesco

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-07-25T11:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-24/wal-mart-may-open-india-retail-stores-as-panel-said-to-advise-easing-laws.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour
SA (CA)  may gain access to the retail market of the world’s second
most-populous country after an Indian government panel was said
to have recommended easing restrictions on the industry.  Overseas companies could be allowed to own as much as 51
percent of stores that sell more than one brand if they invest a
minimum of $100 million, a panel of bureaucrats in  New Delhi 
recommended on July 22, according to a finance ministry official.
Pantaloon Retail Ltd., India’s largest listed store owner, rose
to its highest level in more than six months in Mumbai today.  “It would get in new players to the market -- you’d have
more efficiencies coming in,” Abhishek Ranganathan, a Mumbai-
based analyst at MF Global Sify Securities Pvt., said by phone.
“What something like a Wal-Mart or a Carrefour can actually
bring to the table in terms of knowledge, back-end systems and
supply-chain efficiencies can help Indian retailers they choose
to partner with.”  India  currently allows overseas companies 51 percent
ownership in retail shops selling only one brand and 100 percent
in wholesale stores. The world’s two biggest retailers Wal-Mart
and Carrefour, who already operate wholesale outlets in India,
seek to sell in a market that  Business Monitor International 
estimates will be worth $396 billion this year and may double to
$785 billion in 2015.  Pantaloon Gains  The cabinet will make a decision after consultations are
held, said the person, who had direct knowledge of the matter
and declined to be identified before an announcement.  Pantaloon gained 1.5 percent to 338.25 rupees, the highest
since Jan. 12, in Mumbai. Second-ranked Shoppers Stop Ltd. was
little changed at 467.7 rupees.  “Everyone expects some of the foreign guys to come in and
pick up stakes in some of these companies,” Sameer Narang, a
Mumbai-based analyst with HDFC Securities Ltd. said by phone.  Wal-Mart may open hundreds of retail shops in the country
if the rules are changed,  Raj Jain , chief executive officer of
its India venture, said last year.  Arti Singh, senior vice-president for corporate affairs for
Wal-Mart’s India operations in New Delhi, declined to comment
before seeing an official notice.  Modernize Distribution  “Carrefour can contribute to modernize distribution in
India,” Florence Baranes-Cohen, Carrefour spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement on July 21. “We’re following closely the
potential evolution of legislation in India.”  Allowing foreign direct investment in multi brand retailing
would help cut waste, Jain said in May. About 40 percent of
India’s fruit and vegetables rot before they are sold because of
a lack of cold-storage facilities and poor transport
infrastructure, according to the government.  “We’ll see a lot of new retailers coming in,” Kishore Biyani, managing director at Pantaloon Retail Ltd., said in a
July 22 interview with Bloomberg-UTV. “The industry needs money
and the industry needs to grow.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest listed company by sales, buys
produce from about 1,200 farmers in the northern Indian state of
Punjab and helps them improve yields, Jain said.  Rising Prices  “Allowing foreign investment in retail is a priority area
for this government,” said Suhas Naik, chief operating officer
at IL&FS Portfolio Management Services, which manages about $100
million in assets. “High inflation will provide the right
background for the policy to be implemented without much
opposition.”  Wholesale price inflation rose 9.44 percent in June and has
stayed above 8 percent since December 2009. Food-price inflation
averaged 10.67 percent this year.  Relaxing rules on foreign direct investment in retailing
“would enable the global retailers to invest in technology and
bring efficiencies to the market,” said Natalie Berg, co-global
research director at Planet Retail in  London .  Bharti Walmart Pvt., a venture with billionaire Sunil Mittal’s Bharti Enterprises Pvt., runs seven wholesale stores
and plans to add as many as 12 by 2012. Paris-based Carrefour
set up its first Indian wholesale store in December.  Economic Growth  Germany ’s Metro AG operates six wholesale stores in India,
according to its  website . British retailer  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  in 2008
signed an  agreement  with  Trent Ltd. (TRENT) , the retail arm of India’s
 Tata Group , to set up cash-and-carry stores.  Trent fell 2.6 percent, the most since Feb. 9, to 1,204.2
rupees.  “The market is new and highly under-penetrated,”
Ranganathan said. “There is huge scope, the pie is large and
growing rapidly.”  India’s 1.2 billion population, second in size only to
 China ’s, is expected to grow to 1.4 billion in 2026, according
to the  Census of India  2001. A growing middle class, expanding
economy and increasingly brand-conscious population will help
boost retail sales 35 percent over the next three years,  A.T.
Kearney  said in a report last year.  India can sustain economic growth rates of as much as 9.5
percent without stoking inflation, Chakravarthy Rangarajan,
chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said
July 11. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government aims to
accelerate India’s economic expansion to as much as 10 percent
and sustain that pace for more than two decades to cut poverty.  Wal-Mart has “intensive plans” to expand in India, Asia
chief  Scott Price  said March 30. Its annual sales in India
amounted to less than $1 billion, compared with $8 billion in
 Japan  and $7.5 billion in China, Price said.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s retailing business plans to
double clothing stores to 100 by yearend and open wholesale
shops to compete with Wal-Mart.  “The biggest challenge is going to be retail space --
that’s what I think is going to command the choice of a
partner” for overseas retailers, Ranganathan said. “You are
not fighting for the consumer’s wallet yet. You’re fighting for
retail space more than anything else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  