-- Asia Stocks Jump Most Since January as Progress Seen in Europe
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-06-30T02:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/asia-stocks-jump-most-since-january-as-progress-seen-in-europe.html
Asian  stocks  capped the biggest
weekly gain since January as euro-zone leaders agreed to relax
conditions for recapitalizing lenders and amid speculation China
will do more to shore up growth. The advance pared the regional
benchmark index’s first  quarterly  loss since September.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest
lender, advanced 2.7 percent in Tokyo after leaders of the 17
euro countries dropped a requirement that governments get
preferred creditor status on crisis loans to Spain’s banks.
China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. advanced 7.3 percent in
Hong Kong.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s biggest carmaker by market
value that gets 21 percent of its sales in North America, gained
3.4 percent in Tokyo after U.S orders for durable goods and the
number of contracts to buy existing homes rose.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 2.7 percent to 117.22 this
week, the biggest advance since the week ended Jan. 20. The
gauge advanced 4.1 percent this month, paring its quarterly loss
to 7.4 percent.  “It seems very significant,” said  Jonathan Garner , Hong
Kong-based chief strategist at Morgan Stanley, of the European
leaders’ decision. “One of the key problems around Greece was
the official lenders putting themselves in a senior position to
existing bondholders, and that immediately impaired the Greek
government debt. One of the worries the market’s had about the
Spanish bank bailout is that the same thing would be repeated.”  First Half  The Asian benchmark index  rose  3 percent in the first six
months of 2012. Stocks in the index are  valued  at 12 times
estimated earnings on average.  Financial companies and health-care stocks led gains
through the  first half . Materials and energy companies had the
biggest declines among the Asia-Pacific gauge 10 industries as
Europe’s crisis and  China ’s slowdown sent commodity prices into
a bear market.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 2.4 percent this week
after  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , the world’s No. 2
bourse operator by value, agreed to set up a joint venture to
develop equity derivative products with its mainland Chinese
counterparts.  Regulators on both sides of the border announced after
markets closed June 29 that they had approved for listing in
China the first exchange-traded funds to track Hong Kong
indexes. A yuan-denominated ETF in Hong Kong will track shares
traded on the Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses.  China Handover  The announcement coincided with a visit to the former
British colony by China’s President  Hu Jintao  to mark the 15th
anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to China. The Shanghai
Composite Index lost 1.6 percent before the government releases
data on China’s manufacturing in June.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbed 2.4 percent, a
fourth weekly gain, after the nation’s retail sales grew more
than expected in May. South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index added 0.4
percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 1.2 percent.  Stocks surged on June 29 as European leaders meeting in
Brussels said Spanish banks can be recapitalized directly with
European bailout funds rather than being channeled through
governments, European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany’s philosophy
that financial aid must carry conditions remains in place after
European leaders eased repayment rules on emergency loans.  Asian banks gained. Mitsubishi UFJ added 2.7 percent to 378
yen.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s No. 2 lender by market
value, advanced 1.8 percent to A$21.13.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ,
Europe’s biggest lender, rose 1.6 percent to HK$68.55 in Hong
Kong.  ‘Fooled Again’  “Europe keeps making bold statements, then diluting them
shortly afterwards,”  Mark Matthews , head of research Asia for
Bank Julius Baer & Co., which manages $281 billion in client
assets worldwide, said in an e-mail interview in Singapore.
“These are only vague encouraging words, which have produced
excitement and euphoria. They will almost certainly be followed
by denials and delays, and confusion in the marketplace as it
comes to grips with the fact that it has been fooled again.”  Chinese property developers advanced as China may introduce
“more proactive” policies to ensure stable growth, according
to the China Securities Journal. The government may expand
infrastructure investment, fine-tune monetary policies and
reduce taxes, according to a commentary which was published on
the front page of the newspaper.  U.S. Homes  China Overseas Land gained 7.3 percent to HK$17.98.  China
Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  advanced 4.4 percent to HK$15.80 and
Guangzhou R&F Properties Ltd. rose 1.9 percent to HK$10.18.  Stocks also advanced after the index of U.S. pending home
resales climbed 5.9 percent after a 5.5 percent decline in
April. Orders for durable goods rose 1.1 percent.  Companies that do business the U.S. gained. Toyota rose 3.4
percent to 3,190 yen.  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , maker of Ryobi
power tools and Hoover vacuum cleaners that depends on North
America for 72 percent of its sales, added 7.2 percent to
HK$9.73 in  Hong Kong .  Among stocks that fell this week,  Billabong International
Ltd. (BBG) , Australia’s largest surf-wear maker, slumped 26 percent to
A$1.075 in Sydney after selling A$155 million ($158 million) of
new shares. Billabong has had its recommendation cut to sell by
analysts at Citigroup and UBS since reducing its earnings target
on June 21 and announcing the share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  