-- Assad’s Future Blurry as World Powers Set New Syria Peace Plan
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e ,   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-30T22:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/assad-s-future-blurry-as-world-powers-set-new-syria-peace-plan.html
World powers agreed yesterday on a
plan for a Syrian transition government that doesn’t directly
address the fate of President Bashar al-Assad.  The parties altered a draft agreement proposed by  Kofi Annan , the envoy for the   United Nations  and  Arab League , after
 Russia  objected to language that would prohibit Assad and
members of his inner circle from being part of a transitional
government. The document also added a Russia-backed provision
opposing “further militarization of the conflict,” alluding to
Arab nations’ shipments of arms to the opposition.  International efforts to mediate a peace deal have stumbled
over whether Assad must leave power before a transition can
begin. The communique from foreign ministers in Geneva -- which
declares a “firm timetable” for actions without any dates or
deadlines -- may draw scrutiny over whether the U.S. and allies
 France  and the U.K yielded too much to get a transition “road
map” embraced by Russia and  China .  “As it reads, it seems Washington has made a major
concession in that Assad could stay on,”  Andrew Tabler , a
fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “It’s unclear how Assad
could be present and create the ‘neutral environment’ outlined
in the agreement.”  The Geneva meeting was attended by foreign ministers of the
five permanent UN Security Council members -- China, France,
Russia, the U.K. and the U.S. -- as well as  Turkey , Qatar,
 Kuwait ,  Iraq . Also present were UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
and officials from the European Union and Arab League.  ‘Legitimate Aspirations’  Their document calls on “all parties” to cease violence
in order to begin a “Syrian-led political process leading to a
transition that meets the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian
people.”  At least 104 people were killed in clashes yesterday,
according to the Local Coordination Committees, an activist
group, adding to the more than 10,000 deaths estimated by the UN
since the conflict began 16 months ago. The U.S. blames Assad
for much of the bloodshed, while the Syrian regime blames
“terrorists,” as it calls rebel fighters.  Before yesterday’s meeting, Annan’s draft had said that a
new government “could include members of the present government
and the opposition and other groups, but would exclude from
government those whose continued presence and participation
would undermine the credibility of the transition and jeopardize
stability and reconciliation.”  The revised paragraph said the government “could include
members of the present government and the opposition and other
groups and shall be formed on the basis of mutual consent.”  ‘Some Changes’  At a news conference, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  denied that the U.S. yielded to Russia’s demands for
language that may give Assad leverage to retain power.  The U.S. supported Annan’s original text “but we agreed to
some changes that we did not believe affected the substance
because, frankly, we read the results to be the same,” she
said. “Assad will still have to go. He will never pass the
‘mutual consent’ test, given the blood on his hands.”  Annan made the same point. It’s unlikely Syrians would
“select people with blood on their hands to lead them,” he
said, saying a Syrian solution requires “clear, irreversible
steps.”  Annan said his next step is to engage with all the parties
in  Syria  and that a UN monitoring team, sidelined by threats and
violence, will resume its activity when possible. He said he
expects to see “real progress” within a year.  ‘Mutual Consent’  It wasn’t clear how Annan intends to achieve “mutual
consent” for a transitional leadership excluding Assad in that
the wording also gives Assad a veto over its makeup. The
opposition previously has rejected moves to participate in a
government in which Assad retains power.  Clinton said it is incumbent on Russia and China “to show
Assad the writing on the wall.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said the document
doesn’t imply that Assad must go and said Russia will continue
to block efforts in the UN Security Council to impose sanctions
on Syria to force him out. He defended Russia supplying anti-
aircraft weapons to the regime while saying those shipping arms
to rebel forces are stoking violence.  Even as Lavrov said Russia will press the Syrian government
to abide by Annan’s peace plan, his comments reflected the gulf
between Russia and the Western and Arab nations seeking Assad’s
downfall.  The U.S., the U.K. and France will take the document to a
July 6 Paris meeting of the Friends of Syria, the international
group supporting the Syrian opposition, and will continue
working in the UN Security Council to mandate sanctions, Clinton
said. The U.S. is stepping up efforts to get food, drugs and
emergency relief to Syrians, she said.  “As long as Assad continues to wage war against the Syrian
people -- and he himself now calls this a war -- the
international community must keep ratcheting up the pressure on
the regime to halt the violence and do more to provide
humanitarian assistance to civilians in need,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Geneva at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net 
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  