-- Bristol’s Amylin Deal Heralds Acquisition Hunger
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-03T18:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/bristol-myers-to-acquire-diabetes-maker-amylin-for-5-3-billion.html
(Corrects story published yesterday to show dapagliflozin
is under review for approval in  Europe  in the 15th paragraph.)  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s $5.3
billion deal to buy diabetes drugmaker  Amylin Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (AMLN)  gives  Bristol (BMY)  immediate access to a market of growing
medical need, while heralding a burgeoning hunger among
pharmaceutical companies for acquisitions.  The agreement is the second announced this year for
Bristol, and the largest for the industry. It comes after the
blood-thinner Plavix, Bristol’s top seller in 2011 at $7.1
billion, faced generic competition for the first time in May.  Drugmakers last year lost patent protection on products
valued at $34 billion in annual sales, an amount that will rise
to $147 billion by 2015, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bristol deal would be the fifth sealed in 2012
for more than $1 billion, more than the three in each of the
previous two years. More deals like this one are coming, said
Seamus Fernandez, of Leerink Swann & Co.  “We are on the cusp of the next consolidation wave,” said
Fernandez, a Boston-based industry analyst, by telephone.
“There just isn’t enough top-line growth in the industry.”  AstraZeneca, Pfizer  Last year, drugmakers “took a little bit of a pause,” he
said. “Now, I think we are going to see a reacceleration in
that number.” Fernandez identified London-based  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) , New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Merck (MRK)  & Co., of  Whitehouse
Station ,  New Jersey , as possible acquirers during the year
ahead.  “AstraZeneca and Pfizer have pretty much been out of the
market,” he said. “We should anticipate they will be back. I
wouldn’t be surprised with some of the spin outs to see more
large acquisitions being considered.”  Bristol said on June 29 that it agreed to buy San Diego-
based Amylin for $31 a share in cash, a 10 percent premium to
the June 29 closing price. The New York-based drugmaker also
announced it will be paid $3.4 billion by AstraZeneca to help
develop Amylin’s drug pipeline.  Amylin rose 8.9 percent to $30.71 at the close of  New York 
trading. The stock was at $15.39 on March 27, the day before it
was reported Bristol had made an unsolicited offer of $22 a
share. Bristol gained less than 1 percent to $36.05.  The AstraZeneca partnership means the companies will share
both the risk and the reward of potential treatments.  Going to Fail  “Drugmakers say they would do more deals, but the issue
with biotech companies is that most of the drugs they’re
developing are going to fail,” said  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst at ISI Group in New York, by telephone. “So the biggest
issue isn’t the willingness to do a deal, or the appetite to do
deals, but rather finding stuff that’s worth buying.  “When you have good assets coming along you’ll see
deals,” Schoenebaum said.  Amylin offered Bristol two products already approved for
sale by U.S. regulators -- the twice-daily diabetes injection
Byetta, which generated $518 million in 2011, and a longer-
acting form of that drug, called Bydureon, that’s taken just
once a week.  “We believe this is a very strategic transaction for
Bristol Myers Squibb,” said Bristol Chief Executive Officer
Lamberto Andreotti in a conference call with investors. “It
will enhance our already strong diabetes portfolio, something
that is very important in light of the significant unmet medical
need.”  Creating Value  If the easier-to-use Bydureon becomes a $2 billion product,
“it will create value” for shareholders, Schoenebaum said.
“We saw a lot of interest in Amylin because it’s diabetes and
there aren’t a lot of diabetes assets out there. It is
increasingly strategic to be in that market.”  Bristol’s own experimental diabetes product, dapagliflozin,
failed to win U.S. marketing approval in January, when the  Food
and Drug Administration  asked for more data to assess its risks
and benefits. The treatment, being developed with AstraZeneca,
was recommended for approval by advisers to regulators in
Europe, and the companies are awaiting a decision.  Diabetes has become a key target for pharmaceutical
companies as a result of rising obesity rates and the aging of
the Baby Boom generation. About 346 million people globally have
the illness, and the number of deaths may double from 2005 to
2030, according to the  World Health Organization .  AstraZeneca, Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  and Merck also made offers
during a bidding process, people with knowledge of the process
had said.  Marketing Partnership  Amylin ended a marketing partnership on Bydureon and Byetta
with Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in November, and had
been seeking a partner to sell the medicine outside the U.S. The
company began to seek acquisition suitors after rejecting a $22-
a-share offer from Bristol in February, people familiar with the
matter said earlier this year.  For Bristol, the purchase is the largest of 19 since 2007,
when it began its so-called string of pearls acquisition
strategy designed to revitalize the company in the face of
patent losses and produce a more diverse stable of products.  This year, there have been four announced acquisitions of
biotechs for more than $1 billion, and one takeover attempt
that’s still active, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s $2.6 billion hostile offer for Human
Genome Sciences Inc. is still pending. The two companies have a
partnership on the approved lupus drug Benlysta, as well as
experimental medicines for diabetes and cardiovascular disease.  Bristol purchased Inhibitex in January for $2.5 billion to
gain access to experimental hepatitis C medicines, while Agilent
Technologies Inc. bought Danish cancer-diagnostics maker Dako
for $2.2 billion to expand its life-science business.  AstraZeneca took over Ardea Biosciences Inc. for $1.26
billion in April, adding experimental drugs for gout and cancer.  Amylin was advised by Goldman Sachs & Co. and Credit Suisse
Securities LLC. Citigroup Inc. and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  are
serving as financial advisers to Bristol. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch advised AstraZeneca.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  