-- Canadian Dollar Advances in June on Europe Debt-Crisis Optimism
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/canadian-dollar-advances-in-june-on-europe-debt-crisis-optimism.html
Canada ’s dollar rose this month
against its U.S. counterpart as optimism  Europe  is closer to
resolving its debt crisis spurred demand for riskier assets.  The currency had the biggest advance since November
yesterday after European leaders agreed to relax conditions for
emergency loans to Spanish banks. Stocks gained on the month and
volatility fell the most since January, lifting the Canadian
dollar. The nation’s employers added jobs in June for a fourth
straight month, economists forecast before the July 7 report.  “People are reading it as a step in the right direction,”
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview of the EU agreement. “It’s been something
that boosts sentiment, and when sentiment is boosted, the
Canadian dollar tends to do well.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.8 percent this week
to C$1.0166 per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto. One Canadian dollar
purchases 98.37 U.S. cents.  Ten-year government  bonds  rose, pushing the yield down
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.74 percent.
It touched 1.615 percent on June 1, the lowest since 1950,
according to Bloomberg and Bank of Canada data.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback fell to 7.85 percent yesterday, down
from 9.57 percent at the end of May. The 10-year average is 10
percent. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  ‘Risk Squeeze’  All of the currency’s gains this month came yesterday after
EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said officials meeting in
Brussels agreed to drop the condition that emergency loans to
Spanish banks give creditor governments preferred status.  “Once this risk squeeze has run its course and the market
realizes this solution does not solve the problem, the quicker
we’ll be trading back in the hole again,” said  Dean Popplewell ,
an analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda
Corp., in an e-mail. “For the loonie, things are getting a
little overheated.”  The government will announce further details on July 5 of
its plans to sell five-year  securities  on July 11. The previous
auction of five-year bonds, on May 9, drew an average yield of
1.534 percent and a coverage ratio -- the amount bid relative to
the amount on offer -- of 2.59 times. The ratio averaged 2.41
times over the previous three five-year  auctions .  Employment Report  Employment in June rose by 5,000 positions and the jobless
rate held steady at 7.3 percent, according to the median of 21
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada 
releases the data on July 6.  The loonie dropped 1.2 percent this month when measured
against nine major counterparts in Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes. It dropped for the first time in three
quarters versus the greenback, falling 1.8 percent, as crude
oil, Canada’s largest export, lost almost a fifth of its value.  Canada’s currency extended gains yesterday after the
statistics agency reported the world’s 10th largest  economy
expanded  0.3 percent following a March gain of 0.1 percent.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.2 percent
gain, based on the median of 23 estimates. Mining and oil and
gas extraction advanced 2.7 percent, after declining in the
previous two months following maintenance shutdowns.  ‘Less Dovishness’  It underperformed its commodity peers of  Australia  and  New
Zealand , which rose 4.5 percent and 5.6 percent this month
against the greenback, after statements from their central
bankers suggested cuts were less likely, while  Bank of Canada 
Governor  Mark Carney  said the country’s economy may grow less
than the central bank forecast.  Odds of a cut in the central bank’s overnight target rate
by year-end ended the month at about 30 percent, according to
Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps. At the end of
April, swaps were pricing in rate increases.  “Aside from the broader global growth sentiment, in
Australia and New Zealand you had a little less dovishness from
the central banks,” said RBS’s Kim. “The Bank of Canada added
some more conditionality to a potential withdrawal of stimulus.
The Flaherty moves on the housing market are probably another
reason why CAD underperformed.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said June 21 he will
tighten mortgage terms as the country tries to avert a household
debt crisis. The government will shorten the maximum
amortization period on mortgages the government insures to 25
years from 30 years, and lower the maximum amount homeowners can
borrow against the value of their homes to 80 percent from 85
percent, Flaherty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  