-- Carbon Polluters, Coal Miners Pay in Australian Tax Overhaul
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-01T04:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/carbon-polluters-coal-miners-paying-in-australian-tax-overhaul.html
Australia  is charging its largest
polluters for  carbon emissions  and taxing profits of  iron ore 
and coal producers starting today in the biggest change since
2000 in how the government collects and spends money.  The country will assess almost 300 of its largest polluters
a fixed price of A$23 ($23.55) a metric ton for their greenhouse
gases. Mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto
Ltd. and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  face a separate levy on 30
percent of earnings from iron ore and coal starting today.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who pushed her climate law
through Parliament last year, is trailing in opinion polls
behind the Liberal-National coalition led by  Tony Abbott , who
has vowed to repeal carbon pricing. Gillard is counting on
payouts and credits worth about A$30 billion over the next four
years to placate Australian business and households facing
higher power bills.  “This is the most effective and efficient way to drive
innovation to find better, less-polluting ways of producing
power, goods and services,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in his
weekly economic note today. “It will help reduce Australia’s
annual emissions by at least 159 million tons per annum by 2020,
equivalent to taking 45 million cars off the road.”  Carbon pricing is Australia’s main tool for meeting its
target of a 5 percent cut in emissions from 2000 levels by 2020.
The levy will be fixed until 2015, when the country plans to
introduce a market-based system.  ‘No Discernible Impact’  The Treasury estimates the carbon tax will reduce gross
domestic product and employment growth by less than a quarter
percentage point in the fiscal year beginning July 1, and have
“no discernible impact” on the nation’s  unemployment rate ,
which has hovered just above 5 percent for the past year.  The economy “will continue to prosper as Australia moves
to a clean-energy future,” Treasury said in its budget papers
released May 8. “Around A$100 billion of investment in new
clean-energy sources such as solar, wind and geothermal will be
unleashed over the period to 2050.”  Gillard’s law creates a new tradable commodity. Each permit
carries the right to emit one metric ton of  greenhouse gases  in
Australia. While a fixed price on carbon is different from a
tax, which is used in some Scandinavian countries, Abbott has
accused Gillard of imposing a “toxic tax” that will be a
“ wrecking ball ” for the economy in Australia, the world’s
largest exporter of thermal coal.  “When the dust settles following the furious debate that
we’ve had about carbon pricing, I think Australians will come to
see that this has been an important reform at the right time,”
Gillard said yesterday, according to an e-mail from her office.  Higher Power Prices  Australia expects to raise A$24.7 billion over four years
from the carbon levy, the government said in budget documents.
Electricity prices will climb by as much as 10 percent, or an
average of A$3.30 a week per household, according to Climate
Minister  Greg Combet , who cited Treasury modeling.  The government will provide A$9.2 billion over three years
in the form of free permits to help businesses such as aluminum
smelters, steelmakers and pulp manufacturers. Power generators
will get A$5.5 billion, while consumers will receive A$14.9
billion through tax changes and benefits.  “On day one of a new government, the carbon tax repeal
process will begin,” Abbott said yesterday in Melbourne in a
speech to the Federal Council of the  Liberal Party , according to
a transcript from his office. “On day one of a new Parliament,
the carbon-tax repeal legislation will be introduced.”  Mining Tax  Australia’s mining tax will raise less than half the amount
forecast by its Treasury in the next two years and reduce profit
estimates for groups including BHP and Rio, UBS AG said in a
report dated June 22. Companies will pay A$1.8 billion in the
2013 fiscal year and A$1.4 billion in 2014, compared with
government forecasts for revenue from the tax of A$6.5 billion
in both years, said  Glyn Lawcock , a Sydney-based analyst at UBS.  “Together with the introduction of the mining tax --
labeled the minerals resource rent tax by the Commonwealth --
this represents the largest change to the tax system since
2000,” according to  Kieran Davies , chief economist at  Barclays
Capital  in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  