-- Christie Calls Special Legislative Session on Tax Cuts
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-30T19:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/christie-calls-special-legislative-session-on-tax-cuts.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
called for a special session of the Democratic-led Legislature
to pass his proposed  tax cut , which he said lawmakers “held
hostage” in the $31.7 billion budget approved this week.  Christie, a first-term Republican, said in a statement he
has sent a letter to Senate President Stephen Sweeney and
Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, both Democrats, notifying them
of the session. Christie said he plans to address a joint
session of the Senate and Assembly at 11 a.m. on July 2.  In his February budget address, Christie called for a 10
percent income-tax cut across the board. He later agreed with
Democrats on a plan to give residents property-tax credits.
Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat from
Wood-Ridge, said his party opted to delay the credits until
later in the year, conditional upon revenue meeting
expectations.  “The budget, which contained billions of dollars in
spending, failed to address the single issue that strikes at the
heart of our shared interests, and our continued prosperity,”
Christie, 49, said in the letter, according to a statement
released today by his office. “Lowering the tax burden on every
New Jersey resident is a matter of unique and critical interest
that demands our immediate and full attention.”  Property-Tax Credits  The governor vetoed $361 million in spending initiatives
added on by Democrats when he signed the spending plan in
Trenton. New Jersey law allows governors to call the Legislature
into session when they deem doing so is “in the public
interest.”  Democrats in their budget stuck closely to the revenue and
spending targets outlined by Christie and set aside $183 million
in the state’s rainy day account to cover property-tax credits.  “We presented the governor with a budget committed to
providing middle-class tax relief, and regardless of the
governor’s political theater no tax breaks will even go into
effect until 2013,” said the Senate’s Sweeney in a statement
this afternoon. “While the last thing anyone wants in the
middle of a heat wave is hot air coming from Trenton, we will be
there.”  The legislature’s top budget analyst has said tax
collections may drop as much as $1.4 billion below Christie’s
original targets through the end of next fiscal year, double a
revised figure from Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  