-- Heat’s Chris Bosh Skipping U.S. Olympic Basketball Due to Injury
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/heat-s-chris-bosh-skipping-u-s-olympic-basketball-due-to-injury.html
Miami Heat forward  Chris Bosh  will
skip trying out for the U.S. basketball team that will go to the
London Olympics, the fourth National Basketball Association
player to drop out of contention for the squad.  Bosh strained an abdominal muscle during Game 1 of the NBA
Eastern Conference semifinals.  “After the Finals, I met with my doctors to determine the
best course of action, with the full intent to play in the
Olympics,” Bosh said on the USA Basketball website. “From
those meetings, I was advised that rest and additional rehab of
my abdominal injury will be necessary in order to avoid the
development of a chronic injury.”  He joins Miami teammate  Dwyane Wade ,  Derrick Rose  of the
Chicago Bulls and  Dwight Howard  of the Orlando Magic on the
sidelines, USA Basketball said yesterday in a statement.  “It is obvious why we have built a pool of players over
the last seven years to take care of situations like these,”
U.S. coach  Mike Krzyzewski  said. “This opens up opportunities
for other players in the pool to show their talents.”  USA Basketball Chairman Jerry Colangelo said Bosh will be
missed.  “We’ve taken four bullets with the injuries to Rose,
Howard, Wade and now Bosh and it will now be a testimony to the
infrastructure we put in with the national team roster,”
Colangelo said. “I feel very confident about our roster going
forward.”  Bosh was a member of the U.S. team that won a gold medal at
the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Tryouts for the team are July 5-7 in
Las Vegas.  “My thoughts will be with our guys in London in August and
I am confident that Coach K and the USA Basketball staff will
bring home the gold again to the USA,” Bosh said.  Finalists contending for the 12 spots on the roster are the
New York Knicks’ Carmelo Anthony and  Tyson Chandler ; Brooklyn
Nets’ Deron Williams; Los Angeles Lakers’  Kobe Bryant ; New
Orleans Hornets’ Eric Gordon and first draft pick Anthony Davis;
Oklahoma City Thunder’s  Kevin Durant , Russell Westbrook and
James Harden; Memphis Grizzlies’ Rudy Gay; Los Angeles Clippers’
Blake Griffin, Lamar Odom and Chris Paul; Philadelphia 76ers’
Andre Iguodala; Heat’s Lebron James, and Minnesota Timberwolves’
Kevin Love.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  