-- Mursi Sworn in as Egypt’s First Freely-Elected President
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-07-01T08:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/egypt-s-mursi-takes-oath-of-office-before-constitutional-court.html
Egypt’s new Islamist president was
formally sworn into office, vowing to protect the freedom that
hundreds died to achieve as he at once praised the military and
indirectly challenged them over their limiting of his authority.  In a day steeped in ceremony and symbolism, the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi said a new nation of justice and
equality had been born from the uprising that toppled former
President  Hosni Mubarak  last year.  The 60-year-old U.S.-trained engineer, who had been the
Brotherhood’s back-up candidate for the office, became the
nation’s first democratically-elected, civilian leader after a
16-month transition process that divided the country and set in
motion a power struggle between him and the military leadership
that is poised to continue.  “We proceed to a better tomorrow, to a new Egypt, to the
second republic,” Mursi said yesterday after being sworn in
before the Supreme Constitutional Court. “Today the Egyptian
people have laid the foundations for a new life, for absolute
freedom, for a real democracy.”  Mursi’s predecessor was the last of four presidents drawn
from the ranks of the military. The armed forces assumed power
after Mubarak was toppled and the brotherhood became one of the
country’s strongest political forces. Its power, however, has
rattled secularists who have been concerned about the possible
dawn of an Islamist era in a nation whose modern history has
been secular.  ‘Civil, Modern State’  Those concerns resonated with Mursi, who battled against
his presidential rival, former premier Ahmed Shafik, to dispel
the notion that he was seeking to impose Islamic law.  “Today,  Egypt  is a civil, national, constitutional and
modern state,” Mursi said after his oath. “And thus, this
state is born today as a strong state thanks to its people, its
history, the beliefs of its people and its institutions.”  Mursi’s message was one of change and the “continuation of
the revolution,” said Omar Ashour, director of Middle East
studies at the University of Exeter in the U.K., and a visiting
fellow at Brookings Doha Center.  “The message is clear: He
wants to take full powers, and he’s defying the dissolution of
the parliament and the constitutional declaration.”  Mohamed ElBaradei , a former director of the United Nations
nuclear agency whose criticism of Mubarak helped galvanize
protesters against the former leader, said Egyptians must reach
a consensus on the new constitution, legislative authority and
the power of the presidency. “It’s time to build and to achieve
the goals of the revolution,” he said on Twitter.  Praise for Military  Yesterday’s ceremony in the court, which sits across from
the military hospital where Mubarak was transferred from prison
to be treated for deteriorating health, came a day after Mursi
took a symbolic oath in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  before tens of
thousands of supporters.  In three different speeches, Mursi praised the armed forces
for standing alongside the Egyptians that drove Mubarak from
power.  He also indicated that it was time for the military to
relinquish power -- a sentiment echoed by some at the university
who at times chanted: “Down, down, with military rule.”  Promise Kept  “The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces has kept its
promise to not be an alternative to popular will,” Mursi said
yesterday before an audience that included military chief Field
Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, political leaders, departing
Cabinet ministers and lawmakers from the dissolved legislature.  “The elected institutions will resume carrying out their
role, and the great Egyptian army will go back to focusing on
its mission of protecting national security and borders,” he
said.  Mursi, in a ceremony held at a base where Islamists
referred to military court had been tried during Mubarak’s era,
said he accepted the handover of power from Tantawi and the
military.  “They are handing over power with satisfaction and
content. They are making good on what they have promised God and
this people,” he said. “I accept this responsibility to become
responsible for them just like I am responsible for all the
people of Egypt.”  The comments signaled the opening of a new chapter in the
tug-of-war between him and the generals who, hours after polls
closed on June 17, issued constitutional addenda that gave them
legislative powers and diluted his authority. Tantawi and others
in the military council sat largely silent throughout much of
his speech, reserving their loudest applause for when he
directly saluted the armed forces.  ‘Very Surprised’  “I would be very surprised if they just give up,” Said Hirsh, Mideast economist at  Capital Economics  said, referring to
the military. In other countries where similar situations
emerged, such as  Turkey , “the military there spent years trying
to come out as the defender of the principles of Turkish
governance and these people, as individuals, have a vested
interest in keeping things as they are.”  Mursi said yesterday that Egypt’s foreign relations will be
determined on the basis of dignity and sovereignty, a theme he
repeated in his inaugural speech while vowing to support the
Palestinians’ cause. Mursi also said Egypt will honor its
existing international commitments, an acknowledgment of the
more than 30-year-old peace treaty between Egypt and  Israel .  “We carry a message of peace to the world. Before it and
with it, we carry a message of truth and justice,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  