-- Egypt Handover Ceremony Won’t End Mursi’s Army Struggle
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-30T09:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/egypt-handover-ceremony-won-t-end-mursi-s-army-struggle.html
Egypt’s first freely elected
president will take office in an inauguration ceremony at the
country’s constitutional court, a day after swearing a symbolic
oath before his supporters in an indirect challenge to the
ruling generals who curbed his authority.  In his first public speech since being declared winner in
the runoff race this month, Mohamed Mursi said yesterday he
feared “no one but God,” and stressed that the people are
“the source of legitimacy.” Addressing tens of thousands of
his backers, Mursi also pledged to free protesters detained
following the uprising against former President  Hosni Mubarak ,
and also Omar Abdel-Rahman, the blind cleric imprisoned in the
U.S. for plotting to attack landmarks there.  The speech by the country’s first civilian president, who
was also drawn from the ranks of the Muslim Brotherhood,
suggested a tone of potential defiance for the coming period,
setting the stage for a continued tug-of-war with the military
council at a time when the country’s tumultuous post-Mubarak
transition passes a new milestone with his inauguration today.  “I came before you today to reaffirm that the people are
the source of all authority and are above any authority or
institution in this country,” Mursi said yesterday in Cairo’s
 Tahrir Square , the epicenter of last year’s uprising.  Swearing Oath  He was to swear the oath before the constitutional court at
11 a.m., standing before the same judicial body that ordered the
disbanding of the Islamist-dominated parliament earlier this
month. The 60-year-old U.S.-trained engineer was then to deliver
a speech to the nation from Cairo University.  The debate over where Mursi would be sworn in to office
symbolized how much remains undecided in post-Mubarak  Egypt . The
decision to take the oath before the court was a defeat for the
Brotherhood, which argued he should be sworn in before the
elected parliament. The assembly was ordered dissolved by the
military council in line with a constitutional court ruling
earlier this month.  Mursi’s appearance yesterday in Tahrir, where he was
flanked by guards whom he pushed away at the end of his speech,
refocused the question of whether the coming period would be one
of stability or continued tension that the country can ill
afford with its economy battered since Mubarak was toppled.  Common Touch  “Despite his degree in rocket science, Mursi is
essentially representative of the masses in Egypt, with a humble
upbringing forming and informing his world view,” Emad Mostaque, a U.K.-based analyst at  emerging markets  investment
adviser Religare Hitchens Harrison, said in an e-mailed note.
“This is something that is particularly tricky for younger
Egyptians and the elite to understand, and he is similar to
President Ahmedinejad in this regard, minus the ‘end of days’-
crazy rhetoric.”  Mursi’s background, as a member of the long-suppressed
Brotherhood, marks him out from his predecessors, all military
men. So does his route to the job via a free election in which
he defeated Ahmed Shafik, a former air force commander and
premier in the last days before Mubarak’s ouster in a popular
revolt in February last year.  The Islamist, looking to allay concerns that he will
promote the Brotherhood’s interests, has cast himself as the
candidate of the revolution -- a characterization he repeated in
his speech yesterday. He said he was addressing all Egyptians,
Muslims and Christians, as well as Arabs around the region.  ‘Bulletproof Vest’  “I appear before you without a bulletproof vest,” he
said, adding he felt safe among Egyptians. “Resilient
revolutionary men and women, boys and girls, I am one of you. I
always was and always will be.”  Mursi swore a symbolic oath of office, pledged to build a
constitutional, civil and modern state and alleviate the
suffering of all Egyptians. The emphasis on a civil state
reflected the concerns of Christians and secularists that he
would push a strict Islamist agenda that could curtail the
rights of some.  Those who supported his election and those who didn’t will
be treated equally, he told the crowd, promising to respect the
constitution and eliminate corruption and injustice. He also
remembered martyrs who “made great sacrifices” for freedom and
warned that Egypt will respond to any aggression against it.  The president-elect sent a clear message to the military,
saying he won’t compromise or forsake any of his rights as the
country’s leader. Egypt’s foreign relations will be determined
on the basis of dignity and sovereignty, he said, adding that
Egypt will not be the aggressor though it stood ready to defend
itself against any enemy.  Protesters’ Demands  The mass rally in Tahrir was a continuation of a sit-in led
by the Brotherhood in which protesters are demanding a reversal
of the dissolution of parliament and the decree expanding the
military council’s powers.  Mursi faces a challenge in winning over a public that has
been polarized by more than a year of tussles between the
generals, Islamist politicians led by the Brotherhood, and the
largely secular activists who led the uprising.  He and the Brotherhood know “they can’t run the country on
their own. They don’t have the support of everybody, and clearly
there are other political forces,” Said Hirsh, Mideast
economist with  Capital Economics , said. “It’s not the time in
Egypt to ignore that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  