-- Euro Rises After EU Summit; Dollar Falls in Risk Advance
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/euro-rises-after-eu-summit-dollar-falls-in-risk-advance.html
The euro gained against the dollar
as European Union leaders reached an agreement that alleviated
concern banks will fail and spurred optimism they are closer to
resolving the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The dollar  fell  against all its major counterparts this
week after EU officials during a two-day summit in Brussels
dropped the requirement governments get preferred-creditor
status on crisis loans to Spanish lenders. Higher-yielding
currencies such as the Mexican peso and Brazilian real surged
with stocks and commodities on an increased appetite for risk.
The  European Central Bank  will lower its benchmark lending rate
when it meets next week, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “The themes this week were all around the EU summit and
the anticipation that nothing of any substance was going to be
resolved -- then headlines proved that to be incorrect,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada  in Toronto, said yesterday. “Commodities are rising. The
impact is being seen on currencies most closely associated with
this type of market environment like the Aussie,  New Zealand  and
 Canada .”  The euro rose 0.8 percent this week to $1.2667, after
touching $1.2407, a three-week low, before the summit. The
shared currency was little changed against the yen at 101.04.
The Japanese currency rose 0.8 percent to 79.79 versus the
dollar after reaching a two-month low on June 25.  Futures traders added to bets the euro would fall versus
the dollar, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.
Net-shorts for the shared currency rose to 159,880 contracts in
the week ended June 26. That compares to a record 214,418 wagers
for a euro decline on June 8.  Euro ‘Breakthrough’  EU leaders completed yesterday their 19th summit to discuss
measures to stem a debt crisis that’s spurred five euro members
to seek international bailouts. Euro-bloc finance ministers will
enact the deal on loans to Spanish banks at a meeting on July 9,
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said, calling the
accord a “breakthrough.”  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield dropped 61 basis points to 6.33
percent yesterday after falling as much as 55 basis points, the
biggest decline since Dec. 5.  Italy ’s 10-year yield slid 38
basis points to 5.82 percent.  The European Union has “addressed the issues on the
seniority of Spanish loans,” Roy Teo, a currency strategist in
 Singapore  at ABN Amro Private Bank, said on June 29. “The fact
that right now they are renouncing the seniority status means
private bondholders will have similar, equal, weighting. It’s
positive for the euro.”  ECB Meets  The ECB, which has held its key rate at a record low 1
percent since December, is forecast trim it by 25 basis points,
or 0.25 percentage point, when it meets on July 5, according to
the median average of 57 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The euro still registered its biggest quarterly drop
against both the yen and the dollar since September, weakening
8.6 percent versus the yen and 5.1 percent against the dollar.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  touched its lowest level in more than a
week yesterday. It fell 0.8 percent to 81.595 in the five-day
period. The index is used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners.  The market’s risk-on tone has reversed recent safe-haven
flows, Eric Theoret, a currency strategist in Toronto at Bank of
Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote yesterday in a note to
clients.  Bank of Japan  policy, domestic fundamentals and a
growing global risk appetite should push the  U.S. dollar  to 83
yen, according to Theoret.  Peso, Real  The Mexican peso gained the most against the dollar this
week, rising 3.6 percent to 13.3608.  South Africa ’s rand was
next, appreciating 2.9 percent to 8.1642 per dollar.  Brazil ’s real, which dropped against all of its major
counterparts except the peso for the week, depreciated 2.8
percent to 2.0094 per dollar as the central bank signaled on
June 28 that it will continue to cut  interest rates  as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and sluggish demand lead to slower economic growth.  The currency pared weekly losses after Brazil’s central
bank offered 60,000 currency swap contracts worth $3 billion on
June 29.  “It’s starting to break 2 at this point and it might do
it,” Ilan Solot, a London-based strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., said in a telephone interview. “The swap might
have been the biggest factor on the margin that led to this.”  Risk Adjusted  The real has posted a risk-adjusted gain of 0.55 percent
versus the greenback this year to lead gainers, the data show,
while the yen’s risk-adjusted gain of 0.45 percent is second
best. The euro’s loss of 0.26 was the third worst performance,
after the Singapore and Taiwan dollars.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  The euro has declined against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this year, with the  Mexican peso ’s 6.7 percent rise
leading gainers. The greenback gained 2.3 percent versus the
euro. The yen fell 1.4 percent, the biggest decline after the
Brazilian real’s 4.9 percent plunge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  