-- Ex-Citigroup Executive Gets 8 Years for Embezzlement
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/ex-citigroup-executive-gets-8-years-for-embezzlement.html
Ex- Citigroup Inc. (C)  Vice President
 Gary Foster  was sentenced to 97 months in prison for embezzling
almost $23 million from the bank, federal prosecutors said.  Foster pleaded guilty to bank fraud in September, admitting
that he transferred money from various Citigroup accounts to his
own at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  He concealed his activities by
making false accounting entries, according to the government.  He used the money to buy real estate and luxury sports
cars, including a Ferrari and a Maserati, prosecutors said. The
government has seized or restrained property from Foster valued
at a total of $14 million.  “I executed a scheme to defraud Citigroup,” Foster told
U.S. District Judge Eric Vitaliano at his plea hearing last year
in Brooklyn,  New York . “I directed funds to be wired into my
personal account at JPMorgan.”  Foster, of Englewood Cliffs,  New Jersey , was arrested last
June at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport after
returning from Bangkok. Foster, who worked in the bank’s
treasury finance department, transferred money from various
Citigroup accounts.  Under nonbinding sentencing guidelines, Foster faced a
maximum of about 10 years in prison. John Diat, a spokesman for
New York-based Citigroup, declined to comment on Foster.  ‘Stunning Amount’  As part of his plea deal, Foster agreed to forfeit about
$16 million in properties, including residences in  Manhattan ,
Brooklyn and New Jersey, as well as the Ferrari and Maserati.  “The defendant violated his employer’s trust and stole a
stunning amount of money over an extended period of time to
finance his personal lifestyle,” U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
 Brooklyn  said last year.  During the sentencing yesterday, Foster “expressed
enormous contrition and remorse and was very clear about taking
full responsibility for what happened,” his lawyer, Isabelle A. Kirshner, said in a phone interview.  Foster, who worked for Citigroup in the Long Island City
section of Queens, New York, caused about $900,000 to be moved
from its interest-expense account and about $14.4 million from
its debt-adjustment account to the bank’s cash account,
according to prosecutors.  Then, in eight transfers, his actions led to the money
being wired from the cash account into his personal account,
prosecutors said. He conducted the fraud from September 2003 to
June 2011, according to the government.  Wire Transfers  Foster caused a fraudulent contract or deal number to be
put in the reference line of the wire-transfer instructions to
make it appear the transfers supported an existing contract, the
prosecutors charged.  “I made entries in Citigroup’s records to conceal the fact
that I took the funds,” he said at his plea hearing.  Citigroup’s treasury finance department funds loans and
other business transactions within the bank and Foster
supervised the department’s derivatives unit, according to his
criminal complaint. The unit processed payments related to
trades of derivatives, including swaps, according to court
papers.  Foster joined Citigroup, which is ranked third by assets
among U.S. banks, in 1999 and left voluntarily in January 2011,
according to a person familiar with his employment.  Originally from  Jamaica , Foster started at Citigroup as a
temporary employee and worked his way up to a vice president
position, his lawyer Kirshner said.  “In many ways, this was tragic,” she said. “He had
achieved a lot.”  An internal audit of the department detected the wire
transfers to Foster’s personal account, prosecutors said.  “We are outraged by the actions of this former employee,”
 Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for Citigroup, said in a June 2011
e-mail.  The case is U.S. v. Foster, 11-cr-00601, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe federal court in Brooklyn, New York, at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 