-- Crews ‘Optimistic’ as Week-Old Colorado Blaze Is Half-Contained
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-07-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/firefighters-cautiously-optimistic-at-week-old-colorado-blaze.html
Crews made “really good strides”
against the most destructive wildfire in Colorado history, which
is still lashing at the mountainous edges of the state’s second-
largest city and is now almost half-contained.  The weather over the last few days has helped crews
battling the  Waldo Canyon fire  in Colorado Springs -- which has
destroyed  346 homes , forced the evacuation of more than 34,000
people and taken two lives since it started June 23. The blaze,
which has cost $8.8 million so far to fight, is now 45 percent
contained, said Rich Harvey, incident commander with the multi-
agency force.  “We had a pretty good day out there,” Harvey said late
yesterday, after showing reporters new containment lines and
areas of concern. “Crews made good progress all around the
fire. Crews continue to be optimistic.”  Harvey said the fire still has the potential to become
extreme, amid dry conditions, especially if the weather turns.  The weather has played a key role in fueling and fighting
the fire. A few days of cooler temperatures and higher humidity
have helped the more than 1,300 firefighters on the scene of the
blaze, which has consumed almost 29 square miles (75 square
kilometers), about the size of  Manhattan .  Earlier yesterday, officials said they were concerned that
higher temperatures could pose a challenge. Instead, cloud cover
and light rain helped them get more areas under control.  Making Progress  “We got clouds, we got overcast and it actually started
raining,” Jerri Marr, Pike & San Isabel National Forest
supervisor, said yesterday. “As a result of the cloud cover, 
our crews were able to work really hard. They were able to make 
really good strides.”  Colorado Springs Police Chief Pete Carey said 120 National
Guard troops are joining the effort this weekend to help
supplement local police. As some evacuated residents have begun
returning home, there have been at least 22 reports of
burglaries behind the fire lines while they were away, he said.
He called the crimes “unconscionable.”  All missing residents have been accounted for, he said.  About 10,000 people remain under mandatory evacuation
orders, said Bret Waters,  Colorado Springs ’ emergency management
director.  “We are working as aggressively as we can to get people
back home and businesses back to work,” Waters said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Colorado Springs at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  