-- Germany’s ESM Role, EU Fiscal Pact Challenged in Court
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-06-30T10:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/germany-s-esm-role-eu-fiscal-pact-challenged-in-court.html
German lawmakers and a democracy
group filed suits challenging the country’s participation in
 Europe ’s fiscal pact and the permanent bailout fund after
parliament approved the measures late yesterday.  The group “Europe Needs More Democracy” filed a complaint
at the Karlsruhe-based Federal Constitutional Court on behalf of
about 12,000 people who signed up via the Internet, it said on
its  website  after the bills were passed. Peter Gauweiler, a
lawmaker from the Bavarian sister party of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats, also filed a petition with the
court, he said on his website. Opposition Left Party lawmakers
also filed a complaint, spokesman Michael Schlick said by phone
today.  The plaintiffs claim that the ESM and the fiscal pact
undermine the principle of democratic rule and intrude on the
powers of German lawmakers. The new instruments overstep the
limits the German constitution sets for European integration.
The new rules should only take effect if approved by a
referendum, the documents contend.  Germany’s parliament approved the laws last night. The
measures won two-thirds majorities in both the lower and upper
chambers, the Bundestag and Bundesrat, in sessions that
stretched until nearly midnight.  Put on Hold  The two measures now await the signature of German
President  Joachim Gauck , who said June 21 that he would withhold
passage pending potential lawsuits to challenge the new laws, as
requested by the Karlsruhe court.  The suits also ask the judges to put both laws on hold
while they consider their actions.  The plaintiffs rely on a September top court ruling which,
while clearing Germany’s participation in the European Financial
Stability Facility temporary bailout fund, said parliament must
keep control over “elementary budgetary decisions.” Parliament
may not relinquish its budget autonomy by “surrendering” to
mechanisms that could lead to unpredictable burdens, the judges
said at the time.  The court at the time cleared the EFSF because currency
union rules didn’t allow the assumption of liability for
financial decisions by other states, “including direct or
indirect communitization of government debt.”  Germany ’s top court has limited Merkel’s discretion in EU
bailout policies in at least three rulings. On June 19, the
court  said  the constitution requires the government to have
parliament participate in matters of European Union integration,
which also covers the ESM.  The judges in February limited the powers of a
parliamentary committee set up to approve emergency actions by
the EFSF, saying more lawmakers need to be involved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  