-- Italy Plans to Disrupt Tiki-Taka Spain in Euro Soccer Final
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-30T22:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/italy-plans-to-disrupt-tiki-taka-spain-in-euro-soccer-final.html
Italy  coach Cesare Prandelli says his
team must not allow  Spain  to settle into the passing rhythm that
has it on the verge of making soccer history.  Italy and Spain meet tonight in the European Championship
final in Kiev. A victory for the Spanish means Vicente Del
Bosque’s reigning world champions retained the continental title
they won in 2008, something that’s not happened before.  Prandelli told a news conference yesterday at the Olympic
Stadium that Italy will press high up the field to disrupt
Spain’s so-called Tiki-Taka style that has seen it top the
possession charts. The Spanish have averaged 60 percent of
possession in their five tournament games and completed 4,222
passes. Italy ranks third with 3,311 passes and has had 52
percent of the ball.  “In terms of our tactical approach, I really hope we can
be positive and take the game to them,” Prandelli said just
hours after his team arrived in Ukraine from Warsaw, where it
shocked favorite Germany 2-1 to make the final. “Our first aim
will be to shut down space to win the ball back. For us, what’s
important is to try and remain very focused on our target. Our
aim is to close the space particularly in central midfield.”  Led by  Xavi Hernandez  and  Xabi Alonso , Spain has seven of
the competition’s top ten passers.  Andrea Pirlo , ranked third,
is the only Italian in that group.  Italy midfielder Claudio Marchisio said the interaction
among Spain’s players resembles musicians who know which notes
each other will play.  “They’re so harmonious with the ball,” Marchisio said in
an interview after his team’s final training session. “They
have these short quick bursts of passing and can suddenly appear
in attack so we have to be very attentive when they start moving
the ball around.”  Penalty Shootouts  Spain started its current run of success at Euro 2008 in
Austria and  Switzerland , where it needed penalties to overcome
Italy in the quarterfinal on the way to a final victory over
 Germany .  It took the same shootout route to tonight’s game after a
0-0 semifinal draw with  Portugal  and has faced criticism that
its style of keeping the ball for long periods without creating
chances is boring.  “It’s not a case of them being boring,” said Prandelli.
“It’s a fear of seeing the same side always winning. Spain
always seems to come out on top, so they’re not boring in any
shape or form.”  The teams met in their opening Euro 2012 group game, when
Spain came from behind for a 1-1 draw. Prandelli picked three
central defenders in that match, but said he won’t be doing the
same after playing four defenders in subsequent games.  “Over the last few games we’ve had a lot of balance in the
side,” he said. “But what we have understood is that, over the
course of a game, we can switch to that system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev via the London
newsroom at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  