-- Korea Drenched by Monsoon Rains Amid Century’s Worst Drought
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-06-30T07:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/korea-peninsula-gets-monsoon-rains-amid-worst-drought-in-century.html
Monsoon rains drenched the Korean
peninsula after the worst drought in a century drove up
vegetable prices in the south while threatening crop production
in the north.  The rains began in the late afternoon yesterday, according
to the  Korea Meteorological Administration .  Seoul , South Korea’s
capital, recorded 69.5 millimeters (2.7 inches) of rain as of 4
p.m., show estimates posted on the agency’s website. The North’s
capital, Pyongyang, received more than 90 millimeters, the
state-run Korean  Central News Agency  reported today.  Prices of napa cabbage, radishes, onions and green onions -
- four main ingredients of Kimchi, the national dish -- surged
138 percent from a year earlier in South Korea, according to
Hyundai Research Institute in Seoul. In the north, the driest
period in 105 years in Pyongyang and the harshest conditions
since the 1960s in surrounding provinces threaten harvests
including wheat, barley and potatoes, KCNA said in dispatches
earlier this month.  South Korea  has spent $43 million to bring water to areas
affected by the dry weather this month, with a further $60
million planned for drought mitigation, according to the
agriculture ministry. About 4,900 hectares (12,100 acres) of
farmland are affected, mostly in the western part of South Korea,
according to the government.  Crops were withering across more than 30,000 hectares in
the North Korean provinces of North Hwanghae and South Phyongan
after water levels in rivers and reservoirs sank, KCNA said on
June 23. The drought also caused electricity shortages, it said.  About 1,000 hectares of rice paddies near the North Korean
border city of Gaeseong, where the two countries jointly operate
a special economic zone, had dried up and 600 hectares of other
farmland was parched, the  news agency  said on June 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  