-- Protesters March in Hong Kong as Leung Vows to Tackle Poverty
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-07-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/new-hong-kong-chief-executive-leung-to-take-office-amid-protests.html
Tens of thousands of protesters took
to  Hong Kong ’s streets in a largely peaceful demonstration hours
after incoming Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying pledged to do
more to address poverty and boost public housing.  Organizers estimated that 400,000 people marched in the
hours after Leung, 57, was sworn in early Sunday amid tight
security in a ceremony at the same Wan Chai district venue used
to mark the end of British rule 15 years ago. Police put the
number of protesters at 55,000, though they only counted those
who joined the demonstration at the start, not along the march.  “Everyone in our community should be able to share in the
fruits of our economic development,” Leung said in Mandarin,
pledging to set up a taskforce on poverty. “We need to provide
more public housing and assist low-income groups to secure
flats.”  As Hong Kong’s third chief executive, Leung must tackle
 Asia ’s biggest wealth gap, now the worst since records started
in 1971, and demands for direct leadership elections by 2017. At
the same time,  China  aims to bind the city’s economy more
closely to the mainland’s and maintain stability ahead of its
own once-a-decade leadership transition this year.  After Leung spoke, Chinese President  Hu Jintao , on a three-
day visit, said Hong Kong should expand ties with the mainland
and resolve “deep-rooted” conflicts.  The demonstrators turned out to draw attention to issues
ranging from the wealth gap and human rights in China to demands
for a higher minimum wage. Organizers said the turnout was the
highest since the same date in 2003 when half a million took to
the streets against then Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa’s plans
to impose an anti-subversion law.  Challenge Authority  Leung also begins his term facing a challenge to his
authority. The  Democratic Party  says Leung misled the public
about illegal structures built at his home.  “The large turnout is a vote of non-confidence against
Leung Chun-ying,” Eric Lai, spokesman for the Civil Human
Rights Front, said in an interview. He said many people joined
mid-way, which explained why organizers’ estimate was larger
than the police figure.  About 70 percent of 529 people surveyed by the University
of Hong Kong on June 25 and 26 said perception of Leung’s
integrity was negatively impacted by the findings. A bid by
former chief secretary  Henry Tang  to become Hong Kong’s next
leader was derailed after an illegal basement was found at his
wife’s property.  Personal Issues  Leung’s plans “for Hong Kong’s economy and livelihood will
be affected by these personal issues,” said Joseph Wong,
visiting professor in public administration at  City University 
of Hong Kong. “He has to reduce these doubts as soon as
possible otherwise they could cause him a lot of trouble over
the next few months.”  The latest allegations may make it more difficult for Leung
to restore the public’s trust in the city’s leadership after his
predecessor,  Donald Tsang , acknowledged taking trips on yachts
and planes owned by billionaire businessmen. He must also win
over tycoons including  Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man and
founder of  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , who had supported Tang for
the chief executive position.  Protesters took to the streets yesterday afternoon, singing
and waving flags as they marched from  Victoria Park  in the
city’s  Causeway Bay  district toward the headquarters of the
government. Some demanded an investigation into the death of
Chinese dissident Li Wangyang, who was found dead in a hospital
ward in the city of Shaoyang last month.  People Frustrated  “People from all social classes are frustrated,” said Lee
Cheuk-yan, chairman of the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of
Patriotic Democratic Movements in China. “People are not happy
with the wealth gap, absence of democracy and Leung’s lack of
integrity.”  Some protesters chanted for Leung to step down, while
others asked for an increase in the city’s  minimum wage , and
policies to improve  living standards , address soaring property
prices and protect freedom of speech. Traffic was stalled by the
march.  “C.Y. has to address Hong Kong’s people needs urgently to
gain our trust,” said Gavin Chan, 36, a teacher at a public
school, who was on the streets with his wife and four-year old
daughter. “Soaring home prices is a headache. The middle class
faces the pressure of making ends meet.”  Property prices have advanced more than 80 percent since
the start of 2009, according to data compiled by Centaline
Property Agency, making Hong Kong the world’s most expensive
place to own a home.  Gini Coefficient  Hong Kong’s  Gini coefficient , which measures  income
inequality , has gained from 0.43 in 1971 to 0.537 in 2011,
according to government statistics. A reading of zero means
income equality and one complete inequality.  “There still exists much deep-rooted conflict and issues
in the society,” Hu said yesterday in his speech.  While Leung was elected by a 1,193-member panel comprised
of billionaires, lawmakers and professionals, he campaigned on a
promise to deliver change for the people.  “I will spare no effort to carry out my election platform
and lead Hong Kong in seeking change while preserving
stability,” Leung said.  The average gross household income of the poorest 10
percent of Hong Kong’s population fell to HK$2,170 ($280) in
2011 from HK$2,590 in 2001, according to a June 18 report from
the Census and Statistics Department. The comparable income for
the richest 10 percent advanced to HK$137,480 a month from
HK$122,740.  Hu “wants the new government to work with the community
and deal with the deep-rooted problems,” said Bernard Chan, who
was appointed yesterday as a government adviser to Leung’s
executive council. “ From what he said, it seems like the
problems can’t be resolved easily.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crystal Chui in Hong Kong at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  