-- Hong Kong Protesters Demand Probe of Li’s Death as Hu Visits
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a ,   F i o n   L i   a n d   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 2012-06-30T19:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/hong-kong-protesters-demand-probe-of-li-s-death-as-hu-visits.html
Protesters gathered in Hong Kong’s
central Wan Chai district to demand China investigate the death
of dissident Li Wangyang as President  Hu Jintao  addressed a
welcome dinner hosted by the city’s government.  Some of the hundreds of residents, who included students
and legislators, also called on the Chinese leadership to change
its verdict on the 1989 pro-democracy protests that led to the
Tiananmen Square crackdown. Demonstrators banged drums, shouted
slogans and held banners yesterday as hundreds of police filled
the streets around the site.  “Hu Jintao, come out and accept our letter,”
demonstrators chanted, as police, some carrying pepper spray
canisters, filled the streets near the venue where Hu will swear
in a new administration today, the 15th anniversary of the
city’s return to Chinese rule. Roads were blocked by police vans
and barricades.  A spokeswoman for the  Hong Kong  police surnamed Hui, who
wouldn’t provide her first name, declined to say how many
officers were deployed and said the police’s estimate of the
number of protesters will be released later.  “We are here to ask for justice for Li Wangyang as Hu
Jintao is here,” said Ngan Mochau, a 22-year-old student
majoring in government and public administration. “China only
talks about cooperation with Hong Kong and what benefits it
gives to Hong Kong.”  Li, who was almost deaf and blind, was found hanged in a
hospital ward in the Chinese city of Shaoyang on June 6.  In an adjacent site outside the Central Plaza skyscraper,
hundreds of supporters of the Falun Gong movement, which is
banned in  China , sat cross-legged in silent prayer below blue
and yellow silk banners.  He arrived Friday on a three-day visit and will attend a
ceremony today to inaugurate the new government led by Leung Chun-ying.  Hu said the new administration would be able to unite all
parts of society and lead them to turn the city into an
international metropolis with “economic prosperity, political
structural democracy and social harmony,” according to a report
of his speech by the official Xinhua News Agency.  Hu said the city’s development over the past 15 years shows
that “one country, two systems” is the right policy for Hong
Kong, Xinhua said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at   hatan@bloomberg.net  