-- Mongolian Election Commission Orders New Vote in Two Districts
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-06-30T11:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/mongolian-election-commission-orders-new-vote-in-two-districts.html
Mongolia’s election commission said
that two districts must go to the polls again after winning
candidates failed to garner the required percentage of votes.
The opposition  Democratic Party  is leading the vote.  Candidates who won seats in the 22nd and 26th districts did
not reach the minimum 28 percent required by election law,
General Election Commission head Luvsanjav told reporters in the
Mongolian capital Ulan Bator today. Each district will decide
when and how to conduct a rerun, he said, without saying how it
would affect the overall results, which are compiled on the
basis of a mixed proportional representation system.  Mongolians voted to directly elect 48 lawmaker and cast
ballots for a political party, with their votes then used to
allocate 28 more seats in parliament under a system of
proportional representation. In districts 22 and 26, a revote is
needed for the third candidate in both districts because of a
failure to reach 28 percent.  The results are preliminary until each election district
approves them, Luvsanjav said. As they stand at the moment, the
Democrats won 22 seats and the MPP took 19 of the 48 being
contested in the direct elections, Luvsanjav said.  The Justice Coalition, which includes former President
Nambaryn Enkhbayar’s party, won four seats and the last three
went to independents, he said.  In the contest for the 28 seats to be distributed in
proportion to the party vote, the election commission said the
Democrats led with 35.3 percent, without stating how many seats
that would earn the party.  Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold’s MPP took 31.3 percent
of the vote, the Justice Coalition 22.3 percent, and the Civil
Will Green Party 5.5 percent, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  