-- PBOC Sees Progress on Non-Hong Kong Residents’ Yuan Accounts
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-06-30T07:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/pboc-sees-progress-on-non-hong-kong-residents-yuan-accounts.html
Talks between the People’s Bank of
 China  and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority to allow non-
residents of the city to open yuan-denominated bank accounts are
making progress, PBOC Deputy Governor Hu Xiaolian said.  The plan could be feasible “as long as it doesn’t involve
the onshore  yuan ,” Hu told reporters after a briefing in Hong
Kong today. There could be progress “in the foreseeable
future,” she said, adding “a future that is not that far.”  Hong Kong’s biggest banks have been lobbying China to relax
restrictions on the city’s yuan business as competition from
London and  Singapore  intensifies. The halt in the yuan’s
appreciation against the  U.S. dollar  this year has damped
appetite among residents for assets denominated in the Chinese
currency, with the city’s  yuan deposits  at the end of May
dropping 35 billion yuan ($5.5 billion) from the end of last
year to 554 billion yuan.  Hong Kong residents can open yuan accounts and buy as much
as 20,000 yuan per day. The quota was raised from 6,000 yuan in
November 2005. Non-residents haven’t been allowed to open
 savings accounts  in the Chinese currency.  The central bank isn’t considering raising Hong Kong
residents’ daily yuan conversion quota, Hu said at the briefing.
“Judging from the statistics we have, Hong Kong residents have
a long way to go to fully utilize the quota,” Hu said.  Relax Rules  China may expand the  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor program and relax rules covering
investments, Yao Gang, vice chairman of the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, said at the same briefing.  The program allows mainland financial companies to raise
yuan-denominated funds outside China to invest in the domestic
securities markets.  “Both Hong Kong and Chinese companies should be able to
participate in the RQFII program as it expands,” Yao said.
“Decisions on the investment ratio should gradually be driven
by the market instead.”  Under current rules, only Hong Kong units of Chinese
financial institutions can raise yuan in the city and invest in
onshore  capital markets . At least 80 percent of the funds must
go into the interbank bond market with the rest in either
equities or cash. Twenty-one companies started raising money for
RQFII funds earlier this year after the program was introduced.  Exchange-Traded Funds  The original quota for RQFII was set at 20 billion yuan. In
April, China raised the amount by 50 billion yuan to allow pilot
institutions to issue yuan-denominated exchange-traded funds
that invest in mainland A-shares and list them in Hong Kong.  China’s securities regulator yesterday approved the first
two mainland-listed exchange-traded funds to track Hong Kong
stock indexes. China Asset Management Co. and E Fund Management
Co. won the mandate to start the ETFs, Yao said.  Hong Kong ’s Securities and Futures Commission also
authorized the listing of a yuan-denominated A-share ETF on the
city’s stock exchange. The fund, part of the RQFII program, will
track the performance of an A-share index, according to a
statement issued by the two regulators on June 29.  Cross-border flows of money for investment in stocks and
bonds are currently limited to funds awarded investment quotas
by regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net  