-- Revamp May See Euro Soccer Championship Played Across Continent
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-30T13:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/revamp-may-see-euro-soccer-championship-played-across-continent.html
Soccer’s European Championship may
be played in multiple countries under a plan to spread the
tournament across the continent,  UEFA  President  Michel Platini 
said today.  Speaking in Kiev ahead of tomorrow’s Euro 2012 final
between Spain and Italy, Platini said European soccer’s ruling
body would make a decision by January. The competition is
expanding to 24 teams from the current 16 for the next edition
in France in 2016.  Turkey  and joint bids from Azerbaijan and
Georgia, along with Ireland,  Scotland  and  Wales  are candidates 
to host in 2020.  “It’s just an idea,” Platini told a press conference at
the Olympic Stadium. “Everyone’s going to think, speculate,
talk, we’ve talked about 12 or 13 host cities, it could be 24 or
32.”  Poland  and Ukraine this year became the first Eastern
European nations to host the event in its modern form. The
countries spent billions of dollars on new airports, stadiums
and roads in preparation for a competition that’s sport’s most-
watched after the World Cup and the  Summer Olympics .  “We won’t need to build stadiums and airports especially
at this time when we’ve got the economic crisis,” Platini said
of his plan, which would need to be agreed by UEFA’s 17-member
executive committee.  Radical Change  The change would be the most radical in the tournament’s
52-year history. The Euros began in 1960 with four teams in
France before growing to include eight and then 16 countries.
UEFA said it made 1.3 billion euros ($1.6 billion) from the
current edition.  Fans have complained about transport and hotel costs
between Poland and Ukraine. They’ve had to travel through third
countries because of a lack of direct connections between host
cities that are as much as 1,800 kilometers (1,120 miles) apart.
Platini said his idea may benefit the supporters because of the
number of low-cost carriers between Europe’s major capitals.  Platini was among the backers of Ukraine and Poland when
they were chosen ahead of Italy, which hosted the tournament in
1980 and the  World Cup  in 1990. The build-up to Euro 2012 was
blighted by spiraling costs and delays in both countries and
political instability in Ukraine.  The Frenchman said he arrived at the tournament “tense”
and had considered moving the entire event to Poland.  “I came in very tired because I had a lot of pressure on
my shoulders,” he said. “It’s been the case for four or five
years.”  Platini today praised the efforts of both countries to make
this tournament a success.  “They’re so proud, you can’t imagine how proud they are,”
he said. “They’ve done everything in their power to show they
can succeed and I think they’ve done so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Kiev,  Ukraine , via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  