-- Saudi Shares Advance on European Debt Optimism, Oil-Price Surge
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-30T12:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/saudi-shares-advance-on-european-debt-optimism-oil-price-surge.html
Shares in  Saudi Arabia , the Arab
world’s biggest stock market, rose the most in 10 weeks after
U.S. equities rallied on optimism that an accord among European
leaders on banks will help contain the region’s debt crisis.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker, and  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s biggest
bank by market value, advanced the most since April 17.  National
Industrialization Co. (NIC)  gained the most since June 4. The Tadawul
All Share Index rose 1.9 percent to 6,709.01 at the 3:30 p.m.
close in the capital Riyadh.  “The Saudi market was supported by positive news from the
European summit,” Turki Fadaak, the head of research at Albilad
Investment Co. in  Riyadh , said today. “This led to a strong
rise in oil and commodity prices.”  Global stocks rallied on the last day of the week, with the
S&P 500 surging 2.5 percent for its biggest advance of the year,
as euro-area leaders agreed to relax conditions on emergency
loans for Spanish banks and possible help for Italy. In the
U.S., economic reports during the week showed that home sales
and orders for durable goods rebounded while consumer spending
stalled and confidence among Americans declined to the lowest
level this year.  Oil rose the most in more than three years on speculation
that Europe’s debt crisis may be contained. Oil for August
delivery gained $7.27 to settle at $84.96 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  Saudi Basic Industries, known as Sabic, gained 3.9 percent
to 92.75 riyals, while Rajhi Bank jumped 2.8 percent to 73.75
riyals. National Industrialization advanced 2.3 percent to 31
riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  