-- Murray Beats Clock, Baghdatis at Wimbledon as Williams Sets Mark
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-30T23:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/serena-williams-overcomes-zheng-to-reach-wimbledon-fourth-round.html
Andy Murray  won the latest finish in
Wimbledon history to move into the fourth round, as four-time
singles champion  Serena Williams  advanced by serving a record 23
aces.  Britain’s Murray beat  Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus 7-5, 3-6,
7-5, 6-1 in a match that ended at 11:02 p.m. at the All England
Club in London. The Grand Slam tournament has an 11 p.m. curfew,
which is when the final game started.  “I was under the impression I was stopping at 11
regardless of what the score was,” No. 4 Murray said in a press
conference. “Even if it was in the middle of a game. I’m
obviously glad to get the finish.”  Williams broke her own Wimbledon ace record set in 2009 by
three in beating China’s Zheng Jie, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2, 9-7. The
American never was broken and produced a love game the three
times she served to stay in the championship in the final set.  “It definitely helped me out today because I wasn’t doing
my best on my return like I normally do,” Williams told
reporters. “So it’s good to know that I can rely on that.”  Today is the traditional rest day at Wimbledon. The entire
fourth round will be played tomorrow as men’s top seed Novak Djokovic meets fellow Serb  Viktor Troicki  and women’s No. 1
 Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  faces Sabine Lisicki of Germany.  Play between Murray and Baghdatis was suspended for 34
minutes after the second set to close the roof on Centre Court.
When it resumed at 9:34 p.m. local time, Murray rallied back
from 4-2 down to win the third set. Baghdatis then folded in the
final set and Murray finished the match with a service winner.  Murray next plays Croatian Marin Cilic, who beat American
Sam Querrey 7-6 (8-6), 6-4, 6-7 (2-7), 6-7 (3-7), 17-15, in a
match that lasted five hours, 31 minutes.  Rosol’s Run  Murray’s draw has opened up after two-time champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain fell in the second round to  Lukas Rosol  of the
Czech Republic. Germany’s Philipp Kohlschreiber yesterday ended
the 100th-ranked Rosol’s run in straight sets.  No. 7  David Ferrer  of Spain beat  Andy Roddick , a three-time
finalist from the U.S., 2-6, 7-6 (10-8), 6-4, 6-3.  Roddick, 29, dismissed retirement rumors after the match,
saying his performance had given him confidence for the future.
He won a grass-court event last week after an unprecedented six-
match losing streak.  “It was a good match,” Roddick told reporters. “My last
eight matches dating back to last week have all been very, very
positive, especially compared to what I was putting out there
earlier this year.”  Defending Champion  Defending women’s champion Petra Kvitova of the  Czech
Republic  and No. 2 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus both
advanced in straight sets. Former French Open winners Ana Ivanovic of  Serbia  and Francesca Schiavone of  Italy  also won.  Kazakhstan’s Yaroslava Shvedova set a record in her 6-0, 6-
4 win over French Open finalist Sara Errani by taking all 24
points in the opening set, known as the “Golden Set.” Bill
Scanlon was the last player to accomplish the feat in 1983.  “I had no idea every game was 40-love,” Shvedova told
reporters. “I was so focused in such a zone.”  Former U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro of
Argentina, the ninth seed, and No. 5 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga both won
in straight sets, as did 10th-seeded American Mardy Fish.  American qualifier  Brian Baker  defeated Benoit Paire to
move to the fourth round of a major for the first time. The 27-
year-old Baker returned to the tour this year following a five-
year break during which he had five surgeries and worked as a
tennis coach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London newsroom
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  