-- SNB President Jordan Says Enforcing Franc Limit Is Appropriate
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-06-30T21:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/snb-president-jordan-says-enforcing-franc-limit-is-appropriate.html
The Swiss central bank’s policy of
enforcing its currency ceiling is appropriate to prevent
deflation, the bank’s president said.  “We are enforcing the minimum exchange rate with all
determination because it is the right monetary policy,”  Swiss
National Bank  President Thomas Jordan told  SonntagsBlick 
newspaper in the pre-release of an interview to be published
tomorrow. The Swiss National Bank has to do that “to prevent a
deflationary development.”  SNB spokesman Walter Meier confirmed the remarks.  The central bank’s foreign-currency reserves jumped about
20 percent in the five months through May as policy makers
stepped up their defense of the ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro
introduced in September to fight deflation and help exporters.
Investors are piling into the Swiss currency, seen as a safe
haven in times of turmoil, as euro area leaders are struggling
to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Expanding the SNB balance sheet “is just a result of our
monetary policy,” Jordan added. “We have to accept the risks
associated with that. The National Bank is able to bear them.”  Foreign currency reserves increased to 306.1 billion francs
($322.4 billion) in May from 247.2 billion francs in the
previous month, the central bank said on June 29 when publishing
its latest balance sheet data.  Inflation Risk  Through its purchases of euros, the central bank increases
the amount of francs available to  Switzerland ’s lenders, raising
the risk of inflation in the medium and long term.  Still, “over the next years inflation is not a problem,”
Jordan said. “On the contrary. We have to enforce the minimum
 exchange rate ” to fight the risk of deflation.  The franc appreciated more than 17 percent against the
euro, the currency of Switzerland’s main trading partners, in
the 12 months before the introduction of the limit, threatening
exports and boosting the risk of deflation. Year-on-year
consumer prices have fallen in the past eight consecutive months
as the franc’s strength made imported products more affordable.  The Swiss currency traded at 1.20120 against the euro
yesterday in Zurich, little changed from its previous close.
Against the dollar, it traded at 94.94 centimes.  “The Swiss franc is still a very highly valued currency,”
Jordan said.  He also commented on the SNB’s recommendations for the
capitalization of  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest
bank by assets, whose shares fell as much as 11 percent on June
14, hitting the lowest level since 1992, when the Swiss central
bank surprised the company by urging it to boost capital
“during the current year.”  “The stock markets overreacted,” Jordan said. “All
information in the financial stability report had already been
made public. In addition, the report was very balanced.”  Jordan also said that the SNB’s message in the report
“wasn’t fundamentally new”. The SNB only adjusted it to the
worsening environment.  “The reason for the more pointed recommendation was the
global economic development,” Jordan added. “It has
deteriorated over the past months. It is important that big
banks have enough capital in such a situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  