-- U.S. Faces Day or Two More of Extreme Heat, Severe Weather
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-06-30T20:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/u-s-faces-day-or-two-more-of-extreme-heat-severe-weather.html
The eastern, central and southern
U.S., close to half of the nation, faces another day or two of
extreme heat and severe weather that may further disrupt power
to homes and businesses, meteorologists said today.  Thunderstorms swept through Ohio, Indiana, West  Virginia ,
Maryland, Virginia and the  District of Columbia  last night,
bringing down trees and power lines, the  National Weather
Service  said. Winds were clocked at 91 miles per hour (146 kph)
near Fort Wayne, Indiana, and 80 mph at Franklin, West Virginia.  The storms followed a day of temperatures reaching triple
digits, including a record-setting 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40
degrees Celsius) at Washington’s Ronald Reagan Washington
National Airport, breaking a mark of 101 degrees set in 1934. At
least 10 people have died, including six in Virginia.  At least 2.9 million customers were without power in nine
Midwestern and East Coast states, as well as the District of
Columbia. Dominion Resources Inc. had 625,516 without power in
Virginia and  North Carolina , with the most in Virginia. First
Energy Corp. said more than 560,000 of its customers were
without service.  “I’m impressed by the number of 100-degree temperatures
that we’ve seen and it has been widespread,” said  Tom Kines , a
meteorologist for AccuWeather.com Inc. in  State College ,
Pennsylvania, in a telephone interview.  113 Degrees  Kines said 276 daily high temperature records were set
yesterday, and 1,456 daily high records in the past seven days.  Some of those records included 109 degrees in Athens,
Georgia, and 106 degrees in Fayetteville, North Carolina, Kines
said. Charlottesville, Virginia, also set a record with 104
degrees. Johnston and Columbia, South Carolina, both recorded
113 degrees yesterday, which would be all-time records for the
state, Kines said.  In Boston, the temperature was 89 degrees and likely to be
in the low 90s tomorrow.  New York  City’s high was 92 degrees by
midafternoon, and is expected to be in the mid-90s tomorrow,
Kines said. Philadelphia was at 93 degrees, and may reach 95
tomorrow, he said.  Washington  was at 95 degrees and Kines said he expected 99
degrees tomorrow, with the possibility of more severe weather
tonight in the same areas that were hit by storms last night.  Closed to Spectators  Amtrak  said it had restored some service between
Philadelphia and Washington today after downed trees and power
lines caused the rail line to lose signal power.  In Maryland, the start of the third round of the U.S. PGA
Tour’s AT&T National golf tournament in Bethesda was delayed
more than five hours. Trees littered the Congressional Country
Club course, and the day’s action was closed to spectators.  In Virginia, six people died because of the storms and more
than 1 million were without power, Governor  Bob McDonnell ’s
office said today in a statement. He declared a state of
emergency in the commonwealth.  The  Associated Press  reported that two people died in New
Jersey and one in Maryland due to the storm, and another storm-
related death was reported in Ohio.  West Virginia Governor Earl Ray Tomblin declared a state of
emergency last night after 500,000 people were without power
because of weather-related damage in 27 counties, according to a
state website.  The Smithsonian Folklife Festival on the National Mall in
Washington was closed after tents were damaged, according to a
statement on its website.  Yesterday’s storms also cut power to a center used by
Amazon.com Inc. to provide cloud-computing services to  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX) , Instagram, Pinterest and Instagram, which knocked those
services offline for most of last night, according to the
TechCrunch Web log.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  