-- U.S. 10-Year Notes Post First Monthly Loss Since March
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-06-30T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/u-s-10-year-notes-post-first-monthly-loss-since-march.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for the
first time since March as European leaders took steps to curb
the euro bloc’s debt crisis, easing concern it was spreading and
damping investor demand for the safest assets.  Yields on 10- and 30-year debt had reached record lows on
the first day of June amid speculation turmoil in  Europe  was
worsening and U.S. economic growth was faltering. Treasuries
still gained for the quarter, returning 3.4 percent, according
to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. U.S. payrolls added
90,000 jobs in June, a report next week is forecast to show.  “European policy makers have so far averted a blow-up and
seem to be making progress, which has given a jolt to risk
assets at the expense of Treasuries,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.9 billion as chief investment officer
at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. “Still, we
need to see some follow-though, as there is too much uncertainty
for Treasuries to sell off dramatically.”  The 10-year note  yield  rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.65 percent yesterday in New York, from
1.56 percent on May 31, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The yield, which touched a record low 1.44 percent on
June 1, declined three basis points this week.  The  30-year bond yield  increased 11 basis points to 2.75
percent, widening the spread over two-year yields by about seven
basis points to 245 basis points. The long-bond yields fell to a
record low 2.51 percent on June 1.  Bond Returns  U.S. government securities’ gain from April through June
was the biggest since the third quarter of 2011, when they
returned 6.4 percent, according to Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch’s Treasury Master index. Treasuries rose 2.1 percent for
the year, the data showed. Global sovereign debt returned 2.2
percent for the second quarter and advanced 2.7 percent for
2012, another Merrill index showed.  A valuation measure showed 10-year notes were trading at a
less expensive level. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the  Federal Reserve , was at negative 0.86 percent
yesterday. That compared with negative 0.91 percent on May 31
and negative 0.94 percent, the costliest on record, on June 1 as
investors sought refuge from Europe’s debt turmoil.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is 0.50 percent.  May ‘Cataclysm’  Ten-year yields dropped 36 basis points  in May , the most in
nine months, amid concern European turmoil was deepening. They
reached the lowest ever June 1 as data showed U.S. payrolls
added 69,000 jobs in May, less than half the 150,000 forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The benchmark yields have
traded between 1.45 percent and 1.73 percent since then.  “There are fewer wild-card developments that we’ve seen in
Treasuries, and that’s sort of Step One once you’ve gone through
the cataclysm of May,”  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research
at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said yesterday. “We’ve
had some measure of stability, and Treasuries have gone into a
range.”  The Labor Department will issue on July 6 its report on
nonfarm payrolls in June. Estimates in a Bloomberg survey of 59
economists range between 35,000 and 165,000 more jobs.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ended June 26, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
 outnumbered  long positions by 55,639 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions rose by 32,642 contracts, or
142 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based
commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  European Summit  Treasuries dropped yesterday as European Union officials
ended a two-day summit in Brussels, agreeing to relax terms on
loans to Spanish banks and easing conditions of possible help
for  Italy . Bonds fluctuated earlier in the week as investors
waited for the meeting amid speculation whether the region’s
leaders would make progress on resolving their crisis.  EU officials also discussed ways to reduce the risk
premiums on Italian and Spanish bonds, which have stoked concern
that the euro bloc might break apart. They left open the timing
and conditions of any support, raising the risk that bickering
over the fine print will -- as after prior summits --nullify the
initial boost to confidence.  ‘More Optimistic’  “People had pretty low expectations of the summit and are
a little bit more optimistic now,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist in  New York  at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
yesterday. The firm is one of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers.
“The devil is in the details on most of this stuff.”  The Treasury drew weaker-than-average demand this week at
each of three note auctions totaling $99 billion.  Seven-year securities yielded a record low 1.075 percent in
a sale on July 28. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand
by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.64,
the lowest since October.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio at a $35 billion sale of five-year
debt on June 27 that drew a yield of 0.752 percent was 2.61,
versus an average of 2.97 at the past 10 offerings. An auction
of the same amount of two-year securities the previous day had a
 ratio  of 3.62, versus 3.95 at the May offering and an average
3.71 at the past 10. The sale drew a 0.313 percent yield.  Yield Levels  “What this does tell you is that people don’t like the
levels,” said Jersey of Credit Suisse. “It’s hard to like
these yields unless you think there’s going to be a significant
deflationary impulse. It’s hard to imagine a significant rally
if Europe continues to muddle through and the  U.S. economy  seems
to be stabilizing at lower levels.”  The U.S. has  sold $1.046 trillion in notes and bonds this
year as President  Barack Obama ’s administration finances a
fourth-straight  deficit  exceeding $1 trillion.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said a
“debt trap” remains in place even after the European summit.  Pimco continues to avoid the debt of nations including
Spain and  Portugal  in favor of U.S. Treasuries and mortgage
securities, Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
yesterday in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  “The peripherals and even the core union nations have too
much debt,” Gross said. “The marginal cost of that debt is far
above nominal GDP growth in respective nations. That continues a
debt trap unless the cost of debt can come down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  