-- Mursi Vows to Support Palestinians, Respect Existing Treaties
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-30T15:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/mursi-vows-to-support-palestinians-respect-existing-treaties.html
Egypt ’s new Islamist President
Mohamed Mursi today vowed to support the Palestinians in their
quest for a homeland, while also saying his government will
respect its existing international agreements, an acknowledgment
of its peace treaty with Israel.  Mursi, in his first speech after he was sworn into office,
also said that bloodshed in  Syria  must end and that Egypt won’t
stand for any attempts to violate Arab regional security. The
remarks underscored a push to reclaim for Egypt the mantle of
Arab leadership following the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  in
February 2011.  “I declare from here that Egypt -- the people, the nation,
the government and the presidency -- stands by the Palestinian
people until they get all their legitimate rights,” Mursi said,
speaking in the same Cairo University hall where U.S. President
 Barack Obama  had addressed Egyptians and the Muslim world in
2009. “We will work for the completion of the national
Palestinian reconciliation so that the Palestinian people can
unite their ranks to regain their land and sovereignty.”  Under Mubarak, Egypt was seen as Israel’s closest regional
ally in an area where few nations recognize the Jewish state.
Those relations have frayed since Mubarak’s removal, raising
concern that the rise of the  Muslim Brotherhood , from whose
ranks Mursi was drawn, might jeopardize the more than three
decade-old peace agreement between Israel and the largest Arab
nation.  “We carry a message of peace to the world,” Mursi said
later in the speech. “We stress respecting the commitments of
the Egyptian state in treaties and international agreements,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  