-- Vivendi’s Fourtou Committed to Universal Music Strategy
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-06-30T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/vivendi-s-fourtou-goes-back-to-future-with-ouster-of-levy.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou, who stepped in to oversee the French company’s strategy
following the ouster of Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy , is committed to  Universal Music Group  as he seeks a buyer
for the video-game publishing division.  In a letter to employees of the  Universal Music  unit
obtained by Bloomberg News, CEO Lucian Grainge said Fourtou told
him at a meeting that the chairman supports the “strategic
ambitions” of the world’s largest music company, including its
1.2 billion-pound ($1.9 billion) takeover of EMI Group Ltd.’s
recorded music business that’s under review by regulators.  Levy’s departure last week, triggered by a clash with the
board over strategy, may accelerate a reorganization of Vivendi
which includes scenarios from major asset sales and to a breakup
of the Paris-based telecommunications and media company. Vivendi
is looking for a buyer for its $8.1 billion stake in video-game
company  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , a person with knowledge of the
matter said yesterday.  “Mr. Fourtou, I am glad to say, is an enthusiastic music
fan,” Grainge said in the letter. “Mr. Fourtou is committed to
Universal’s strategic ambitions, which include our evolving
services to artists and determination to help digital music grow
further for our business partners and consumers.”  Conglomerate Discount  Vivendi’s other divisions include French wireless company
SFR, pay-TV operator  Canal Plus  as well as telecommunications
providers in Morocco and Brazil. Fourtou has highlighted the
group’s “conglomerate discount,” which he estimated at about
40 percent in April. The stock has risen almost 9 percent since
Levy’s ouster.  Universal agreed in November to buy EMI’s record labels,
home to Katy Perry and Coldplay. European Union regulators and
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission are assessing whether the
acquisition would be anti-competitive. The combined company
would control 41 percent of the recorded music market, according
to  Public Knowledge , a Washington-based consumer group that
opposes the deal.  European regulators have a Sept. 6 deadline to rule on the
transaction. Universal Music may not be sufficiently constrained
by smaller competitors, customers’ buying power or illegal music
downloads, the EU said when it opened an in-depth probe in
March.  First-quarter  revenue  at the music division climbed 9.1
percent to 961 million euros ($1.2 billion), accounting for 13
percent of Vivendi’s 7.1 billion-euro total. Earnings before
interest, taxes and amortization rose 48 percent to 68 million
euros, or 4 percent of the group’s 1.62 billion euros.  Activision Disposal  Activision sales declined 16 percent to 894 million euros
in the period, while Ebita fell 21 percent to 395 million euros.  Should no buyer emerge for the 61 percent  holding  in the
 Santa Monica , California-based video-game publisher, Vivendi
plans to sell some shares in the market, said the person with
knowledge of the matter, who sought anonymity because the plans
are private.  A Vivendi spokesman didn’t respond to an e-mailed request
for comment outside of business hours in  France . Cassandra
Bujarski, an outside spokeswoman for Activision, had no comment.  Activision, the largest U.S. video-game publisher, rose 4.4
percent to $11.99 on June 29 in New York. The shares have
declined 2.7 percent this year. Vivendi gained 3.1 percent to
14.63 euros in Paris, and is down 11 percent this year. The
stock reached a nine-year low of 12.01 euros on April 19.  Growth Concerns  Activision trades at 14.4 times trailing earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, below the 25.4 in
fiscal 2010 and a five-year of high of 67.6 in 2007.  Electronic
Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-largest game company, trades at 30 times
trailing profit.  The multiple reflects investor concern over growth
prospects during a transition phase for the video-game industry
with the introduction of the first new consoles in seven years,
said Edward Woo, an analyst with Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC
in Irvine,  California .  Industry growth is now taking place on social-media
websites such as Facebook.com and away from traditional family
room consoles from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nintendo Co.
U.S. sales of packaged games like those played on Xbox or
PlayStation fell 6 percent to $8.83 billion last year, according
to researcher NPD Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  