-- World Bank Cancels Bangladesh Loan After Allegations
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2012-06-30T15:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/world-bank-cancels-bangladesh-loan-after-allegations.html
The World Bank canceled a $1.2
billion loan for a bridge in  Bangladesh , saying the country’s
government failed to take action against “a high-level
corruption conspiracy.”  “It’s like a bolt from the blue,” Bangladesh’s
Communication Minister Obaidul Quader told reporters in Dhaka
today. Quader said the bank’s decision is “unfortunate and
mysterious.”  Two former employees of  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) ,  Canada ’s
largest engineering company, were arrested on corruption charges
in connection with the bridge project, the  Royal Canadian
Mounted Police  said last week. The World Bank yesterday said the
case also involves Bangladeshi government officials and private
individuals.  “The World Bank cannot, should not, and will not turn a
blind eye to evidence of corruption,” the Washington-based bank
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We have both an
ethical obligation and a fiduciary responsibility to our
shareholders and” the member states contributing to the fund
that lends to poor countries, according to the statement.  The proposed 6.15-kilometer long bridge on Padma river will
connect the remote southwest region with the rest of the country
including the nation’s capital, Dhaka. It will cut travel time
to 3 hours from 12 hours and eliminate dependence on ferry
services for transport.  Finance Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith said he was
suprised by the “language and tone” of the  World Bank ’s
statement.  ‘Extraordinary Steps’  The bank said it looked for ways to continue the project
because of its importance to the country’s development and was
ready to continue financing through a contractor outside of
government control in exchange for action from Bangladesh
authorities, including putting the suspected public officials on
leave until the end of the investigation.  “It’s not true that we didn’t take any action,” Muhith
said in a statement today. “We have taken extraordinary steps
to clear the doubts of the World Bank,” he said without
elaborating.  The bank’s conditions also included appointment of a
special team for the case within the country’s own anti-
corruption body and to let a World Bank-appointed panel have
access to information on the investigation.  “We proposed that when the first bids would be launched,
the Bank and the co-financiers would decide to go ahead with
 project financing  if they had determined, based on the panel’s
assessment, that a full and fair investigation was under way and
progressing appropriately,” the bank said. The government’s
“response has been unsatisfactory.”  The World Bank had pledged $1.2 billion for the $2.93
billion project. The bridge was supposed to be completed by the
end of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  