-- Yitzhak Shamir, Underground Leader to Prime Minister, Dies
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-07-01T13:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-30/yitzhak-shamir-israeli-hardliner-on-dealing-land-dies-at-96.html
Yitzhak Shamir, who went from Jewish
underground leader to become the first Israeli prime minister to
attend a regional peace conference with Arab heads of state, has
died. He was 96.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office
announced the death in a text message to journalists yesterday.
The premier expressed “deep” sorrow at the passing of Shamir
“who belonged to the generation of giants who established the
state and fought for the freedom of the Jewish people in their
homeland.”  As prime minister, Shamir in 1989 set in motion the
immigration of about 1 million Jews from the former Soviet Union
and in May 1991 the airlift of some 15,000 Ethiopian Jews.
During the 1990  Gulf War , when Israel came under Iraqi missile
attack, he withstood calls to retaliate, concerned such a move
would unravel the U.S.-led coalition against  Saddam Hussein .  Under U.S. pressure, he agreed to attend the 1991  Middle
East  peace conference in  Madrid  that marked the first public
bilateral talks between Israel and its Arab neighbors as well as
the start of multinational regional negotiations. Yet Shamir, a
diminutive man with a white mustache, never swayed from his
belief that Israel shouldn’t relinquish land for peace.  “He was a very honest, very idealistic man with a strong
belief in the land of Israel,” said Avi Pazner, who served as
Shamir’s media adviser for 10 years. “He saw Israel becoming a
strong democracy in the Middle East with good ties to its
neighbors but without a Palestinian state.”  Funds for Settlements  Following the Madrid conference, Shamir agreed to begin
negotiating with the Palestinians on the start of self-rule in
the West Bank and  Gaza Strip , territories Israel captured from
Jordan and  Egypt  in the 1967 Middle East war. Even as he
acquiesced to U.S. prodding, Shamir appeared to stonewall
attempts to make progress.  “I would have carried out autonomy talks for 10 years, and
meanwhile we would have reached half a million people in Judea
and Samaria,” he said in an interview with the Israeli daily
newspaper Ma’ariv in July 1992 after losing national elections
to  Yitzhak Rabin , who reversed Shamir’s stance and entered
direct negotiations with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat that
led to the Oslo peace accords.  Shamir later said he was misquoted, but during his tenure
as prime minister he approved funds that allowed then-Housing
Minister Ariel Sharon to begin a construction drive of Jewish
settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip that caused the U.S.
to block $10 billion in loan guarantees that Israel needed to
help finance the cost of absorbing the wave of immigration from
the Soviet Union.  Oslo Accords  He opposed the 1993 Oslo accords. “He thought it was a big
mistake because he did not trust Arafat,” Pazner said.  Shamir was born Yitzhak Yzernitzky on Oct. 15, 1915, in the
village of Ruzinoy, now known as Ruzhany and part of Belarus. He
joined a Zionist youth movement at age 14 and completed a high-
school education in  Poland .  When he was 20, he moved to British-ruled  Palestine  where
he joined a radical, military Jewish underground faction called
the Lehi, or Fighters for the Freedom of Israel, but better
known as the Stern Gang.  Yzernitzky used the name “Rabbi Shamir,” when he
masqueraded as an Orthodox rabbi in traditional dress to hide
from the British and later adopted the name, according to an
article by  Avishai Margalit  published in the  New York  Review of
Books in 1992.  Imprisoned Twice  As a member of Lehi, Shamir was imprisoned twice by the
British Mandate government, the second time at a British prison
camp in Eritrea. Both times he escaped.  Shamir was granted political asylum in  France  after fleeing
the Eritrea camp and returned to Palestine in 1948, the year
Israel was established. He resumed command of the Lehi until it
was outlawed by the fledgling Israeli government after the
September 1948 killing of United Nations mediator  Count Folke
Bernadotte . Bernadotte was targeted by the Jewish underground
because of his insistence that Palestinian refugees be allowed
to return to their homes in the newly founded state of Israel.  Shamir never expressed any regret for actions he took as a
member of the Lehi. “He was very proud of his role in the
underground,” Pazner said.  Before entering politics and winning a seat in parliament
in 1973, Shamir held senior positions in the country’s
intelligence agency, the  Mossad . As speaker of the house, he
presided over the historic 1979 visit to  Jerusalem  of Egyptian
President  Anwar Sadat  but abstained on the vote over the peace
agreement, opposed to the dismantling of settlements in the
Sinai Peninsula.  Lebanon Agreement  As foreign minister, he negotiated a 1983 peace agreement
with Lebanon that was never ratified by the Lebanese parliament.  Shamir took over as prime minister after  Menachem Begin 
resigned in 1983, yet his failure to tackle Israel’s
hyperinflation prevented his Likud Party from winning a decisive
victory in elections the next year, forcing him into a
“rotation” government with the  Labor Party . Labor leader
 Shimon Peres  served as prime minister for the first two years,
with Shamir taking over in 1986-1988.  He led Likud to an outright victory in the 1988 elections,
serving again as prime minister until his defeat in 1992.  Netanyahu described Shamir as “blunt, a man of truth,
simple, direct and, of course, with great inner strength,” in
comments to the Cabinet today.  Strict Schedule  A man of routine, Shamir had a strict schedule that
included lunch at home and an afternoon nap, even during his
tenures as prime minister. He spoke five languages: English,
French, German, Polish and Yiddish. His memoirs, published under
the title “Summing Up,” appeared in 1994.  Shamir had two children with his wife, Shulamit, who died
in 2011. His body will lay in state for six hours at the Israeli
Knesset on July 2 and the funeral will take place afterwards,
Knesset spokesman Yotam Yakir said.  “From his days working for Israel’s independence to his
service as prime minister, he strengthened Israel’s security and
advanced the partnership between the  United States  and Israel,”
a statement from White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said. “Our
thoughts and prayers are with his family and the people of
Israel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  