-- ‘Possession’ Is Weekend’s Top Film on Sales of $9.3 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-10T21:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/-possession-is-top-weekend-film-on-sales-of-9-5-million.html
The horror tale “The Possession”
led U.S. and Canadian ticket sales for a second-straight
weekend, taking in an estimated $9.3 million in one of the
slowest three-day movie sales periods in a decade.  The  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  film beat two newcomers.
“The Words” was fourth with $4.8 million and “The Cold Light
of Day” opened in 13th place with $1.8 million, researcher
Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-mailed statement.
Among returning films, “Lawless” collected $6 million in its
second week of release to place second.  Three-day weekend revenue for the top 12 films slipped 20
percent to $51.9 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com
said. Sales of all films showing this weekend brought in an
estimated $67.1 million, down 18 percent from a year earlier.  “It was the lowest grossing weekend of the year and one of
the lowest of the decade,”  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com Box-Office, said in an e-mail. “The post-Labor
Day weekend is always slow, but with no strong newcomer and
little holdover strength as evidenced by the first place movie
only earning $9.3 million, the results were less than
spectacular.”  “The Possession,” made for about $14 million, has
generated $33.2 million since it opened on Aug. 31, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo. Sam Raimi, who directed three
“Spider-Man” movies and several horror pictures, is the
producer.  New Wrinkle  The film adds a new wrinkle to well-trod horror genre by
drawing on Jewish folklore for the malevolent spirit that
inhabits the body of a young girl. The son of a Hasidic rabbi
takes on the task of freeing the child from the spirit, known as
a dybbuk. The movie features Jeffrey Dean Morgan,  Kyra Sedgwick 
and hip hop artist Matisyahu as the exorcist.  The Prohibition-era crime story “Lawless,” from Weinstein
Co., features  Tom Hardy ,  Shia LaBeouf  and Jessica Chastain, and
is based on the true story of the Bondurant brothers, three
Virginia moonshiners who smuggled whiskey and battled lawmen
during the Great Depression. It’s taken from the book “The
Wettest County in the World” and has pulled in $23.5 in the two
weeks since its debut.  New Releases  “The Words,” from CBS Films, stars  Bradley Cooper  as an
author who becomes famous after stealing another writer’s work.
His new life of celebrity unravels after the real author
confronts him. The film also features  Jeremy Irons  and Zoe Saldana.  In “The Cold Light of Day,” Henry Cavill stars as an
American tourist whose family is kidnapped by intelligence
agents during a vacation in  Spain .  Bruce Willis  and Sigourney Weaver co-star. The film, from  Lions Gate ’s Summit unit, opened
in April in  Europe  and parts of the  Middle East .  Sylvester Stallone ’s “The Expendables 2,” also from Lions
Gate, had sales of $5 million to finish in third place in its
fourth week of release. The picture, a follow-up to the 2010
hit, had taken in $75.6 million since Aug. 17.  Stallone’s Mercenaries  Stallone and his team of mercenaries in the film seek
revenge for the murder of one of their comrades. The picture
features an all-star list of action heroes including  Arnold Schwarzenegger , Bruce Willis and Chuck Norris.  “ParaNorman,” a 3-D animated children’s film from Laika
Entertainment and  Universal Pictures ’ Focus Features, was fifth
with revenue of $4.2 million. The PG-rated comedy-thriller
follows a misunderstood boy who can speak to the dead. Kodi
Smit-McPhee provides the voice of Norman. Anna Kendrick and
Christopher Mintz-Plasse co-star.  “The Bourne Legacy,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal
Pictures, was sixth with sales of $4 million. The film, the
fourth in the Bourne saga, begins a new storyline without the
namesake character of the first three films or actor  Matt Damon .
Oscar nominee  Jeremy Renner  stars as super-soldier Aaron Cross.
Sales since its release five weeks ago total $103.6 million.  Domestic film sales this year have risen 3.3 percent to
$7.7 billion, with attendance up 2.1 percent. The amounts below
are based on actual ticket sales from Sept. 7 to Sept. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  