-- AB Foods Says Profit to Meet Goals on Sugar, Primark Sales
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-09-10T08:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/ab-foods-says-profit-to-meet-goals-on-sugar-primark-sales.html
Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  said
second-half earnings will meet its own expectations and repeated
its full-year profit target as sugar sales advanced and growth
accelerated at the Primark discount clothing chain.  Adjusted operating profit for the 52 weeks ending Sept. 15
will be “substantially ahead” of last year, the London-based
maker of Twinings tea said in a statement today. The sugar
division’s profit will be “considerably higher” than last
year, AB Foods said, helped by higher prices in  Europe  and
increased production and prices in  Africa .  AB Foods  shares  have gained 17 percent this year, fueled by
the growth of the sugar unit and Primark, the company’s two main
profit contributors. That’s helped offset a weaker performance
from the smaller food ingredients division, where profit this
year will be “sharply lower” because of increased raw-material
costs, after sliding 46 percent last year, the company said.  “The two principal divisions of sugars and Primark appear
to be more or less in line with our 2012 numbers,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec, said in a note today. “However
weaker-than-expected ingredients profits are a negative.”  AB Foods  fell  1.5 percent to 1,287 pence at 9:30 a.m. in
London trading.  Sales at Primark stores open a year or more should increase
3 percent this year, stronger than the 2 percent growth reported
for the first half, the company said today.  Primark Growth  Primark’s growth has been driven mainly by openings in the
U.K. and Europe, with 19 stores being added this fiscal year and
a four-floor, 80,000 square-foot (7,432 square meter) second
outlet on London’s Oxford Street due to open on Sept. 20.  The London  Olympic Games  in August drove down comparable-
store sales at Primark’s existing Oxford Street store, according
to John Bason, AB Foods’ finance director. Still, sales across
the rest of the U.K. were “strongly up,” he said, and were
“unbelievable” at Primark’s store in  London ’s Westfield
shopping center, adjacent to the Olympic Park in Stratford.  “There was a bit of hollowing out of central London where
people kept away, but elsewhere, even in the outer rims of
London, we had a good Olympics,” Bason said. Primark’s sales
for the year should rise 17 percent, excluding currency
fluctuations, the company said today.  Australian Writedown  The company said Primark’s operating profit margin widened
in the second half due to falling cotton prices, and for the
year, the margin should be close to last year’s 10.2 percent.
Panmure’s Jones expects a margin of 10 percent.  The company said it would take a 100 million-pound non-cash
charge for the impairment of property and equipment at its
Australian meat operations, which will lead to “substantially
worse” profit at its George Weston Foods unit this year.  Profit at the grocery division will decline because of
those costs and restructuring expenses at Allied Bakeries in the
U.K. Bason said he’s seen no improvement in U.K. consumer
spending, although conditions have not worsened.  “There’s a possibility we’re hitting a baseline of
disposable income,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  