-- Acupuncture Relieves Pain in Largest Study of Treatment
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-09-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/acupuncture-relieves-pain-in-largest-study-of-treatment.html
Acupuncture, an ancient Chinese
therapy that inserts needles into the body, reduced back and
neck pain, arthritis and headaches, according to the largest
analysis of the treatment.  Data compiled from 29 studies of almost 18,000 people found
that acupuncture was better at relieving pain than not having
the treatment at all or undergoing a sham procedure, according
to research reported in the  Archives of Internal Medicine  today.  About 3 million U.S. adults get acupuncture each year,
mostly for chronic pain, the authors wrote. Doctors don’t know
why the ancient Chinese therapy can help relieve pain and more
studies are needed to determine how the treatment fits with
remedies such as drugs, surgery and physical and behavioral
therapy, said  Andrew Vickers , the lead author of the analysis.  “We thought for a long time that the reason why
acupuncture worked was just because people believed it work,”
Vickers, a researcher at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center 
in  New York , said in a Sept. 7 telephone interview. “We now
know that the effect of acupuncture goes above and beyond the
placebo effect. Acupuncture is a reasonable option for chronic
pain.”  Traditional Chinese medicine explains acupuncture as a
technique for balancing the flow of energy in a person’s body,
according to the  Mayo Clinic . Inserting needles into specific
points along pathways in the body changes the flow.  Pressure Points  In contrast, many Western practitioners view the
acupuncture points as places to stimulate nerves, muscles and
connective tissue to boost blood flow and the body’s natural
painkillers, the  Mayo Clinic  said on its website.  Researchers looked at data from 17,922 patients in trials
in the U.S. and  Europe  that measured acupuncture’s effect on
chronic pain. The trials compared  acupuncture  with patients who
had no treatment or those who had a procedure that faked
acupuncture by putting the needles into the body in different
places and depths than usual.  The findings mean in real terms that about half of patients
receiving acupuncture would have a 50 percent or more reduction
in their pain compared with 30 percent in the no treatment group
and about 43 percent having fake acupuncture.  The difference between treatment and sham acupuncture may
be more modest because people feel better if they think they are
getting the real therapy or putting any needle in the body may
have some positive effect, Vickers said.  Andrew Avins , who wrote an accompanying editorial, said
today’s findings are important for those with chronic pain.  “For patients who are inclined to try acupuncture for a
chronic pain condition, I would certainly support their
interest, assuming that they have appropriate insurance coverage
or the resources to readily pay for the treatment,” Avins, a
scientist in the Division of Research for  Kaiser Permanente , an
Oakland, California-based health plan, said in an e-mail. “I
would also encourage patients to take advantage of all
conventional interventions” to treat their pain, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  