-- Adelson’s Sands May Face Sanctions Over Handling of Files
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/adelson-s-sands-faces-sanctions-for-not-disclosing-files.html
  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  may be
sanctioned in a lawsuit brought by the fired chief executive
officer of its  China  casinos for not disclosing that evidence it
said couldn’t be taken out of  Macau  was already in the U.S.  The casino operator, run and majority-owned by  Sheldon Adelson , was ordered to explain to a  Nevada  judge in Las Vegas
yesterday how and why files from its Macau operations, requested
by Steven Jacobs as evidence in his breach-of-contract case,
ended up in the U.S. while the company claimed that Macau law
prevented it from transferring them overseas.  Clark County  District Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez said at the
start of the hearing that lawyers for  Las Vegas   Sands (1928)  and its
Sands China Ltd. subsidiary had not been “forthright” with her
last year by failing to tell her that Jacob’s computer files,
including e-mails, from Macau were already in Las Vegas. The
hearing is scheduled to continue today.  Jacobs, the former CEO of Sands China, sued in 2010 after
he was fired. Jacobs alleges he was dismissed because he
wouldn’t give in to Adelson’s “illegal demands.” Jacobs said
Adelson directed him to secretly investigate Macau government
officials and use “improper leverage” against them.  Adelson, 79, worth about $20 billion according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , and his wife have given about $36
million to Republican super-PACs so far this election cycle. The
couple contributed $10 million in June to Restore Our Future,
which is dedicated to backing Republican  Mitt Romney ’s
presidential campaign.  Chinese Territory  More than half of Adelson’s gambling-empire profits come
from his four casinos in the Chinese territory of Macau.  Sands
China , accounted for $2.95 billion of the company’s total $5.34
billion in revenue during the first half of the year, according
to its second-quarter earnings report.  Following Jacobs’s allegations, the U.S. Justice Department
and Securities and Exchange Commission opened investigations
into whether Adelson’s company violated the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act. That law prohibits companies with U.S. operations
and their intermediaries from making improper payments to
foreign officials to win or retain business.  Las Vegas Sands has denied Jacobs’s allegations and has
said it is cooperating with the investigations. Lawyers for the
casino company have said in court filings that Jacobs was
dismissed for working on unauthorized deals and violating
company policy.  Ron Reese , a spokesman for Las Vegas Sands, declined to
comment on the case. Todd Bice, a lawyer for Jacobs, didn’t
return phone calls seeking comment.  Computer Drive  Patricia Glaser, a lawyer who represented Sands China, was
the first to testify at yesterday’s hearing. Glaser, whose firm
is no longer involved in the case, told the judge she found out
sometime last year that a computer drive had been brought from
Macau to Las Vegas.  During a hearing last year, Glaser told the judge that,
under Macau law, no evidence requested by Jacobs could be
transferred from Macau or viewed in Las Vegas without lawyers
for Sands China reviewing it first in Macau and getting
clearance from individuals who had received the e-mails
involved, as well as from local authorities.  Glaser testified yesterday that information had been shared
previously between Las Vegas Sands and Sands China “in the
ordinary cause of business,” and that her comments to the court
last year only pertained to documents that were still in Macau
at the time.  “You knew there was a regular exchange of information
between the companies,” James Pisanelli, a lawyer for Jacobs,
told Glaser. He also said Glaser knew that Las Vegas Sands
lawyer Stephen Peek “was reviewing on Las Vegas Boulevard
documents that had come from Macau. He was reviewing  Steven
Jacobs ’s e-mails that had come from Macau.”  Las Vegas  Glaser said Peek had disclosed to Jacobs’s lawyers and the
judge last year that they had documents in Las Vegas that had
come from Macau.  “I honestly believe there was complete disclosure,”
Glaser said.  Peek testified that he knew as early as December 2010 or
January 2011 that e-mails from Jacobs were in Las Vegas. He was
prevented by lawyers for Las Vegas Sands, citing attorney-client
privilege, from answering the judge’s questions as to why he
hadn’t told her last year that the information was in the U.S.  Sands China  The case was put on hold last year by the Nevada Supreme
Court while Gonzalez resolves whether claims against Sands China
belong in the state’s courts. Sands China, a majority-owned unit
of Las Vegas Sands that is incorporated in the  Cayman Islands ,
has said in court filings that it doesn’t do business in Nevada.  Jacobs, who argues that Nevada courts have jurisdiction
over the case, said in a June filing that the casino operator
had moved a “large amount” of electronic files related to the
lawsuit from Macau to the U.S.  “Incredibly, this had occurred all the while Sands China
and Las Vegas Sands were clamoring to preclude all discovery,
claiming that the Macau Personal Data Protection Act precluded
any of this information from being produced in the U.S.,”
lawyers for Jacobs said in the June 27 filing.  Lawyers for Sands China said at a hearing the next day in
Las Vegas that the files were brought to the U.S. in error.  Data Transfers  Company representatives met with Macau officials in March
to discuss overseas data transfers related to the Jacobs lawsuit
and SEC inquiries, Sands lawyers said in an Aug. 27 statement to
the court. The Macau officials advised that the privacy law
doesn’t allow transfers of personal data to comply with
discovery obligations in the U.S., showing that the company’s
concerns about the law are well-founded, the lawyers told the
court.  The lawyers also said they had no legal or ethical duty to
volunteer to Jacobs what documents from Macau the parent company
had in Las Vegas without being asked.  The companies “did not make any false or misleading
factual representations to the effect that they had not
transferred any data from Macau,” according to the Aug. 27
statement to the court. “On the contrary, Sands China correctly
state that ‘the overwhelming majority’ of Sands China’s
documents were in Macau.”  Disclosure Dispute  Gonzalez said June 28 that while she won’t jail anyone over
the disclosure dispute and probably won’t penalize the Sands
with a ruling limiting its use of evidence, she may impose a
fine.  Jacobs is seeking copies of his computer hard drives as
well as e-mails that were transferred to Las Vegas Sands from
Macau in August 2010, about a month after he was fired,
according to a July 6 filing.  Sands China’s Venetian Macau Ltd. unit is being
investigated by the Macau government in connection with the
transfer of data to the U.S. The Macau government’s Office for
Personal Data Protection confirmed via e-mail in August that it
has started an investigation into whether Venetian Macau
breached local rules.  Companies need authorization from the agency under certain
circumstances to transfer data, and failure to comply with some
articles of the Personal Data Protection Act can result in a
fine, the agency said. Other violations of the law may also
“constitute administrative offenses or crimes,” the government
body said.  Followed Regulations  Edward Tracy, Sands China’s chief executive officer, said
in an Aug. 27 interview in  Hong Kong  that the casino operator
has followed regulations in its home territory and Las Vegas and
that it doesn’t engage in any “crimes or any illegal
activities.”  “We not only abided by the rules in Macau, we also abided
by the rules in Las Vegas,” Tracy said, while declining to
comment on specific investigations.  Jacobs submitted a declaration to the court June 27 saying
that Las Vegas Sands and Sands China refused to turn over
records that he says show the direct involvement of Adelson and
of Las Vegas Sands President and Chief Operating Officer Michael Leven in running operations at the Macau casinos.  Jacobs alleged that Adelson was involved in authorizing and
ordering the investigation of Macau government officials as part
of the “leverage strategy.” He said missing documents also
outline the company’s “strategy” of allowing prostitutes in
casinos and the use of illegal workers in Macau.  ‘New Low’  Las Vegas Sands and Sands China called the allegations “a
new low” in Jacobs’s efforts to “besmirch” the companies and
draw media attention.  “Mr. Adelson regards prostitution as morally abhorrent,”
lawyers for the casino operators said in a July 17 filing. “The
notion that Mr. Adelson would approve a ‘prostitution strategy’
is as insulting as it is absurd.”  Jacobs seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages,
including for severance pay and unexercised  stock options  in Las
Vegas Sands and Sands China he says he’s entitled to because he
wasn’t fired for cause.  The case is Steven Jacobs v. Las Vegas Sands, A627691-B,
Clark County, Nevada, District Court (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 