-- Afghanistan’s Karzai to Seek Lawmaker Backing for Securit
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-09-10T10:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/afghanistan-s-karzai-to-seek-lawmaker-backing-for-securit.html
The U.S. transfered control of its
largest prison in  Afghanistan  for Taliban and al-Qaeda suspects
to local officials, ceding authority over a facility where the
burning of copies of the Koran sparked deadly protests.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  hailed the move in a
statement “as an important step towards the recognition of
Afghan national sovereignty.” The jail near the U.S.-run Bagram
airfield near the capital, Kabul, houses more than 3,000
guerrilla fighters, General Zaher Azimi, a spokesman for the
 Defense Ministry , said by phone. Afghanistan has been
supervising most of those held since a March handover agreement
with the U.S., part of a larger pact governing security co-
operation once American combat troops leave by 2014, he said.  The U.S. has suspended the transfer of some prisoners,
among them foreign citizens, fearing they may be released by
Afghan authorities that have criticized the long-term detention
of suspects without charge, the  Associated Press  reported.  Karzai’s government has said U.S. control of the Bagram
jail, at the center of abuse allegations by former inmates and
the Afghan government, violated Afghanistan’s sovereignty and
helped militants attract recruits. The jail is now officially
known as the Parwan Detention Center, and is about 40 kilometers
(25 miles) north of Kabul.  Protests over the burning of Korans taken from the prison
library led to attacks on U.S. personnel in Afghanistan in
February. Two American advisers were shot dead in the Interior
Ministry Feb. 25, while nine Afghans were killed and two
American soldiers wounded in a suicide car-bombing in eastern
Afghanistan two days later.  The U.S. is seeking to engage the Taliban in negotiations
to renounce violence and accept the Afghan constitution to
better the chances of peace following the planned withdrawal of
U.S. combat troops in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  