-- AIDS Vaccine Sleuths Find New Clues as 30-Year Hunt Continues
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-10T12:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/aids-vaccine-sleuths-find-new-clues-as-30-year-hunt-continues.html
AIDS researchers found clues that
help explain why an HIV vaccine worked better for some people
than others in a study, advancing scientists’ understanding of
the virus.  Researchers identified two genetic “signatures” in the
virus among people who contracted HIV despite being vaccinated
in a 2009 trial in  Thailand . Those genetic features may have
helped the virus to evade the vaccine, according to the U.S.
Military HIV Research Program in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , which
published the findings today in the journal Nature. The study is
also being presented at an AIDS conference in  Boston .  The new research shows that the vaccine, the only one that
has shown any success fighting HIV, was more effective combating
the virus when the signatures included one specific mutation and
lacked another one, protecting in as much as 80 percent of the
cases. The findings may help scientists design future vaccines,
said Jerome Kim, who led the research.  “It’s as though you had 50 different kinds of fish that
can potentially be caught, and you catch most of them, but by
looking at the ones that escaped you can tell what the problems
are with the net,” Kim said in a phone interview.  The 2009 trial on  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Alvac and VaxGen Inc.’s Aidsvax
surprised researchers by showing that the two vaccines, which
had failed in tests on their own, reduced infections by 31
percent over three years when used in combination. Researchers
have been scouring the blood of participants in the trial for
clues to help improve on the result.  V2 Loop  Kim and colleagues found the two genetic features in an
area of the virus’s outer coat called the V2 loop, an area on
HIV’s surface that is constantly changing, confounding vaccine
hunters for more than three decades.  An analysis published in April showed that those who were
protected against HIV in the trial developed antibodies against
the V2 loop, suggesting the region plays a key role in the
virus’s ability to infect, Kim said.  Today’s findings combined with the April study show that
the antibodies generated by the vaccine forced the virus to
mutate to escape it, Kim said.  Kim and colleagues are part of a consortium called the Pox
Protein Public-Private Partnership that is planning follow-on
trials to the Thai study, including one in  South Africa  where
it’s hoping to generate a larger and longer-lasting response to
V2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  