-- Finance Lobbyists Press for Libor Regulation, Resist Replacement
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-09-10T15:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/major-financial-benchmarks-should-be-regulated-lobby-group-says.html
Lobbyists for the banking and
asset-management industries are pushing for greater regulation
of Libor and are resisting pressure to replace the benchmark in
the wake of the rate-rigging scandal.  Firms and employees who contribute to  interest rates  should
be regulated, the  Investment Management Association , the  Global
Financial (DLLR)  Markets Association and the International Capital
Market Association said in separate submissions to the Financial
Services Authority’s review of the rate. Replacing Libor with an
alternative rate or significantly changing how it’s calculated
would be too disruptive and should be avoided, they wrote.  FSA managing Director Martin Wheatley is reviewing how the
London interbank offered rate is set after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($464 million) in June for
rigging the benchmark. The London interbank offered rate,
overseen by the London-based British Bankers’ Association, is
the basis for more than $300 trillion of securities worldwide.  “We would strongly prefer the correction of the current
deficiencies in Libor over a solution that requires any
transition or migration to other benchmarks,” the IMA, which
represents British fund managers, said in a statement. “This
will involve the wholesale reorganization of the governance of
Libor, placing the regulator at the heart of the process.”  Wheatley, who started consulting with banks and users of
Libor last month, is scheduled to present his findings to the
Treasury by the end of September. Separately,  Bank of England 
Governor Mervyn King today said global central bankers will set
up their own separate inquiry into Libor.  Daily Poll  The benchmark is determined by a daily poll carried out on
behalf of the BBA by Thomson Reuters Corp. that asks banks to
estimate how much it would cost to borrow from each other for
different periods and in different currencies. At least a dozen
firms are being probed worldwide over allegations they
manipulated the rate to profit.  In cases where contributors to a benchmark aren’t already
regulated, laws should be passed to ensure participants adhere
to the correct standards, said the GFMA, which is backed by the
Association for Financial Markets in  Europe , the  Asia Securities (ASP) 
Industry and Financial Markets Association and the Washington-
based Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.  Individuals who make submissions to benchmark rates should
also be approved by regulators and subject to the FSA’s rules on
remuneration, according to the IMA. Those rules require banks to
pay bonuses to senior employees over a number of years and
include measures to claw back bonuses after they are awarded.  ‘Particularly Concerned’  The three bodies all resisted calls to replace Libor with
alternative rates or widen the pool of eligible transactions to
include secured borrowing, such as repo transactions.  The ICMA, which represents 420 European banks and asset
managers, said it was “particularly concerned” by the
potential for disruption that changes to Libor could cause for
existing securities that reference the rate.  “It is highly impractical to make changes to the use of
Libor within outstanding contracts,” the lobby group said in an
e-mailed statement.  Wheatley said in an Aug. 10 interview that material changes
to the way Libor is calculated would risk invalidating millions
of financial contracts, covering products ranging from mortgages
to derivatives. He said banks that set the Libor interest rate
are seeking a “scientific” process that will limit future
liability from the scandal-ridden benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  