-- Al-Qaeda Deputy Head in Yemen Killed in Raid, Ministry Says
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-09-10T16:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/al-qaeda-deputy-head-in-yemen-killed-in-raid-ministry-says-2-.html
The deputy leader of al-Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula and former Guantanamo Bay prisoner, Saeed
al-Shehri, was killed in  Yemen , the  Defense Ministry  said.  The Saudi national was killed in a “special military
raid” by Yemeni forces in the Wadi area of Hadramut province,
in southeast Yemen, the ministry said in a statement. Six of his
bodyguards also died, it said.  Yemeni security forces under the country’s new president,
Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi, have been battling Islamic fighters in
the south of the country with U.S. assistance. Eight suspected
al-Qaeda militants were killed on Aug. 31 in an airstrike in the
same region in the southeast.  The Obama administration has aided Yemen’s fight against
al-Qaeda, while Saudi Arabia and international donors last week
pledged as much as $6.4 billion to help Yemen rebuild from
protests that weakened the central government’s authority and
forced Ali Abdullah Saleh, who ruled the country for more than
three decades, to cede power last year.  “The U.S. sees the Yemeni front as part of its ongoing
counter-terrorism fight against al-Qaeda,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Institute for Near East and
Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai. “With support from Yemeni
forces, it is trying to decapitate al-Qaeda leadership in the
country.”  Al-Shehri was among a number of Saudis who returned from
the U.S. Guantanamo Bay detention facility in Cuba and then
escaped to Yemen, Saudi Interior Ministry spokesman Major
General Mansour al-Turki said in June 2010. He was released in
2007.  Consolidating Control  “If true, this demonstrates the new government’s
determination to combat al-Qaeda,” Sam Wilkin, an analyst at
Control Risks in Dubai, said by telephone today. “The previous
government was much less willing to confront them directly. It
also shows that Hadi is consolidating his control over the armed
forces.”  Al-Qaeda’s Saudi and Yemeni branches merged in January 2009
after a Saudi crackdown forced militants to flee across the
1,500-kilometer (930-mile) border. In June 2010, Al-Shehri
ordered the group’s “soldiers” to abduct Saudi princes,
ministers and Christian residents in the kingdom, according to a
recording posted on an Islamist website.  Yemen, bordering  Saudi Arabia  and Oman at the southern tip
of the Arabian Peninsula, is struggling to recover from the
protests and conflicts in the south and north. Yemen’s army has
also fought separatist groups in the south and Shiite Muslim
rebels in the north along the Saudi border.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  