-- Talisman Replaces CEO Manzoni With Former TransCanada CEO
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-10T20:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/talisman-replaces-ceo-manzoni-with-former-transcanada-ceo.html
Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the Canadian
oil and natural-gas producer that has underperformed its peers
for the past five years, said Chief Executive Officer John Manzoni agreed to leave. Board member Hal Kvisle has replaced
him.  Manzoni, who took the helm of the Calgary-based company in
2007, will step down immediately, according to a Talisman
statement today. The company didn’t provide a reason for the
change. Through the end of last week, Talisman had declined 23
percent since Manzoni, 52, took over in September 2007, compared
with a 15 percent drop for the Standard & Poor’s Toronto Stock
Exchange  energy index .  Kvisle, 59, the former CEO of pipeline company  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) , has been on Talisman’s board since May 2010. He takes
over after Asian investment in Canadian oil and gas producers
more than doubled this year, including the $15.1 billion
takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  by  China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , announced on July
23. TransCanada’s shares gained 63 percent over Kvisle’s tenure
as CEO.  Manzoni’s departure follows eight months of discussion by
the board and management on ways to “rationalize the asset
base,” Kvisle said in a phone interview today. The board
decided the company needed a different focus for “our
activities and our assets,” Kvisle said.  Talisman rose 1.6 percent to C$14.09 at the close in
Toronto.  Frustrated Board  The Nexen deal probably resulted in frustrated Talisman
board members and shareholders who wanted the company to either
fix itself or get sold, Philip Skolnick, a New York-based
analyst at Canaccord Genuity, wrote in a note to clients today.  Talisman has “too many assets” and could put some on the
block or pursue partnerships following a review, Kvisle said.
The board isn’t considering selling the company and hasn’t been
approached by buyers, nor have shareholders pushed for a sale,
Kvisle said. The company will continue to focus on operations in
the  North Sea ,  North America  and  Southeast Asia , he said.  Kvisle is viewed as “a very competent CEO” and since he
was already a director of Talisman “there should be no learning
curve for him,” Skolnick wrote.  ‘Lost Focus’  Talisman spent $3.98 billion since 2007 buying assets from
 Colombia  to Papua New Guinea. Manzoni led the company into so-
called unconventional formations including North American shale
plays. In the past two years, the company bought more than
100,000 acres in Texas’ Eagle Ford shale for $1.55 billion.  “There’s been an impression that Talisman has lost
focus,”  John Malone , a New York-based analyst at Global Hunter
Securities Inc., said in a telephone interview today. “They
made two big bets: North American unconventional plays and using
North Sea oil to pay for that. In the end they had problems in
the North Sea and gas prices didn’t cooperate.”  U.S. gas prices hit a 10-year low in April as new
technologies unlocked vast reserves and companies ramped up
production.  Talisman took a $248 million after-tax writedown on May 1
because of uncertainty regarding the start of production from
the Yme field off Norway. The company evacuated all 140 workers
from the Yme platform on July 10 after cracks were found in the
steel structure.  Talisman has “great international assets, especially in
Southeast Asia” that Asian producers may be interested in
buying, Malone said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  New York  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  