-- Malone’s Starz Sells Bonds Lacking Protection: Corporate Finance
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-09-10T16:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/malone-s-starz-sells-bonds-lacking-protection-corporate-finance.html
Starz LLC, the movie channel
provider owned by billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp.,
is pouncing on unprecedented demand for junk bonds to sell $500
million of notes that lack standard bondholder protections.  Documents governing the terms of the debt are “flawed”
and “highly off-market,” according to research firm Covenant
Review LLC, putting bondholders in danger of being subordinated
by new obligations or left without recourse if the company sells
assets. Starz issued the debentures to facilitate a $1.8 billion
dividend to Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Media as part of a
transition to becoming a publicly-traded company.  “They took some liberties,” Robert Matz, an analyst at
Covenant Review in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
Starz officials “can send money out of the company without the
company ever earning a cent,” diminishing the cash available to
meet interest payments, he said.  Malone is known for using complex tracking stocks and
financial transactions to pursue tax benefits and make his
companies and assets more attractive. Record low interest rates
have increased demand for high-yield, high-risk debt, giving
borrowers more power in dictating deal terms. Yields on  junk
bonds  tumbled to 7.22 percent on Sept. 7, down from 8.75 percent
a year ago and more than 20 percent in early 2009, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Leverage Ratio  Companies owned by Malone “are notorious for shareholder-
friendly transactions,” Spencer Godfrey, an analyst at
Montpelier, Vermont-based KDP Investment Advisors Inc., said in
a telephone interview. In the absence of a sale of the company,
“I imagine at some point they’ll revert to dividends and share
repurchases,” he said.  Starz’s ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will be about 3 times following
the spinoff, which it will maintain through 2013, according to a
Sept. 5  Standard & Poor’s  report. The company’s Ebitda will
exceed interest by 7 times.  The company said in a Sept. 5 investor call that it was
committed to maintaining a leverage ratio below 3 times,
according to Godfrey. Starz also said that aside from a $1.8
billion payment to Liberty Media it will not make additional
material distributions to shareholders.  A call to Eric Becker, a spokesman at Liberty Media, wasn’t
returned.  ‘Standalone Structure’  Liberty Media plans to spin off Starz, a competitor of Time
Warner Inc.’s HBO, by year-end, it said in an Aug. 8 statement.
The split is structured to be tax-free to the movie channel
provider’s shareholders.  “This standalone structure is the first step to unlocking
the real potential growth opportunities for Starz,” Chris Albrecht, chief executive officer of Starz, said in an Aug. 8
earnings call. The spinoff “allows us to build a more
appropriate  capital structure  and provides us with the currency
to explore potential strategic alliances, acquisitions and other
value-enhancing strategies.”  Starz, which operates the Starz, Encore and Movieplex
channels, has been adding original television series after
Albrecht, the former chief of HBO, took over in December 2009.
Starz’s shows include “Boss,” starring Kelsey Grammer,
“Spartacus” and “Party Down.”  Junk Rated  The network carries films from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , including
the company’s Pixar animation studio, and Sony Corp., with
recent titles including “Men in Black 3.” Starz provided
streaming rights to those films to Netflix Inc. before that deal
expired in February.  The 7-year notes are rated Ba2, the second-highest level of
speculative-grade, by Moody’s Investors Service and an
equivalent BB at S&P. Proceeds will be used to retire the
company’s $500 million  term loan , helping lower the rate on its
$1 billion revolving credit facility, according to KDP’s
Godfrey. The company plans to use about $680 million from its
 credit line  in addition to cash to make the distribution to
Liberty Media.  Starz priced the debt to yield 5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 0.62 percentage point less than
the average for bonds with the same tenor and credit rating,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Note Terms  The terms of the notes allow Starz to issue at least $725
million of secured debt, according to Covenant Review. They also
permit the company to pay dividends to shareholders or invest in
unrestricted subsidiaries based on meeting a consolidated
 leverage ratio , as opposed to the standard use of a calculation
related to net income and equity contributions.  “For a high-yield bond, you expect to see certain standard
provisions that will protect how much debt can come ahead of
you, how much debt can come alongside you and how much cash can
escape the credit,” Matz said.  The covenants are also missing a standard trigger that
allows bondholders to redeem  debt  at 101 cents on the dollar
should Starz sell substantially all of its assets to a third-
party, Matz said.  Starz may become an attractive  acquisition  target post-
spinoff as it provides financial results required of publicly-
traded companies, Godfrey said.  “If you spin it off it has more  brand recognition ,”
Godfrey said. “Investors can see it from the top down and
understand to a better extent what’s going on in Starz.”  ‘Financial Risk’  While an acquisition by an investment-grade company may not
trigger concern over the so-called change of control put, it may
become an issue in the case of a leveraged buyout by a private
equity company, he said.  Starz reported revenue of $403 million in the second
quarter, unchanged from a year earlier, it said in an Aug. 8
earnings  report . It had free cash flow of $225 million in the
prior 12 months, and more than $340 million in 2011, according
to KDP.  While the post-spinoff Starz “will be more focused on its
core operations, the company could pursue acquisitions outside
of cable networks and content generation,” S&P analysts Andy Liu and Naveen Sarma wrote in the report. “We view the
company’s financial risk as ‘significant’ given the potential
for sizable debt-financed acquisitions.”  Starz’s 20.7 million subscribers and Encore’s 34 million
compare with 28.5 million for  HBO  and 21.6 million for  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s Showtime, according to researcher SNL Kagan. About 58
percent of revenue was generated by Comcast Corp., DIRECTV and
Dish Network Corp., its three biggest distributors, according to
the earnings report.  “You’ll see issuers like Liberty Media and aggressive
sponsors trying to have all this flexibility,” Matz said. “It
can be a detriment to bondholders because it allows them to do a
lot more without the reins being pulled in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  