-- Amgen Joins Renault Selling Bonds to Pre-Empt Crisis Woes
-- B y   P a u l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-09-10T13:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/amgen-joins-renault-selling-bonds-to-pre-empt-crisis-woes-2-.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  joined Renault SA and
five Spanish borrowers to raise money in the busiest day for
European bond issuance in 2 1/2 years amid speculation the
region’s recovery is about to hit a number of speed bumps.  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, offered
only its second notes in euros and pounds while French automaker
Renault did its eighth public bond issue of the year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. With deals from Spanish energy
companies  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) , the market was
poised for about 10 billion euros ($12.8 billion) of issuance
today, the most since March 11, 2010.  The optimism that followed the European Central Bank’s
announcement that it would buy unlimited amounts of government
debt to ease the crisis is already evaporating. A court case
about whether the euro-region bailout fund breaches  Germany ’s
constitution and Greece’s inability to agree to spending cuts
are prompting companies to use their status as haven issuers to
raise cash while they can.  “There’s still some uncertainty on the results of the
German constitutional court so issuers are running to get deals
done,” said Arnaud Colombel, a fund manager at La Banque
Postale Asset Management SA in Paris, which oversees about 130
billion euros. “I totally understand the issuers’ hurry while
investors are a little euphoric and have a lot of cash.”  Busy Summer  Today’s flood of deals continues a busy summer for
corporate bond issuance as investors seek relatively safe
securities that still provide them with a yield at a time when
rates on the highest-quality  government bonds  have fallen to
about zero. Year-to-date sales total 512 billion euros, compared
with 505 billion euros in the same period of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowing costs have also tumbled to the lowest in 14
months because of this appetite among fund managers, encouraging
companies to raise money.  The extra yield investors demand to hold European corporate
notes fell 72 basis points, or 0.72 percentage point, since June
1 to 183 basis points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Corporate index of 1,732 securities shows. The gauge contains
bonds sold by companies such as  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and Rabobank.  Best Names  It’s still only the best names that can borrow. Companies
from the euro area’s so-called periphery can raise money, though
in those countries deals tend to be confined to the safest
borrowers such as large banks and utilities.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest
lender, sold three-year senior, unsecured notes in what Societe
Generale SA analysts said was the busiest day for issuance from
the country since at least 2009. Italy’s No. 2 bank,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , offered four-year senior, unsecured notes, said a
person familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be named
because the details aren’t public.  Snam SpA (SRG) , which owns and operates Italy’s natural gas
network, and  Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , known as Banesto, also
launched bond sales, according to bankers.  From France, the country’s third-biggest lender,  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , offered benchmark covered bonds in euros, while
property company  Klepierre (LI)  issued its first benchmark notes
since March 2011.  Raluca Barb, a spokeswoman for  Renault (RNO)  in Paris, said her
company’s issue of debt due in 2017 was part of the carmaker’s
refinancing program, declining to give further details.  Cancer Trials  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen, which halted trials
on a pancreatic cancer drug in August, last sold bonds in euros
and pounds in November 2011, according to Bloomberg data. Its
new senior, unsecured bonds had a 2019 maturity for the euro
tranche and a 2029 lifetime for the pound issue, said a banker
on the deal.  Lingering optimism that ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-
buying plan will contain the sovereign crisis is also helping
spur issuance, according to analysts at ING Groep NV.  “The start of the week sees a true rush in primary
activity following the pledged support by the ECB for peripheral
sovereign bonds last week,”  Maureen Schuller , a senior credit
strategist at ING in Amsterdam, wrote in a note. “In particular
Spanish issuers” are taking advantage of “the window of
opportunity offered by the sovereign-bond purchase safety net,
with issuance activity just as lively in financials -- BBVA and
Banesto -- as in corporates -- Gas Natural and Iberdrola.”  Richest, Poorest  The problems that have emerged since Draghi announced his
solution to the crisis on Sept. 6 affect the euro region’s
richest and poorest members. Germany’s Federal Constitutional
Court in Karlsruhe will decide whether to suspend the 500
billion-euro European Stability Mechanism on Sept. 12, while in
Athens, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s governing partners are
balking at budget cuts demanded by the country’s so-called
troika of creditors.  “We’re in an environment where the climate can change
dramatically in a short while given the fragilities we’re
facing,” said Sebastian Paris-Horvitz, the chief market
strategist at  HSBC Private Bank  in Geneva. “There’s no room for
euphoria.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Armstrong in London at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  