-- Hannover Re Expects January Rates to Be ‘Slightly’ Higher
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-09-10T08:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/hannover-re-expects-january-rates-to-be-slightly-higher-1-.html
Hannover Re, the world’s fourth-
biggest reinsurer, expects rates for property and casualty
reinsurance to increase “slightly” when companies renew
policies in January, Chief Executive Officer  Ulrich Wallin  said.  “All in all, it’s a stable to slightly up environment,” Wallin said at a press conference in  Monte Carlo  today. “While
there is increased overcapacity in the reinsurance market, low
 interest rates  and the general uncertainty will prevent
reductions in rates.”  The industry is gathering for its annual meeting with
brokers and their clients, primary insurers, in  Monte Carlo  to
start negotiating terms and conditions of next year’s contracts.
The talks will continue at an October meeting in  Baden-Baden ,
 Germany . Allianz SE,  Axa SA (CS)  and other primary insurers buy
reinsurance to help them shoulder the costs of events such as
natural disasters.  The German auto insurance market, Europe’s largest, which
has been unprofitable since carriers stepped up price cuts to
win business in 2005, is recovering,  Hannover Re  said. The
company says it’s Germany’s biggest auto reinsurer.  “A significant recovery can be observed,” said Michael Pickel, a member of the management board who said he’s observing
price increases of as much as 9 percent in the primary market.  Hurricane Costs  The reinsurer will also “pay particular attention to the
storm business in Germany,” Pickel said.  Hurricane Isaac, which made landfall in Louisiana on Aug.
28, is expected to cost Hannover Re a “low double-digit
million-euro amount,” Wallin said. The storm may cost the
industry as much as $2 billion, risk-modeling firm AIR Worldwide
has said.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, yesterday said it
expects property and casualty reinsurance rates to remain stable
during the January price negotiations. The Munich-based
reinsurer also said it expects “further rate adjustments” for
windstorm policies in  Europe . It said it expects its own claims
from Isaac to be less than 100 million euros.  Hannover Re, whose majority shareholder Talanx AG plans an
initial public offering by the end of September, last month
posted a 13 percent decline in second-quarter profit to 144
million euros ($184 million) on losses from hedging derivatives.
The Hanover, Germany-based company said it booked 82 million
euros of losses in the second quarter after 85 million euros of
gains in the preceding three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  