-- Are You Better Off? Take a Look at the Stock Market
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-09-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/are-you-better-off-take-a-look-at-the-stock-market.html
Do you remember the news four years
ago? Banks collapsed, markets cratered, companies struggled to
make payroll and millions of people lost their jobs. Your
retirement savings were decimated,  the value of your house 
plunged, credit was unobtainable. Politicians dithered and
economists argued. Only confusion prospered.  Against this background, it’s surprising to hear
Republicans returning to  Ronald Reagan ’s classic debate
question: “Are you better off than you were four years ago?” To
anyone whose memory extends a full electoral cycle, the answer
is clearly yes.  When assessing our politicians, what matters isn’t just the
here and now. It’s at least as important to consider how well we
are set up for tomorrow, next year and the decades that follow.  This distinction is particularly important in assessing the
aftermath of the last recession. The anxiety that gripped us in
late 2008 wasn’t born out of a typical cyclical decline that
hurts for a year or two before the economy returns to growth.
Rather, it was a fear that something more fundamental had
changed, altering our whole economic trajectory.  Only a forward-looking indicator can pick up both this fear
and its ultimate resolution. Unfortunately, most economic
statistics tell us only what happened last month, last quarter
or last year.  Stock Market  The stock market, by contrast, is obsessively focused on
the future. When investors decide whether to buy a company’s
stock, they aren’t just thinking about its current earnings (if
they were, a company like Twitter Inc. would be worthless). They
are trying to figure out what its future earnings will be, and
what that stream of income should be worth today. Their
collective judgment, while far from perfect, tells a compelling
story about how America’s prospects have changed over the past
four years.  On the day of President  Barack Obama ’s inauguration, the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  closed  at 805 , just over half its
pre-recession level. In other words, investors thought the
recession had done so much damage that the future earnings of
corporate America were worth only about half what they were
before. And because corporate earnings are a roughly constant
share of the broader economy, the stock prices suggested a
decline of historic magnitude in investors’ assessment of the
long-run prospects for the entire  U.S. economy .  As of Sept. 10, the S&P 500 index stood at 1429, about 78
percent higher than it was on inauguration day. Probable
translation: Investors believe the long-run outlook for the
American economy has improved enormously.  True, the stock market can rise for various reasons.
Investors might expect corporate profits to grow faster than the
economy, or corporate taxes to fall. They might have become more
patient, causing them to place a higher value on earnings way
out in the future. Given the current political climate, and the
way the crisis shattered peoples’ complacency, none of these
stories seems particularly plausible.  The stock market is also an imperfect proxy for the
outcomes we truly care about. If there were  futures markets  more
directly tied to economic output, unemployment or perhaps even
well-being, they would provide an even better picture.  Surveys asking people to evaluate their well-being can also
provide a useful insight given that people’s responses are
influenced by their outlook. One index run by research company
Gallup Inc., for example, shows people’s perceived well-being at
a four-year high. (Disclosure:  Justin Wolfers  is a senior
scientist at Gallup.)  Of course, the stock ticker can’t answer the most important
political questions. It can’t say we are better off because of
Obama’s policies, or for other reasons. It can’t say whether we
are better off than we would have been under President  Mitt Romney . It does, however, capture well the narrative of
disaster, survival and recovery that has marked the past four
years. It helps us to remember how bad we felt back then, and to
appreciate where we are today.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the  University of Michigan . Justin Wolfers is an
associate professor of business and public policy at the
 University of Pennsylvania , and a non-resident senior fellow of
the  Brookings Institution . Both are Bloomberg View columnists.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  what to do about Libor’s
overseer  and on  King Abdullah and Jordan’s subsidy addiction ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on  power failures and Mormon food hoarding ;
William Pesek on  China’s education policies in Hong Kong ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on how much  Romney could actually accomplish as
president ; Barry Nalebuff on why  New York should ban calories in
beverages .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  