-- Harrisburg Plans to Skip Payment for Second Bond Default
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-09-10T21:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/harrisburg-plans-to-skip-payment-for-second-bond-default.html
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ’s
insolvent capital, says it will miss general-obligation bond
payments for the second time this year, preserving cash to cover
workers’ salaries.  The city will miss $3.4 million in payments due Sept. 15 on
$51.5 million of bonds issued in 1997, William B. Lynch,
Harrisburg’s receiver, said today by telephone. It skipped
paying $5.27 million that was due March 15 on the same bonds.  “We don’t have enough money to make the payment,” he
said. “High finance.”  While Harrisburg in 2009 started missing payments on debt
related to an incinerator project, it avoided defaulting on its
general-obligation bonds until March. The city joined another in
the Keystone State, Scranton, as well as Moberly,  Missouri , and
Wenatchee,  Washington , in skipping debt payments they could pay,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. The credit-rating
company said the cities may exemplify a “new trend” of cash-
strapped communities unwilling to meet their obligations.  “The appropriate notifications have been communicated to
those concerned” regarding the planned default, Lynch said.  Ambac Assurance, a unit of New York-based  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , backs Harrisburg’s general-obligation debt.  Michael
Fitzgerald , an Ambac spokesman, declined to comment on the move.  Bankruptcy Barred  Harrisburg, barred from bankruptcy until after Nov. 30 by
state law, faces a debt burden of more than $300 million. Most
of that is tied to an overhaul and expansion of a trash-to-
energy incinerator that doesn’t produce enough revenue to cover
the obligations.  Lynch is implementing a recovery plan that calls for
selling or leasing city assets, including the power plant.
Negotiations are under way over the incinerator and parking
system, as well as for a water and sewage-system management
contract.  A court on Sept. 6 delayed an order supporting Lynch’s
request to force Harrisburg’s City Council to double an income
tax on residents to 2 percent from 1 percent. The city may
confront a $12.6 million  budget deficit  by the end of the year.  Skipping debt payments to pay workers isn’t a viable
solution to the capital’s fiscal instability, said  Dan Miller ,
Harrisburg’s controller. He said he expects the community to be
able to pay salaries through the end of the year, while it may
miss other bills.  “Once we get to the end of the year, we still don’t have
any revenue,” he said. “We need to be put into bankruptcy as
soon as possible.”  Council members sought to put the municipality of almost
49,700 into bankruptcy in October, despite a state ban. In
November, a federal judge rejected their petition for court
protection, saying it wasn’t authorized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  