-- Harvard Football Said to Risk Losing Players in Cheating Probe
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-09-10T19:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/harvard-football-said-to-risk-losing-players-in-cheating-probe.html
Harvard University ’s football team,
favored to retain its Ivy League title in a preseason media
poll, could lose some players this year because of the cheating
probe disclosed by the school last month, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Details regarding the number of players who might leave the
team because of the investigation -- their names, and whether
they’ve been required to withdraw for a year -- weren’t
available, said the person, who declined to be named because the
probe is confidential.  Harvard, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said Aug. 30
that it was investigating about 125 students for academic
misconduct on a take-home final exam. Students have said that
collaboration on homework and exams was common and tolerated in
the class, which they identified as a government course,
Introduction to Congress.  Harvard’s  Administrative Board , a disciplinary body
established in 1980, investigates such allegations and hands out
punishments.  Jeff Neal , a Harvard spokesman, declined to comment
today and referred to a Sept. 3 statement in response to
questions.  “The board will meet with each student who is under
investigation and work toward the resolution of each individual
case,” Neal said in the statement. “We expect to learn more
about the way the course was organized and how work was
approached in class and on the take-home final.”  Easy Course  While the college revealed the existence and scope of the
investigation, Harvard has declined to identify the course and
students involved because all such information is legally
confidential, Neal said.  Introduction to Congress, which had 279 students enrolled
in the semester that ended in May, is thought to be a relatively
easy course, students have said. One student’s 2010 evaluation
called it: “An awesome class which is not very time
consuming.”  Students found to have violated school rules can face a
number of Administrative Board penalties, including a warning,
academic probation and requirement to withdraw for a year. Some
may be exonerated, Neal said.  Students who believe they’ll be told to withdraw can take a
leave of absence, Neal said. Those who move to take leave early
in the year may avoid paying at least some tuition and other
charges, Jay Harris, Harvard’s dean of undergraduate education,
said in an interview Aug. 30.  Harris called the cheating investigation the biggest in
“living memory” at Harvard.  Harvard, undefeated in  Ivy League  play last season, gave up
17.1 points per game, the lowest in the league of eight private
schools in the northeastern U.S. Harvard’s 37.4 points and 435.6
yards of offense per game were also both league-best.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  