-- As Washington Loses Power, Legumes Take Over
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-09-10T22:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/as-washington-loses-power-legumes-take-over.html
One of the reasons I admire Mormons
is their commitment to long-term food storage.  (Other reasons include their devotion to family and their
bicycle-based, carbon-neutral approach to proselytizing. One
aspect of Mormonism I don’t particularly admire is its desire to
convert my dead relatives, but more on that another time.)  Mormons are required by church doctrine to store in their
homes at least three months of food and other basic supplies (a
year’s worth of supplies is considered  ideal ). This policy is
meant to help church members survive natural and man-made
disasters, and also the tribulations associated with the Second
Coming of  Jesus Christ , whose arrival may be presaged by
civilizational collapse, or at least severe weather.  A Mormon readiness kit is something to behold. Not long
ago, I visited a number of Mormon households in  Colorado , and
I’ve never seen more impressive collections of freeze-dried
legumes and nitrogen-packed millet. I was also introduced to
“Provident Pantry Freeze Dried Shredded Mozzarella Cheese,”
which is sold by a survival-foods company in  Utah  (a center of
the survival-food industry, of course) that “lets you make
pizzas even during emergency times.” The pizza tastes just the
way you would think End Times Mormon pizza might taste.  Well Stocked  A famous teacher of survival skills named  Cody Lundin , who
lives in the mountains above Prescott,  Arizona , once told me
that in the West, people often say “that if things go to hell,
they’re just going to some Mormon’s house and steal” his
supplies. He said, for the record, that this would be a) immoral
and b) potentially fatal, because many Mormons keep guns as part
of their survival kits.  It’s easy to mock the survivalist instinct. Usually, the
worst doesn’t happen. We live in a stable if sclerotic democracy
that has proved itself able to supply most of its citizens with
clean water, relatively cheap food, working sewers and
increasingly sophisticated dramatic series on basic cable.  As a resident of Washington, however, I am ready to attest
that, at least in the capital, we no longer can count on a
reliable supply of electricity, and this is turning some of us
into Mormons, if only in our readiness to warehouse long-lasting
legumes.  Before I go any further, let me acknowledge that it is not
entirely fair to say that  Washington ’s electricity supply is
unreliable. Washingtonians can count on a reliable supply of
electricity. Except when it rains.  It happened again this weekend. Saturday opened sunny and
fair, but a storm blew through in the late afternoon. This storm
did not take down many large trees, or even large branches. It
was more of a twig-and-leaf storm. Yet, within the first minute
of rain and wind, we lost power. So did tens of thousands of
other customers of  Pepco Holdings Inc. , the local electricity
monopoly.  My thoughts quickly turned to my family’s freezer. After we
lost power for five days earlier this summer, during a more
powerful (but still non-apocalyptic) storm, we were forced to
toss a couple of hundred bucks worth of frozen food. I vowed,
from then on, to keep the freezer half-empty, and I also vowed
to buy a generator. I did not keep my vows.  The point is not that I would make a bad Mormon, but that
it takes time to absorb certain lessons about the apparent
immutability of bad power company customer service in a decade
that seems to be marked by drastic fluctuations in weather
patterns. By the way, I’m happy to excuse Pepco power failures
during hurricanes, cyclones, tornadoes, typhoons, blizzards,
tsunamis and zombie uprisings. But the rainstorm on Saturday did
not fall into any of these categories.  Most Hated  I will say this for Pepco: It brings people together.
Washingtonians are united in their loathing of their power
company. Business Insider last year named Pepco the  most-hated 
company in America, based on surveys conducted by the  American
Customer Satisfaction Index . This is an awesome achievement,
especially considering that Pepco is a local company, and that
it was competing against airlines.  I live in a part of Washington dotted with embassies, and
one diplomat I know said that living in Washington reminded him
of life in Port-au-Prince, except that in Haiti he had a
generator. Generators were a main source of conversation on the
street this weekend. Many people are considering buying
generators but are held back by cost and resentment: Buying a
generator would mean admitting defeat at the hands of Pepco.  The other topic of conversation was freezers. I’m not the
only one trying to curtail my frozen food storage. Most of my
neighbors are doing the same. Some are, as I am, following the
lead of the Mormons and storing enough dry goods for a week or
two in the basement.  This being Washington, one of my neighbors happens to run
the Department of Energy’s  U.S. Energy Information
Administration .  Adam Sieminski  knows more about this basket of
issues than anyone I know, so naturally, I wheeled on him.
“Can’t you do something about this?” I asked. Adam said,
correctly, that his job was to analyze trends in energy, not to
fix Pepco transformers.  And analyze he did, pointing me to a recent paper by his
agency that was sparked by an obvious question: Why don’t
companies such as Pepco simply bury their  power lines ? The paper
said a 2010 study requested by the District of Columbia’s  Public
Service Commission  found that it would cost $5.8 billion to bury
all overhead electrical equipment, which could add an estimated
$226 to the average monthly electric bill over 10 years, or $107
a month over 30 years. For many reasons -- the cost obviously,
but also lack of planning foresight, irrational hopefulness
about the future of weather and an insufficient government
commitment to truly shovel-ready projects among them –-- I’m not
counting on this happening anytime soon.  In the meantime, we are left with three questions: How do
we convince foreign diplomats posted to Washington that they
live in the cockpit of Western power and innovation, and not in
a decrepit developing-world backwater? How much vacuum-packed
millet does a family of five need to survive in a world without
electricity?  And finally, does  Mitt Romney ’s overly sanguine approach to
 climate change  -- he recently mocked President  Barack Obama  for
promising to stop the rise of the oceans –-- mean that his
basement is stocked with life rafts and Mormon survival pizza?  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for the
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  what to do about Libor’s
overseer  and on  King Abdullah and Jordan’s subsidy addiction ;
William Pesek on  China’s education policies in Hong Kong ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on how much  Romney could actually accomplish as
president ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  whether we’re
better off ; Barry Nalebuff on why  New York should ban calories
in beverages .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Lisa Beyer  at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 