-- Stocks, Euro Fall on Greece Concern as Commodities Gain
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-10T20:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/asian-stocks-emerging-currencies-gain-on-global-stimulus-bets.html
U.S. benchmark stock indexes
slipped from four-year highs and the euro fell for the first
time in four days as  Greece  struggled to qualify for aid. Copper
rose on speculation policy makers will work to support growth.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.6 percent to
1,429.08 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The euro depreciated 0.4 percent
to $1.2759, retreating from a three-month high. Italy’s 10-year
bonds fell for the first time in six days. Coffee, zinc, natural
gas and aluminum led gains in commodities. Ten-year Treasury
yields slipped one basis point to 1.66 percent.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras met officials from the
nation’s creditors today after failing to secure agreement from
coalition partners on spending cuts. Italy’s economy shrank more
than previously reported,  China ’s  industrial output  grew at the
slowest rate since 2009 and Japan’s economy expanded at half the
pace initially estimated, reports showed.  Federal Reserve 
officials meet Sept. 12-13 after U.S. jobs growth in August
trailed estimates.  “Europe will continue kicking the can down the road and
there’s no quick solution,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps
manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,
Alabama, said in a telephone interview. “Macro numbers have
been very unimpressive, but there’s this aspect of expansionary
monetary policy decisions that have been driving prices
higher,” he said. “The market will turn on what the Fed does
this week.”  Fed Bets  Money market traders expect the Federal Reserve to keep
borrowing costs at record lows for about three more years as the
economic outlook worsens. Six months ago, they expected the Fed
to raise  interest rates  by the end of 2013.  Bond market measures from overnight index swaps, which
indicate no increase in the federal funds rate until mid-2015,
to a 62 percent decline in a measure of  volatility  in  government
bonds  signal that rates will stay near zero for longer. The gap
between two- and five-year Treasury yields, which decreases when
traders expect benchmark rates to remain subdued, is more than
50 percent narrower than its average since 2008.  A gauge of indicators of market expectations for additional
central bank stimulus rose to a record 99 percent in August,
according to Citigroup Inc. The measure increased to 82 percent
in the months before the second round of quantitative easing in
November 2010.  ‘Main Theme’  “The main theme is still the euro crisis and a lot expect
that there will be an economic slowdown in the next few
months,” said Thomas Muhlberger, a  fund manager  who helps
oversee the equivalent of $1.7 billion at Johannes Fuhr Asset
Management in  Frankfurt . “Some see this as increasing the
likelihood of more liquidity coming into the markets from
central banks.”  The  S&P 500  last week closed at the highest level since
January 2008 after the  European Central Bank  announced plans to
buy bonds of indebted countries to combat the debt crisis.
Technology and financial shares led losses among the index’s 10
main industry groups today.  Bank of America Corp. lost 2.5 percent and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. fell 1.4 percent to pace losses in 20 of 24 stocks in the
KBW Bank Index. New regulations and capital requirements are
“structural” changes to the banking industry that are more to
blame for declining profits than the U.S. economic slump,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts said in a report today.  Intel, International Paper  Intel Corp. (INTC)  lost 3.8 percent after Nomura Holdings Inc.
said estimates for the largest chipmaker’s earnings next year
may fall further. International Paper Co. slid 4.2 percent after
Deutsche Bank AG cut its rating to hold from buy, saying
expected price increases may not be likely.  American International Group Inc. dropped 2 percent after
the  U.S. Treasury  offered to sell $18 billion in AIG shares,
with the bailed-out insurer planning to buy back as much as $5
billion.  A deal by U.S. lawmakers to head off automatic tax
increases and spending cuts at the start of next year may be
“messy” and could hurt stocks, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
chief U.S. equity strategist  David Kostin  said. The so-called
fiscal cliff “is unlikely to be resolved in a smooth fashion,
and probably will be resolved in a messy way,” Kostin said
today at a conference in San Diego sponsored by the Insured
Retirement Institute.  Market Predictions  Kostin has the second-most bearish view of stock-market
performance this year among Wall Street strategists tracked by
Bloomberg. He estimates that S&P 500 will finish 2012 at 1,250,
13 percent below its close of 1437.92 on Sept. 7. The median
estimate is 1,425.  Gamco Investors Inc. fund manager Howard Ward predicted
U.S. stocks may climb to records in three to four months amid
strong corporate earnings and further monetary easing by the
Federal Reserve, he said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. U.S. stocks will surge 12 percent through the end of
2013, driving the  S&P 500 (SPX)  to a record, as an improvement in
 capital investment  and industrial production boost earnings,
Citigroup Inc. said.  The S&P 500 will climb to 1,615 by the end of 2013,
according to a report dated Sept. 7 from Tobias Levkovich, the
chief U.S. strategist at the bank. That would surpass its
current  all-time high  of 1,565.15 reached Oct. 9, 2007.  “Attractive valuation, credit dynamics and implied
earnings growth all support market appreciation even as
sentiment is not as constructive,” Levkovich wrote in the
report. “Economic and  earnings expansion  is likely even as
margin concerns persist.”  The euro weakened against 10 of its 16 major counterparts,
losing 0.4 percent versus the yen. Norway’s krone dropped versus
all its main peers after a report showed inflation slowed in
August.  Italy Bonds  Italy’s 10-year  bond yield  climbed 12.5 basis points to
5.18 percent, climbing from a five-month low of 5.04 percent set
last week. Yields on Spanish securities of similar maturity
increased seven basis points to 5.70 percent.  Food and beverage companies declined the most in Europe
while metals producers  led gains  as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
slipped 0.2 percent. The gauge advanced 2.3 percent last week as
ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced a bond-buying plan aimed at
lowering borrowing costs in the euro region.  Mining Takeover  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the mining company that Glencore International
Plc is attempting to acquire, climbed 1.2 percent today.
Glencore said Xstrata Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  will
step down six months after its planned takeover is completed
under the sweetened and final terms of its $36 billion offer.
Glencore shares slipped 2.1 percent.  Copper climbed as much as 1.5 percent to $3.70 a pound, the
highest since May. China is the biggest buyer of the metal. Gold
fell the most in more than three weeks, slipping 0.5 percent to
$1,731.80 an ounce, as a stronger dollar curbed demand for the
metal as an alternative investment.  In China, inbound shipments declined 2.6 percent in August
from a year earlier, the customs bureau said in Beijing today.
That missed the median estimate of a 3.5 percent gain, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Imports rose 4.7 percent in
July from a year earlier.  Industrial production in the world’s second-largest economy
increased the least in three years last month, according to a
report from the National Bureau of Statistics yesterday.
Production increased 8.9 percent, compared with 9.2 percent in
July. The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had called for a 9 percent gain.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.1 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index added 0.3 percent, adding to a 3.7
percent surge on September 7, as gauges in Indonesia,  Taiwan ,
Thailand and Turkey gained at least 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  