-- Aussie Retreats From Two-Week High as China Imports Drop
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-09-10T05:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/aussie-retreats-from-two-week-high-as-china-imports-drop.html
The Australian dollar retreated
from a two-week high after unexpected declines in domestic  home-
loan approvals  and  China ’s imports damped the outlook for
economic growth.  The so-called Aussie also weakened for the first time in
three days after data showed industrial output rose by the least
in three years in China, Australia’s biggest trading partner.
The New Zealand currency, nicknamed the kiwi, held onto a three-
day gain on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will add stimulus as
early as this week after a Sept. 7 report showed U.S. payrolls
rose less than projected in August.  “The Chinese imports figures were very weak,” said
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist in Singapore at Westpac Banking
Corp. “We can probably go a little bit weaker from here, but I
still think dips in the Aussie are going to be well supported,
particularly leading up to the FOMC meeting,” he said,
referring to the  Federal Open Market Committee .  The Aussie slid 0.3 percent to $1.0358 at 3:47 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0385 on Sept. 7, when it reached $1.0401, the
strongest since Aug. 27. The currency lost 0.3 percent to 81.04
yen. The  New Zealand dollar  bought 81.15 U.S. cents from 81.25,
after rising 2.3 percent over the previous three trading days.
It was at 63.49 yen, 0.1 percent lower than the close last week.  Australian  government bonds  gained, with the yield on 10-
year notes falling eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 3.12 percent.  Home Loans  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments in Australia declined 1 percent in July from June,
when they increased a revised 1 percent, the statistics bureau
said in Sydney today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 16 economists was for approvals to stagnate.  China’s imports slid 2.6 percent in August from a year
earlier as exports rose 2.7 percent, the customs bureau said in
Beijing today. Production increased 8.9 percent, the  National
Bureau of Statistics  said yesterday. President  Hu Jintao  said
Sept. 8 that China’s economic expansion faces “notable downward
pressure.”  “China’s slowdown is likely to remain as a major drag on
the Australia’s currency,” said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher
at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo, a unit of
Japan’s largest currency margin company.  Fed Easing  The U.S. Labor Department said on Sept. 7 that the economy
added 96,000 jobs in August, below the 130,000 median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 at a
conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that the costs of
“nontraditional policies” appeared manageable when considered
carefully. He said he wouldn’t rule out steps to lower a jobless
rate he described as a “grave concern.” The policy-setting
Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to begin a two-day
meeting on Sept. 12.  “Adding impetus to the AUD’s recovery at the tail end of
the week was the soft U.S. payrolls report,” Ray Attrill, the
Sydney-based global co-head of foreign-exchange strategy at
National Australia Bank Ltd., wrote in a note to clients today.
“This engendered a broad based USD sell-off as markets moved to
price in the announcement of a new ‘QE’ program from the FOMC
this coming Thursday.”  -- Editors: Garfield Reynolds, Naoto Hosoda  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  