-- Australian Home-Loan Approvals Drop by Most in Five Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-10T02:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/australian-home-loan-approvals-decline-by-most-in-five-months.html
Australian home-loan approvals
unexpectedly fell in July by the most in five months as the
highest  interest rates  among major developed economies
discouraged buyers from entering the market.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments declined 1 percent from June, when they rose a
revised 1 percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists
was for approvals to be unchanged.  The data add to evidence the economy is weakening after
government reports last week showed retail sales unexpectedly
fell, employers unexpectedly cut 8,800 workers and the nation
recorded its seventh straight monthly trade deficit. Most
economists surveyed by Bloomberg say Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  will resume lowering rates in November
from the current 3.5 percent after cuts in May and June.  “Potential buyers are reluctant to return to the  property
market  despite looser monetary settings,” said Katrina Ell, an
economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “Until there is a
sustained improvement in sentiment, housing finance growth will
keep disappointing.”  The Australian dollar was little changed after the data,
trading at $1.0382 at 12:19 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0367 before
the release.  Investment Purchases  The report showed the total value of loans fell 1.8 percent
to A$20.1 billion ($20.9 billion) in July.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers declined 1.4
percent from a month earlier, the report showed. The value of
loans to investors who plan to rent or resell homes dropped 2.7
percent.  First-home buyers accounted for 19.2 percent of dwellings
financed in July, up from 18.5 percent in June and higher than
16.5 percent a year earlier, the report showed today.  Australia ’s economy slowed last quarter on weaker housing
and rising imports, a government report showed Sept. 5. Gross
domestic product advanced 0.6 percent from the previous three
months, when it rose a revised 1.4 percent.  Australian home-building approvals declined in July by the
most in almost a decade as weakness outside the resources
industry hurt housing, government data showed Aug. 30. Two days
earlier, a private report showed sales of newly built homes
dropped to the second-lowest level on record in July.  Rate Cuts  Australia’s central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total
of 50 basis points late last year and a further 75 basis points
in May and June to help shield the economy from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and slower growth in  China . It held the key rate at 3.5
percent, the highest among major developed economies, at the
past three meetings.  Reflecting expectations of lower benchmark borrowing costs,
Australia’s two largest lenders,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) 
and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , reduced their rates on fixed
mortgages in recent days.  Australian  house prices  unexpectedly rose in the three
months through June, ending five straight quarters of declines,
a government report showed Aug. 1.  “The housing market is just going sideways,” said  Spiros Papadopoulos , Melbourne-based senior economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. that predicted today’s 1 percent decline in
home loans. “The downward trend has ended, but over the past
three or four months we’ve just seen a bit of a flatline in
activity so obviously that’s been supported by the rate cuts
that we’ve had over the past eight or nine months.”  The  jobless rate , at 5.1 percent in August, is lower than
8.1 percent in the U.S. and 11.3 percent in the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  