-- Ban Calories, Not Ounces, to Regulate Sugary Beverages
-- B y   B a r r y   N a l e b u f f
-- 2012-09-10T23:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/ban-calories-not-ounces-to-regulate-sugary-beverages.html
Call me a traitor to my class, or
an honest man. Unlike most people in the beverage industry, I’m
in favor of taxes or even a ban on supersweet drinks. But the
 proposed  regulation in  New York  isn’t the answer.  I fully agree with Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  (also the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of  Bloomberg News ) that most drinks are too sweet and that we
should do something about this. Indeed, I have. Fourteen years
ago, I started Honest Tea Inc. with one of my students. The idea
was to make tea that tastes like tea, not liquid candy. This
year, the company will sell 100 million bottles of tea, ades and
kids’ pouches, all with fewer than 100 calories a package.  Here I was thinking I was part of the solution only to find
that these drinks will be banned. Banned! Why? Because the
products come in 16.9-ounce (500-milliliter) bottles and thus
exceed the free pass for drinks at 16 ounces.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  bought Honest Tea more than a year ago, so I
no longer have any financial interest or managerial role in the
company. But I do have a keen interest in promoting logic along
with delicious healthy beverages.  Here’s what doesn’t make sense to me: Why is it appropriate
to sell a 16-ounce bottle of  Snapple (DPS)  Sweet Tea with 240 calories
or SoBe No Fear with 260 calories and 70 grams of sugar, but not
a 16.9-ounce bottle of Honest Tea Honey Green Tea with 70
calories and 18 grams of sugar? The  SoBe  product has almost four
times the sugar and calories, yet Honest Tea is the one being
banned.  Wrong Metric  I’m a  professor  and that leads me to look for internal
inconsistency in any rule. A 16-ounce version of Honest Tea with
70 calories would be fine. And water is fine in any quantity.
Why can’t a beverage just add 0.9 ounces of water and still be
OK?  My fundamental problem with the ban, which the city’s  Board
of Health  is scheduled to take up this week, is that it focuses
on the wrong metric. Fluid ounces are good, not bad. People are
told to drink eight 8-ounce glasses of water a day. Like many
other people, I can’t do it -- water is too boring. Add a little
flavor, a little caffeine and the antioxidants present in green
tea, and count me in. The health issue is sugar and calories. We
should look at the total calories in the bottle, not the number
of fluid ounces.  My alternative proposal would be to limit or tax drinks
with more than some total amount of calories from sugar. To be
specific, let’s define a permissible beverage as one with 140 or
fewer calories in the whole bottle or can. That can be a 12-
ounce can of soda or a supersized but lightly sweetened 48-ounce
version of some Honest Tea flavors. So long as the calories from
sugar are no more than 140, the product can be sold no matter
the size. If the product has more sugar than that, it falls
under the ban or would be subject to a tax.  Some might argue that counting calories is harder than
counting ounces. For any prepackaged bottle or can, one task is
no harder than the other. Both are printed on the label. Indeed,
a tax or ban on excessive sugar would encourage manufacturers to
make their products a bit less sweet so as to be permitted (or
pay less tax). That might have an even bigger effect on public
health than reducing packaging size.  Things get more complicated at soda fountains where
different drinks have different sugar levels. A 12-ounce cup of
Coca-Coca slides in at 140 calories, but Cherry Coke, Orange
Fanta and Mello Yello miss the cutoff.  Fighting Fructose  So the cup size would be cut down to 10 ounces or the
recipes would add a bit less sugar or there would be two
different cup sizes. The sweeter the drink, the more you need to
think about making it small.  To be consistent, the ban would apply to all beverages, not
just sodas and teas. Even orange juice. Fructose is sugar, and
orange juice has a lot of  fructose . (Yes, it has vitamin C, too,
but scurvy isn’t a big problem in the U.S. today.)  If you want to help a diabetic in insulin shock, you give
him orange juice to get his blood sugar back up. A typical 8-
ounce serving has 110 calories, of which 93 come from the 22
grams of fructose. Thus a 12-ounce cup or bottle of orange juice
comes in at 139.5 calories from sugar, just under the wire. A
16-ouncer wouldn’t make it.  And don’t get me started on chocolate milk.  (Barry Nalebuff is a professor of economics and strategy at
 Yale School of Management  and is a co-founder of Honest Tea. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Barry Nalebuff at  barry.nalebuff@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 