-- Canadian Banks Grow Amid Cutbacks in London-New York
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-10T21:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/banks-grow-amid-cutbacks-in-london-new-york.html
Royal Bank of Canada  is among
lenders bucking job-cutting trends in the U.S. and  Europe  as
acquisitions help swell head count at  Canada ’s biggest banks.  The nation’s eight publicly traded lenders added 8,512
full-time employees in the three months ended July 31, a 2.5
percent increase, regulatory filings show. Most came from the
takeover by Toronto-based Royal Bank of RBC Dexia Investor
Services, representing the bulk of the 6,938 staff added by
Canada’s biggest lender in the fiscal third quarter.  Workforce increases at Canadian banks, ranked the world’s
soundest for five consecutive years by the  World Economic Forum ,
contrast with more than 62,000 jobs lost at U.S. rivals between
September 2008 and the end of June. Canada’s lenders have
expanded their ranks through more than 100 acquisitions in the
wake of the financial crisis.  “They’ve been very disciplined from a cost standpoint, so
if they’re hiring, obviously they have some confidence in their
business,” said Bruce Campbell, who helps manage about C$100
million ($102 million) in assets at StoneCastle Investment
Management Inc. in Kelowna, British Columbia, including Canadian
bank shares.  Bank of Nova Scotia , the country’s third-largest lender,
will add about 1,100 employees after it completes its C$3.13
billion takeover of the Canadian unit of  ING Groep NV (INGA) , announced
last month.  Dexia Deal  Royal Bank Chief Financial Officer Janice Fukakusa said in
an Aug. 30 interview that about 6,000 employees came from its
C$1.1 billion takeover of 50 percent of RBC Dexia from partner
 Banque Internationale a Luxembourg SA . Royal Bank isn’t planning
significant changes to its ranks across the company, she said.  Royal Bank and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  haven’t mentioned job
reductions even as they say expense management is a focus.  “When you look at our costs from a workforce perspective,
there are no major moves planned,” Fukakusa said. “It’s about
improving the efficiencies of deploying the staff, not
necessarily gaining efficiencies to take them out.”  Toronto-Dominion, Canada’s second-largest lender, added 778
jobs to its workforce in the third quarter, a 1 percent
increase, with almost two-thirds of the additions coming from
Canadian and U.S. operations.  Scotiabank, the third-largest lender, added 349 jobs, or
0.4 percent of its workforce, including 140 employees for
international banking.  National Bank of Canada , the sixth-biggest bank, added 242
employees, a 1.4 percent increase to the ranks of the Montreal-
based lender.  CIBC Hiring  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , the fifth-largest
lender, boosted headcount by 113 people, as it added three
branches to its Canadian network in the period. The Toronto-
based lender expects to hire more full-time employees as it
opens 90 branches on Saturday and 50 on Sunday, according to
David Williamson, CIBC’s head of consumer and business banking.  “The returns in those branches and where we’re going to
add the hours would cause us to forecast that it will be helpful
to revenue,” Williamson said on an Aug. 30 conference call.  Bank of Montreal ,  Laurentian Bank of Canada  and  Canadian
Western Bank (CWB)  each added less than 50 employees in the quarter,
according to financial statements.  “The banks’ businesses are expanding, nationally and
internationally, and they’re going to need to bring on more
bodies,” Bill Vlaad, president of Toronto-based recruitment
firm Vlaad & Co., said in a telephone interview.  Lehman Bankruptcy  Canada’s Standard & Poor’s/TSX eight-member banks  index 
rose 8.3 percent in the past 12 months and 3.2 percent in the
past five years while the KBW Banks  Index (BEBANKS)  of 24 U.S. banks rose
35 percent and dropped 53 percent respectively over the same
period. The Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and Financial Services
Index rose 17 percent in the past 12 months and fell 68 percent
in the past five years.  Canada’s eight biggest banks reported an 11 percent
increase in profit excluding items in the third quarter from the
year-earlier period,  Robert Sedran , a bank analyst with CIBC,
said today in a note. He forecasts the banks will post adjusted
profit growth of 6 percent in fiscal 2013.  U.S. banks lost more than 62,000 jobs after the bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. in 2008, according to data from
the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The cuts come as banks try to comply with new  capital
requirements , known as Basel III, that start to take effect next
year. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  has agreed on
rules requiring lenders to increase available capital to bolster
the cushion against potential losses and better measure and
control risk.  U.S. Banks  Among U.S. financial firms,  Bank of America Corp. , the
second-largest U.S. lender, announced plans a year ago to cut
more than 30,000 employees in the next few years.  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, has also announced job cuts.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  CFO Ruth Porat said in a July 19 interview that
the firm’s head count will fall by about 700 in the second half,
bringing total 2012 staff reductions to 4,000.  In Britain, banks, insurers and other financial-services
firms may eliminate about 3,000 jobs across greater  London  while
companies in the  New York  region add 9,000, U.K.-based
researcher Oxford Economics Ltd. said last month.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank by market value,
said in April it plans to eliminate 3,167 positions in its home
U.K. market, mostly in senior and middle management, to rein in
costs. Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s largest
lender, said in July it will cut 1,900 jobs, including 1,500 in
its investment bank, which has operations in London and New
York.  Canadian banks may end up trimming their workforce in the
fourth quarter, if history is any indicator, Vlaad said.  “That’s what happens every year,” Vlaad said. “They
always get rid of a few bodies, they trim the tree here and
there in the fourth quarter, prepping for the end of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  