-- Barclays Will Set Profitability Target in 2013, CEO Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-09-11T06:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/barclays-will-set-profitability-target-in-2013-jenkins-says-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Antony Jenkins  said he’ll set a new profitability target
in the first quarter of next year, when the company concludes a
review of its businesses.  The bank, the U.K.’s second-largest by assets, will seek a
return on equity above its cost of equity and reveal the margin
in 2013, Jenkins said yesterday in a conference call with
analysts. The lender’s cost of equity was 11.5 percent for 2011.
The firm said in February that it may fail to hit a 13 percent
target for ROE by 2013 after it fell to 6.6 percent in 2011.  A margin above the cost of equity “is exactly the right
metric for us to use,” said Jenkins, 51. “I want to deliver
sustainable returns.”  Jenkins, who succeeded  Robert Diamond  as CEO last month
following the Libor-rigging scandal, will review which parts of
the company will stay and which will be sold or shrunk, Jenkins
said. There will be “no exit from whole business lines” and no
outright breakup of the London-based bank. The plan will take
two to three years to complete, and the lender is committed to
the universal banking model, he said.  The lender may cut its investment bank by 20 percent, the
Sunday Times said last month after an interview with incoming
Chairman  David Walker .  Pay Assessed  Walker’s comments “should be taken as adjectival and
directional and not the output of any considered analysis,”
Jenkins said. “It’s likely over time some activities on the
margin of  investment banking  will be affected. Is it 20 percent?
I’m not going to comment or commit to that number.”  The securities unit started a review in July including an
assessment of pay as part of “our ongoing efforts to balance
the needs of all our stakeholders,”  Rich Ricci , the firm’s
investment banking chief, said yesterday at an investor
conference in  New York , according to remarks posted on the
firm’s website.  Barclays’s corporate and investment bank eliminated more
than 500 million pounds ($799 million) of expenses in the past
18 months, Ricci said.  Barclays, fined 290 million pounds in June by U.S. and U.K.
regulators for manipulating the London interbank offered rate,
sustained “major damage” to its brand, Jenkins said. It will
have the “highest ethical standards” from now on, he said.  ‘Negative Media’  That may mean exiting some businesses, Ricci said.  “We have to take a fresh look to see if there are products
and services in which, given the changing environment, we no
longer deem it appropriate to do business, regardless of
financial return,” Ricci said. “For example, elements of our
tax advisory business have generated negative media and
political attention, as has the sale of structured products to”
small-and medium-sized businesses, he said.  Barclays in February agreed to comply with a government
decision to close two “highly abusive” tax loopholes, which
could have deprived the public purse of more than 500 million
pounds, according to the Treasury. A U.K. parliamentary
committee this month urged Barclays to explain its use of the
tax avoidance plan.  Barclays in February said it had voluntarily disclosed that
it had bought back some of its own debt in a tax efficient
manner and had also disclosed to the tax authority that it had
invested in a fund in a tax-efficient way.  The bank this month was also criticized by lawmakers for
being slow to redress customers mis-sold interest-rate hedging
products after setting aside 450 million pounds for
compensation.  The review of margins comes as stricter capital rules for
banks makes some operations less profitable.  Deutsche Bank AG co-CEO Juergen Fitschen has distanced
himself from a 25 percent ROE target of his predecessor  Josef Ackermann , saying a 14 percent to 15 percent goal is more
realistic. The Frankfurt-based bank presents its strategy to
investors today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  