-- Bark & Co., Latham, Jones, Nelson Levine: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-10T15:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/bark-co-latham-jones-nelson-levine-business-of-law.html
Kweku Adoboli, accused of
unauthorized trades that cost  UBS AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion, will go on
trial Sept. 14, charged with fraud and false accounting in one
of the highest-profile banking cases ever heard in  London .  Arguments, which had been scheduled to start today in
London, were delayed until the end of the week at a hearing.  Since being released on bail three months ago, Adoboli, 32,
has worked on his defense at the office of his  law firm ,  Bark &
Co.  He is facing an eight-week trial in criminal court to decide
whether he caused the largest unauthorized trading loss in
British history at UBS’s investment bank a year ago.  He is charged with falsifying records on exchange-traded
fund transactions and other documents needed for accounting
purposes as early as October 2008, according to his indictment.
Prosecutors also charged him with fraud for abusing his senior
trader position “by causing or exposing UBS Bank to losses
intending thereby to make a gain for himself.”  In the U.K., fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in jail, and seven years for false accounting. Adoboli is
facing two counts of each.  Tim Harris , Adoboli’s lawyer, said he was unable to comment
on the case before trial.  “The U.K. criminal process is ongoing and will run its
course,” UBS spokesman  Richard Morton  said in an e-mailed
statement. “UBS is not a party to the case and therefore has no
further comment.”  Adoboli worked for the Zurich-based investment bank’s Delta
One desk, which handles trades for clients -- or risks the
bank’s own money -- typically by speculating on a basket of
securities. The loss, which came from trading in Standard &
Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures, didn’t affect any
client positions, according to UBS.  Held in Wandsworth prison in southwest London after his
arrest on Sept. 15, Adoboli was granted bail and released June
13. He is staying with a friend in the British capital, Harris
has said. As part of his bail conditions, he has a curfew and
has surrendered his Ghanaian passport.  For more, click here.  Deals  Carlyle to Buy Cogentrix Energy Assets From Goldman Sachs  Vinson & Elkins LLP advised  Carlyle Group , which agreed to
buy energy assets from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc (GS) .-backed
Cogentrix, expanding its power-asset management and operating
expertise. Latham & Watkins LLP is advising Goldman Sachs.  V&E mergers and acquisitions partners Maritza Okata and
Keith Fullenweider led the deal for Carlyle Group, with
assistance from partners  John Lynch  on tax and John Decker on
energy regulatory matters.  Latham’s corporate deal team was led by  New York  corporate
partners David Allinson and Eli Hunt. Advice was also provided
by New York finance partner Warren Lilien, New York benefits and
compensation partner Bradd Williamson, New York environment,
land and resources partner David Langer and Orange County real
estate partner David Meckler, according to Latham.  The assets include five coal and solar power projects in
 Florida ,  Virginia , Colorado and California, according to a
statement Sept. 7. The transaction includes Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Cogentrix staff.  The value of the purchase wasn’t disclosed. The
transaction, which requires regulatory approval, is expected to
be completed during the fourth quarter.  Firm News  Jones Day Hires Five U.S. Supreme Court Clerks This Fall  Jones Day  announced that five U.S.  Supreme Court  clerks
will join its issues & appeals practice this fall.  The firm hired two who clerked for Justice Samuel A. Alito,
Jr.: Anthony Dick and Ryan D. Newman. Both join the Washington
office of Jones Day. Two others will join them in that office:
Jeffrey R. Johnson, who clerked for Justice Elena Kagan and
Christopher DiPompeo, who clerked for Chief Justice John G.
Roberts, Jr. Brian C. Lea, who clerked for Justice  Clarence
Thomas , joins Jones Day’s Atlanta office.  “We usually manage to recruit a goodly number of clerks,
but we’re thrilled this year to have attracted so many of these
outstanding young appellate lawyers,” said Glen Nager, the
Washington-based partner who chairs Jones Day’s issues & appeals
practice. He said that the likely reason the firm attracts so
many former clerks “has something to do with our strategy of
deploying appellate lawyers outside of, as well as within, the
Beltway in all applicable matters, at early stages of
litigation.”  Jones Day has 2,400 lawyers in 35 offices worldwide.  Nelson Levine de Luca & Hamilton Opening  North Carolina  Office  Nelson Levine de Luca & Hamilton LLC  announced that the
firm will open a Greensboro, North Carolina, office, expanding
the insurance law firm’s footprint into the Southeast region.
The office will be led by David L. Brown, an insurance coverage
litigator joins Nelson Levine from Greensboro-based  Pinto Coates
Kyre & Brown PLLC.   Other partners joining the firm from Pinto Coates are
Martha P. Brown, John I. Malone Jr. and Brady A. Yntema. The
office will open on Nov. 1.  Nelson Levine intends to continue to recruit experienced
insurance law attorneys this year and next, the firm said.  “This strategic expansion allows us to further assist
leading insurers in the U.S. and London markets in a key
geographic region -- the Atlantic Coast -- for the  insurance
industry ,”  Mike Nelson , chairman of Nelson Levine said in a
statement. “We are excited about the additions of four
respected partners,” Nelson said.  David Brown  focuses on complex insurance coverage disputes
and bad faith claims throughout North Carolina and the
southeastern U.S., particularly emerging coverage issues related
to DNA identification as well as matters involving allocation,
property coverage, and directors and officers liability.  Martha Brown represents insurers in appellate and
employment practices liability issues. Malone represents
insurance carriers in disputes arising from construction claims
and product liability. Yntema concentrates on complex insurance
coverage and liability issues arising out of intellectual
property claims, construction defect and environmental matters.  Nelson Levine has five offices in the U.S. and one in
London.  Moves  Nelson Mullins Expands Atlanta Office With Six New Attorneys  Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP hired six new
attorneys, partner Patricia Britton, as well as one of counsel,
and four associates, to its Atlanta office.  Britton, who was most recently general counsel and
corporate secretary for Porsche Cars North America, Inc.,
focuses on business litigation, with an emphasis on automobile
franchise litigation and counseling. She has worked in the
automobile industry for almost 30 years. Before to Porsche, she
spent 11 years as managing counsel for Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A.
Inc.  Nelson Mullins opened its Atlanta office in 1992. The new
attorneys come from various in-house and law firm positions.
They are joining the litigation, health care, and corporate
teams and bring the office’s total to 93 attorneys.  Nelson Mullins has more than 430 attorneys and government
relations professionals with offices in Atlanta,  Boston ,
Nashville, Tallahassee, West Virginia, Washington and throughout
the Carolinas.  Littler Mendelson Hires Philadelphia Litigator Harris  Employment and labor law firm Littler Mendelson PC has
added Richard R. Harris as a shareholder to its Philadelphia
office.  Harris, who joins Littler from Ogletree, Deakins, Nash,
Smoak & Stewart PC, represents management in a variety of
employment litigation matters, including wrongful termination
and promotion cases, discrimination claims, racial and sexual
harassment claims and trade secret litigation.  Littler has more than 900 attorneys at 56 offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 