-- BCE Plans Online Film Service in Canada to Challenge Netflix
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-10T21:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/bce-plans-online-movie-service-in-canada-to-compete-with-netflix.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Canada ’s largest
telecommunications company, plans to use programming gained in
its $3 billion acquisition of  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  to create an
online movie service that can challenge  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   The service will showcase “movies from Astral’s pay-TV
services, such as HBO Canada and the Movie Network, and great
news, entertainment and sports content from Bell Media,” BCE
Chief Executive Officer George Cope said today in Montreal.  Cope has gone on a buying spree over the past two years,
spending $7.6 billion to acquire sports franchises, television
and radio stations, and specialty movie channels that can be
broadcast on the growing number of smartphones and tablets
Canadians are buying.  Netflix has been a hit in Canada, despite offering more
limited content than in the U.S. Since debuting in 2010, the
service has signed up 10 percent of the broadband households in
Canada, a feat that took six years in the U.S., Netflix Chief
Content Officer  Ted Sarandos  said a year ago.  BCE, which owns Bell Canada, rose 0.3 percent to C$44.26 at
the close in Toronto. Netflix fell 1.3 percent to $55.92 in  New
York  trading.  Cope’s roughly $3 billion cash-and-debt purchase of CTV won
regulatory approval in 2010. His partnership with  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  to buy a controlling stake in Maple Leaf
Sports & Entertainment Ltd. was then given the blessing of
regulators last month. The acquisition of Astral, however, has
run into greater opposition.  ‘Say No’  A  campaign  called “Say No to Bell” is fighting the plan,
arguing that a combined Bell-Astral would control 37.6 percent
of television viewership in Canada, more than double the nearest
competitor.  Telus Corp. (T) , which competes with Bell in selling
wireless services and cable TV packages, and  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B) ,
which operates TV channels in Quebec, also are opposing the
deal.  Speaking today in Montreal at regulatory hearings into the
proposed acquisition, Cope said opponents have spread
“misinformation” about how big the companies would be
together.  It would have only 24.4 percent of the French-language
market and 33.5 percent of the English-speaking market, below a
regulatory threshold of 35 percent, he said. A successful
purchase of Astral would still leave Canada with four large and
well-financed private media companies, the public broadcaster
CBC, and U.S. and international channels, he said.  Bell also plans to divest 10  radio stations  in Vancouver,
Calgary, Winnipeg, Toronto and Ottawa as part of the deal, Cope
said today. Bell currently has 33 radio stations, while Astral
has 84.  “Some of our current market rivals would like you to
impede our plans to compete through regulatory challenges and
fear mongering,” Cope said. “This is a healthy and diverse
marketplace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  