-- Bernanke Options to Boost Growth Include Open-Ended QE
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-09-10T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/bernanke-options-to-stimulate-growth-include-open-ended-qe-plan.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who last month defended his unorthodox monetary
policies, has a new tool at hand should he seek one to a revive
a flagging economy and labor market: open-ended bond buying.  Barclays Plc forecasts the  Federal Open Market Committee 
this week will announce monthly purchases of $50 billion to cut
the jobless rate while holding inflation at 2 percent.
Economists at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and BNP Paribas,
responding to last week’s report of slowing job growth, also say
they expect an announcement of an open-ended plan on Sept. 13
after a two-day FOMC meeting.  The Fed’s practice of specifying an amount and an end-date
for purchases has resulted in abrupt withdrawals of stimulus
that later was renewed after the central bank failed to reach
its goals. By contrast, an open-ended program would tie
purchases to a sustained improvement in the economy, said
Michael Gapen, senior U.S. economist at Barclays and a former
member of the Fed Board’s Division of Monetary Affairs.  “As a Fed chairman, 2 percent growth isn’t doing it for
you, 8 percent unemployment isn’t doing it for you -- they need
a faster acceleration,” said Gapen, who is based in New York.
“So, the decision is, ‘OK, let’s hit the pedal.”’  Three Fed presidents have voiced support for an open-ended
approach: San Francisco’s  John Williams , Boston’s  Eric Rosengren 
and Chicago’s  Charles Evans .  James Bullard  of  St. Louis  said
that while he backs the strategy, he wants to see more economic
data before taking action.  Treasuries, Gold  Treasuries, gold and stocks rose on Sept. 7 after a Labor
Department report showing payrolls rose less than forecast as
investors increased bets the Fed will expand record stimulus at
its meeting this week.  Employers added 96,000 jobs in August, down from a 141,000
increase in July. Average hourly earnings were little changed,
and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to 8.1 percent
from 8.3 percent as 368,000 Americans left the  labor force .  Bernanke, in an Aug. 31 speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,
said additional bond purchases were an option to spur growth as
he made the case for further stimulus. He didn’t specify the
duration or amount of any new program.  In the first round of so-called quantitative easing, the
Fed in March 2009 began purchasing $1.25 trillion of mortgage-
backed securities, $175 billion of agency debt and $300 billion
of Treasuries to provide further stimulus after the benchmark
 rate  was cut to zero in December 2008.  Operation Twist  In the second round, announced in November 2010 and lasting
through the following June, the Fed bought $600 billion of
Treasuries. Last September, the Fed announced its Operation
Twist program to replace $400 billion of debt in its portfolio
with longer-term securities through June 2012. That was later
extended to the end of this year.  With open-ended buying, the central bank would “adjust
this program as time goes on, either to increase it or decrease
it, end it sooner or later, depending on how economic conditions
develop,” the San Francisco Fed’s Williams said in an Aug. 31
interview at a Fed symposium at Jackson Hole.  He said the central bank could conduct “a flow of purchases”
of both mortgage-backed securities and longer-term Treasuries.  “It makes more sense to be more focused on the economic
conditions and where you are relative to your mandate,”  Jan Hatzius , chief economist at Goldman Sachs in New York, said in
an interview last week. His firm expects monthly purchases of
around $50 billion consisting mainly of agency mortgage-backed
securities and potentially including  Treasury securities .  Fed spokeswoman  Michelle Smith  declined to comment.  Inflation Concerns  Concerns among some Fed officials that more quantitative
easing might not be effective or kindle inflation “would be
mitigated under a program linked to actual inflation and actual
measures of economic activity,” said Karen Dynan, vice
president for economic studies at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington.  “While it all sounds easy and good in principle, there are
some big practical challenges,” said Dynan, a former senior
adviser at the Fed board. “What exact measures of inflation and
economic activity are they targeting and what levels of these
variables should the program be targeting? For employment,
especially, it seems like there could be a lot of debate.”  Fed officials in June forecast that by late 2014 the
jobless rate would still be above their full-employment estimate
of 5.2 percent to 6 percent, with inflation not rising above
their goal of 2 percent. Inflation slowed to 1.3 percent for the
12 months ending July.  U.S. central bankers plan to publish a new set of forecasts
extending to 2015 at the conclusion of their meeting this week.  Modified Views  Fed officials may have modified their view of how
quantitative easing fuels growth, said  Julia Coronado , chief
economist for North America at BNP Paribas in New York.  They’ve previously said buying bonds and reducing the
supply of long-term assets helped bring down  interest rates  on
corporate debt and other fixed-income securities, Coronado said.  Now, they also see that a sustained commitment to improved
economic performance is critical to “mitigating uncertainty,”
she said. She expects an FOMC announcement of an open-ended
purchase plan on Sept. 13 divided between housing debt and
Treasuries.  The Fed may commit to $600 billion in purchases over nine
months and say they’ll extend the program or scale it back
depending on the strength of the expansion, she said.  Under such a plan, “financial markets will have greater
certainty that the Fed will be there” until conditions improve,
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Chris Wellisz
at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  