-- Billionaire Chandra Said to Seek $500 Million: Corporate India
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-11T10:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/billionaire-chandra-said-to-seek-500-million-corporate-india.html
Indian billionaire Subhash Chandra’s Essel Group is seeking to raise as much as $500
million to fund expansion and pay debt at some of its companies,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The group may use the funds for satellite television
service  Dish TV India Ltd. (DITV) , cable operator  Siti Cable Network
Ltd. (WNW)  and schools operator  Zee Learn Ltd. (ZLL) , one person said,
asking not to be identified as the information is private.  Essel joins Indian media companies including Network 18
Group and Living Media India Pvt. in seeking capital. Essel has
approached private equity firms, the person said. Dish TV,
India’s biggest provider of direct-to-home services, and Siti
Cable are expanding as the nation makes digital television
services mandatory. Advertisement and subscription revenue is
forecast by G2Mi Research to increase 87 percent by 2015.  “There is a heightened interest among investors in two
media segments, broadcaster and cable companies, owing to a
structural change that’s anticipated in the country through
digitization,” said Vivekanand Subbaraman, an analyst at MF
Global Sify Securities  India  Pvt. in Mumbai.  Essel isn’t in “active dialog” with buyout firms, said
Himanshu Mody, group head for finance and strategy, in an
interview. “We from time to time keep raising expansion capital
for various entities within the group.”  Dish TV fell  1.2 percent  to 71.50 rupees in Mumbai today.
Siti Cable, formerly known as Wire & Wireless India Ltd.,
dropped as much as 2.8 percent and closed at 19.55 rupees, a
decline of 2.3 percent. Zee Learn rose 3.3 percent, while
India’s benchmark  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.5 percent.  Murdoch’s Partner  The money raised wouldn’t be used for  Zee Entertainment
Enterprises Ltd. (Z) , Essel’s largest publicly traded unit, the
people said. With a market capitalization of 164.3 billion
rupees ($3 billion), Zee Entertainment had 3.3 billion rupees in
cash at the end of March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chandra, 61, a former rice trader, partnered with News
Corp.’s  Rupert Murdoch  soon after he started Hindi entertainment
channel Zee TV in 1992, to produce and distribute content. The
partnership ended in 2000.  Apart from its television business, Essel manages firms
that build roads, runs a newspaper and makes packaging for
toothpaste and food companies.  Dish TV had total debt of  12.1 billion rupees  as of March
31 and Siti Cable, which sells cable services to about 10
million households in India, had  3.5 billion  rupees of debt at
the time, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Siti Cable plans to raise 3.2 billion rupees selling
warrants convertible into equity to its owners including Essel,
according to a filing to exchanges on Sept. 6.  ‘Key Beneficiaries’  TV18 Broadcast Ltd. (TV18)  and  Network 18 Media & Investments Ltd. (NETM) 
said in January they would raise as much as 27 billion rupees
each from  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  to fund the acquisition of 12
regional television channels and to reduce debt.  In May, the  Aditya Birla Group  said it would buy a 27.5
percent stake in Living Media, which runs the India Today
magazine and television channels including Aaj Tak.  Subscribers in India’s four largest cities of  New Delhi ,
Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai will only get digital broadcast
services from Nov. 1, with the rest of the world’s second-most
populated nation switching over to the service in phases by
2014.  “Dish TV shall be one of the key beneficiaries of
mandatory digitization,” Ashish Upganlawar, an  analyst  at Spark
Capital Advisors, said in a note to clients on Sept. 4. The
company has about 4 billion rupees of cash, which will increase
as it adds subscribers, according to Upganlawar.  ‘Landmark Opportunity’  India’s television industry is the third largest in the
world, with an estimated 148 million TV households, according to
G2Mi Research.  Advertising and subscription revenue is forecast to rise to
618 billion rupees by 2015 from 330 billion rupees in 2011,
while TV households may increase 18 percent to 175 million in
the period, according to the U.K.-based research firm.  The mandatory digitization “is truly a landmark
opportunity for all digital television distribution platforms,”
Chandra, chairman of Dish TV, said in the company’s latest
 annual report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in  Mumbai  at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  