-- BlackRock Trails State Street in Junk ETF Rally: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-09-10T15:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/blackrock-trails-state-street-in-junk-etf-rally-credit-markets.html
State Street Corp., manager of the
second-biggest exchange-traded fund that invests in junk bonds,
is beating larger rival BlackRock Inc. by buying riskier debt
that’s outperforming the safest by the most since 2009.  The SPDR Barclays Capital High Yield Bond  ETF  has returned
9.6 percent this year, 1.2 percentage points more than
BlackRock’s iShares iBoxx High-Yield Corporate Bond  Fund . About
61 percent of the debt owned by State Street’s ETF, known by its
stock ticker JNK, is ranked in the B tier or lower on Standard &
Poor’s ratings scale, compared with 54.2 percent in BlackRock’s
fund,  holdings data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  An economy growing just fast enough to avoid recession
coupled with the Federal Reserve’s determination to keep
interest rates at record lows is rewarding investors willing to
buy bonds that have the greatest risk of default. That demand is
allowing speculative-grade companies to borrow at a record pace,
leading Bank of America Corp. analysts to warn last month that
prices were reaching “bubble levels.”  “You need to peel back the hood of the car and look at the
engine,” said  Jason Rosiak , head of portfolio management at
Pacific Asset Management, the Newport Beach, California-based
affiliate of Pacific Life Insurance Co. “These high-yield ETF
returns will diverge at times from the index and from each
other.”  Riskiest Debt  Bonds rated CCC or lower have returned 14.9 percent this
year, 4.25 percentage points more than the top tier of
speculative-grade debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Treasury yields dropped to a record 1.38
percent on July 25, and the Fed has kept its target rate for
overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since 2008.  State Street’s ETF owns bonds that stand to lose more value
if credit quality deteriorates or Treasury  yields  rise,
Bloomberg data show. About 15.23 percent of its securities carry
CCC grades, 2.73 percentage points more than BlackRock’s ETF.  High-yield ETFs, listed on exchanges and brokered like
stocks, are growing at an unprecedented rate as the bond market
stands to undergo the biggest transformation since the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority’s Trace trade-reporting system
brought transparency to pricing in 2002.  Yield Spreads  The funds have amassed $31.8 billion in assets since the
first one began five years ago, data compiled by industry-
tracker ETF Database show, as the volume of corporate debt
holdings among the biggest banks dropped 82 percent during the
same period to $43.5 billion on Aug. 29.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Amgen Inc. joined Renault SA
and five Spanish borrowers to raise money in the busiest day for
European bond issuance in 2 1/2 years.  Transocean Ltd. , the
owner of the oil rig that exploded in the Gulf of Mexico in
April 2010, plans to sell debt in the U.S. to fund the building
of four drillships.  The Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose from a
five-month low, climbing 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 93.9
basis points as of 11:14 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The index rose from 93 basis points on
Sept. 7, the lowest since April 4.  European Swaps  In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings rose 3.7 to 129.9.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  Bonds of  Plains Exploration & Production Co.  are the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, with 47 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:07
a.m. in New York, Trace data show.  The Houston-based company’s bonds fell after it agreed to
buy BP Plc’s interests in a group of Gulf of Mexico oilfields
for $5.55 billion. The company’s $1 billion of 6.75 percent
notes due February 2022 declined 2.5 cents to 106 cents on the
dollar to yield 5.9 percent at 10:35 a.m. in New York, according
to Trace.  Amgen, Renault  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, offered
only its second notes in euros and pounds while French automaker
 Renault  did its eighth public bond issue of the year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. With deals from Spanish energy
companies Iberdrola SA and  Gas Natural SDG SA , the market was
poised for about 10 billion euros ($12.8 billion) of issuance
today, the most since March 11, 2010.  Transocean, the world’s largest offshore oil driller may
sell five- and 10-year notes of benchmark size, typically at
least $500 million, as soon as today, said a person familiar
with the offering, who asked not to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Proceeds may be used to construct four vessels with
offshore drilling capabilities, Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean said today in a statement distributed by Marketwire.  Junk bond ETFs, which have been around for five years, are
gaining influence in a market that is generally traded off
exchanges. They have attracted 22 percent of high-yield fund
inflows since the end of 2009, EPFR Global data show.  Fund Flows  State Street’s ETF has grown to include about $12.1 billion
of assets since its November 2007 inception, compared with $16.4
billion in BlackRock’s fund, which opened seven months earlier.  Investors have poured a record $9.935 billion into high-
yield bond ETFs this year, almost three times as much as during
the same period last year and greater than total inflows of $8.5
billion in 2011, according to London-based ETFGI LLP.  “We’re seeing a significant growth in people who are using
ETFs to create entire portfolios,” said  Deborah Fuhr , who
helped found ETFGI after heading ETF research at New York-based
BlackRock before leaving last year.  While both BlackRock and State Street’s funds seek to
replicate the returns of specific indexes, their investment
managers may choose a sampling of bonds they believe to best
represent their benchmarks.  State Street’s ETF has returned 1.5 percentage points less
this year than the  Barclays Capital High Yield Very Liquid Bond
Index  that it seeks to track, while BlackRock’s fund is 1.8
percentage points behind its benchmark, the  iBoxx Liquid High
Yield Index , Bloomberg data show.  Ratings Divide  About 37.23 percent of the State Street fund’s holdings are
rated BB, the highest speculative-grade tier, compared with
42.64 percent for BlackRock’s fund, according to the data. Last
year, when notes with BB grades gained 6.1 percent and the
lowest-rated bonds lost 1.4 percent, BlackRock’s fund returned
1.7 percentage points more than State Street’s, data from
Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch show.  “The quality of the bonds varies dramatically from one
index to another,” said  Gary Gastineau , managing director at
ETF Consultants. “The further down the alphabet your rating is,
the higher your probability of both default and loss on
default.”  The  State Street fund  is taking more risk by buying bonds
that have longer lives. Its assets have an average effective
maturity of almost five years, about six months longer than the
assets in  BlackRock’s ETF , which trades under the ticker HYG.  Market Stimulus  That makes State Street’s fund more vulnerable to losing
value if interest rates rise, while prone to gaining more when
they fall.  Troy Mayclim , a spokesman for State Street, said the
money manager declined to comment.  “We definitely have seen investors using HYG and other
fixed income ETFs to position portfolios in response to market
conditions such as the Fed’s current low-interest rate policy,”
 Matthew Tucker , head of iShares Fixed Income Strategy team at
BlackRock, said in an e-mailed statement.  Bonds with the lowest ratings are outperforming as policy
makers buy debt to ignite a slowing worldwide economy.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  announced an
agreement on Sept. 6 for an unlimited bond-buying program to
lower borrowing costs in the euro area and fight speculation of
a currency breakup. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month
that after $2.3 trillion of debt purchases in the U.S. by the
central bank, more may be needed.  Record Pace  Speculative-grade borrowers have sold $206 billion of bonds
in the U.S. this year, compared with $201.6 billion during the
same period last year, Bloomberg data show. Sales are ahead of
the $161.6 billion sold by this time in 2010, the year a record
$287.9 billion of junk debt was issued.  Relative yields on the debt have contracted 149 basis
points in 2012, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show,
and there is “minimal scope for further rally in most of the
high yield market,” Citigroup Inc. strategists  Michael Anderson 
and  Julie Pearson  wrote in a Sept. 7 report.  BlackRock’s ETF has returned about a percentage point more
than State Street’s since the end of 2007, Bloomberg data show.  “Over longer periods, I would expect them to have very
similar returns looking at net asset values,” said  Timothy Strauts , an ETF analyst at Morningstar Inc. in Chicago. “We’re
going to need a little more time to figure out which one’s
best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Abramowicz  in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  