-- BofA’s Head of European Equity Research Said to Depart
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-09-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/bofa-s-head-of-european-equity-research-baker-said-to-depart.html
Gary Baker ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
head of European equities strategy, is being replaced by John Bilton amid a reorganization of the firm’s research department,
said three people with direct knowledge of the move.  Baker, who is based in London, told colleagues late last
week in an e-mail that he was resigning, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the departure hasn’t been
made public.  Michael Hartnett , 45, formerly head of equity
strategy at the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender, was
promoted to chief investment strategist, the people said.  Bank of America is shaking up its research department as
the firm adjusts to stagnant revenues from trading and  wealth
management . Hartnett, who still has responsibility for equities,
will have a higher profile consolidating the firm’s research
views to institutional and retail clients, the people said.  Hartnett’s promotion stemmed from the need to “provide a
regular, coordinated view” that can easily be disseminated by
the bank’s securities and wealth-management businesses,
according to a Sept. 6 memo from research chief Candace Browning
and Anthony Bor, sector manager for equity strategy.  Bilton was named head of European investment strategy and
Arjun “AJ” Mehra will be head of U.S. investment strategy,
according to the memo. Hartnett will continue to report to
Browning, 57.  “They’re under tremendous pressure to make their clients
money,” said  Jeanne Branthover , managing director at Boyden
Global Executive Search Ltd. in New York. “Everyone is
examining their research departments and saying, ‘What do we
need to do to retain our customers or get new ones?’”  Chief Economist  Baker joined Merrill Lynch & Co. in 1992, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The securities firm was acquired by Bank
of America in 2009. Hartnett, who is based in New York,  joined 
Merrill Lynch in 1995 as chief economist in Japan and also
served as director of European equity strategy.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
52, is targeting $3 billion in annual costs from  investment
banking , trading and wealth-management units. The lender, the
second-biggest in the U.S. by assets, is informing employees of
job cuts this month, one of the people said.  Baker and Hartnett didn’t return phone calls seeking
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  