-- Bovespa Rises as China Stimulus Bets Boost Brazil Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-09-10T21:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/bovespa-rises-as-stimulus-bets-lift-brazil-export-view-correct-.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose for a third
session as Brazilian raw-material producers rallied after weaker
economic data from  China  to the U.S. fueled bets policy makers
will take further steps to boost growth.  Steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA had its biggest
three-day gain since January 2009 and iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE3) 
rose to the highest in two weeks as metals advanced. Airline  Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4)  jumped after Veja magazine said
Qatar Airways Ltd. is in talks to buy the carrier.  The Bovespa rose 0.1 percent to 58,404.10 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. The real gained 0.3 percent to 2.0227 per
 U.S. dollar . The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity
Index climbed 1.4 percent.  “Economic data around the world have been pretty weak, and
markets are seeing this as a good sign, as it increases chances
for further stimulus,” Marcello Paixao, a portfolio manager at
Principia Asset Management, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“Brazilian equities still have room for further gains if the
U.S. or China act to boost growth.”  China’s economic expansion faces “notable downward
pressure,” President  Hu Jintao  said Sept. 8. Factory output
rose at the slowest pace in three years in August, National
Bureau of Statistics figures showed yesterday. Imports into the
country unexpectedly fell, the customs bureau said today.  The  Federal Reserve  meets this week to discuss potential
asset purchases after the U.S. added fewer-than-estimated jobs
last month, Labor Department figures showed on Sept. 7, when
Brazilian markets were closed for a holiday.  Gol Jumps  Gol jumped 5.5 percent to 9.90 reais. Qatar Airways
executives met top officials at Gol to discuss the acquisition,
Veja reported, without saying where it got the information. Gol
said in an e-mailed statement today it isn’t in talks with  Qatar
Airways .  CSN, as Cia. Siderurgica is known, added 6.1 percent to
11.16 reais, extending its three-day advance to 16 percent. Vale
rose 3 percent to 35.10 reais.  Commodities producers also gained after China disclosed
plans on Sept. 6 to build 2,018 kilometers (1,254 miles) of
roads, signaling the world’s second-largest economy is stepping
up stimulus efforts to revive growth, said Marcelo Varejao, an
analyst at Socopa brokerage. Chinese stocks jumped the most in
eight months on Sept. 7.  “China’s spending plan was good news for steelmakers and
miners,” Varejao said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“The external outlook is the main driver for the Bovespa, and
investors seem to be more optimistic that policy makers will
indeed act to boost the global recovery.”  HRT Tumbles  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA , the worst-performing
Brazilian  oil company  this year, tumbled 13 percent to 3.92
reais after U.K.-based Chariot Oil & Gas said it drilled a dry
hole in  Namibia  where HRT has exploration licenses.  The Bovespa has climbed 11 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as eased concern about  Europe ’s crisis and borrowing
costs at a record low in Brazil boosted demand for equities. The
index trades at 12.5 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the
next four quarters, which compares with the ratio of 10.9 times
for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 8.13 billion reais ($4.02 billion) in
stocks in Sao Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a daily average of 7.16 billion reais this year
through Sept. 6, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  