-- BP Is Said to Near $6 Billion Sale of Gulf Assets to Plains
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-09-10T03:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/bp-is-said-to-near-6-billion-sale-of-gulf-assets-to-plains.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is in advanced talks to sell
a group of oilfields in the Gulf of Mexico to  Plains Exploration
& Production Co. (PXP) , said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Plains is discussing a price of about $6 billion and may
reach an agreement within days, said one of the people, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because the talks are
private. The market capitalization of Houston-based Plains is
about $5.2 billion and net debt was $3.05 billion as of June 30,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley plans to sell $38
billion of assets by the end of next year and shrink the company
after the accident at its Macondo well, the worst offshore spill
in U.S. history, wiped out a third of its market value. London-
based BP said in May that it plans to sell some “non-
strategic” assets in the Gulf.  Plains, led by Chief Executive Officer Jim Flores, is
spending about 69 percent of this year’s planned $1.6 billion
 capital budget  at onshore fields such as the Eagle Ford in
 Texas , and in California. It has allocated 14 percent, or $234
million, in the  Gulf of Mexico , where it plans to ramp up its
deep-water Lucius oil discovery beginning in 2014, according to
a Sept. 5  investor presentation .  “One thing Jim Flores is known for, when he makes a move
it’s usually a pretty big move and he’s not reckless about it,”
 John White , who manages about $50 million in energy investments
at Triple Double Advisors LLC in Houston including BP shares,
said in a telephone interview. “He can hedge out the production
from this and keep the lenders happy.”  Staying in Gulf  Plains sold its shallow-water Gulf assets to  McMoRan
Exploration Co. (MMR)  for $780.4 million in cash and stock two years
ago and now owns 31.5 percent of that company.  BP prepared preliminary information for prospective buyers
of Gulf assets including the Horn Mountain, Holstein, Diana
Hoover and Ram Powell fields in the Gulf, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, declined to comment. Hance Myers, a spokesman for Plains Exploration, didn’t immediately
return phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  BP isn’t quitting the Gulf, where the Macondo disaster
occurred, Brett Clanton, a BP spokesman, said in an Aug. 14 e-
mail.  “No one should confuse our effort to sell these older,
non-strategic assets, which we announced months ago, with our
ongoing commitment to the Gulf of Mexico,” he said. BP intends
to continue investing at least $4 billion annually in the Gulf
over the next decade, Clanton said in the e-mail.  The Wall Street Journal reported the talks earlier today.  BP’s output in the Gulf is some of the most profitable in
its portfolio, and Dudley has said he wants to focus more on the
production hubs of the  Thunder Horse , Atlantis, Mad Dog and Na
Kika fields.  Competitors including Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  are also looking
to expand in the region, which offers relatively low taxes and
easy access to the U.S. energy market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  