-- Can Iran Show Moderate Jordan How to Keep Unrest at Bay?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-10T22:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/can-iran-show-moderate-jordan-how-to-keep-unrest-at-bay-.html
Jordan’s King Abdullah is the best
Arab friend the U.S. has in a bad neighborhood. A wily ruler who
heads one of the two Arab nations to sign a peace treaty with
 Israel , he has stayed on top by alternately exercising his will
and backing off, promising  reform  and letting it drop.  Yet Jordan’s budget gaps present Abdullah with a problem he
can’t dodge forever. Lately, with the Arab Spring, it has gotten
worse. Lacking the oil and gas resources of some of its
neighbors, Jordan can’t afford to appease protesters by
expanding government largesse. Last year, when Abdullah tried to
do so, the  budget deficit  swelled to 15 percent of gross
domestic product, excluding foreign grants on which Jordan is
heavily dependent. (The U.S., for its part, provides about $767
million in annual aid.) National debt is now an unsustainable 82
percent of GDP. Further draining official coffers is an influx
of refugees from the turmoil in bordering  Syria .  Energy subsidies are a particularly heavy burden on the
government. As a result of Abdullah’s 2011 sweeteners, they went
from 1.3 percent of GDP in 2010 to 6 percent in 2011. Energy
subsidies are popular but  terrible policies  that encourage
wasteful use, which in turn promotes pollution and traffic
congestion. They also benefit the poor less than the wealthy,
who can better afford cars and electricity.  In July, the  International Monetary Fund  approved a loan to
Jordan of $2 billion over three years contingent on subsidy
rollbacks. Accordingly, the government on Sept. 1 enacted a 10
percent increase in the price of 90-octane gasoline and diesel.
But the country had no stomach even for such a small increase.
After scattered protests broke out, a majority in Parliament
demanded a vote of no confidence in Prime Minister Fayez Tarawneh, and Abdullah ordered the increase rescinded.  No one can expect the king to initiate reforms that might
cost him his head. Nor is it realistic to expect citizens to
easily accept losing a subsidy, especially when they think that
government provides them little else. Yet there is a way for
Jordan to end fuel subsidies that doesn’t provoke social unrest.
To figure out how, the U.S. ally could do worse than to study
the example of one of America’s worst enemies,  Iran .  In late 2010,  Iran eliminated  $50 billion to $60 billion in
energy subsidies without kindling significant public opposition.
It began by giving the public considerable time to prepare. The
changes were preceded by two years of parliamentary debate,
which is probably more time than Jordan has. An enormous effort
was made to explain the waste and social inequities caused by
fuel subsidies, with almost every government minister
participating.  Then, the public was partially compensated for the loss of
the subsidy. All Iranian households qualified for cash awards,
and 80 percent applied; the wealthy were discouraged from
asking. Jordan could consider a means test.  The Iranians cleverly released the first of the cash awards
to specially created household accounts before fuel prices
increased, so the public was primed to accept the change.
Officials stipulated that citizens couldn’t access their
accounts until after the subsidies were lifted.  The Iranians also used good timing. They waited to let
energy prices rise until after harvests were in and the summer
vacation season was over. Jordan’s aborted effort came amid the
harvest and as summer was winding down.  Iran’s experience offers a negative lesson, as well. By
loosening credit to facilitate a massive expansion of housing,
Iranian authorities fueled inflation, which devalued the cash
grants.  Of course, ending subsidies is always fraught. Yet with his
tiny economy and his shrinking ability to borrow, Abdullah will
soon be without a choice. A modified version of Iran’s policy
blueprint might enable a moderate Jordan to survive. That seems
like a chance worth taking.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 