-- Canada Dollar Reaches One-Year High on Central Bank Divergence
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-10T21:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/canada-dollar-rallies-to-1-year-high-on-central-bank-divergence.html
Canada’s dollar touched a one-year
high versus its U.S. counterpart and outperformed all of its
peers as investors anticipated the  Federal Reserve  will announce
more stimulus this week to sustain growth in the nation’s
largest trading partner.  The Canadian currency rose against 14 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after  Bank of Canada  Governor
 Mark Carney  said last week an increase in  interest rates  “may
become appropriate.” The Federal Open Markets Committee meets
Sept. 12-13. The greenback has weakened 22 percent against the
Canadian dollar since the U.S. central bank introduced its first
round of so-called quantitative easing in December 2008.  “The market is quite optimistic about the Fed unveiling
some sort of quantitative easing and therefore we are seeing a
fairly good overall tone,” Blake Jespersen, managing director
of foreign exchange in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in a
phone interview. “It seems to be what all investors are talking
about this week and positioning for.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to 97.76 cents
per dollar. It earlier rose to 97.55 cents, the strongest since
Sept. 2, 2011. One Canadian dollar buys $1.02291.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of securities from 2008 to
2011 in two rounds of its so-called quantitative-easing
strategy. In an Aug. 31 speech, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
defended his unprecedented policies and laid out arguments for
further action to combat unemployment, which he called a “grave
concern.”  The Fed will start a two-day meeting on Sept. 12.  Dutch Disease  Government bonds  rose, snapping three days of losses. The
benchmark 10-year yield fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.83 percent. Two-year note yields declined
0.01 percentage point to 1.16 percent.  The Canadian corporate  bond market  suggests manufacturers
are being penalized for central bank policies that have allowed
a commodity boom to drive up the country’s dollar in what’s
being termed as “Dutch Disease” by critics.  Bonds of machinery companies in the Bank of America’s
Canadian Industrial Index have returned 1.7 percent this year
through Sept. 7, compared with gains of 6.5 percent for miners
and 3.2 percent for energy explorers. Average yields in the
industrial index have narrowed 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney rejected the notion in
a speech Sept. 7, saying price gains in oil and other
commodities are being driven by demand from  emerging markets 
rather than central bank policies.  Crude Oil  “People think that if it gets the chance, the Bank of
Canada would tighten interest rates, and now we have the
potential for QE3 from the Fed,” said  George Davis , chief
technical analyst for fixed income and currency strategy in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada. “Last week, we took out the
98.01 level which was a low dating back to April for dollar-
Canada, so that increased bearish sentiment.”  Oil traded near a one-week high in New York on speculation
that the U.S. and China will add measures to revive their
economies. Crude oil is Canada’s largest export.  Crude for October delivery was at $96.25 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 17
cents. The contract climbed 0.9 percent to $96.42 on Sept. 7,
the highest close since Aug. 31.  Hedge funds  raised bullish commodity bets to the highest in
16 months as investor speculation grew that policy makers in the
U.S., China, and Europe will stimulate global growth.  Money managers increased their net-long positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 2.3 percent to 1.33 million
contracts in the week ended Sept. 4, the highest since May 3,
2011, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Technical Analysis  “It may be hard for the market to push significantly
higher at the moment,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist
at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , said in a research note about the
dollar-loonie cross.  Key resistance is 98.40 cents to 98.45, Osborune wrote. The
price could rise to 97 cents in the next 24 hours “as a result
of the downward sloping trend in the short-term consolidation
channel,” he said in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  