-- Canada Natural Gas Climbs as U.S. Inventory Surplus Narrows
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-09-10T21:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/canada-natural-gas-climbs-as-u-s-inventory-surplus-narrows.html
Canadian natural gas gained on
speculation that a U.S. supply surplus narrowed last week after
a heat wave boosted fuel demand while output dropped in the  Gulf
of Mexico .  October gas in Alberta  rose 7 percent. An Energy Department
report Sept. 13 may show  U.S. supplies  rose by 22 billion cubic
feet in the week ended Sept. 7,  Tim Evans , a New York-based
energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective, said in a note
today. The five-year average  gain  for the week is 72 billion.
The smaller-than-average gain would come partly because of Gulf
production cuts caused by Hurricane Isaac.  “The single bullish driver out there is the storage
number,” Pax Saunders, an analyst at Gelber & Associates in
Houston, said in a note to clients today. A gain well below
average “will be quite a hit for the storage surplus, though
the warmer weather factors and Gulf supply issues were known
quantities last week.”  Alberta  gas for October delivery rose 14.75 cents to C$2.25
per gigajoule ($2.18 per million British thermal units) as of 5
p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet market. Gas
traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada  and the
U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 13 cents, or 4.9 percent, to settle at $2.812 per
million Btu, the biggest one-day percentage gain since July 30.
The futures have declined 5.9 percent this year.  Supply Report  U.S. gas inventories totaled 3.402 trillion cubic feet in
the week ended Aug. 31, 10.7 percent above the five-year
average, according to the Energy Department. The surplus has
dropped each week since widening to a six-year high of 61
percent at the end of March.  Offshore Gulf gas production averaged 2.66 billion cubic
feet a day in the week ended Sept. 6, 47 percent lower than the
week ended Aug. 23, before Isaac forced production platforms to
close, according to LCI Energy Insight, an energy analysis and
consulting firm in El Paso,  Texas .  Temperatures will be normal in most of the lower 48 states
over the next 15 days after a heat wave last week, according to
MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Electricity producers account for about 36 percent of U.S.
gas consumption, according to the Energy Department.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.8 billion cubic
feet at 4 p.m.  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.87 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.02 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s  British Columbia system 
at Kingsgate was 190 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.83 billion cubic feet today. Estimated capacity was
2.02 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.73
billion cubic feet at 4:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 