-- Carlyle, GM, Wal-Mart’s $50,000 Fund Autumn Galas: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/carlyle-gm-wal-mart-s-50-000-fund-autumn-galas-d-c-.html
When  Ellen DeGeneres  receives the
Mark Twain Prize for American Humor at the John F. Kennedy
Center on Oct. 22, laughing along will be sponsor  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF) ’s president of retail and direct banking,
Jonathan Witter.  “When a corporation is in a major city, they want to be a
good corporate citizen,” said Marie Mattson, the vice president
for development at the Kennedy Center, which she said raises $80
million annually. The center had a $5.8 million surplus last
year, Mattson said, a rare feat for an arts organization.  Good corporate citizenship, a big theme in an election
year, is a hardy perennial for nonprofits. In the years
following the 2008 financial crisis, corporate donations dried
up. As the autumn gala season gets under way, many of
Washington’s cultural organizations and philanthropies are
coping with an uneven recovery.  Companies for a time “felt it was inappropriate to give,
especially to a ball,” Mattson said. But the grip on the
pursestrings “is definitely loosening up a little bit.”  This year the Kennedy Center has recruited  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) 
as a new donor, regained  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  after a hiatus of several
years, and lost  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  brings 17 years of support to the
44th Annual Meridian Ball that closes the Meridian International
Center’s Global Leadership Summit. The company’s chairman and
chief executive, Jay Johnson, and his wife, Sydney McNiff
Johnson, will serve as co-chairmen of the Oct. 12 ball.  Johnson declined to disclose his company’s gift to
Meridian, but said, “We are very disciplined in the way we
contribute.”  Ambassadors Ball  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Teva Neuroscience Inc. will each
give $50,000 to Wednesday’s Ambassadors Ball for the National
Multiple Sclerosis Society, National Capital Chapter.  Boeing
Co. (BA) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
are among other companies making $25,000 donations. Senator  Bob Casey , Pennsylvania Democrat, and Representative  Lee Terry ,
Nebraska Republican, are the honorees.  Corporate backers are wary of spending cash yet understand
the value of “entertaining and the mix-and-mingle,” Mattson
said.  Jay Johnson said events like the Meridian Ball offer a
chance at “public and private diplomacy,” especially for a
company like his with an international presence. “It’s money
well spent. It’s an investment.”  PEN/Faulkner Prize  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , FedEx Corp., and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
are sponsoring the PEN/Faulkner Gala tonight which will endow
the PEN/Faulkner Prize for Fiction and the Writers in Schools
program.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , SunTrust Foundation and  Northern Trust
Corp. (NTRS)  are among the supporters of the National Museum of Women
in the Arts, which will celebrate its 25th Anniversary Fall
Benefit with Melissa Etheridge on Nov. 4.  “It is tough and a challenge to get sponsors this year,”
Shamim Jawad, the founder of the Ayenda Foundation, wrote in an
e-mail. Jawad, the wife of former Afghan Ambassador Said Jawad,
is trying to wrangle donors a month before the foundation’s
dinner, which raises money for Afghan children. It will be held
on Oct. 10 at the home of British Ambassador  Peter Westmacott .  “From my past experience, everything comes together in the
last three weeks before the event,” she said  Opera Fans  For the first time, Mars Inc., will be the primary
corporate sponsor of the annual “Opera in the Outfield,” a
free broadcast of Mozart’s “Don Giovanni” at Nationals Park on
Sept. 29.  Carlyle & Co.’s David Rubenstein and Daniel D’Aniello, and
Mars Vice President Jacqueline Badger Mars are among the chief
donors of the Washington National Opera, which kicks off its
season with a gala and a performance of Donizetti’s “Anna
Bolena” on Sept. 15. Rubenstein, chairman of the Kennedy
Center, and his wife, Alice, donated $10 million last year,
making them its biggest donors to date.  The Shakespeare Theatre Company is looking to cultivate the
next generation of Rubensteins. F. Murray Abraham will receive
the Will Award at the Oct. 15 gala, and then young donors will
be invited to attend an after-hours dance party for a reduced
ticket price. American Airlines Inc. and British Airways Plc are
among corporate donors.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Elin McCoy 
on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 