-- Cemex Clears Refinancing Hurdle as Debt Exchange Approved
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-09-10T21:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/cemex-debt-exchange-wins-backing-of-92-6-percent-of-creditors.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker
in the Americas, will extend maturities of bank loans by three
years after its restructuring offer won acceptance from
creditors holding 92.6 percent of the debt.  The offer had to be accepted by 91 percent of creditors to
go through after the threshold was lowered from an initial 95
percent, and the transaction is expected to become effective in
the following weeks, the company said in an e-mailed statement.
Cemex plans to sell $500 million of new 9.5 percent senior notes
due in 2018 as part of the exchange.  Creditor approval of the offer bolsters Cemex’s efforts to
prevent a financing crunch in 2014 by pushing maturities to
2017. The Monterrey, Mexico-based company has posted 11 straight
quarterly losses after the U.S. housing slump and global
economic slowdown hurt demand for building materials.  “This solidifies the near-term refinancing risk,” said
 Michael Kim , an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “They’ve still got some wood to chop, but they’ve
gotten most of the major issues behind them.”  Cemex had 55 institutional creditors participate in the
debt exchange offer, said Maher Al-Haffar, a company spokesman.  “It’s a very clear demonstration that investors were very
happy with the solutions that were being offered,” he said in a
telephone interview.  “We don’t want to sound too happy, but
it’s really a very good thing to be able to put these
refinancing conversations behind us.”  Share Sale  Cemex  fell  1.3 percent to 10.33 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. The company’s 9.25 percent bonds due May 2020
dropped 0.73 cent on the dollar to 99.02 cents, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Cemex must pay banks $1 billion in March 2013 as part of
the debt exchange, and it has said it will sell assets to raise
money.  The company has hired Citigroup Inc.,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  to manage the planned sale
of a minority stake in its Central American and South American
unit, which doesn’t include Mexico assets,  Bloomberg News 
reported last week, citing two people familiar with the matter.  While the details of the share sale are still under
discussion, Cemex may raise about $1 billion by listing the
unit, a person familiar with the transaction said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  