-- CFTC Faults Peregrine Trustee’s Distribution Plan
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-09-10T17:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/cftc-faults-peregrine-trustee-s-distribution-plan.html
The Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
trustee should delay distribution of $123 million to customers
of the defunct futures brokerage until after testing customer
accounts, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.  The tests are essential because Peregrine collapsed amid a
fraud and theft of money by its founder, Russell Wasendorf Sr.,
the CFTC said yesterday in a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Chicago . The regulator asked the judge not to approve the payout
until all the accounts of intended recipients are validated.  “The CFTC is in favor of distributing money to the
debtor’s customers as soon as is reasonable and practicable,”
the regulator said. “Because this case involves allegations of
fraudulent books and records of the debtor’s estate, however,
the CFTC believes that distributions should be made only after
reasonable due diligence to ensure that the data underlying the
distribution are reliable.”  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 liquidation on July 10, hours
after the CFTC sued accusing the firm and Wasendorf of
misappropriating more than $200 million in customer funds.  The CFTC said it had consulted with the trustee, Ira Bodenstein, about ways to perform validity tests of commodity
customer accounts to ensure money didn’t go to any claimant who
may have been involved in the theft of customer money.  Next Steps  Bodenstein didn’t complete those tests or explain to the
court what methods he followed, the CFTC said. Instead, he told
commission staff over the past weekend what steps he plans to
complete in the future, it said.  “The CFTC believes that it would be prudent for the
trustee to complete validity testing -- and, in parallel, work
on the implementation of the mechanics of the distribution --
before this court authorizes the distribution,” the commission
told the judge handling the liquidation.  The CFTC said its “preliminary” investigation uncovered
more than $45 million in fictitious bookkeeping entries and
unusual activity or balances in customer accounts.  Bodenstein and his chief counsel, Robert Fishman, addressed
some of Peregrine’s creditors today at a meeting at the federal
courthouse in Chicago during which they reviewed firm financial
information filed with the  bankruptcy court  on Sept. 6.  Large Shortfall  “Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is a large shortfall
here,” Bodenstein said of Peregrine’s client funds. That
shortfall, he said, is about $190 million. The CFTC, in its
lawsuit filed against the firm and founder Russell Wasendorf on
July 10, accused them of misappropriating about $200 million,
claimed to have been on deposit with U.S. Bank, a unit of
Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp.  “There will not be a 100 percent return of anybody’s
investment in Peregrine,” Bodenstein said. “That is a
certainty.”  Neither Bodenstein, nor Fishman, nor Peregrine General
Counsel Rebecca Wing -- who answered some questions from the
trustee under oath at the meeting -- could say precisely how
much money is in the commodity firm’s  U.S. Bank  customer
segregated account at the center of Wasendorf’s alleged theft.  The filed bankruptcy schedules list that sum as
“unknown.”  Fishman, in a post-meeting interview, said U.S. Bank
account records were still being reviewed. The attorney declined
to comment on the CFTC’s objection to the plan to make a
preliminary distribution of $123 million.  A hearing on that request is scheduled for Sept. 12 before
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Carol A. Doyle in Chicago.  Distributions  Bodenstein last week asked the judge in Chicago to allow
$123 million in distributions starting with a payment that would
give customers 30 percent to 40 percent of their assets trapped
in the collapsed firm.  He would hold back $58 million of the funds available to
deal with “variations in claim amounts,” he said in a filing.
A court hearing on his plan is set for Sept. 12.  Wasendorf has been charged with lying to federal officials
and is in U.S. custody. His criminal case is pending in  Cedar
Rapids ,  Iowa , where he is due to appear at a detention hearing
on Sept. 11 after asking to be let out of jail before his trial.
The firm’s headquarters was in nearby  Cedar Falls .  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
27488, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York 
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 