-- China to Hold Second Shale-Gas Auction Next Month, Ministry Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-10T07:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/china-to-hold-second-shale-gas-auction-next-month-ministry-says.html
China will hold its second auction
of shale-gas sites next month as it tries to boost exploration
and development of the cleaner-burning fuel.  The tender on Oct. 25 will comprise 20 blocks in eight
regions, the Ministry of Land and Resources  said  on its website
today. Domestic companies and joint ventures controlled by the
Chinese partner, who have registered capital of at least 300
million  yuan  ($47 million) and hold the relevant licenses, will
be allowed to participate in the bidding, the ministry said.  China, holder of the world’s biggest shale reserves, has
yet to produce the unconventional fuel commercially, while
output in the U.S. surged fourfold from 2007 to 2010. The
Chinese government has pledged to prioritize land approvals,
allow tax-free imports of equipment and offer subsidies to
explorers to spur the industry’s development.  The sites cover a total area of 20,002 square kilometers
and are in Chongqing municipality and the provinces of Guizhou,
Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Zhejiang, Anhui and Henan, according to
today’s statement. Each participant is allowed to bid for a
maximum of two blocks.  China  aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters of shale gas
annually by 2015 and between 60 billion and 100 billion by the
end of the decade, the National Development and Reform
Commission  said  in March. The country holds 25.08 trillion cubic
meters of exploitable reserves of the fuel, according to the
land and resources ministry.  The U.S. has an estimated 482 trillion cubic feet (13.6
trillion cubic meters) of technically recoverable shale gas,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration  website .  Technical Challenge  China’s  natural-gas  consumption will increase fourfold by
2030 to 600 billion cubic meters a year, accounting for 30
percent of the global growth in gas demand, Wood Mackenzie Ltd.
said June 6. The nation’s “ambitious” target for 2020 may be
delayed by the need for better understanding of its shale
formations and insufficient technical know-how, supply-chain
services and infrastructure, according to the Edinburgh,
Scotland-based consultant.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , the nation’s second-
largest oil company, and Henan Provincial Coal Seam Gas
Development and Utilization Co. won the exploration rights in
the nation’s first shale-gas auction in June 2011.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  