-- China Rebar Volumes Gain to Record on Government Spending
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-10T09:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/china-rebar-volumes-gain-to-record-on-government-spending.html
The volume of steel reinforcement-
bar futures traded on the Shanghai Futures Exchange advanced to
a record on speculation that new infrastructure projects in
China will increase demand.  A total of 6.01 million lots of the most-active, January
delivery contract were traded today, up from 5.9 million lots on
Sept. 7, the previous high, bourse data showed. One lot equals
10 metric tons. Futures climbed for a third day, closing 2.7
percent higher at 3,497  yuan  ($551) a ton as open interest rose
15,028 lots to 1.38 million lots.  China, the world’s largest steel producer, has been ramping
up infrastructure spending to counter a slowdown in economic
growth that’s on course for the weakest annual pace in more than
two decades. The government approved  plans  for 2,018 kilometers
(1,254 miles) of roads last week, as well as sewage plants, port
and warehouse projects and subways. The price of reinforcement
bars, known as rebars, has lost 17 percent this year.  Given the infrastructure plans, as well as output cuts,
investors think it’s time for prices to bottom out, said Huang
Huiwen, an analyst at Shanghai CIFCO Futures Co. A rally in
 China ’s stocks also had a so-called spillover effect, she said.  Daily steel production in China dropped in July to 1.99
million tons from 2 million tons a month earlier, data from the
National Bureau of Statistics showed. The government is
scheduled to release data for August tomorrow.  1 Trillion Yuan  The planned projects may require investment of about 1
trillion yuan, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report today.
Baosteel Group Corp., China’s third- largest steelmaker , is among
the companies that will benefit most, Moody’s said. Rebars are
used to reinforce cement in construction projects.  China’s imports unexpectedly fell in August, according to
data released today, signaling that more stimulus may be needed.
Industrial output in China rose the least in three years,
figures showed yesterday, a day after President  Hu Jintao  said
that the country’s expansion faces “notable downward pressure.”  The price of  iron ore , used to make steel, dropped to
$86.70 a dry ton on Sept. 5, the lowest level since 2009,
according to data from the Steel Index Ltd., which tracks
material with 62 percent iron content delivered to Tianjin.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.3 percent to close at
2,134.89, the highest since Aug. 14, amid speculation there will
be further steps to boost economic growth. That extended a 3.7
percent jump on Sept. 7, the biggest gain in eight months.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  