-- China Car Sales Trail Estimates as Discounts Anticipated
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-10T09:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/china-car-sales-trail-estimates-as-discounts-anticipated.html
China ’s passenger-vehicle sales
trailed analysts’ estimates for a second month in August as
consumers held off purchases in anticipation of more discounts.  Wholesale deliveries, including multipurpose and sport
utility  vehicles , gained 11 percent to 1.22 million units last
month, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in
a statement today. That compares with the 1.24 million mean
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Average  passenger-vehicle  prices have fallen every month
this year as dealerships increased discounts to reduce a glut of
inventory, according to National Development and Reform
Commission data. Sales in the world’s largest vehicle market
have slowed alongside the economy, with data yesterday showing
industrial output grew at the slowest pace in three years.  “Slowing economic growth is making consumers reluctant to
spend their money on vehicles now,” said Liang Yonghuo, a
Shenzhen-based analyst with  Haitong International Securities
Group Ltd. (665)  “Frequent and substantial price cuts may make
consumers delay their purchase hoping for an even lower price.”  In the first eight months, passenger-vehicle deliveries
rose 8 percent to 9.95 million units, the association said.  Total sales of vehicles, including trucks and buses, rose
8.3 percent to 1.5 million units in August.  Locally made passenger vehicle prices fell 1.62 percent in
July from a year earlier, while imported vehicle prices dropped
2.55 percent, the third consecutive monthly decline, according
to the NDRC.  Falling Prices  “Prices are coming down pretty quickly,” Liang Liyong,
who is considering buying a car, said last week at an auto show
in the southwestern city of  Chengdu . “I would rather wait for a
few more months rather than buying a car right now.”  China’s industrial output increased 8.9 percent in August,
the slowest pace in three years, while fixed-asset investment
growth in the first eight months eased to 20.2 percent, the
National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday. Inflation
accelerated for the first time in five months.  The data underscore risks that full-year growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy will slide to its lowest in more
than two decades. Chinese President  Hu Jintao  said on Sept. 8
that a slowdown in exports is putting “notable downward
pressure” on the country.  China in mid-July added 149 car models made by 27
automakers to the list of vehicles that qualify for 3,000  yuan 
in subsidies for energy-saving vehicles, according to the
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology . The previous
list had 49 models.  Japan Automakers  Sales slowed for Japanese automakers in the wake of anti-
 Japan  demonstrations last month, CAAM secretary general Dong
Yang said in a briefing in Beijing today.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the biggest Japanese automaker by sales
in China, cut back on marketing events after being advised by
the government, Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga said
last week. Nissan’s sales in China rose 0.6 percent to 95,200
units in August.  Shiga’s comments may be among the first from a major
Japanese company acknowledging the fallout from an island
dispute that’s soured diplomatic ties between  Asia ’s two biggest
economies and triggered protests.  Demonstrations were held in more than 10 Chinese cities and
featured calls for a boycott of Japanese goods, the state-run
China Youth Daily reported last month. Japan asked the Chinese
government to protect its citizens living in China, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said earlier.  Political Tension  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which plans to more than double car
deliveries by 2015 from 2011 levels, had a 15 percent plunge in
car sales last month. The Toyota City, Japan-based company said
it saw no impact from the political tension.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest foreign carmaker in China,
said sales in the nation gained 7.3 percent last month to
220,996 units, led by demand for its Chevrolet cars.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus compact was the best-selling car in
China last month, followed by the Chevrolet Sail and Buick
Excelle, according to CAAM data. Sport utility vehicles remained
the best-selling vehicle category, increasing 24 percent last
month to 164,300 units.  China’s passenger-vehicle sales growth will probably
accelerate in the second half, rising 15 percent to 8.48 million
units, driven by demand from first-time buyers and as the
economy rebounds, CAAM said in July. Full-year deliveries may
increase 11 percent to 16.09 million units, according to the
association.  Auto sales will accelerate for the rest of the year, Dong
Yang, secretary general of the auto association, said at a
briefing in Beijing.  While sales growth has stalled the past two years, high
savings rates and pent-up demand mean  Chinese consumers  are
expected to buy 25.5 million vehicles three years from now,
according to the average forecast of IHS Automotive, Macquarie
Equities Research and the Economist Intelligence Unit.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  