-- China Fuel Prices Rise Second Time in Month as Oil Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-11T02:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/china-fuel-prices-rise-second-time-in-month-as-oil-gains.html
China , the world’s second-biggest
oil consumer, increased gasoline and diesel prices for the
second time in about a month as rising crude costs threaten to
curb profits at the nation’s largest oil refiners.  The maximum at which gasoline can be sold to motorists rose
by 550  yuan  ($87) a metric ton and diesel by 540 yuan today, the
National Development and Reform Commission said in a  statement 
on its website yesterday. The pump price of 90-RON, China III
gasoline in Beijing will increase 5.8 percent to 10,040 yuan a
ton, or $4.53 a U.S. gallon, according to Bloomberg calculations
from NDRC data. The China III specification is similar to the
Euro III fuel standard.  The increase may help boost profits margins at  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  and  PetroChina Co. (857) , the nation’s
biggest oil processors. Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known,
posted its lowest half-yearly profit since 2008 amid losses at
its refining unit because of state-controlled fuel prices.
PetroChina’s net income in the period slid 6 percent even as its
average crude selling price increased 6.3 percent.  “At these fuel price levels, we believe that most Chinese
refiners still are unlikely to break even owing to higher
feedstock costs from the current oil price environment,”
Barclays Plc said in a report e-mailed today. “Although the gap
to profitability is getting closer and we estimate a further
price hike” of as much as 300 yuan a ton for gasoline and
diesel.  Moving Average  Gasoline and diesel prices are set by the NDRC under a
system that tracks the 22-day moving average of a basket of
crudes comprising Brent, Dubai and Indonesia’s Cinta. The
government may adjust fuel rates when the measure changes more
than 4 percent from the last adjustment. The price of Brent
futures in London rose 9.2 percent in August and traded at
$114.15 a barrel on Sept. 10. Prices last increased on Aug. 10.  “Crude prices gained in the past month due to better U.S.
economic indicators, continuing uncertainty in the  Middle East 
and expectation on more stimulus policies from the U.S. and
 Europe ,” the NDRC said in the statement yesterday.  Sinopec posted a loss of 18.5 billion yuan from processing
811 million barrels of oil in the first half of the year, the
company said in a stock-exchange filing on Aug. 26. PetroChina
incurred a loss of 23.3 billion yuan from refining 489.7 million
barrels, it said in an Aug. 23 filing.  The NDRC has indicated that it may change the pricing
system for refined products in the second half of the year, Zhou Jiping, PetroChina’s president, said after the earnings release.
The revisions are expected to reduce PetroChina’s refining loss
and boost earnings, he said.  New System  China will let  oil companies  set fuel prices according to
guideline rates posted by the government as part of planned
reforms, Xinhua reported March 28, citing Peng Sen, a former
vice chairman at the NDRC. The new system may also shorten the
pricing cycle to 10 days from 22 days and replace Indonesia’s
Cinta with New York-traded West Texas Intermediate oil, China
Petrochemical Corp., the parent company of Sinopec, said in its
online newsletter March 28.  Sinopec opened 1.4 percent lower at HK$6.98 in  Hong Kong ,
and PetroChina 1.2 percent down at HK$9.26. The benchmark  Hang
Seng  index fell 0.35 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  