-- China Output Growth Slows as Leadership Handover Looms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-10T06:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/china-output-growth-slows-as-leadership-handover-looms.html
China ’s imports unexpectedly fell
and  industrial output  rose the least in three years, signaling
more stimulus may be needed after the government last week said
it approved subway and road projects across the nation.  Inbound shipments slid 2.6 percent in August from a year
earlier as exports rose 2.7 percent, the customs bureau said in
Beijing today. Production increased 8.9 percent, the  National
Bureau of Statistics  said yesterday. Inflation accelerated for
the first time in five months.  The data underscore risks that full-year growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy will slide to the lowest in more
than two decades, undermining support for the ruling Communist
Party before a once-in-a-decade leadership transition due later
this year. The rebound in inflation, excess capacity in some
industries and banks’ bad debt risks from past monetary easing
highlight the potential cost of ramping up stimulus efforts.  “Politicians want a benign backdrop for their party
congress gathering and slumping stock prices and a worsening
growth slowdown could spoil the party,” said Lu Ting, chief
 Greater China  economist at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong.
“Putting together the economic fundamentals and the timing of
major political events, there will be a second round of policy
easing including cuts to banks’ reserve requirements and some
fiscal stimulus.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  pared gains of as much as 0.3
percent and was up 0.1 percent as of 2:28 p.m. in  Tokyo  after
plans for European Central Bank bond buying and Chinese
investment triggered a global rally last week. President  Hu Jintao  said Sept. 8 that  China’s economy  faces “notable
downward pressure.”  Japanese Weakness  Japan ’s economy  expanded in the second quarter  at half the
pace the government initially estimated, underscoring the risk
of a contraction as  Europe ’s debt crisis caps exports, a
government report showed today.  Gross domestic product grew an annualized 0.7 percent in
the three months through June, less than a preliminary
calculation of 1.4 percent. The nation’s current-account surplus
fell to 625.4 billion yen ($8 billion) in July, the lowest for
that month since 1996, according to a finance ministry report
and Bloomberg historical data.  South Korea  said it will add 5.9 trillion won ($5.2 billion)
of economic support measures including extra spending and tax
cuts as exports slow.  In Europe today, final second-quarter numbers will give the
latest reading on a shrinking Italian economy, while  France  may
report that industrial production declined in July.  Trade Measures  China’s Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said measures to
support and stabilize trade will be announced soon,  China
Central Television  reported yesterday. He also said trade in the
fourth quarter will be better than in the third.  China’s trade surplus was a more-than-estimated $26.7
billion as imports fell for the first time since 2009 outside of
the Lunar New Year, today’s report showed. Fixed-asset
investment growth in the first eight months eased to 20.2
percent, yesterday’s reports showed.  Exports to the European Union dropped 12.7 percent in
August from a year earlier, data showed.  “There is little that Chinese policy makers can do to
change the situation of weak external demand,” said Yao Wei,
China economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “Import
weakness is another indication of domestic demand
deceleration.”  Falling Prices  Declining commodity prices also contributed to the drop in
imports, Zheng Yuesheng, head of the customs administration’s
statistics department, said on state television.  The data put China’s goal of 10 percent trade growth this
year further out of reach. Exports gained 7.1 percent in the
first eight months of the year, while imports increased 5.1
percent.  UBS AG and ING Groep NV on Sept. 7 cut their forecasts for
economic expansion this year to 7.5 percent amid a weakening
global outlook and less forceful policy support than they
previously expected. That would be the slowest pace since 1990.  ING lowered its estimate for China’s third-quarter growth
to 7.1 percent while UBS projects a 7.3 percent pace. The
economy expanded 7.6 percent in the three months through June
from a year earlier, the least in three years and the sixth
straight slowdown.  Job Growth  The pace of new job growth in urban areas has been slowing
since April and May, Xin Changxing, vice minister of human
resources and social security, said at a briefing in Beijing
today. “The impact of slowing economic growth on employment is
gradually showing up,” Xin said.  Job growth picked up in 22 of China’s provinces in the
January-August period compared with a year earlier, while nine
showed a deceleration, Xin said.  Shi Yonghong, vice president of the China Chamber of
Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic
Products, said the nation faces challenges for export growth in
the longer term.  “In the long run, China’s cost advantages are weakening,
and the trend is very clear,” Shi said in a Sept. 8 interview
at a trade fair in Xiamen. “Labor and resource costs are all
rising. Without restructuring or innovation, China’s exports are
doomed to stay weak.”  ‘Arduous Task’  Speaking to business executives at an Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum in Vladivostok on Sept. 8, President Hu said
China’s small and medium-sized enterprises are having a “hard
time” and exporters are facing more difficulties. The
government has an “arduous task of creating jobs for new
entrants to the  labor force .”  Hu also urged governments in the Asia-Pacific region to
speed up infrastructure development, describing it as key to
promoting recovery and achieving sustained and stable growth
amid increasing downward risks to the global economy.  His comments followed a slew of announcements by the
Chinese government approving new roads, railways and urban
infrastructure that Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates have a
combined value of about 1 trillion  yuan .  The news drove the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , China’s
benchmark stock gauge, 3.7 percent higher on Sept. 7, the
biggest gain in eight months. The index had previously dropped
17 percent from this year’s March 2 high as cooling economic
growth hurt earnings.  Inflation Accelerates  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031)  the nation’s biggest machinery
maker, on Sept. 7 jumped the most since February 2009 and Anhui
Conch Cement Co., China’s largest cement maker, had its biggest
gain since July 2010, on optimism demand for their products will
rise.  Inflation last month accelerated to 2 percent from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said yesterday. The decline in
producer prices extended into a sixth month, with a drop of 3.5
percent.  “A renewed inflationary trend could prove to be a further
complication to policy makers’ growth-inflation trade-off,”
said  Glenn Maguire , chief economist at consultant Asia Sentry
Advisory in Sydney. “China will have enormous difficulties in
crafting a policy response to these divergent price and activity
trends.”  The increase in August  industrial production  was the
weakest since May 2009. Power output rose 2.7 percent from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said, compared with 2.1
percent in July. Growth in production of rolled steel slumped to
1.4 percent.  ‘Weak Data’  Growth in fixed-asset investment excluding rural households
in the first eight months was lower than the median estimate of
20.4 percent. Retail sales rose 13.2 percent from a year earlier
in August, in line with the median economist estimate.  “Such a weak series of economic activity data should now
seriously alert policy makers,” said Liu Li-Gang, chief China
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “The monetary policy stance will have to become more
aggressive in order to arrest the rapidly deteriorating
economy.”  Liu said the central bank will need to cut banks’ reserve
requirement ratio by another 150 basis points this year.  The  central bank  has held off from monetary policy
loosening since July 5 when it cut benchmark  interest rates  for
the second time in less than a month.  Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief China economist at
Nomura, said some leading indicators improved “very
significantly” last month, pointing to better property and
infrastructure investment in coming months.  “These suggest economic momentum will pick up soon,” said
Zhang, who estimates growth will rebound to above 8 percent in
the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bloomberg News  in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  