-- China Imports Unexpectedly Drop as Exports Rise Less Than 3%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-10T03:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/china-august-exports-rise-2-7-as-imports-unexpectedly-decline.html
China ’s exports rose less than 3
percent for a second month while imports had the first non-
holiday decline since 2009 as the nation’s slowdown and Europe’s
debt crisis curbed demand at home and abroad.  Overseas  shipments  gained 2.7 percent in August from a year
earlier, China’s customs administration said today in Beijing.
That compares with the median forecast of 2.9 percent growth in
a Bloomberg News survey of 36 economists. Imports fell 2.6
percent, leaving the country with a trade surplus of $26.7
billion.  The data increase pressure on Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  to
roll out more stimulus to support growth after reports yesterday
showed industrial production slowed further and producer-price
declines accelerated. Bank of America Corp. and UBS AG forecast
economic  expansion  will decelerate this quarter for a seventh
straight period.  “Weak export growth may hurt employment in manufacturing
industries, and that will be a reason for the government to do
more in helping growth,” Sun Junwei, China economist for HSBC
Holdings Plc in Beijing, said before the report. “The key for
China’s growth prospects is whether China’s stimulus policies
can help revive domestic investment.”  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks rose 0.2
percent at 11:17 a.m. local time.  Companies including  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , China’s
largest listed shipper, are bearing the brunt of weakness in
exports. The company lost 4.87 billion  yuan  ($768 million) in
the first half and its top two executives have pledged to waive
their salaries until profits resume.  Aid Measures  China’s Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said specific
measures to support and stabilize foreign trade will be
announced soon, according to an interview broadcast yesterday by
 China Central Television . He also said the nation’s foreign
trade situation in the fourth quarter will be better than in the
third.  Economists’ estimates for exports in August ranged from a
drop of 1.9 percent to an 8.2 percent gain. The median forecast
for imports was for 3.5 percent growth, while analysts predicted
a trade surplus of $19.5 billion.  China has allowed the yuan to weaken about 0.7 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in 2012, helping exporters after the
currency gained 4.7 percent in 2011.  Officials in China have refrained from easing monetary
policy since cutting  interest rates  in June and July and
lowering banks’ reserve requirements three times from November
to May. Authorities have shied away from stimulus near the scale
of the 4 trillion yuan package announced in 2008, amid a global
crisis when 20 million migrant workers lost their jobs.  Downward Pressure  Even so, President  Hu Jintao  said Sept. 8 that economic
expansion faces “notable downward pressure,” some small and
mid-sized companies are “facing a hard time and exporters are
facing more difficulties.”  Production increased 8.9 percent in August from a year
earlier and fixed-asset investment growth in the first eight
months eased to 20.2 percent, the statistics bureau said
yesterday. Consumer  inflation  last month accelerated to 2
percent from a year earlier, while producer prices fell 3.5
percent.  Wen said in late August that the country needs targeted
measures to promote steady growth in overseas sales, including
speedier payment of tax rebates. China may expand exporters’ tax
rebates on products including shoes and toys, according to three
people with direct knowledge of the plan,  Bloomberg News 
reported Sept. 4.  Countries across  Asia  are seeing declines in their exports.
South Korea’s shipments abroad fell 6.2 percent in August from a
year earlier, while Malaysia’s dropped 1.9 percent and India’s
slid 14.8 percent in July.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Scott Lanman, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  