-- Clinton Advice on Working With China: First Be Yourself
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-10T00:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/clinton-advice-on-working-with-china-first-be-yourself.html
Hillary Clinton  has some advice for
the next secretary of state on negotiating with Chinese leaders:
“You have to be yourself, you have to be America, you have to
stand up for American values, interests and security.”  In an interview with  Bloomberg Radio  after her sixth -- and
probably last -- visit to China as the top U.S. diplomat,
Clinton reflected on the lessons of 3 1/2 years trying to
resolve issues with a rising power that is the world’s second-
largest economy. Along with growing investments and influence
around world, China has a key vote on the most important crises
before the  United Nations Security Council .  Clinton, who has indicated she will step down within months
regardless of whether President  Barack Obama  wins re-election,
was in Beijing last week trying to persuade Chinese leaders to
adopt a code of conduct to resolve territorial disputes that
have sparked skirmishes with its neighbors in the  South China
Sea . She also wanted China to support the West in backing
tougher action against President Bashar al-Assad in  Syria .  Her meetings with almost every top Chinese leader or
leader-in-waiting were both friendly and frank, by all accounts,
though neither issue was resolved.  At a joint press conference on Sept. 5, Clinton and Chinese
Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  said they remained divided over how
to address the maritime claims and the violence in Syria. At the
same time, each took pains to highlight U.S.-China unity on
other issues, including economic recovery measures and diplomacy
to avert nuclear threats from  Iran  and  North Korea .  ‘Common Ground’  “You have to look for ways to deepen understanding and
find common ground wherever that’s possible, to work on
enhancing the level of cooperation,” Clinton said in the
interview yesterday as she capped an 11-day, six-nation Asia-
Pacific tour in Vladivostok,  Russia . At the same time, she said,
it’s essential “to stand up for what we believe in. We’ve come
a long way doing that” in  U.S. foreign policy  over the years.  Clinton went to Beijing in February 2009 on her first trip
as secretary of state. Since then, she’s returned three times,
twice for annual talks known as the Strategic and Economic
Dialogue, which she elevated in importance and broadened in
scope during her first year in office.  She’s also made separate trips to China’s Hainan Island, as
well as the city of Shenzhen and the Chinese territory of  Hong
Kong . She’s met with Chinese leaders numerous times in
 Washington  and the UN, and at Asian summits and Group of 20
meetings.  Three months ago, Clinton’s visit to Beijing for the annual
strategic and economic talks were almost derailed by a crisis
over a blind Chinese dissident who was injured while escaping
house arrest and persecution by authorities and was taken in by
the U.S. embassy -- a risky decision that Clinton said she
signed off on.  Chen Case  Over three days of U.S. talks with the Chinese about
everything from currency and trade barriers to adopting clean
cook-stoves and deterring the North Korean threat, Clinton’s
deputies negotiated a deal for the blind activist,  Chen Guangcheng , to be permitted to get medical treatment, leave his
village and study law in China.  Once in a Beijing hospital, Chen changed his mind, saying
he would feel safe only if he and his family could go to the
 United States . Clinton’s team went back to the Chinese leaders
to make a pitch for a new deal.  At first, the Chinese refused, saying they had already
accommodated the U.S. more than they needed to over a man who
was a Chinese citizen. When Clinton met State Councilor Dai Bingguo, she said, as she always does, that human rights and
personal freedoms are fundamental American values, according to
U.S. officials who spoke at the time on condition of anonymity
to describe the private talks. She urged him to not let the Chen
case obscure Sino-U.S. cooperation on so many other issues.  Recognizing Differences  The Chinese relented shortly before the two sides were
closing the annual talks and agreeing to a joint statement on
economic and security cooperation. A human-rights crisis that
might have ended in disaster became a victory for Clinton.  During last week’s trip, Clinton repeated, as she often
has, that the two sides “do not see eye to eye on everything,”
saying that was natural in any relationship, especially between
“two countries as large and diverse” as  China  and the U.S.  Echoing Clinton’s words, Yang also said the two do “not
see eye to eye” on everything. It’s “inevitable there would be
disputes or frictions” between the two, he told reporters, yet
there was even more cooperation and “mutual respect.”  Balancing Act  In yesterday’s interview, Clinton said she’s found that
balancing act is “true with any country. We don’t agree on
everything with anybody,” she said, citing a dispute over
lobsters with  Canada , one of the U.S.’s closest allies.  Asked what advice she would offer her successor on China,
she said the key is “balancing as you say friendliness and
firmness, but that’s true with everybody.” The China
relationship is simply under the microscope, “more front-and-
center because of the growing importance of the role that China
is playing  economically  and politically,” she said.  Clinton has said many times that the U.S. needs cooperation
from the world’s most populous nation to solve many global
challenges, from pressing Iran and North Korea to abandon their
nuclear programs to agreeing on trade rules and capping
greenhouse-gas emissions.  In an interview after her previous trip to China, when the
Chen case dominated U.S. headlines, Clinton called the
relationship between the two sides “unprecedented in world
history. We’re trying to find a way for an established power and
a rising power to coexist.”  Clinton Legacy  Yesterday, Clinton made clear she sees promoting a stable
relationship with China as part of her legacy.  “Everything we’ve done has been to construct a framework
of cooperation” with China that ensures “our presence and our
position now and into the future,” she said. “I think you know
we’ve put the relationship on a firm foundation.”  The U.S. has hit “some choppy waters” with China in the
last few years and gotten through them without abandoning U.S.
values or silencing concerns, she said. “I think that’s the
sign of a maturing relationship.”  It’s not just about China, she said. The larger Asia-
Pacific region -- home to 3 billion people and 56 percent of
global economic output -- was the sole destination of her first
trip as secretary, and has been a focus of her attention ever
since.  In her first three years, Clinton made twice as many visits
to the Asia-Pacific region as did her predecessor,  Condoleezza Rice  -- 36 compared with 18, according to State Department
records. Many of those were to attend regional leaders’ meetings
on security and development.  ‘Funny Skit’  In the past, Clinton said, U.S. involvement in the region
was superficial at best: “We’d show up once a year, go to some
dinner, do a funny skit, show up again a year later.”  “I don’t think that’s adequate for the importance of this
region and our role in it,” she said.  Clinton ended her trip yesterday at the 21-member Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation leaders’ summit, where she stood in
for Obama, who was attending the Democratic Convention in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Vladivostok, Russia at   ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  