-- Israel Presses U.S. Over Setting ‘Red Lines’ for Iran
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-09-11T09:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/clinton-criticized-by-israel-for-no-deadline-iran-comment.html
The U.S. and Israel are disagreeing
publicly over Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s push to set
“red lines” and deadlines for dealing with Iran’s nuclear
activities.  An Israeli government official said yesterday that
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s comment in an interview
Sept. 9 with  Bloomberg Radio  that the U.S. is “not setting
deadlines” for Iran won’t help deter its nuclear program, and
may even put the Iranians at ease.  The Israeli official, who wasn’t authorized to give his
name, said in a telephone briefing that without clear red lines
being set by the international community, Iran won’t stop
enriching uranium.  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said yesterday that it’s “not useful” to be setting deadlines
for negotiations or red lines. President  Barack Obama  previously
has said that Iran won’t be allowed to obtain a nuclear weapon,
she said, declining to elaborate.  Netanyahu and Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  have
indicated that, as Iran proceeds with its nuclear work and
negotiations stall, Israel may have no choice but to launch a
preemptive strike in self-defense. Iran’s leaders have denied
Israel’s right to exist.  Economic Sanctions  Clinton said in the interview that economic sanctions are
building pressure on Iran, and the U.S. still considers
negotiations as “by far the best approach” to prevent the
Islamic Republic from developing nuclear weapons.  Asked if the Obama administration will lay out sharper
“red lines” for Iran or state explicitly the consequences of
failing to negotiate a deal with world powers by a certain date,
Clinton said, “We’re not setting deadlines.”  Netanyahu said Sept. 9 that the international community
needs to send an unambiguous message. “Iran will not stop
unless it sees clear determination by the democratic countries
of the world and a clear red line,” he said.  Israel  and the U.S. are now discussing this point,
Netanyahu said in an interview with  Canada ’s CBC television.  “The clearer the message on these red lines is, the
clearer it is to the Iranian leadership,” Israeli Minister of
Environmental Protection Gilad Erdan, a member of Netanyahu’s
Likud party, said on Israel Radio today. “Regretfully such a
clear message hasn’t been sent by the U.S.”  Time Difference  While the U.S. and Israel share the goal that Iran not
acquire a nuclear weapon, Clinton said there is a difference in
perspective over the time horizon for talks.  “They’re more anxious about a quick response because they
feel that they’re right in the bull’s-eye, so to speak,”
Clinton said. “But we’re convinced that we have more time to
focus on these sanctions, to do everything we can to bring  Iran 
to a good-faith negotiation.”  At a State Department briefing yesterday, Nuland said the
U.S. is in close consultation with Israel and cited previous
remarks by Obama. “The president has said again and again,
unequivocally, that we will not allow Iran to obtain a nuclear
weapon,” she said.  The  United Nations ’ atomic agency convened a meeting
yesterday in Vienna. U.S. officials say the talks will provide
an important assessment of Iran’s nuclear progress and the
pressure the international community should exert to halt it.  Gabi Ashkenazi, a former Israeli chief of staff, said
Israel shouldn’t jeopardize ties with Washington. “I strongly
recommend that we preserve our strong relationship with the
 United States . Our strong bond is not only imperative to us from
a security perspective but also economically,” Ashkenazi said
at a conference in  Tel Aviv  today.  Enrichment Capacity  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  reported last month
that Iran raised the uranium-enrichment capacity at its
underground Fordo facility and increased stockpiles of medium-
enriched uranium, a step short of nuclear-bomb material.  In the past week, Clinton has been to  China  and  Russia ,
speaking with leaders of both nations to seek unity in their
Iran stance. Afterward, she said China and Russia share the
U.S.’s firm view that Iran must be stopped from acquiring a
nuclear weapon.  The Obama administration still believes the best way to do
that is to continue to offer a negotiated settlement, while
increasing the pain for Iran of refusing to accept the deal by
squeezing it with financial and oil sanctions, she said.  Uranium Stockpiles  In June, negotiators for six world powers proposed that
Iran ship out its stockpiles of 20 percent enriched uranium --
to remove the potential that it will further be processed to 90
percent to fuel a nuclear bomb -- and to stop enrichment at
Fordo in exchange for energy and aviation incentives. Israel
wants all Iranian  uranium enrichment  halted and enriched uranium
removed.  Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful electric
power and medical purposes and has rebuffed any deal that it
sees as giving up its right to enrich uranium.  Efforts by international negotiators “to pin Iran down on
what exactly they are willing to do are still under way, and we
will be having some meetings in the next month in  New York  and
elsewhere to take stock of where we are,” Clinton said.  Leaders from the six powers involved in negotiations with
Iran are expected to attend the annual UN General Assembly in
New York this month.  Since April, the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council -- the U.S., the U.K.,  France , China and Russia -- plus
 Germany , have conducted three rounds of diplomacy with Iran.
Even with pressure from new U.S. and European Union sanctions on
energy, trade, banking and shipping, the talks have failed to
persuade Iran to suspend aspects of its nuclear program.  Oil Dependence  Clinton has said that Iran, which depends on oil for more
than half of its government revenue, is losing billions of
dollars from lost oil sales due to sanctions.  Iranian oil exports dropped 66 percent in July from a year
earlier, to less than 1 million barrels a day, as the U.S. and
the European Union tightened sanctions, according to a report by
Rhodium Group, citing customs data. Rhodium estimates exports at
about 940,000 barrels a day, compared with 1.7 million barrels a
day in June and 2.8 million in July 2011, the New York-based
economic research group said Sept. 5 in an e-mailed report.  The U.S., European allies and Israel accuse Iran of seeking
an atomic bomb capability. In its report last month, the IAEA
said it “is unable to provide credible assurance about the
absence of undeclared nuclear material and activities in Iran,
and therefore to conclude that all nuclear material in Iran is
in peaceful activities.” The IAEA said it hadn’t detected any
material being diverted from Iran’s 16 declared nuclear
facilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  