-- CLSA Considering Acquisitions as Rivals Retrench, Slone Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-09-10T04:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/clsa-considering-acquisitions-as-rivals-recover-slone-says.html
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, the
brokerage unit of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  being bought by Citic
Securities Co., is itself seeking acquisition targets as rivals
struggle amid the financial crisis.  “There could be an acquisition somewhere,” Chief
Executive Officer Jonathan Slone said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “We’re looking at some really interesting
venues right now.”  The financial industry was “too bullish” early last year,
and investment banks and brokerages that got too big are now
being forced to pare back or exit, Slone said. Deutsche Bank AG
is among those retrenching as it eliminates as many as 1,900
jobs. Slone cited the U.S. and  Australia  as growth areas for his
brokerage.  “There’s a lot of pain on the street right now and it’s a
good time to look at opportunities in these places,” he said,
without being more specific.  CLSA, which provides equity research, trading, asset
management, and advising on stock sales and mergers in 13
countries, is boosting jobs in some areas, Slone said. The link
to Citic Securities has opened up opportunities for the Hong
Kong-based company in  China , he said.  “They are very growth-oriented,” Slone said in the
interview. “They want to see CLSA expand.”  Citic Securities, China’s biggest brokerage by market
value, on July 20 said it completed the purchase of a 19.9
percent stake in the brokerage and planned to purchase the
remaining shares by mid-2013 for a total of $1.25 billion.  Fixed Income  “We’re looking at what we can do in fixed income together,
and we’re looking at how we can meet the challenges in the very
difficult market right now,” Slone told reporters in  Hong Kong 
today at its annual investors’ forum. “They have a very good
issuance business. They have a very good trading business. We
have a very good research business. It makes sense to look at
how we can cooperate.”  The brokerage is known for its annual forums where guests
have included former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  and filmmaker
 Francis Ford Coppola . Former heavy-weight boxing champion  Mike Tyson  will speak at this year’s five-day forum, which will host
1,500 institutional investors and 550 senior executives in Hong
Kong beginning today.  Among CLSA’s analysts are  Christopher Wood , chief equity
strategist and author of the Greed & Fear report, and Mike Mayo,
who covers U.S. lenders and wrote “Exile on  Wall Street : One
Analyst’s Fight to Save the Big Banks From Themselves.”  Slone didn’t provide additional details about the
acquisition targets.  “We could do something somewhere with some other people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  