-- Cobras Co-Star in Salman Rushdie’s ‘Midnight’s Children’
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/cobras-co-star-in-salman-rushdie-s-midnight-s-children-.html
A month into shooting the film
adaption of  Salman Rushdie ’s “ Midnight’s Children ” in Sri
Lanka last year, production came to a sudden halt.  Iran , a sworn enemy of Rushdie, demanded that the
government stop the shoot.  Director Deepa Mehta appealed to Sri Lankan President
 Mahinda Rajapaksa , with whom she’d already had tea, to win
support for the production. For three anxious days, she waited
in Colombo for him to return from campaigning in the country’s
hilly interior.  “It was a tense time, especially when you are paying for a
crew sitting around doing nothing,” Mehta recalled in an
interview in Toronto, three days before the film’s debut at the
 Toronto International Film Festival . When Rajapaksa returned, he
tore up the letter of protest and production was back on.  “He said ‘this is rubbish,’” the director said. “He
wasn’t about to get bullied.”  Nor is Mehta, who has stood up to frequent protests and
controversies over her films in the past.  Shooting of “ Water ,” her 2005 Oscar-nominated film, was
moved to  Sri Lanka  after the Indian set was disrupted by Hindu
fundamentalists upset with its treatment of the topic of child
marriage and widows.  ‘Elements’ Trilogy  “ Earth ” and “ Fire ,” the first two films in her
“elements” trilogy, addressed religious tension and lesbian
love, prompting conservative protesters to attack the cinemas
that screened “Fire.”  Mehta, 62, was born in India and graduated from the
University of Delhi with a degree in philosophy. She currently
splits her time between homes in Toronto and Delhi.  In June, 2008 she and Rushdie had dinner when the Anglo-
Indian author was in Toronto for a book tour. She asked him
about the film rights to “Midnight’s Children” and he agreed to
sell them to her for a dollar. That was the easy part.  Next came the challenge of turning a 500-page epic, which
chronicles  India ’s turbulent history of partition as witnessed
through the eyes of a boy and his multi-generational family,
into a manageable screenplay.  No, Thanks  At first, he didn’t want to write the screenplay, she said.
She was undeterred. “I absolutely insisted, ‘you have to do
it.’”  They quickly found that they were in agreement on key
elements of the book that should be in the film.  Mehta said it was daunting to write scenes for an
adaptation of a book that won the “Booker of Bookers” in 2008,
celebrating the literary prize’s 40th anniversary. Rushdie gave
her free rein.  “He made me feel extremely comfortable questioning
anything or everything.”  Shooting outside India was a sensible precaution, given
both her track record and Rushdie’s. It was his 1988 novel “The
Satanic Verses,” inspired in part by the life of Muhammad, that
prompted the Iranian government to issue the fatwa, or bounty on
his head.  “India could not bully Sri Lanka” over the production,
she said.  An added boon was that the skyline and streets of  Colombo 
resemble Bombay of the 1940s and ’50s much more than the booming
high-rises of Mumbai today.  Mehta dropped the idea of casting stars in favor of
developing the ensemble essential to the story-telling. The film
has 127 speaking parts, as well as an array of elephants,
cobras, monkeys and geese that had to be corralled.  The final cut was completed three weeks ago and first shown
at the Telluride Film Festival in  Colorado  last week.  “He’s got a great sense of humor,” Mehta said of Rushdie.
After a setback during shooting, “I’d say ‘oh my god, what’s
going to happen, this is going to be terrible.’ And he’d say,
‘you know I sometimes say that about my books.’”  “Midnight’s Children” will be shown today. For more on the
film and the Toronto International Film Festival, go to
 http://www.midnightschildren.com  or  http://tiff.net/thefestival .  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on pop music and  Elin
McCoy  on wine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 