-- Colombian Peso-Bond Yields Decline to Record Low on Rate Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-09-10T19:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/colombian-peso-weakens-on-government-dollar-purchase-plans.html
Colombia’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields to a record low, amid speculation policy makers will cut
borrowing costs further to stimulate growth as inflation remains
near the mid-point of the central bank’s target.  The yield on 10 percent peso-denominated debt due July 2024
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.53
percent, according to the central bank. That’s the lowest
closing level since the securities were first issued in 2009.  Policy makers voted unanimously on Aug. 24 to cut the
benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter percentage point to 4.75
percent, according to the  minutes  of the meeting released Sept.
7. The central bank next meets Sept. 28.  “We will likely see another cut this year” to 4.5
percent, said Santiago Melo, an analyst at Alianza Valores
brokerage in Bogota. “With inflation under control, people will
be watching for the next GDP report to get a sense on the timing
of the cut.”  Banco de la Republica maintained its 2012 growth forecast
at a range of 3 percent to 5 percent, compared with the
government’s forecast of 4.8 percent for this year. Central bank
co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano expects the economy to grow 3.8
percent this year, according to a  presentation  posted on the
bank’s website.  Colombia ’s statistics agency is slated to
release its second-quarter gross domestic product report on
Sept. 20.  Peso Strengthens  Annual inflation was 3.11 percent last month, within the
central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target.  Colombia’s peso gained 0.2 percent to 1,797.41 per  U.S.
dollar  after erasing an earlier decline. It has jumped 7.9
percent this year, the best performance after the Chilean peso
and the Hungarian forint among world currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  said the government will
continue to buy dollars in the  spot market  and asked that the
central bank increase its own purchases of the greenback to stem
the peso’s rally.  Santos’s Sept. 7 comments echoed those of Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas , who said the previous day that the Treasury
will continue to supplement the central bank’s dollar purchase
program. The government won’t announce the size of the
Treasury’s dollar purchases, Cardenas said.  Colombia’s central bank on Sept. 7 bought $35 million in
the spot market, up from the minimum of $20 million a day the
bank has said it will buy until at least Nov. 2. On Aug. 24
Banco de la Republica said it will boost dollar purchases to
$700 million by the end of September, or an average of $28
million a day. It bought $24.8 million today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  