-- Commodity Audios, Odd Lot Volume, Malaysia: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-10T12:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/commodity-audios-odd-lot-volume-malaysia-compliance.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, facing resistance from agricultural and energy
firms, is struggling to reach consensus on when traders must
keep audio records that could be used in enforcement cases.  The rule,  proposed  in June 2011 and awaiting final
approval, would require recording by members of derivatives
exchange and swap-execution facilities. The records could help
the CFTC’s enforcement unit determine the intent of traders when
probing claims of market manipulation and false reporting.  The CFTC  used  recordings of telephone calls in the probe
that led to its $200 million settlement with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  over
claims that the bank helped manipulate interest rates.  The agency proposal met resistance starting last year from
industry groups representing small and large trading firms and
exchanges including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , Cargill Inc.,
Macquarie Bank Ltd. and the  Kansas City Board of Trade . The rule
would affect all exchange members and the swap-execution
facilities created by the Dodd-Frank Act to boost transparency.  Groups including the  Commodity Markets Council  and  National
Grain and Feed Association  have  held five  meetings with CFTC
staff members on the issue in the last month. The groups say the
proposed rule would unnecessarily capture commercial end-users
that trade derivatives to hedge risk.  CFTC members are working to reach consensus on a final
version, according to an agency official who sought anonymity
because the rulemaking process isn’t public.  Compliance Policy  Odd Lots Considered for Official Count of U.S. Trading Volume  Hundreds of millions of shares traded each day in companies
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  may
be added for the first time to the official tally of U.S. equity
volume.  Securities exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority plan to consider adding trades of fewer than 100
shares, known as odd lots, to the record of transactions, Colin
Clark, senior vice president at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said in a phone
interview. There’s general support for modifying the so-called
consolidated tape of transactions to include them, he said.  The policy of leaving odd lots out resulted in about 4
percent of volume being omitted from the official count in late
2009, up from 2.3 percent about two years earlier, a 2011 paper
by Maureen O’Hara, a finance professor at Cornell University,
and Chen Yao and Mao Ye of the University of Illinois found. The
trades are now more likely to be from high-frequency firms,
indicating a shift from their traditional source among
individual investors, the study said.  Only executions of at least 100 shares, known as a round
lot, are included in the record of transactions and compiled in
the Trade and Quote Database, or TAQ, used by academics to study
asset prices, trading and investor behavior. Compared with most
of the 1990s when odd lots accounted for less than 1 percent of
New York Stock Exchange volume, their omission now distorts
analyses, according to the July 2011 paper.  The exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversee the market-data programs, plan to vote
in November about whether to include trades of fewer than 100
shares in the transaction reports, said Clark, a member of the
operating committee for the  Consolidated Tape Association .  For more, click here.  Malaysia to Allow Bond Trading by Individuals to Add Volume  Malaysia will allow individuals to trade bonds in a move
aimed at boosting investment volumes in its debt market, the
 Securities Commission  said.  Islamic and non-Islamic notes can traded on the stock
exchange or over-the-counter through appointed banks, the
country’s capital-market regulator said in a statement released
Sept. 7 in Kuala Lumpur.  In the initial phase, individuals will be able to invest in
debt which is issued or guaranteed by the government before the
platform is extended to include offers by public companies and
banks, according to the regulator’s statement.  The Southeast Asian country is following its neighbors
Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines, where issuers already
sell bonds in small lots for individuals to buy through banks
and brokerages. Malaysia currently allows only over-the-counter
transactions involving largely institutional investors.  Separately,  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the United
Arab Emirates’ second-largest lender by assets, said it plans to
seek an Islamic banking license in Malaysia to meet demand for
Shariah-compliant financing.  The company wants to expand after starting non-Islamic
commercial banking operations in Southeast Asia’s third-largest
economy in July, said Leong See Meng, chief executive officer of
National Bank of Abu Dhabi Malaysia Bhd.  For more, click here.  Indonesia Considers Down Payment Rule for Shariah Banks, BI Says  Bank Indonesia may issue a regulation on the requirement of
a down payment for loans from Shariah-compliant banks in October
or November, Edy Setiadi, executive director of Islamic banking
at the central bank, said in Jakarta Sept. 7.  The regulation aims to avoid a “bubble” in consumer
lending, Setiadi said. The minimum down payment requirement may
be similar to levels imposed for conventional banks, according
to Setiadi.  ECB to Assess Bank Ownership Changes Under EU Plan, Il Sole Says  The European Central Bank would gain the power to vet
potential owners of banks under a European Commission proposal
to create a single financial supervisor in the euro area,
according to a document  published  by Il Sole 24 Ore.  The Frankfurt-based central bank “should have the task to
assess the acquisition and disposal of significant holdings in
credit institutions,” according to a document published on the
Milan-based newspaper’s website Sept. 7 that was identified as a
draft of the commission’s proposal.  A board for supervisory issues would be created in the ECB
led by a member of the Governing Council and composed of
officials from the central bank and national authorities,
according to the document. A commission spokesman declined to
confirm the document’s authenticity or to comment on its
publication when contacted by Bloomberg News.  The ECB would oversee all banks in the euro area and have
consolidated supervision powers over financial holding
companies, according to the document. The ECB would be able to
levy fees on the industry to cover the costs of supervision and
could perform inspections and impose sanctions under some
circumstances. The central bank would also be charged with
granting and revoking banking licenses in consultation with
member states, the document states.  National regulators would need to coordinate closely with
the central bank, according to the document.  Separately, the European Union will probably not be able to
set up a banking supervisor across the trade bloc by January as
proposed, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
reporters in Stockholm, where he was holding talks with Swedish
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  last week.  The process of implementing EU supervision will kick off
“with systemically-relevant institutes, then maybe banks on the
rescue program and then rules made for all banks,” Schaeuble
said.  BIS Central Bankers to Start Inquiry on Libor Rate  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said global central
bankers agreed to set up an inquiry into Libor after confidence
collapsed in the benchmark rate for more than $500 trillion of
securities.  The announcement follows a meeting yesterday of central
bank governors led by King in his role as chairman of the
Economic Consultative Committee at the BIS in Basel,
Switzerland. The inquiry will be led by “senior officials,”
and comes as Financial Services Authority Managing Director
Martin Wheatley conducts a separate investigation into how the
London interbank offered rate is set.  King put Libor on the agenda after Barclays Plc was fined
290 million pounds ($464 million) for its role in manipulating
the rate, which triggered the resignations of its chairman,
chief executive officer and chief operating officer. The Bank of
England became embroiled in the scandal, and lawmakers
criticized it last month for “naivety” in its handling of
questions about the rate as far back as 2007.  The BIS was founded in 1930 and acts as a central bank for
the world’s monetary authorities. King took over in November as
chairman of its Global Economy Meeting and the ECC, which meets
every two months.  A lobby group representing the banking industry in
Brussels, Washington and Hong Kong said today that all
systemically significant financial benchmarks should be subject
to regulatory oversight following the Libor scandal.  For more, click here.  Tougher Dodd-Frank Fiduciary Standard for U.S. Brokers Stalled  Even with Wall Street and consumer advocates allied in
pushing for it, a Securities and Exchange Commission proposal to
raise standards for U.S. brokers advising retail investors has
run aground.  The agency, which has been drafting a rule for almost two
years, has scheduled no action on the measure even as 2012 wanes
and a presidential election approaches.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who pushed to include the
measure in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to ensure clients receive
equal treatment from brokers and investment advisers, said other
rules will probably take precedence in coming months.  Dodd-Frank, an overhaul of financial regulation passed in
the wake of the 2008 credit crisis, instructed the SEC to
consider mandating that brokers operate under a fiduciary
standard as rigorous as that for investment advisers.  Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the
Consumer Federation of America, said it’s unlikely there will be
a final rule before the end of this year.  The SEC’s 2011 report said consumers are often baffled by
the distinction between brokers and advisers. The report
recommended a uniform standard “to act in the best interest of
the customer without regard to the financial or other interest
of the broker, dealer, or investment adviser.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Bankia State Aid Wins Temporary Approval From EU Commission  BFA, the parent of Spain’s  Bankia SA (BKIA) , won temporary
European Union approval to receive a 4.5 billion-euro
($5.75 billion) recapitalization from Spain’s banking bailout
fund FROB, the European Commission  said  today.  “The Spanish authorities have committed to present a
restructuring plan in time to allow the Commission to approve
the plan by November 2012,” the regulator said in a statement
on its website.  The nationalized lender last month posted a
4.45 billion-euro first-half loss. European Union officials must
approve government rescue funding for banks and can require
lenders to shed units and change business behavior.  N.Z. Regulator Says Vodafone Fined for Fair Trading Breaches  The  New Zealand  Commerce Commission fined Vodafone for fair
trade breaching, according to an e-mailed statement.  The regulator said it fined Vodafone NZ$960,000 ($778,000)
in Auckland District Court on 21 charges over marketing
campaigns from 2006 to 2009 that breached the Fair Trading Act.  The action follows a previous fine of about NZ$500,000 for
other breaches of the act.  The FCC Said to Propose Market-Maker Role in Airwaves Auction  A U.S. agency Sept. 7 will propose acting as the sole buyer
for airwaves that television stations will surrender for an
auction of spectrum to mobile providers led by  Verizon (VZ)  Wireless,
two officials said.  The idea is among several being advanced by Federal
Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  for the
auction planned for 2014, said the agency officials, who spoke
Sept. 6 on condition of not being identified because the matter
hasn’t been made public.  The auction is being set up to provide more spectrum for
Verizon,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and other wireless-service providers that are
facing soaring demand for data to feed tablet computers and
smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  The FCC plans to buy airwaves that some TV stations will
voluntarily relinquish in a process known as a reverse auction.
It would then sell the frequencies in a traditional auction. The
FCC will seek public comment before it settles next year on
rules for the auction, the officials said.  For more, click here.  U.K. Cigarette Companies Impacted by Smoking Rules  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc (IMT) , Europe’s two largest cigarette makers, fell Sept. 7 in
London after reports that Russia and France plan to impose
greater restrictions on smokers.  France’s health minister will unveil a plan to remove
branding from cigarette packs in coming weeks, Le Parisien
reported Sept. 5, without citing anyone. The Russian government
plans to submit a law banning smoking in public places to
Parliament by Nov. 1. The country has the second-largest tobacco
market after China. BAT had 20.8 percent of eastern Europe’s
cigarette market in 2011, while Imperial had 11.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Russian government wants to reduce premature deaths
caused by smoking, Deputy Health Minister Sergei Velmiaikin said
Sept. 3. The world’s first plain-pack law is due to take effect
in Australia Dec. 1, and governments in New Zealand and the U.K.
are considering similar legislation.  Interviews  UniCredit Sees Bank Union Ready for Large Firms by July  Federico Ghizzoni, chief executive officer of  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , talked about the European Central Bank’s bond-purchase
program, the Italian economy and the outlook for a European
banking union.  He spoke Sept. 8 with Bloomberg Television’s  Guy Johnson  in
Cernobbio, Italy.  Barnier Sees EU Bank Supervisor Likely by January  European Union Financial Services Commissioner  Michel
Barnier  talked with reporters about banking supervision.  He spoke Sept. 8 in Cernobbio, Italy.  Intesa Warns Against Veering From European Integration  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  Chief Executive Officer Enrico
Cucchiani discussed the Italian economy and European banking,
fiscal, economic and political integration.  He talked with Bloomberg Television’s Guy Johnson in
Cernobbio, Italy.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 