-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Unexpectedly Falls $3.28 Billion
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-09-10T20:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/consumer-credit-in-u-s-unexpectedly-falls-3-28-billion-in-july.html
Consumer borrowing in the U.S.
unexpectedly decreased in July for the first time in almost a
year, restrained by a second straight decline in credit-card
debt.  The $3.28 billion  drop  followed a revised $9.8 billion jump
the previous month that was bigger than first estimated, the
 Federal Reserve  said today in Washington. Economists projected a
$9.2 billion rise, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. Revolving credit, which includes credit card
spending, decreased $4.82 billion, the most since April 2011.  The drop in credit-card borrowing coincides with a slowdown
in hiring this year and a rise in consumer pessimism that
indicate households are wary of taking on debt. Employers added
fewer workers to payrolls than forecast in August, while a gain
in average hourly earnings from a year earlier matched the
smallest increase since records began in 2007.  “Households are definitely still in deleveraging mode,
they’re hesitant to take on new debt,” said  Ryan Wang , an
economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in  New York . “I think
credit card debt is going to be flat to up slightly, and
mortgage balances are still falling.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg  survey  of 37 economists ranged
from gains of $5 billion to $15 billion after a previously
reported June increase of $6.46 billion.  Data Revisions  Today’s  consumer credit  report included revisions dating
back to December 2010 that are based on results of a two-part
survey of finance companies in 2010 and 2011, according to a Fed
statement. The survey is conducted at five-year intervals to
estimate lending to U.S. consumers and businesses.  Non-revolving debt , such as that for college tuition or
auto purchases, climbed $1.55 billion in July, the smallest gain
since a decrease in August 2011. It climbed $13.1 billion in
June. Cars and light trucks sold in July at a 14.05 million
annual rate after a 14.3 million pace in June, according to
Ward’s Automotive Group. Borrowing may have held up in August as
 auto sales  were the strongest in three years.  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
educational loans, rose by $1.1 billion in July before adjusting
for seasonal variations. President  Barack Obama  signed into law
a bill to keep student-loan  interest rates , now at 3.4 percent,
from doubling on July 1. The one-year extension on existing
rates affects about 7.4 million students, according to the White
House.  Revolving Debt  The decrease in  revolving debt  followed a $3.2 billion drop
a month earlier, the first back-to-back decline since February
2011. The report doesn’t track debt secured by real estate, such
as home equity lines of credit and home mortgages.  The recovery is still being held back by limited progress
in the labor market, which added fewer jobs than forecast in
August. The  unemployment rate  eased to 8.1 percent, marking the
43rd straight month above 8 percent, as people left the  labor
force , Labor Department figures showed Sept. 7. The stretch is
the longest of such elevated levels in the post-World War II
era.  Companies like  Hooker Furniture Corp. (HOFT)  are “hopeful”
demand will pick up by year-end.  “We believe this is due to uncertainty around the pending
national election, expiring tax breaks and the unresolved debt
crisis,” Paul Toms, chairman and chief executive officer of the
Martinsville, Virginia-based company, said on a Sept. 6 earnings
call. “We are hopeful that demand will improve as we enter what
is typically the strongest selling season of the year.”  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending  in the second quarter rose at a 1.7
percent annual rate, the slowest pace in three quarters,
according to Commerce Department figures.  Most measures of household confidence declined in August.
The Conference Board’s  index  decreased to 60.6 from a revised
65.4 in July, the biggest one-month decline since October,
according to the New York-based private research group. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 46.5 in the week
ended Sept. 2, the fifth straight week below minus 40, a level
typically associated with severe economic discontent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  