-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Greece Struggles for Aid
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-09-10T21:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-greece-struggles-for-aid.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
rose the most in more than a month as  Greece  struggled to
qualify for aid payments.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 2.4 basis points to a mid-price of
95.4 basis points as of 4:57 p.m. in New York the most since
Aug. 2, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts
tied to  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  rose the most since June.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras failed to secure an
agreement from his coalition partners on 11.5 billion euros
($14.7 billion) of spending cuts required by lenders to qualify
for aid, stoking concern that a global slowdown will taint
corporate balance sheets. Italy’s economy shrank in the second
quarter more than previously reported,  China ’s industrial output
grew in August at the slowest rate since 2009 and  Japan ’s
economy expanded at half the pace initially estimated.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, climbed from
93 basis points on Sept. 7, the lowest since April 4. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Swap Spread  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, narrowed 0.2 basis point to 14.8 basis
points as of 5:19 p.m. in  New York . The measure, which falls
when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and rises
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities , is
down from 54.7 in November, the highest since May 2009.  Swaps tied to Transocean increased 3.6 basis points to
170.4 at 5:27 p.m. in New York, the most since June 1, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. The world’s largest offshore driller sold $1.5 billion
of debt today to fund the construction of four vessels capable
of deep-water drilling. The company agreed to sell most of its
shallow-water fleet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  