-- Coty Said to Delay IPO to 2013
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-09-10T20:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/coty-said-to-delay-ipo-to-2013.html
Coty Inc. (COTY) , the perfume maker that
filed for a U.S. initial public offering in June, is delaying
the sale until at least next year, according to three people
familiar with the process.  Coty, which had planned to complete the IPO this year, is
pushing the offering back partly to give new Chief Executive
Officer Michele Scannavini time to adjust to the role, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the matter is private.
Scannavini took over Aug. 1, replacing Bernd Beetz.  The fragrance company, whose products include scents by
 Beyonce Knowles  and  Heidi Klum , had filed to raise as much as
$700 million in the offering. Coty has sought to increase
revenue by entering new regions and expanding distribution of
its brands in emerging markets.  Kevin Janeczko, a spokesman for New York-based Coty, didn’t
respond to a telephone message seeking comment.  The makeup manufacturer is also holding off on its IPO
after public companies in the same business have lost momentum
recently, the people said.  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) , the maker of Mac
cosmetics and Clinique skin-care products, finished last week
6.7 percent below its 2012 peak, even as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose on Friday to the highest since January 2008.  New Customers  Coty filed for the offering after failing to gain control
of  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) ’s global door-to-door sales network
earlier this year. Chairman Bart Becht had attempted the
acquisition to find new customers for Coty’s cosmetics and more
than double its annual sales from brands including Cerruti and
Wolfgang Joop. Avon’s stock has lost 32 percent from its April
peak this year through Sept. 7.  Net revenue in fiscal 2012 is projected to be more than
$4.5 billion, and  cash flow  from operations may be more than
$550 million, an increase from $417.5 million in the previous
year, Coty said in its June 29 filing. In the 12 months ended
March 31, the company had operating income of $304 million.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley are managing the sale. Coty, which holds perfume
licenses for brands including  Calvin Klein  and  Marc Jacobs , was
founded in 1904 in Paris by Corsican-born Francois Coty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  