-- Could Romney Accomplish Anything Once Elected?
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-09-10T22:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/could-romney-accomplish-anything-once-elected-.html
This election is likely to result
either in a continued face-off between President  Barack Obama 
and congressional Republicans or in a unified Republican
government led by  Mitt Romney .  The first scenario, as I argued  last week , is a recipe for
legislative gridlock, because neither side accepts the other’s
view of how to promote the national interest and neither side
will read the election results as a reason to compromise.  Even in the second scenario, though, getting legislation
through Congress is going to be very hard.  All new presidents want to accomplish a lot quickly. For
Romney, however, the clock will tick more loudly. Tax rates are
scheduled to rise in the new year. He will need legislation to
roll them back, and to make good on his campaign promise to cut
them an additional 20 percent. The 2011 deal to raise the debt
ceiling reduces planned defense spending starting next year, and
Romney says he wants to reverse that, too.  Perhaps worst for Romney, the government will hit the debt
ceiling again early next year. During the primaries, he pledged
not to raise it unless Congress passes a constitutional
amendment to limit federal spending to 18 percent of the
economy. That would take a two-thirds vote by the House and the
Senate. It’s not going to happen.  Breaking Promises  A Romney presidency, in other words, would have to start
with his breaking a promise to conservatives.  He would have to get Republican congressmen to break their
own promises, too, because many of them made the same pledge he
did. And he wouldn’t be able to rely on Democratic votes to
raise the  debt ceiling . Especially if Republicans have just
taken the Senate, Democrats will probably do what minority
parties usually do: let the majority take the heat for an
unpopular but necessary step. Since any Republican majority in
the Senate is likely to be narrow, Romney won’t have votes to
spare.  Romney also says he wants to restructure Medicare and
Medicaid, repeal Obama’s health-care law, reform the  tax code 
and put the country on a path to a balanced budget. He could, in
theory, wait to tackle those issues (unlike tax rates, defense
spending and the debt ceiling). But some congressmen might want
to tie them together -- for example, they may want to replace
defense cuts with reductions in other parts of the budget, and
that might require shrinking Medicare or Medicaid.  If Romney tries to achieve some of his goals by reaching a
grand deal with the Democrats, he will find the obstacles are
large. Democrats won’t accept any bargain unless it raises taxes
on the rich and leaves Obama’s health-care plan in place.
Republicans, with control of Congress and the White House, won’t
see why they should concede on either point.  There has been  a lot  of  debate  in recent weeks about
whether all of Romney’s budgetary goals can be reconciled as a
 matter of mathematics . Even if they can, it’s not clear they can
be reconciled legislatively. It seems highly likely that Romney
will have to abandon some of his goals. Many pundits have cast
doubt on whether he would really push to repeal Obama’s health-
care law, transform Medicare or balance the budget.  The prevailing view has been that Romney will stick with
his tax cuts, on the assumption that they are what matter most
to Republicans. My own sense is that today’s Republicans care
much more about spending. Romney adopted the 20 percent tax-cut
plan late in the primaries, and it doesn’t seem to have stirred
much grassroots enthusiasm. ( Neither did  most of his primary
rivals’ tax-cut plans.)  All Romney said about taxes in his address to the
Republican convention was that he would cut them for businesses
and not raise them for the middle class. He isn’t running on his
tax plan the way earlier Republican nominees such as  George W. Bush ,  Bob Dole  and  Ronald Reagan  ran on theirs.  Growing Realization  Holding out for a 20 percent  tax-rate  reduction in addition
to the extension of the Bush tax cuts will make Romney’s budget
math harder. He would have to raise the debt ceiling more, for
example. And the economic payoff is low: Cutting the top tax
rate from 35 percent to 28 percent increases the incentive to
work, save and invest by only 11 percent, a much smaller supply-
side effect than the Reagan tax cuts had.  My bet is that Romney’s tax cut would fall victim to a
growing Republican realization: Even if they triumph this
November, they will find it very hard to legislate.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  