-- CVC, Goldman Said to Propose Handing Control of Nine to Lenders
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-09-10T06:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/cvc-goldman-said-to-propose-handing-control-of-nine-to-lenders.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have proposed a debt-for-equity swap at
Nine Entertainment Co. that would hand control of the Australian
media company to its creditors, said two people with knowledge
of the matter.  Under the proposal, Nine’s senior lenders, including
private-equity firms  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Oaktree
Capital Group LLC (OAK) , would control about 70 percent of the
restructured company, said the people, who declined to be
identified as the details are private. So-called mezzanine debt
funds managed by New York-based Goldman Sachs would hold most of
the remainder, while CVC would keep a small stake, they said.  CVC’s Asia-Pacific unit is proposing the plan ahead of a
February deadline to refinance a A$2.8 billion ($2.9 billion)
loan it took on when buying Nine. The buyout firm would lose
most of the about A$1.9 billion of equity it put into Nine,
which owns one of  Australia ’s three commercial free-to-air
television networks, the people said.  Spokesmen for London-based CVC and Goldman Sachs didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment. The Australian
Financial Review reported the proposal earlier today.  CVC last week agreed to sell Nine’s Australian magazine
unit to  Germany ’s Bauer Media Group for more than A$500 million,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The sale is part
of CVC’s push to reduce Nine’s debt, an effort that also
included an unsuccessful attempt to sell the Ticketek agency,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Nine, which also owns half of the NineMSN digital business,
reported A$415 million in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and goodwill amortization for the year through June
2011, CVC said on Dec. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  