-- Don’t Let Libor Bankers Police Themselves
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/don-t-let-libor-bankers-police-themselves.html
Sooner or later, the global inquiry
into the rigging of Libor will have to deal with a sticky issue:
what to do with the British Bankers’ Association, the trade
group that was supposed to guarantee the integrity of one of the
world’s most important financial benchmarks.  Founded in 1919,  the BBA  exists primarily to lobby for the
interests of its member banks. In the 1980s, it took on the
added responsibility of overseeing the London interbank offered
rate, which is supposed to provide an objective measure of
banks’ borrowing costs. Calculated every workday morning, Libor
is used to determine payments on at least $300 trillion in
mortgages, corporate loans and derivative contracts worldwide.  If the BBA had set out to design a system that its members
could manipulate, it couldn’t have done a much better job.
Instead of using the  interest rates  from actual transactions,
the association relies on banks to report their borrowing costs.
The chairmen of the committees that are supposed to oversee
Libor, investigate misbehavior and impose sanctions are all from
contributing institutions. Absurdly, the BBA won’t say whether
the committees have ever taken any enforcement actions, and
keeps secret the names of all the committee members. That
amounts to letting the banks act as police, judge and jury in a
Star Chamber.  Libor Flaws  We now know that bankers exploited Libor’s flaws as early
as the 1990s. They manipulated their numbers to improve traders’
profits and to hide their financial troubles. All the while, the
BBA demonstrated its utter inability -- or unwillingness -- to
stop it. There is even evidence suggesting the BBA was
complicit.  Consider, for example, a conversation between a senior
Barclays Plc manager and a BBA representative cited in the
bank’s  settlement  with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. In April 2008, when a Wall Street Journal article
questioned the integrity of Libor, the manager “informed BBA in
a telephone call that it had not been reporting accurately,
although he noted that Barclays was not the worst offender of
the panel bank members. ‘We’re clean, but we’re dirty-clean,
rather than clean-clean.’ The BBA representative responded, ‘no
one’s clean-clean.’”  The BBA’s response has been a case study in self-regulation
gone wrong. Throughout the period of manipulation, the BBA
consistently claimed that Libor was reliable. Only in November
2008, after about seven months of deliberation, did the BBA make
 minor changes  in the Libor process. Judging by the CFTC order,
which says the manipulation continued through at least mid-2009,
the BBA’s changes had little effect.  Surreal Report  In a surreal 2010  annual report , when the investigation of
Libor was well under way, the BBA said that Libor “has attracted
widespread acclaim and its strengths lie in the fact that it is
simple, transparent and market-led.”  Given the BBA’s history and inherent conflicts, it’s hard
to imagine how it could be found fit and proper to manage Libor.
This is a big problem, because the association owns the Libor
trademark. Hundreds of trillions of dollars in financial
contracts cite BBA Libor. Even if the market moves to a
different benchmark, as Bloomberg View has  advocated , those
legacy contracts will be around for decades.  What to do?  One option  is to bring the currently
unregulated Libor process under the purview of U.K. financial
authorities. Regulators could sit on the Libor oversight
committees and set enforceable rules for contributing banks.
They could also mandate more transparency by requiring
contributors to publish information on actual borrowing
transactions, against which a bank’s Libor quotes could be
checked.  Ideally, the BBA should be removed from the picture. U.K.
regulators persuaded Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to step down; they should put similar pressure on the
BBA to sell Libor. An organization such as a financial exchange
or financial information company would have an incentive to
guarantee the benchmark’s accuracy. (Disclosure: Bloomberg LP,
the parent of  Bloomberg News , has proposed its own alternative
to Libor, and is a competitor of Thomson Reuters Corp., which
conducts Libor surveys on behalf of the BBA.)  U.K. authorities have the power to make Libor better. They
should use it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  King Abdullah and Jordan’s
subsidy addiction ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  power failures and Mormon
food hoarding ; William Pesek on  China’s education policies in
Hong Kong ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on how much  Romney could actually
accomplish as president ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on
 whether we’re better off ; Barry Nalebuff on why  New York should
ban calories in beverages .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 