-- Dutch Disease Seen in Manufacturing Bond Decline: Canada
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-09-10T15:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/dutch-disease-seen-in-manufacturing-bond-decline.html
The Canadian bond market suggests
manufacturers are being penalized for central bank policies that
have allowed a commodity boom to drive up the country’s dollar
in what’s being termed as “Dutch Disease” by critics.  Bonds of machinery companies in the Bank of America’s
Canadian Industrial Index have returned 1.7 percent this year,
compared with gains of 6.5 percent for miners and 3.2 percent
for energy explorers. Yields on debt of  Finning International
Inc. (FTT) , the world’s largest dealer of Caterpillar Inc. equipment,
are 26 basis points wider in 2012 relative to government
benchmarks while average yields in the industrial index have
narrowed 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  rejected the notion in
a speech Sept. 7, saying price gains in oil and other
commodities are being driven by demand from  emerging markets 
rather than central bank policies. The country’s main opposition
 New Democratic Party  has said steps should be taken to counter
Dutch Disease, a term used in the 1970s to refer to the
Netherlands’ uneven economy after natural gas deposits were
discovered in the North Sea. The resulting rise in the country’s
currency was blamed for the demise of Dutch manufacturing.  “We all know Ontario is struggling with the problems with
the auto sector,” said Patrick O’Toole, a Toronto-based  money
manager  who helps oversee C$70 billion ($72 billion) at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC Global Asset Management unit
and holds  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  bonds. “If
we didn’t have the west doing well then we’d be in much worse
straits. It’s nice we have some engines firing as opposed to
none.”  Dollar Strength  While Canadian  employment  rose faster than economists
forecast in August, jobs in the manufacturing sector declined
for the third straight month,  Statistics Canada  said Sept. 7.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.8 percent to 97.86
cents per U.S. dollar last week. It touched 97.55 cents today,
the strongest level since Sept. 2, 2011. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0241.  The Canadian currency has strengthened 3 percent this year,
the most among nine developed-nation peers monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  has lost
2 percent, while the euro has weakened 3.4 percent.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian investment-grade corporations
rather than the federal government narrowed one basis point to
150 basis points in the week ending Sept. 7, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields rose to 3.13 percent
from 3.09 percent on Aug. 31, the data show.  Yield Spreads  Government bonds  opened little changed, with the yield on
Canada’s benchmark 10-year debt one basis point lower at 1.85
percent at 11:41 a.m. in Toronto. The price of the 2.75 percent
security due June 2022 rose 10 cents to C$108.04.  In the provincial  bond market , the spread over federal debt
narrowed two basis points to 76 basis points between Aug. 31 and
Sept. 7. Yields increased to 2.57 percent from 2.54 percent,
according to another Bank of America index.  Canadian corporate bonds have returned 4.4 percent this
year, compared with gains of 1.4 percent by the nation’s
government bonds and 1.8 percent by provincials, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  ‘Western Bias’  Carney called the “Dutch Disease” allegations a
“caricature” that would limit the beneficial development of
the Alberta  oil sands , during the speech near Calgary, home to
energy companies such as Suncor Energy Inc. and  Encana Corp. (ECA)   “We have a western bias in our portfolio,” said John O’Connell, who oversees C$560 million of assets as chief
executive officer of the Toronto-based investment firm Davis Rea
Ltd. O’Connell holds bonds of  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ,  Cenovus Energy
Inc. (CVE)  and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  Captive finance units
of makers of autos and heavy equipment “have always been a bad
investment decision.”  Alberta’s economy, along with neighboring Saskatchewan and
British Columbia, is outpacing national growth, helped by an
expanding oil and gas sector where companies such as Suncor and
Imperial Oil are building oil sands extraction projects. Canada
is the world’s sixth-largest crude producer and the third-
largest natural gas producer.  Carney’s rejection that natural resource extraction and oil
exports are hurting manufacturing is “positive,” for the oil
and gas sector, said Bruce March, chief executive officer of
Imperial Oil, in an interview following the speech.  Economic Success  “The energy export diversification issue is still quite
big,” March said. “That was one of the highlights near the end
of the governor’s remarks.”  Carney sought to silence his critics by pointing to
Canada’s success in distancing itself from the financial turmoil
that has gripped economies worldwide since 2008.  “The logic of  Dutch Disease  requires that we undo our
successes in order to depreciate our currency,” Carney said.
“Taken to its natural conclusion, this logic dictates that we
shut down the oil sands, abandon our resource wealth, have high
and variable inflation, run large fiscal deficits and diminish
our financial sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  