-- Dutch Vote May Yield Grand Coalition in Bid for Stability
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-09-11T14:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/dutch-elections-may-yield-grand-coalition-in-bid-for-stability.html
Having held more elections than
perennially unsettled  Italy  in the past decade, the Netherlands
tomorrow may vote to return the grand coalition that governed
for eight years until 2002.  Liberal Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  may need to give Diederik Samsom’s  Labor Party  a second chance to govern with him in the
fifth national ballot since 2002, to establish a stable
majority. No government since 1998 has served a full four-year
term. By contrast, Italy has had two national votes since 2002.  A so-called purple coalition of the Liberals, Labor and
D66, which ruled the country between 1994 and 2002 would get 82
of the 150 parliamentary seats, according to a poll by  TNS NIPO 
published today. The Liberals gained 35 seats in the survey, one
seat more than Labor. The survey of 1,917 people had a margin of
error of two to three seats.  “A coalition of Liberals, Labor and one or two other
parties is certainly possible, but the most important question
is, do parties want this?” Philip van Praag, an associate
professor of political science at the University of Amsterdam,
said Sept. 6. “Within the  Liberal Party  there’s hefty
resistance against such a coalition.”  Such a government would pair parties that have clashed on
both domestic and European policies. Rutte, an ally of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  as she staves off calls to provide more
aid to cash-strapped southern European countries, has drawn
criticism from some opposition parties for helping out  Greece 
while cutting back pensions and health-care spending.  Greek Lifeline  Samsom is willing to extend Greece’s financial lifeline
while Rutte won’t back a third aid package.  Both politicians have said any coalition involving the two
parties won’t be easy. Governing with the Liberals, or VVD,
would be “tricky” while the partnering with the Socialists
would feel like a “warm bath,” Samsom said at a debate in  The
Hague  on Sept. 3.  Rutte yesterday said a purple coalition is “practically
impossible” as it lacks an upper-house majority. His favored
coalition partner, the  Christian Democrats , or CDA, has dropped
in the polls to 12 seats. The Socialists would get 21.  “Now that the economy overtook immigration as the main
topic, a government like that comes in sight,” said  Andre Krouwel , an associate professor of political science at VU
University in Amsterdam. “The formation of a new government
might be less time-consuming than some fear.”  Slumping Economy  The Dutch economy may shrink this year, according to the
median of 11 economist forecasts gathered by Bloomberg. An
unemployment rate of 6.5 percent, the highest in seven years, is
still the second-lowest in the euro area after  Austria .  The Netherlands today sold 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion)
of 10-year bonds at the lowest yield in at least five years,
signaling investor confidence in the country’s budget
discipline.  “Politicians now just don’t dare to talk about the
incredibly complicated and fragmented parliament we’ll have
after the elections,” said Kees Aarts, a professor of political
science at the University of Twente.  Coalition talks after 2010 elections lasted 127 days. Rutte
beat Labor by one seat in that vote and held coalition talks
with Labor, D66 and GreenLeft. Those negotiations failed after
which Rutte opted for a minority Cabinet supported by anti-
immigration leader  Geert Wilders ’ Freedom Party in parliament.  Poll Ratings  The TNS NIPO poll showed Wilders’ party dropping to 17
seats from 24 in the last parliament.  Early elections were called after Rutte’s Cabinet resigned
on April 23, when Wilders withdrew his backing for spending cuts
and tax increases. Rutte and three opposition parties within
days struck an austerity deal to ensure that next year’s budget
deficit is reduced to meet a limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product set by the European Union, down from 3.6
percent forecast by government agency CPB for this year.  The deficit discipline has helped make the country of
almost 17 million people one of four in the euro area that has
kept its top  credit rating .  Rutte obtained a history degree at the Leiden University in
1992, was chairman of the youth department of the VVD and worked
for 10 years at Unilever in different capacities before he
became Deputy Minister of Social Affairs in 2002. That Cabinet,
led by Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende, fell within months.  ‘Excellent Teacher’  He teaches a class once a week at the Varias college of the
Johan de Witt Scholengroep in The Hague. He’s an “excellent
teacher” and gives civics lessons to children of pre-vocational
secondary education, school director Hans Huizer said Sept. 5.
He started the volunteer work in 2008 and has continued to do so
since he became prime minister.  Rutte hasn’t sought Wilders for a new government. “You
didn’t take responsibility when it was necessary and these
difficult times call for leadership,” Rutte told the Freedom
Party leader in various debates.  A trained pianist who considered studying classical music,
Rutte is unmarried and goes on an annual skiing trip with
friends. He told an audience in Rotterdam in November at a
Unilever event that he also regularly travels to  New York  City
with a friend.  “He is a clear example of a power broker. He is one-
dimensional, he devoted his whole life to politics, and made
it,” Krouwel said. “At some point voters may turn against him
for shifting principles,” Krouwel added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  