-- Dutch Safety Threatened as Voters Ponder Austerity: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-09-10T06:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/dutch-safety-threatened-as-voters-ponder-austerity-euro-credit.html
Investors were so concerned about
protecting their money from the  European debt crisis  last month
they paid to hold Dutch government notes. An election this week
is now raising questions about that status as a shelter.  The securities underperformed AAA-rated peers in Germany
and  Finland  this month as the lead of Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s pro-austerity  Liberal Party  narrowed in polling before
the Sept. 12 vote. After slipping to less than zero in August,
Dutch  two-year yields  climbed last week to the highest level in
more than two months.  “Over the next few weeks, Dutch bonds could struggle just
purely on the risk that the election doesn’t produce a clear
outcome or produces the wrong outcome,” said  Padhraic Garvey ,
head of developed-markets debt at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“Ultimately it will be okay, but there could be a bit of
nervousness over the next couple of weeks.”  As one of the euro area’s four countries that still has a
AAA grade from the three biggest credit rating companies, demand
for Dutch debt survived the collapse of Rutte’s government in
April as investors focused on the nation’s relative fiscal
strength as a haven from  Europe ’s market turbulence. Prolonged
talks on a new coalition may delay planned cuts to the  budget
deficit , with polls showing the election is too close to call.  Garvey recommends investors choose Austrian bonds over
their Dutch counterparts as they await the elections results.
The extra Austrian yield over Dutch bonds narrowed to 21 basis
points from 32 on Aug. 31.  Dutch Stability  Dutch 10-year rates jumped 35 basis points since falling
Aug. 2 to the lowest level since June. That left the extra
yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold the debt instead
of 10-year German bunds at 33 basis points, albeit still less
than half the three-year high of 79 basis points in April.  “Any political instability resulting from the election
could take the spread versus  Germany  back to the April-May
level,” Elaine Lin, a strategist at Morgan Stanley in  London ,
wrote in a client note on Sept. 6. “The underlying structural
and cyclical weakness of the economy could undermine investor
confidence in the Netherlands versus Germany in the long run.”  The country’s two-year notes yielded 0.10 percent at the
end of last week, up from a record low of minus 0.035 percent on
Aug. 2, which meant investors were willing to lose some of their
money in return for the safety of holding Dutch securities.  Latest Polls  The Dutch Labor Party, which advocates less austerity and
more time for the country to meet its budget-deficit limit as a
way to boost growth, cut the gap with the Liberal Party ahead of
the elections, a poll by Ipsos Synovate showed Sept. 8. Labor
stands at 35 seats, the same as the Liberal Party and 14 more
than the Socialist Party, the poll showed. The Liberals gained
one seat from the previous poll on Sept. 5, while  Geert Wilders ’
anti-immigration  Freedom Party  lost one to 19 seats.  “If you leave the strict austerity policy your economy
will grow stronger and that’s what financial markets will
appreciate,” Diederik Samsom, Labor leader, told Bloomberg
yesterday at a party meeting in Drachten, northern Netherlands.  The D66 party has 13 seats. A so-called purple coalition of
Labor, the Liberal Party and D66 would become possible with 76
seats of 150 seats in parliament. NOS television cited an Ipsos
Synovate poll on Sept. 6 in which the Liberals had 34 seats with
Labor trailing by two seats.  “As it looks right now, there’s a strong possibility that
we could see protracted talks and that may create, especially in
the current environment, more uncertainty,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior market economist at Rabobank Nederland in
Utrecht. “There’s clearly a chance that Dutch bonds will
underperform, but we also think that with yields or spreads
going much higher it could easily impact on the decision-making
and speed up the process of bringing the parties together.”  Still Safe  Declines by Dutch bonds may be temporary as the nation
keeps its finances under control and nurses an economy that
emerged from a recession this year, said Allan von Mehren, chief
analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. The government is
forecasting a 2013 deficit at 2.7 percent.  “Of course when you have uncertainty some investors might
step to the sidelines a bit until that uncertainty is out the
way and the money will come back again,” von Mehren said by
telephone. “With the debt levels and budget deficit, the
Netherlands should still be a safe haven.”  Under the  Dutch electoral system , shares of the vote
translate directly into seats in parliament, with 0.67 percent
of the nationwide vote enough for a seat.  Glut of Parties  That can lead to a glut of parties in parliament, meaning
it could take months for a coalition to be formed, prompting
investors to question whether the country can deliver on its
pledge to keep its budget deficit below 3 percent of gross
domestic product, the original ceiling for joining the euro.  The Socialists, led by Emile Roemer, oppose more spending
reductions and refuse to hand over more sovereignty to Europe,
while the  Freedom Party , led by Geert Wilders, seeks an exit
from the European Union and the euro.  Elections were called after Rutte’s cabinet resigned on
April 23, when Wilders, who had been backing a minority
government of Liberals and  Christian Democrats , withdrew support
for spending cuts and tax increases. Rutte won support from
opposition parties for an austerity package three days later.  “Unless we get a big surprise package in power, I think it
will be okay,” said Garvey at ING. “You just never know.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  