-- EADS Pulls in Airbus Executives to Drive Defense Unit Turnaround
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-09-10T17:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/eads-pulls-in-airbus-executives-to-drive-defense-unit-turnaround.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  recruited two senior Airbus SAS executives to help
turn around the company’s struggling Cassidian defense unit.  Airbus’s head of strategy, Christian Scherer, will lead a
newly created sales and international operations unit of
Cassidian, the company said today in a statement. He is joined
by Pilar Albiac-Murillo, who leaves her job as head of quality
and lean management at the Toulouse-based aircraft manufacturer
to become Cassidian chief operating officer.  The two managers are part of a wider realignment within
Cassidian a week after Bernhard Gerwert was named chief
executive officer in place of ousted Stefan Zoller. The unit has
become one of the first targets for overhaul under new EADS CEO
 Tom Enders , who ran the defense business before taking on his
previous job as head of Airbus.  “The goal of this planned new division setup is mainly to
reduce complexity, developing Cassidian towards clear
accountability and empowerment in order to enable a better
reactivity towards market challenges,” Gerwert said in the
statement.  Enders said earlier today at a press briefing in Berlin
that he is seeking a more international focus at Cassidian.
Scherer held senior roles in sales and purchasing at Airbus
before taking over the strategy position, where he played a
major role on the A320neo, the aircraft maker’s best selling
product introduced in December 2010.  Pilar ran lean management at  General Motors Co. (GM)  before
moving to Airbus. In addition to her Cassidian-wide role, she
will be in charge of overseeing the unit’s Spanish operations.  Cassidian’s French operations will be led by Jean-Marc
Nasr, who will also take charge of the cyber security business.
He retains his role as head of the secure communications
business. Additional changes are planned and Cassidian will
create a program organization to manage all product lines, it
said. The person to head that operation has yet to be named.  Gerwert’s team is rounded out by Julian Whitehead, in
charge of finance, and human resources Chief Christoph Hoppe.
Former Cassidian board members Bernd Wenzler, Herve Guillou and
Rani Karmi will be reassigned within EADS, while Bruno Rambaud
will leave the company.  Cassidian had sales last year of 5.6 billion euros, out of
out of 49 billion for all of EADS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  