-- EEX May Struggle to Take ICE Carbon Share, Barclays Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-09-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/eex-may-struggle-to-take-ice-carbon-share-barclays-says.html
European Energy Exchange AG,
appointed yesterday to sell carbon allowances on behalf of the
European Union, may struggle to win futures volume from ICE
Futures  Europe , according to Barclays Plc.  EEX, based in Leipzig,  Germany , plans to sell at least 250
million metric tons of permits valid for the third phase of the
region’s emissions trading system on behalf of 24 of the 27 EU
member states from the end of October, according to a statement
on the  EU’s website . They are valued at 2 billion euros ($2.6
billion), based on yesterday’s closing prices on ICE.  “The EEX sales will be spot and other platforms which
attracted most of the spot sales did find it difficult to take
forward trading away from ICE,” said  Trevor Sikorski , an
analyst in London for the bank. Other exchanges that have
offered spot trading include Bluenext SA and Nasdaq OMX Inc.  “It is always a big call to suggest traders will change
platforms, once liquidity has been established,” he said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  Starting next year, the EU is moving toward selling about
half of its allowances, after having given about 97 percent for
free through this year. The eight-year trading period starting
in 2013 is known as Phase 3. To limit price shocks as the bloc
phases out free allowances, the EU agreed to auction a total of
120 million Phase 3 permits and 30 million aviation allowances
for airlines this year, before the next period begins.  “In relative terms, the EEX will certainly increase its
market share in EUAs from the auction churn,” Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst in  London  for Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said in an e-mail.  “This does not necessarily mean however that ICE will see
its absolute volumes drop,” he said yesterday.  ICE Share  Both EEX and ICE will probably boost trading as the market
grows, he said.  ICE, which lost the tender to EEX, handled 5.4 billion tons
of EU allowances last year, about 84 percent of the market,
according to data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The EEX
handled 81 million tons of futures and 25.6 million tons of spot
contracts, according to a  Jan. 12 statement .  ICE will remain attractive to carbon traders because that
exchange has liquid markets in related markets, such as natural
gas and coal, said Matteo Mazzoni, an analyst for NE Nomisma
Energia Srl in Bologna,  Italy .  More competition from EEX may prompt ICE to develop new
products, such as German power, Mazzoni said yesterday. EEX
already offers such contracts.  “That’s more likely than competition based on fees,” he
said.  Germany,  Poland  and the U.K. opted out of the joint sales
that will be handled by EEX and will offer their portion of
supply independently. The U.K. has selected ICE Futures Europe
to carry out its auctions, while Germany will sell its permits
through EEX from early next month. Poland is yet to select a
venue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  