-- Egypt Current Account Gap Widens; Capital Outflows Increase
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-09-10T13:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/egypt-current-account-gap-widens-capital-outflows-increase-1-.html
Egypt ’s current account deficit
widened 30 percent to $7.9 billion in the fiscal year that ended
in June, and capital outflows surged as investors shunned
government debt amid political unrest.  Tourism revenue declined to $9.4 billion from $10.6 billion
in the previous year, the central bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. Portfolio investment outflows almost doubled to
about $5 billion, while  foreign direct investment  was little
changed at $2.1 billion.  Egypt’s economy stalled after the January 2011 uprising
that ended  Hosni Mubarak ’s three decades in power. Foreign
reserves have dropped by more than half since then, to $15.1
billion in August, and borrowing costs surged about 50 percent
amid persistent clashes between protesters and security forces
that left dozens dead. The government is negotiating a $4.8
billion International Monetary Fund loan to help plug the gap.  “A pick up in tourism earnings will help, but high
commodity prices and weak European demand are likely to keep the
trade deficit wide,”  Simon Williams , Dubai-based senior
economist at HSBC Middle East Ltd., said by e-mail. “Egypt will
likely need access to IMF funds and other concessional capital
flows to offset pressure on its external accounts.”  The FDI figure was boosted by  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s purchase
in May of additional shares in its unit  Egyptian Co. for Mobile
Services , in a deal valued at about $2 billion. In the previous
three quarters, total foreign investment was $218 million.  Net private transfers in the fiscal year surged 44 percent
to $17.8 billion, led by remittances from Egyptians living
abroad.  An IMF delegation is due to arrive in Egypt in the second
half of this month to resume loan talks, Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said in an interview yesterday.  Egypt’s economy grew by 2.2 percent last fiscal year, el-
Saieed said. Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said he is aiming for
growth of about twice that pace in the current period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  