-- Emerging Stocks Rise to Two-Week High on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-10T21:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/emerging-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-on-stimulus-bets.html
Emerging-market stocks rose,
sending the benchmark index to a two-week high, as signs of weak
economic growth from China to the U.S. spurred speculation that
policy makers will take more steps to counter the slowdown.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.1 percent to
969.97 at 5:01 p.m. in  New York , climbing for a third day.
Brazilian steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA posted its
biggest three-day gain since January 2009 and  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) 
surged 7 percent, the most in three years, after a report that
 Taiwan  will ease curbs on Chinese investments.  Zoomlion Heavy
Industry Science & Technology Co. (1157) , a Chinese construction-
equipment maker, rose to a three-week high.  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  urged governments in Asia to
speed up infrastructure development in a Sept. 8 speech, while
 South Korea  announced $5.2 billion of economic support measures
today. Reports showed China’s imports fell in August while
industrial output rose the least in three years. The  Federal
Reserve  meets this week to discuss potential asset purchases
after the U.S. added fewer-than-estimated jobs last month.  “The fiscal stimulus in China is meaningful and could help
turn things around,” Greg Lesko, who helps manage over $700
million at Deltec Asset Management in New York, said in a phone
interview. “Over the short-term, I’d like to see the data
improve some, which is what we really need to see a sustained
rally.”  Fund Flows  China’s  industrial production  increased 8.9 percent in
August from a year earlier, the least since May 2009, the
statistics bureau said Sept. 9. Chinese inbound shipments slid
2.6 percent in August from a year earlier, trailing a median
estimate for a 3.5 percent gain among 35 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Investors pulled $1.8 billion from emerging-market stock
funds in the week ended Sept. 5, the most since May, according
to data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm
EPFR Global.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index added 0.1 percent, the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.3 percent and Taiwan’s Taiex Index
increased 0.8 percent. Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  climbed 0.4 percent
to the highest level since July 1996.  Poland’s WIG20 gained 0.8 percent while Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF) 
Index added 0.3 percent. OAO Novatek, Russia’s second-biggest
gas producer, sank the most since July after  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the
world’s biggest natural gas exporter, suspended fuel purchases.  The MSCI gauge has rallied 3.2 percent from a six-week low
on Sept. 5 after China unveiled new spending plans for roads and
subways and the  European Central Bank  announced a bond-buying
program to support growth in the European Union, which purchases
about 30 percent of exports from nations in the MSCI gauge.  CSN Jumps  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 301, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  CSN, as Cia. Siderurgica is known, added 6.1 percent and
Brazilian iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE3)  gained 3 percent as metals
advanced. Airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA jumped 5.5
percent after Veja magazine said that Qatar Airways Ltd. is in
talks to buy the carrier.  Zoomlion, China’s second-biggest maker of construction
equipment, jumped 6.1 percent in  Hong Kong , extending its three-
day rally to 18 percent.  Infrastructure development is key to promoting recovery and
achieving sustained and stable growth amid increasing downward
risks to the global economy, Hu said to business executives at
an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Vladivostok on
Sept. 8. China’s Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said measures to
support and stabilize trade will be announced soon,  China
Central Television  reported yesterday.  Korea Gas Falls  South Korea’s won strengthened 0.1 percent against the
dollar after the government unveiled its economic support
measures. The plan includes extra spending and tax cuts intended
to boost the housing market and car sales, the  Finance Ministry 
said today.  AU Optronics, Taiwan’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, jumped for a second day. Restrictions on
Chinese investments in industries including LCD panels will be
relaxed, the Taipei-based Economic Daily reported.  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the world’s largest producer of motor fuel from
coal, gained 2.6 percent in Johannesburg after saying fiscal
full-year profit rose 19 percent from a year earlier.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest liquefied natural gas
importer, tumbled 6.8 percent after saying it’s exploring
various financial options, including the sale of new shares, to
raise funds for investment. The retreat was the second-biggest
in the MSCI index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  