-- Euro Stays Lower on Crisis Concern Before French Payrolls
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-09-11T01:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/euro-holds-drops-on-crisis-concern-before-french-payrolls.html
The euro maintained a loss versus
the dollar from yesterday amid concern the sovereign debt crisis
is constraining growth in the region.  The shared currency remained weaker against the yen before
reports this week forecast to show French payrolls declined and
European industrial production contracted. Greek politicians
will meet for a second time tomorrow amid an impasse on spending
cuts required to receive the next tranche of bailout funds.
Demand for the dollar was limited before the policy setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  starts its two-day meeting
tomorrow.  “We’re bearish on the euro” in the six-month period, said
 Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
Australia’s second-largest lender. “We see the risks to the
euro-zone economies to the downside.”  The 17-nation euro traded at $1.2768 as of 10:18 a.m. in
 Tokyo  from yesterday when it declined 0.5 percent to $1.2758. It
was little changed at 99.86 yen from the  New York  close, when it
fell 0.4 percent. The dollar slid 0.1 percent to 78.21 yen.  A final reading on French  non-farm payrolls  will probably
confirm a 0.1 percent decline in the second-quarter from the
previous three-month period, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the national
statistics office Insee releases its figures today.  Economists in a separate Bloomberg poll estimate euro-area
 industrial production  declined 3.3 percent in July from a year
earlier. The European Union’s statistic office in Luxembourg
will report the data tomorrow.  Deeper Depression  Greek Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis, whose party is
one of the three in the coalition government, said no decision
had been made on spending cuts and that poorer citizens must be
protected from austerity measures. The three leaders agreed to
meet again tomorrow, two days before euro-area finance ministers
gather in Cyprus for a briefing on Greek progress.  German-led austerity demands are “pushing  Europe  into a
deeper and longer depression,” billionaire investor  George Soros  said in Berlin yesterday. “It’s all too real in the
periphery and it will reach  Germany  in the next six months or
so.” The country’s “policies largely determine the outcome of
the current crisis. It’s five minutes after midnight,” Soros
said.  ESM Ruling  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court is due to rule
tomorrow on the country’s participation in the European
Stability Mechanism, a permanent 500 billion-euro ($638 billion)
fund that offers loans to  member states  and may buy their bonds
to lower borrowing costs. Germany will be the biggest
contributor to the fund with a 27 percent share, a  statement 
from the European Commission shows. The Netherlands is holding
parliamentary elections on the same day.  The implied volatility of three-month options for Group of
Seven currencies fell to 7.85 percent yesterday, the lowest
since October 2007, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility
Index . A decrease makes investments in currencies with higher
benchmark lending rates more attractive as the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  The UBS AG V24 Carry Index, which measures returns from
borrowing in lower-rate currencies to buy higher-yielding ones
in so-called carry trades, has fallen 2.8 percent from a four-
month high on Aug. 9.  Quantitative Easing  Demand for the dollar was limited before the  Federal
Reserve ’s meeting amid speculation the central bank will
introduce a third round of asset purchases, known as QE3.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against those of six U.S. trading
partners, was little changed at 80.355 from 80.4 yesterday. The
index on Sept. 7 touched 80.151, the lowest since May 11.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of securities from 2008 to
2011 in two rounds of its quantitative-easing strategy. In an
Aug. 31 speech, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended his
unprecedented policies and laid out arguments for further action
to combat unemployment, which he called a “grave concern.”  “It’s highly likely that additional easing will be
announced at the FOMC meeting,” said Yoshitsugu Fujita,
assistant vice president of global markets in New York at
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. “Should QE3 be announced, the
dollar will be sold and probably continue to weaken.”  -- Editors: Jonathan Annells, Naoto Hosoda  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  