-- European Stocks Drop on China Import Decline, Greek Aid
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-09-10T15:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-on-china-data.html
European (SXXP)  stocks fell, after the
region’s equities posted their largest weekly gain in three
months, as China’s imports unexpectedly dropped, and Greece
struggled to qualify for aid payments.  Food and beverage stocks contributed the most to the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s retreat, as  Unilever NV (UNA)  and
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  each lost more than 1.5 percent.
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  slipped 2.1 percent after saying that
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s Chief Executive Officer would leave six months
after the conclusion of its planned takeover of the Swiss mining
company. Xstrata advanced 1.2 percent.  The Stoxx 600 declined 0.2 percent to 271.69 at the close.
The gauge surged the most since the beginning of June last week
as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said that policy
makers approved a bond-buying plan to lower borrowing costs in
the euro area.  “The latest trade data for August showed a surprise drop
in imports, suggesting that domestic demand remains weak,”
 Michael Hewson , a market analyst at CMC Markets U.K. Plc in
London, said, referring to China. “Even though inflation
remains low, there remains some uncertainty as to how far the
Chinese leadership will be able to go in stimulating domestic
consumption.”  China’s Economy  In China,  inbound shipments  declined 2.6 percent in August
from a year earlier, the customs bureau said in Beijing today.
That missed the median estimate of a 3.5 percent gain, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Imports rose 4.7 percent in
July from a year earlier.  Industrial production  in the world’s second-largest economy
increased the least in three years last month, according to a
report from the National Bureau of Statistics yesterday.
Production increased 8.9 percent, compared with 9.2 percent in
July. The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had called for a 9 percent gain.  Greece’s Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, meets with
officials from the European Commission, the ECB and the
 International Monetary Fund  today. He failed to obtain an
agreement from his coalition partners on the spending cuts
required to obtain further aid from the country’s bailout.  National benchmark indexes fell in 13 of the 18 western-
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 and Germany’s DAX slipped
less than 0.1 percent. France’s CAC 40 lost 0.4 percent.  German Decision  Germany’s highest court will issue a ruling this week on
bids to halt the country’s participation in the European
Stability Mechanism and the fiscal pact. The  Federal
Constitutional Court  will decide whether to suspend the 500
billion-euro ($640 billion) permanent bailout fund on Sept. 12,
nine weeks after it held a hearing on the measures.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said that global
central bankers have agreed to start an inquiry into the London
interbank offered rate, a benchmark rate at which banks lend to
each other. The announcement follows a meeting at the Bank of
International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland yesterday when
King held discussions with his counterparts from the world’s
largest economies about the future of Libor.  A gauge of food and beverage stocks lost 1.2 percent for
the biggest slide of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600.
Unilever slid 1.7 percent to 27.41 euros, while AB InBev sank
2.8 percent to 66.18 euros.  Nestle SA (NESN) ,  the world’s largest food
company , declined 0.7 percent to 58.85 Swiss francs.  Glencore, Xstrata  Glencore retreated 2.1 percent to 370 pence, while Xstrata
gained 1.2 percent to 1,026.5 pence. Glencore proposed today
that Xstrata’s Chief Executive Officer,  Mick Davis , leads the
combined entity for six months before being replaced by its own
CEO Ivan Glasenberg.  Xstrata said in a statement that it will consult with its
major shareholders and respond by Sept. 24. Glencore raised the
number of shares offered for the rest of the company on Sept. 7
by 9 percent and asked that Glasenberg replace Davis.  A gauge of mining shares posted the biggest gain on the
Stoxx 600 as copper prices rose. Rio Tinto Group climbed 1.6
percent to 3,069 pence and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  added 1.5 percent
to 2,001.5 pence.  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) , a maker of  light bulbs ,
consumer electronics and health-care products, dropped 2.4
percent to 19.03 euros after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
recommendation on the shares to neutral from buy. Credit Suisse
Group AG also lowered its rating on Philips to neutral.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  lost 0.9 percent to 11.08 euros after Goldman
Sachs said the Spanish company trades at an unjustified premium
to other European telecommunications operators. Goldman added
the shares to its conviction sell list.  Chariot Tumbles  Chariot Oil & Gas Ltd. (CHAR)  sank 66 percent to 33 pence, its
biggest tumble since the company listed in 2008, after saying it
will plug and abandon its Kabeljou exploration well off the
coast of Namibia after failing to find commercial hydrocarbons.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  climbed 2.5 percent to 10.38 euros
after Unabhaengige Flugbegleiter Organisation called off further
strikes to take part in mediation, Dirk Vogelsang, the union’s
chief negotiator said. Lufthansa canceled more than half of its
flights on Sept. 7 after a third strike by its main cabin crew.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  added 2.7 percent to 371.1 pence.
Reuters reported on Sept. 7 that bankers are evaluating debt
packages to back a possible buyout of the retailer, citing
unidentified lenders. The deal would involve about 4 billion
pounds ($6.4 billion), divided equally between loans and bonds,
Reuters said.  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was
9.6 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  