-- Europe Must Be Bold on Intellectual Property, Report Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-09-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/europe-must-be-bold-on-intellectual-property-report-says.html
Europe  needs to make bolder efforts
to overhaul its system for patent, copyright and trademark
enforcement if it wants to build its digital economy, according
to a report.  “Europe’s digital economy desperately needs better
conditions in which to grow,” 10 specialists in intellectual-
property law and the Internet said in a report on how to make
Europe’s IP system cheaper and easier to use given to the
European Commission this week.  As part of a 2011 strategy to boost the European technology
industry’s competitiveness by overhauling its IP system, the
EU’s executive agency in July proposed  changes  to ease licensing
rules that have prevented Internet music stores, including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes, from selling digital music across the 27-nation
bloc.  “There is now a stirring for copyright reform in Europe
that can only grow, as a generational shift continues towards
those born digital,” Ian Hargreaves, author of a 2011
independent  report  on IP reform for the U.K. government, said in
the foreword to the publication that was handed over to the EU
regulator yesterday.  A campaign to convince the European Parliament to reject
the global anti-piracy treaty, known as ACTA, “is indicative of
this mood,” said Hargreaves. ACTA was intended to set global
rules for cracking down on the pirating of copyrighted
materials, including illegal file sharing on the Internet.  With  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Apple emerging as
“pioneers in Internet research, content curation, device
manufacture and user-generated content,” Europe “has struggled
with the consequent pace and disruption,” Hargreaves said.  Growing political interest in IP and the benefits the
Internet provides should be seized as opportunities to come
forward with “bolder and timely proposals for change,”
Hargreaves said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  