-- Ex-UBS Trader’s $2.3 Billion Trading-Loss Trial Delayed
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-10T15:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/ex-ubs-trader-s-2-3-billion-trading-loss-trial-delayed.html
Kweku Adoboli’s trial on charges of
fraud and false accounting, tied to alleged unauthorized trades
that caused losses of $2.3 billion at  UBS AG (UBSN) , was delayed until
Sept. 14.  Arguments, which had been scheduled to start today at a
London criminal court, were pushed back until the end of the
week.  The prosecution will begin opening arguments in their case
against the former trader on Sept. 14 and may call their first
witness on Sept. 17, said Sasha Wass, a prosecuting attorney.  Adoboli is charged with falsifying records on exchange-
traded fund transactions and other documents needed for
accounting purposes as early as October 2008, according to his
indictment. Prosecutors also charged him with fraud for abusing
his senior trader position “by causing or exposing UBS Bank to
losses, intending thereby to make a gain for himself.”  In the U.K., fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in jail, while false accounting can result in as many as
seven years. Adoboli is facing two counts of each. The trial,
one of the highest-profile banking cases ever heard in  London ,
is scheduled to last as long as eight weeks. A jury was selected
at today’s session.  After spending nine months in Wandsworth prison in
southwest London after his arrest on Sept. 15, Adoboli has been
free on bail for three months.  He worked for the Zurich-based investment bank’s Delta One
desk, which handles trades for clients -- or risks the bank’s
own money -- typically by speculating on a basket of securities.
The loss, which came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX
and EuroStoxx index futures, didn’t affect any client positions,
according to UBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  