-- Fannie Mae Sale of Florida Foreclosures Gets 96% of Value
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-09-10T17:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/fannie-mae-sale-of-florida-foreclosures-gets-96-of-value.html
Fannie Mae ’s first auction of
 foreclosed  homes to be managed as rentals sold for $78.1
million, or 96 percent of the properties’ estimated value, the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  said.  The purchase, of 699 homes in Florida, was the first to be
completed in Fannie Mae’s auction of almost 2,500 repossessed
properties in six states. The buyer was San Diego, California-
based Pacifica Companies LLC, the FHFA said in a statement
today. The homes had a total value of $81.5 million, including
joint-venture financing from Fannie Mae, according to a
transaction  summary .  Investors are pouring money into single-family homes,
seeking to capitalize on rising demand for rentals and real
estate  prices  that have more than 30 percent from their July
2006 peak. Firms including Blackstone Group LP, Colony Capital
LLC and Oaktree Capital Group LLC plan to spend about $8 billion
buying foreclosed properties to rent, according to company
statements and interviews.  “Seeing it traded at that high value means we’re probably
going to see more pool sales coming,” Jim Warren, senior vice
president of Tenant Access, a single-family rental management
company based in Austin,  Texas , said in a telephone interview.
“Institutional money can aggregate a lot quicker. It’s easier
to evaluate an entire pool than one property at a time.”  Deepak Israni, president of Pacifica, a property investment
and management company that operates hotels and  multifamily 
housing, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Winning Bidders  Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored mortgage company that
owned 109,000 foreclosed properties as of June 30, offered the
homes for auction in February. The other properties are in
 Georgia ,  Illinois ,  Arizona , California and Nevada.  The FHFA will announce the winning bidders of homes in
other areas in the coming weeks after the transactions are
completed, according to the statement. The 541 properties in
Atlanta weren’t sold, the Washington-based agency said.  Colony, a Santa Monica, California-based investment fund
headed by  Tom Barrack , and Cogsville Group LLC, a New York-based
company led by Don Cogsville, were the top bidders for other
Fannie Mae portfolios, four people with knowledge of the
transactions said in July.  Pacifica, which will manage the Florida properties, paid
$12.3 million for its share in a joint-venture with Fannie Mae,
which will get 90 percent of  cash flow  until it receives $49.3
million, according to the transaction summary. After that,
Fannie Mae’s share will drop to 50 percent of cash flow.
Pacifica will also receive 20 percent of gross rental income as
a management fee. The deal restricts the value of the properties
that can be sold to third parties for three years.  “The transaction is designed to promote home price
stability, improve quality of housing stock and enhance rental
inventory of markets by utilizing a rent-and-hold strategy,”
according to the summary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  