-- Mortgage Putback Threat Reduced for Lenders Under New Rules
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-09-11T16:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/fannie-mae-and-freddie-mac-to-begin-new-loan-review-system.html
The U.S. overseer of  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac (FMCC) , seeking to reduce the threat that banks will have
to buy back flawed mortgages from the two firms, laid out new
rules designed to spur lending and ease the housing crunch.  The changes will apply to future loans, not those that are
the subject of current bank complaints that the taxpayer-owned
companies are being too aggressive in forcing them to buy back
loans made at the height of the housing bubble, the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  said today in a statement.  The new system, which takes effect on Jan. 1, should give
banks more certainty about future costs by flagging potentially
faulty mortgages earlier, FHFA said.  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac 
will use data collected on the loans they buy to spot potential
defects, and will review samples within three months of purchase
instead of waiting until borrowers default.  “Lenders want more certainly about their risk exposure,
and the enterprises want to ensure the quality of the loans,”
Edward J. DeMarco, FHFA’s acting director, said yesterday in a
North Carolina speech where he outlined the changes.  Regulators including FHFA and the  Federal Reserve  have said
that banks are shutting out otherwise eligible borrowers and
demanding higher credit scores than necessary because they are
afraid Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will force them to repurchase
loans if they become delinquent.  ‘Lending Defensively’  David Stevens , president and chief executive officer of the
 Mortgage Bankers Association , said the rules probably will give
banks more confidence that they won’t be forced to buy back
loans unless there are serious problems with origination.  “Obviously, we need to see the details, but anything in
this direction is really important, because lenders today are
lending defensively,” he said today in a telephone interview.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide liquidity by buying
mortgages from originators and packaging them into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest. They
also buy some loans to hold on their books.  Under the new rules, the companies won’t force lenders to
repurchase defaulted loans if borrowers have made 36 months of
consecutive on-time payments. Banks will be protected from
buyback requests after only 12 months of payments for certain
types of loans, such as those originated under the federal
government’s Home Affordable Refinance Program, DeMarco said in
the Raleigh,  North Carolina , speech.  ‘More Audits’  “Ultimately, better quality loan originations and
underwriting, along with consistent quality control, will help
maintain liquidity in the mortgage market,” he said.  While the changes are a “step in the right direction,”
lenders could see more audits in the near future as the system
ramps up, said Tim Rood, managing director of the Collingwood
Group LLC, a Washington-based consulting firm.  “What you’re going to see is a surge in more audits,
rather than less, just as companies are getting comfortable that
the worst is behind them,” Rood said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  The early reviews may cause lenders to raise underwriting
standards instead of loosening them,  Jaret Seiberg , senior
policy analyst at Guggenheim Partners, said today.  “This is why we still see the putback policy as yet
another factor that could add to what we worry will be a
government-induced credit crunch in 2013,” Seiberg wrote in a
market commentary. “How big of a factor this is will largely
depend on how those initial loan reviews go.”  ‘More Audits’  In the wake of the housing bubble, Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac have been reviewing files on defaulted loans originated
between 2005 and 2009 for signs of faulty underwriting. In the
first two quarters of this year, the two government-sponsored
enterprises asked banks to buy back mortgages with an unpaid
principal balance of $18.9 billion.  Banks usually end up paying about half of the unpaid
principal balance when a putback demand is successful, according
to the companies.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will continue to work with
lenders to resolve claims related to loans originated primarily
before September 2008, the agency said in today’s statement.  Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac were seized by the federal government in September
2008 after investments in risky mortgages pushed them to the
brink of bankruptcy. They’ve received about $190 billion in aid
since then, and the battle with banks over repurchases is part
of their efforts to minimize losses.  Buy-Back Costs  Bank of America Corp .,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , set aside almost $3
billion to buy back bad home loans in the first half of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Regional lenders
including Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  said they set aside
at least $1.3 billion for such loan repurchases in the same
period, exceeding their total for all of 2011.  In his speech at the  American Mortgage Conference , DeMarco
outlined future steps FHFA will take to shrink Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac’s footprint in the mortgage market.  The fees the enterprises charge to lenders to guarantee
loans, which will have increased by 20 basis points by the end
of the year, will continue to be raised, he said.  FHFA will also seek public input in October on a plan for
creating a single platform for packaging loans into securities,
he said. Currently, each company has its own platform.  The refinancing program for borrowers who owe more than
their homes are worth will be updated by the FHFA, DeMarco said.
“As we continue to gain insight from the program, we will make
additional operational adjustments,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  