-- New Agriculture Bill Needed to Avert Deep Cuts, Vilsack Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-09-10T21:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/farmers-need-agriculture-bill-now-to-avoid-cuts-vilsack-says.html
U.S. farmers need a new agriculture
law passed by the end of the month or they may face deeper cuts
to programs after the election than are now under consideration,
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  Republicans who are calling for steep reductions to the
food-stamp program -- differences in the size of proposed cuts
are complicating efforts to forge a new law -- are “deflecting
your attention on poor folks,” Vilsack said today at a
 Washington  meeting of the National Farmers Union. Their real
goals are reducing “your safety net, protecting the Defense
Department” and “making sure there is enough left for tax cuts
for really wealthy Americans,” he said.  “They don’t want you to focus on that,” Vilsack, a former
Democratic governor of  Iowa , told the country’s second-biggest
farmer organization.  Lawmakers returned to Washington today facing unfinished
work on a stopgap-aid package for livestock producers affected
by the worst drought in more than five decades and a
reauthorization of agricultural law for the next five years.
More than half of all U.S. counties have been declared natural
disaster areas by the Department of Agriculture, mainly because
of extreme heat and dryness.  Unfinished Business  A livestock-assistance program in the current farm bill
expired last year. The House on Aug. 2 approved a $383 million
stopgap measure to reinstate the livestock aid, while the Senate
took no action. On the farm bill, the House Agriculture
Committee and the Senate have approved plans to replace the
current law, which expires Sept. 30. House Republican leaders
have not set a vote on their legislation.  House Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy  told reporters today he
hopes members will approve the Agriculture Committee plan this
month. If time runs out, “then we’ll have to deal with that
issue,” the California Republican said, declining to specify
what short-term options might be available.  The farm bill funds federal nutrition programs including
 food stamps , the USDA’s single biggest expense, as well as
subsidies to farmers that lower raw-materials costs for
companies including  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)   Farmers may see record profits of $122.2 billion this year
because of high prices, the USDA said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  