-- Fashion’s Bartlett Crusades Against Chinese Dog Fur
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/fashion-s-bartlett-crusades-against-chinese-dog-fur.html
Men’s wear designer John Bartlett
took a look at my suede shoes and told me to change them. It
wasn’t the style he objected to -- they weren’t cruelty free.  Bartlett, 49, a  Harvard  grad and 1990s fashion wunderkind,
is a man on a mission.  Having experienced a string of disappointments -- most
recently, he closed his West Village retail store in 2011 --
Bartlett emerged as an impassioned advocate for animal welfare.  His Tiny Tim Rescue Fund helps welfare groups save dogs and
cats from kill shelters, while his Ambassador Collection raises
funds for the Farm Sanctuary, a national animal protection
agency.  We met in his West Village office as Bartlett was gearing
up to show his Spring/Summer 2013 collection as part of  New York 
 Fashion Week .  Sporting a white linen shirt and bandana, green shorts and
sneakers, Bartlett sat behind a computer surrounded by Tiny Tim
paraphernalia.  Great Shirts  Tarmy: Can you tell me about your top clothing line?  Bartlett: I work on three different product levels. John
Bartlett Collection is the top tier of what I do: Shirts are
$175 to $250, pants $200 to $400.  Tarmy: You design less expensive clothes as well?  Bartlett: I have three different labels through the Bon-Ton
Stores out of  Milwaukee . For those, the price point is shirts
for $24, sweaters for $29 dollars. It’s an incredible mass-
market opportunity.  Tarmy: There’s also active wear?  Bartlett: It’s called the Tiny Tim collection, which sells
online. And 10% of what I make from the line goes to my
foundation, The Tiny Tim Rescue Fund.  Tarmy: How much money have you raised for the fund?  Bartlett: A small percentage of the sales from my John
Bartlett Pet line at Bon-Ton also goes to the fund.  The first check I received from Bon-Ton was $22,000. And
through my own brand I’ve raised another $10,000, so I’ve been
able to give away some fabulous money.  Foie Gras  Tarmy: Why do you think there’s such a disconnect in the
fashion world between animal welfare and clothing?  Bartlett: The fashion industry does a lot of incredible
things as a group, such as  breast cancer  and AIDS awareness.  To me, fur is the foie gras of fashion: a delicacy many
chefs are fighting to maintain, even though it’s a very cruel
process. Same with fur.  Tarmy: Should it be banned?  Bartlett: I don’t think that it would ever happen.
Interestingly, the city of  West Hollywood  has banned fur from
being sold in stores. And  Israel , I think, is on the verge.  At the same time you have  Kim Kardashian  and Lady Gaga
dripping in fur. There are a lot of mixed messages.  I go crazy when I see people talking about how much they
love their dog but they still wear fur -- much of the fur that’s
coming from  China  is from cats and dogs.  Tarmy: Who would wear a coat made from dog fur?  Bartlett:  Canada  imports a lot of it. Some wear it
knowingly, some unknowingly.  Farm Sanctuary  Tarmy: The clothes in your high fashion collection are
cruelty free. What does that entail?  Bartlett: Cruelty free means that no animals are used in
the product. Everything I work with is either plant based or
synthetic.  For example, for the Fall collection, I created some really
cool jackets from ultrasuede, which is a recycled micro fiber.  Tarmy: Can you make money selling cruelty-free clothing?  Bartlett: My online store was profitable in a year, which
is unheard of. And this summer we launched the Ambassador
Collection, a collaboration with Farm Sanctuary.  We did shirts with pigs, cows, and chickens on them, and on
the sleeve was written how many of those animals are slaughtered
each year. And it has blown up. In the past two months I’ve sold
more tee shirts than I’ve ever sold in my life.  Tarmy: Maybe the ad campaign with hot models holding
barnyard animals has something to do with it?  Bartlett: Part of my visual marketing is that I still want
to show sexiness. When you think of “cruelty free” or
“vegan” it all gets kind of earnest and crunchy.  But to me, it can be very, very sexy. Some of the shots we
did for our website went viral in a crazy way.  Tarmy: Who can resist a gorgeous model holding a piglet?  Bartlett: I agree! It’s very romantic.  For more information: Tiny Tim Rescue Fund:
 http://www.johnbartlettny.com/tiny-tim-rescue-fund . Farm
Sanctuary:  http://www.farmsanctuary.org .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and Mark Beech
on  music .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 