-- FDA Drug Review Deal Set to Unravel as Fiscal Cliff Looms
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/fda-drug-review-deal-set-to-unravel-as-fiscal-cliff-looms.html
A $6.4 billion accord for U.S. drug
and medical-device reviews is set to unravel just three months
after taking effect as lawmakers squabble over budget cutbacks.  Drug and device reviews, which rely heavily on fees paid by
companies, may slow or halt in January because the  Food and Drug
Administration  must receive certain funding from Congress before
it can spend any of the industry money, said  Karen Riley , an FDA
spokeswoman. That appropriations level is at risk as lawmakers
bicker over whether to follow through on $1.2 trillion of
government-wide budget cuts through 2021.  The stalemate “could result in the loss of whole user fee
programs, programs that have become essential to public health
and medical product innovation,” Riley said in an e-mail.  Drugmakers such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  will pay
almost $2 million for each new drug application to the FDA
beginning Oct. 1, as well as a $527,000 establishment fee and
$98,000 product charge. Also at risk are fees for medical-device
and cigarette-safety reviews. The  National Institutes of Health 
may also lose $2.4 billion and have to cancel as many as 2,400
grants, Calvin Jackson, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  President  Barack Obama ’s Office of Management and Budget
missed a Sept. 6 deadline to submit a plan to Congress for the
first $109 billion in mandated spending reductions, known as
sequestration. The FDA may lose 8 percent of the taxpayer money
it’s appropriated, or a reduction of $200 million for fiscal
2013, the advocacy group Alliance for a Stronger FDA estimates.  ‘Devastating’ Cuts  The key element of the user fee program is known as the
trigger, which sets a baseline of taxpayer funds to ensure that
industry payments supplement congressional appropriations, said
Alan Goldhammer, an independent drug-industry consultant.  For fiscal 2013, the Obama administration has requested
about $2.5 billion in taxpayer funds for the FDA. An additional
$2 billion in industry fees are supposed to be collected as
well; including $720 million for brand-name drugs, $299 million
for generic medicines, and $98 million from medical-device
companies such as  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ,
according to a  Congressional Budget Office   assessment  in May.  Riley of the FDA declined to discuss the actual user-fee
trigger levels, which are based on formulas that take into
account consumer inflation and past spending.  While the initial “$200 million will be devastating,” a
cut of that size shouldn’t set off the trigger, said Steven
Grossman, deputy executive director of the  Silver Spring ,
Maryland-based  Alliance for a Stronger FDA . The Obama
administration may still subject user fees to sequestration to
meet broader spending-reduction goals, he said.  FDA Layoffs  Grossman calculates that about $68 million in drug and
device user fees and $40 million in tobacco-company payments
would be diverted to a U.S. Treasury Department account. While
the fees wouldn’t go directly toward the deficit, the FDA’s
inability to use the money would “reduce government because it
would reduce what they can do,” Grossman said.  “The user fee part of it adds to the problem of there not
being enough money to get the job done,” he said.  As much as 90 percent of user fees go toward personnel
costs so the budget cuts would likely result in layoffs at the
FDA, according to Goldhammer, who was once a vice president at
the  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America,  the
drugmakers’ main lobbying group in Washington.  The FDA maintains a surplus to allow for an orderly
shutdown of the user fee program if needed, he said.  Serious Mission  The budget predicament arose after talks failed last year
on a bipartisan plan to curb the nation’s increasing debt. The
nation now faces the expiration of income-tax cuts first enacted
under President  George W. Bush , the end of payroll-tax
reductions and automatic decreases in government expenditures.  That budgetary soup has created a “fiscal cliff” that
economists and the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office have
 said  may lead the  U.S. economy  back into recession.  “I personally doubt very seriously that the White House is
going to let sequestration affect FDA because of the serious
mission that it does,” Goldhammer said in a phone interview.  Based on the five-year agreement set to start next month,
drug reviews would be funded 60 percent by industry fees, about
$4.1 billion over the length of the deal. Medical device
manufacturers will pay fees that make up about 35 percent of
funding for the industry’s review program, or $609 million over
five years. Generic-drug companies, which had been exempt from
user fees, will pay $1.58 billion over that time.  The fees were increased and expanded from the previous
five-year period to help the FDA speed product review times,
especially after U.S. drug approvals rose to a seven-year high
last year.  “Even without sequestration, FDA’s workload and statutory
responsibilities have grown far faster than its budget,” Riley
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  