-- FedEx, UPS Win Approval in China to Add Courier Service
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-09-10T20:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/fedex-ups-win-approval-in-china-to-add-courier-service-1-.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and United Parcel
Service Inc. won licenses to start domestic courier businesses
in some Chinese cities, as they push to expand in the world’s
most populous nation.  FedEx, the world’s biggest cargo airline, can begin service
in eight cities, while Atlanta-based UPS’s license is for five,
according to the companies. The businesses don’t include letter
delivery.  They will compete in a local courier business dominated by
state-owned  China Postal Express & Logistics Co. , which has
about 30 percent of the market. The licenses will help  Memphis ,
Tennessee-based FedEx and UPS benefit from rising demand driven
by online shopping.  The approval “sets the platform for eventual consolidation
and market-share gain opportunity,” said Nate Brochmann, an
analyst at William Blair & Co. “We’re still in the very early
innings in terms of the domestic Chinese opportunity. For the
most part it doesn’t change the competitive landscape there.”  The licenses let both companies serve Shanghai, Guangzhou,
Shenzhen and Tianjin, according to spokesmen for FedEx and  UPS. (UPS) 
In addition, FedEx was approved for Hangzhou, Dalian, Zhengzhou
and Chengdu, while UPS can also operate in Xian.  The approval is a starting point for long-term growth in
China and will help the companies improve network efficiency,
said Brochmann, who is based in  Chicago  and rates the shares of
FedEx and UPS outperform. UPS and FedEx will be able to handle
deliveries under the licenses “from end to end” instead of
using a local partner, he said.  Ongoing Review  UPS, the world’s largest package-shipping company, expects
China’s State Post Bureau will continue its review for more
cities in the months ahead because approvals are done in
batches, Mark Dickens, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  FedEx has been working to gain its own domestic operating
licenses in  China  for about three years, said Shea Leordeanu, a
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  “Based on our customer demand, there is a clear need for
fast and reliable domestic express service in China, and that
goes hand in hand with China’s rapid development,” she said.  UPS rose 0.6 percent to $73.05 at the close in  New York ,
while FedEx gained 0.7 percent to $87.96.  FedEx entered China in 1989 by buying the Flying Tigers
freight airline to gain routes to 21 Asian countries. In 2007,
FedEx spent $400 million to take over a joint venture with
Tianjin Datian W. Group Co., which offered access to China’s
domestic market.  The company last week forecast its first quarterly earnings
decline since 2009 as slowing economic growth in  Asia  and
weakness in  Europe  curbed demand for its express packages.  Long-Term Move  Licenses to work domestically in Chinese cities align with
the companies’ long-term strategies to expand in the region,
said Ben Hartford, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in
 Milwaukee  who rates FedEx and UPS outperform.  “They both recognize the size of the Asia market
broadly,” he said. “At the same time, it’s much less mature
than the parcel markets in the U.S. and in Europe. It’s going to
take time to build the networks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  