-- Fellaini Says This Season Will Be His Last at Everton: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-10T07:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/fellaini-says-this-season-will-be-his-last-at-everton-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Fallaini Farewell  Everton midfielder Marouane Fellaini wants to leave the
club at the end of the season or even as early as the January
transfer window, the  Daily Mail reported .  “I have seen everything,” the Mail cited Fellaini, who
has a contract with Everton until 2016, as telling Belgian
newspaper Het Nieuwsblad. “In January or at the end of the
season I will turn to another club or championship.”  Cahill for Terry  Gary Cahill  will replace  John Terry  at the center of
England’s defense in tomorrow’s  World Cup  qualifier against
Ukraine after his Chelsea teammate injured his ankle during last
week’s win against Moldova, the  Mail reported .  Terry, who is the fourth player to withdraw from manager
 Roy Hodgson ’s 24-man squad because of injury, faces a race to be
be fit for the Sept. 15 Premier League match at west London
rival Queens Park Rangers, the newspaper added.  Tottenham Talks  Tottenham goalkeeper Hugo Lloris is planning clear-the-air
talks with Andre Villas-Boas when he returns from international
duty with France after the Spurs manager said that  Brad Friedel 
was his first-choice No. 1, the  Sun reported .  “When I join up with the national team I concentrate
uniquely and we’ll see about my personal situation when I go
back,” the Sun cited Lloris, who joined Tottenham from Lyon on
Aug. 31, as saying.  Friedel to Fight  Friedel, 41, said he still considers himself Tottenham’s
first-choice goalkeeper and will fight to keep his starting
place, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “Right now I believe the shirt is mine to lose, I believe
the manager came out and said that,” the Mirror cited Friedel
as saying. “If that’s the case, then great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  