-- Feuding Dutch Politicians Agree on Toughening Bank Rules
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-09-11T14:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/feuding-dutch-politicians-agree-on-toughening-rules-for-banks.html
Dutch politicians, clashing over
the future of the euro area and austerity measures before
tomorrow’s parliamentary elections, agree on one thing:
toughening rules on banks.  The  Labor Party , vying for first place in recent polls,
favors boosting a bank tax and imposing a levy on transactions,
as does the Socialist Party, currently in third place. The
Liberal Party, led by Prime Minister  Mark Rutte , advocates
stricter supervision of new financial products, while all three
back a cap on bonuses. Whoever wins will probably have to forge
a coalition with at least two rivals to gain a majority.  Politicians across  Europe  have tapped into public ire
toward banks to woo voters after governments had to rescue
financial institutions in 2008 and 2009, swelling budget
deficits and curbing economic growth. In the Netherlands, a
central bank survey published in June found that public
confidence in the “competence and integrity” of the directors
of financial institutions fell in 2012, a sixth straight drop.  “Bank bashing has become a favorite pastime among
politicians,” said Sylvester Eijffinger, a professor of
financial economics at Tilburg University in Tilburg, the
Netherlands. “They can’t lose on that topic.”  Rutte, 45, has overseen a caretaker government since the
April resignation of his Cabinet, which quit after  Freedom Party 
leader  Geert Wilders , who had backed a minority government of
Liberals and  Christian Democrats , withdrew support for spending
cuts and tax increases. It’s the fifth election in a decade.  Big Banks  The Dutch for centuries have been leaders in global trade,
giving the nation of 16.7 million people a banking industry that
dwarfs the economy. The financial industry measures about 4.8
times gross domestic product, making it one of the largest in
the world on that basis, according to the country’s central
bank. It contributed more than 7 percent to GDP in 2010.  The industry’s size was reflected in the cost of the
bailouts during the financial crisis that followed the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. The Dutch state put up
30 billion euros ($38.4 billion) to rescue parts of  ABN Amro 
Holding NV and Fortis and provided 13.8 billion euros for  ING
Groep NV (INGA) ,  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  and  Aegon NV. (AGN)  It also took over the risk
on 21.6 billion euros of ING’s U.S. mortgage assets, guaranteed
banks’ debt and reimbursed Dutch depositors of Landsbanki
Islands hf’s Icesave unit after the firm collapsed.  Seeking Profits  Taxpayers are still waiting for the return of billions of
euros spent on those rescues, which led to an increase in
government debt to 60.8 percent of GDP in 2009 from 45.3 percent
in 2007, according to national statistics bureau data. Euro-area
bailouts may push it to 72.9 percent next year, the Dutch
government planning agency CPB forecast.  Officials for ABN Amro, ING, SNS and Rabobank Groep
declined to comment on the election programs for this article.  ING’s  shares  fell 0.8 percent to 6.63 euros as of 4:24 p.m.
in Amsterdam trading, cutting its market value to 25 billion
euros.  Insurers (SXIP)  in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.4
percent. SNS Reaal rose 0.8 percent to 1.23 euros. ABN Amro and
Rabobank aren’t traded.  The public perception of banks took a further blow this
year as the global interbank rates-rigging scandal unfolded and
Stichting Vestia Groep, the biggest Dutch provider of affordable
housing, nearly collapsed after buying derivatives from banks
that eroded its financial position as  interest rates  dropped.  Labor’s Proposals  “Bankers and investors are driven too much by seeking
profits and too little by the interest of savers and a healthy
long-term strategy,” the  Labor Party  said in a plan suggesting
 10 ways  to reform the financial industry. The party, led by
Diederik Samsom, advocates raising the levy on bank profits to 1
billion euros from 600 million euros and imposing a tax on
transactions.  “We would hand the bill to the banks, who caused this
crisis,” Samsom, 41, said in a debate on Dutch television
program EenVandaag on Sept. 6. “They would pay an extra bank
tax and a financial transaction tax to ensure not only that they
behave less recklessly but also contribute to the solution for
this enormous problem they have created.”  The Labor Party hasn’t specified the type of financial
transactions it would tax.  Socialist’s View  The  Socialist Party  proposes raising the bank tax by 900
million euros and adding 100 million euros in a financial
transaction tax, said Arnold Merkies, a candidate for the
legislature and financial spokesman for the party. The Freedom
Party says it would “gladly triple the bank tax.”  “The Libor affair, the problems with the Spanish banks and
Vestia here in the Netherlands clearly show things are still
going wrong in the banking industry,” Merkies, 43, said in an
interview. “We need to make sure the rules are in order. We’ve
relied too much on self-regulation.”  The Dutch aren’t alone in picking on banks. French
President  Francois Hollande  declared finance his “enemy”
during his campaign against  Nicolas Sarkozy  this year. He
pledged to force banks to split retail and “speculative”
activities, to impose a tax on all transactions and to raise the
levy on profits.  David Cameron  promised a “day of reckoning”
for the “irresponsible rich” during his campaign to become
U.K. prime minister in 2010.  Guarantee Fund  In the Netherlands, measures already introduced to change
the financial industry include a deposit guarantee fund and
blueprints for splitting off and salvaging banks’ crucial
operations in a crisis. Lawmakers agreed to set up a commission
to consider structural changes, possibly including a separation
of consumer and investment banking.  “Financial supervision should be strengthened,” the
 Liberal Party  said in its program. “In future it should be
possible to limit high risk activities from so-called utility
functions of banks.”  A code of conduct agreed on by banks caps bonuses at 100
percent of fixed salaries, while bonuses to executives at state-
aided firms are prohibited by law. Most parties are pushing for
tougher rules, with Labor seeking to limit bonuses to 20 percent
of fixed salaries, and the  Christian Democrats  calling for a
limit of 25 percent.  The  Liberal Party  led with 35 out of 150 seats in a poll
published by  TNS NIPO  today, while the Labor and Socialist
Parties would get 34 and 21 seats respectively if elections were
held today. The poll surveyed 1,917 people and has a margin of
error of two to three seats.  Earnings Pressure  The proposals already enacted are likely to squeeze banks’
earnings at a time when they’re also building capital buffers to
comply with regulatory demands and facing a shrinking Dutch
economy. The 600 million-euro levy, adopted by the Dutch
Parliament’s upper house in July, will cut profit by about 100
million euros in the second half, ABN Amro said in its half-year
results statement. The impact for Rabobank, a cooperative lender
based in Utrecht that didn’t need a government rescue, will be
twice that amount.  An increase of the levy by 400 million euros would cut ING
Bank’s 2013 earnings by about 4 percent, estimated ABN Amro
analyst Jan Willem Weidema. The biggest Dutch financial-services
firm also pays about a third of the total tax.  “Banks must try to be self-supporting and maintain rock-
solid buffers,” Rabobank Chairman Piet Moerland said Aug. 23.
“A bank tax doesn’t fit in with that goal.”  The Dutch Central Bank has designated ING, Rabobank, ABN
Amro and SNS as “systemically important,” or too big to fail.
The four need to build a capital buffer of as much as 3
percentage points more than the 7 percent required under
international rules known as Basel III, which start taking
effect next year.  Job Cuts  The Dutch economy, the euro area’s fifth largest, may
shrink 0.5 percent this year, according to the country’s
planning agency.  House prices  have dropped 15 percent from a
2008 peak and may fall 5 percent next year, ING economists said
in a note dated Aug. 9.  Banks have sought to maintain earnings by cutting costs.
State-owned ABN Amro last year set out to trim 2,350 jobs on top
of an earlier program of 6,000 positions aimed at eliminating
overlap between the former Fortis and ABN after the government
takeover. ING is pruning 2,700 jobs at its Dutch consumer bank
by 2013, while Rabobank is cutting as many as 3,500 jobs out of
35,000 in its Dutch banking division by 2016.  “I understand people’s stance after all that has
happened,” SNS Reaal Chief Executive Officer Ronald Latenstein
told reporters last month. “I just hope five years from now we
don’t look back and realize we’ve created a financial industry
that is exactly what we didn’t want in terms of supporting the
real economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  