-- Fink Says BlackRock to Cut Some ETF Fees Amid Competition
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-09-10T18:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/fink-says-blackrock-to-cut-some-etf-fees-amid-competition.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink,
who heads the world’s largest asset manager, said the firm will
announce fee reductions for large exchange-traded funds next
quarter, after losing market share to Vanguard Group Inc.  “We expect to be announcing a whole strategy in how are we
addressing the fee issue related to these large, liquid, core
types of ETFs,” Fink, who is chief executive officer of New
York-based BlackRock, said today at the Barclays 2012 Global
Financial Services Conference.  BlackRock, the world’s largest ETF provider, has lost
market share as Vanguard has attracted investors. BlackRock’s
U.S. market share in the ETF business fell 1.6 percentage points
this year through July to about 41 percent, compared with an
increase of 1.8 percentage points for Vanguard to 18 percent,
according to a report by State Street Global Advisors.  Fink, whose company drew about $20 billion in deposits into
its iShares ETFs in the U.S., according to the State Street
report, said in July that he wasn’t pleased with BlackRock’s ETF
market share in the second quarter.  “You saw risk off, even in ETFs, you had many flows into
what I would call the commoditized ETFs, the large, index
products, and Vanguard has taken a lot of the share of those
flows in those products,” Fink said in an interview July 18.  Higher Fees  BlackRock may need to cut fees for certain products to
maintain or attract institutional loyalty and win more
individual investors, according to a Sept. 5 research note by
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  IShares  S&P 500 Index Fund (SPFIX)  charges 0.09 percent, compared
with 0.05 percent for Vanguard S&P 500 ETF.  IShares Barclays
Aggregate Bond Fund (AGG)  charges 0.2 percent, while  Vanguard Total
Bond Market ETF (BND)  charges 0.1 percent. The difference is even more
pronounced in  emerging markets , with iShares MSCI Emerging
Markets Index charging 0.67 percent compared with 0.2 percent
for Vanguard MSCI Emerging Markets ETF.  Smaller and less liquid products aren’t under pressure to
cut fees, and the firm is seeing increasing margins in other
ETFs, Fink said during today’s conference. BlackRock’s revenue
for U.S. ETFs has increased 8 percent this year and 13 percent
outside of the U.S., Fink said.  Structuring ETFs  “Most importantly, where we’re seeing seeing huge
opportunity is in the structuring of ETFs on behalf of our
clients,” Fink said.  Less liquidity in the fixed-income market means an
opportunity for BlackRock to help institutional clients swap
bonds for tactical trading of fixed-income ETFs, said Fink.  BlackRock, which manages $3.56 trillion in assets, has
integrated the leadership of retail and iShares to improve
cross-selling of products, Fink said. The firm announced a
reorganization in August that included putting Robert Fairbairn
in charge of sales of iShares and retail funds.  BlackRock’s shares fell 1.4 percent to $179.55 at 1:48 p.m.
in  New York . The shares were up 2.1 percent this year through
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  