-- Finra, Samsung, Textron, Daimler: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-10T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/finra-samsung-textron-lauder-intellectual-property.html
A California company that offers
training for the  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
examination denied misappropriating the agency’s  trade secrets 
in a response to a lawsuit in federal court.  In a  statement  posted on its website Sept. 5,  Training
Consultants LLC  of Santa Ana, California, said it will take
“all available action to vigorously defend ourselves from these
claims.” Training Consultants said it hired “the most
qualified” attorneys to fight Finra and “looks forward to
clearing our good name.”  Finra sued Training Consultants in federal court in Santa
Ana on Aug. 28, accusing its employees of conspiring to
misappropriate the trade secrets related to the Finra exams.
Three of the defendants, children of Training Consultants
founder Christina Leahy, allegedly failed the exam deliberately,
repeating the test 64 times so they could memorize the
questions.  The agency claims the defendants then distributed the
memorized questions to Training Consultants clients for practice
exams that gave the clients an unfair advantage over other test
takers. The reproduction of the questions constituted copyright
infringement, Finra claimed.  The agency asked for court orders barring further use of
its proprietary information, together with awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Training Consultants’ legal counsel aren’t listed yet in
case filings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Inc. v.
Training Consultants LLC, 8:12-cv-01385-AG-JPR, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  Patents  Samsung Says Apple Patent Invalid as Court Hears Claim on Galaxy  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent claim on
so-called multitouch flags isn’t valid, as its main competitor
in smartphones pursues an infringement case in the Netherlands
to ban Samsung Galaxy handsets.  Apple claims Galaxy smartphones and tablets infringe the
patent that interprets finger activity on touch screens.
Cupertino, California-based Apple lost an earlier claim against
 HTC Corp. (2498)  in the U.K. for infringing the patent, as a U.K. judge
said it was invalid because it was too obvious, according to Bas
Berghuis van Woortman, a lawyer for Simmons & Simmons LLP
representing Samsung.  “The patent is just a marginal solution for a problem that
doesn’t exist,” the Samsung lawyer said in court in The Hague.  The court started a new round of trials between Apple and
Samsung Sept. 7 covering multiple patents and proceedings as
Apple seeks a ban on Galaxy devices in the country, where the
Suwon, South Korea-based company has its distribution center for
Europe. The companies compete in a global smartphone market that
grew 62 percent to $219 billion last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  In Germany, Apple started a similar action against both
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Motorola Mobility unit  and Samsung. A Mannheim
court is scheduled to issue a verdict Sept. 21. Last year,
Apple’s claims about several smartphone and tablet patents were
dismissed in the Netherlands in preliminary proceedings.  Apple won a verdict of more than $1.05 billion in the U.S.
Aug. 24 after jurors found Samsung infringed six of seven
patents for mobile devices.  Textron Patent Case Against Eurocopter Revived on Appeal  Textron Inc. won an appeals court ruling that will let it
pursue patent-infringement claims against Eurocopter SAS over
helicopter landing gear assemblies.  A lower court was wrong to say that Eurocopter, a unit of
European Aeronautic Defense & Space Co., didn’t infringe a
Textron patent, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit Sept. 7. The Washington-based appeals court, in a
decision posted on its website, remanded the case for further
proceedings.  Textron had sued Eurocopter in a Texas federal court in
June, 2009, claiming its patent 5,860,621 was infringed.  The appeals court case is Textron Innovations v. Am
Eurocopter, 11-01309, U.s. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit. The lower court case is Bell Helicopter  Textron Inc. (TXT)  v.
American Eurocopter LLC, 4:09-cv-00377-A, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Fort Worth).  Daimler Defeats Patent Challenge Over Drowsiness Detection  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz unit won a U.S. lawsuit that
accused the carmaker of infringing a patent for a monitor to
detect when a motorist is drowsy.  The patent 6,313,749, owned by licensing company Ibormeith
IP LLC, is invalid, U.S. District Judge Faith Hochberg ruled
Sept. 5 in federal court in Newark, New Jersey. She said the
patent owner never clearly described what the invention claimed
to cover.  The lawsuit, filed in October 2010, targeted the Mercedes
Attention Assist feature used in the E-Class and some S-Class
vehicles. The feature monitors a driver’s behavior at the start
of a trip and develops a profile for comparison throughout the
journey. If the pattern alters, an alarm is sounded suggesting
the driver take a break.  Patent law requires inventors to describe, in definite
terms, the scope of their invention, much like a landowner must
explain his property borders so others know where to avoid.  While the Ibormeith patent claims to cover an algorithm to
compute the changes in a driver, it “fails to disclose the
steps necessary to actually perform that suggested algorithm,”
Hochberg ruled.  Patents are rarely ruled indefinite, according to a
statement Sept. 7 by Shearman & Sterling LLP, the  law firm  that
represented Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler in the case.  The case is Ibormeith LLC v. Mercedes-Benz USA LLC, 10-cv-
5378, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Wesfarmers’ Target Says  Estee Lauder  Suing Over Cosmetics (  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s Target department store chain in
Australia said it is being sued by  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) , which
claims the retailer sold counterfeit cosmetics under its Mac
brand name.  A hearing is scheduled in Sydney federal court on Sept. 10.
Target said in an e-mailed statement it withdrew the products as
a “gesture of goodwill.”.  Estee Lauder, based in New York, sells Mac products through
authorized retailers, including Mac freestanding stores and  Myer
Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  and  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  stores, Estee Lauder’s Mac
Cosmetics unit said in a statement on its website. Australian
department store sales fell 10.2 percent in July, the biggest
drop since April 2005.  Mac Cosmetics tested samples in U.S. laboratories and found
the products sold at Target Australia were counterfeit, the
company said in a statement on its website.  “We did not supply any Mac products to Target Australia,”
Mac Cosmetics said in the statement.  Target Australia, which isn’t affiliated with the U.S.
discount store chain of the same name, said it believes the Mac
products were legally bought by a domestic supplier from an
overseas wholesaler, allowing it to sell the cosmetics for 40
percent less than other Australian retailers.  “Sourcing genuine product in this way, a process known as
parallel importing, is not illegal in Australia and can result
in significant savings for our customers,” Target said.  The department chain is conducting further testing of the
products, and until those tests are complete, it won’t sell any
more Mac products, Target said.  A copy of Estee Lauder’s claim wasn’t immediately available
from the court.  The case is Make-up Art Cosmetics Inc. v. Target Australia
Pty. NSD1335/2012/Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Jolie Responds to ‘Land of Blood and Honey’ Infringement Suit  Angelina Jolie  has responded to a suit alleging her 2011
film “ In the Land of Blood and Honey ” infringes the copyright
of a Croatian journalist.  The suit, which was originally filed in federal court in
Chicago, was transferred to California in July.  In the complaint,  James J. Braddock  claims Jolie’s film
contains “similarities so substantial” to his Croatian-
language book “The Soul Shattering” that his copyrights are
infringed.  Among the instances he cites were the fact that both are
love stories taking place in  Bosnia and Herzegovina  in the early
1990s, the main female character is Muslim, and in both works,
she is subject to abuse and rape by soldiers and officers. He
says that the main male character in both works is a high-
ranking “Greater Serbian” nationalist and army officer.  Braddock claimed that he met repeatedly with a Bosnian
resident and film producer who is a co-defendant with Jolie, and
that they discussed making a film from his book. He learned of
Jolie’s film in 2010, and that the Bosnian film producer was
“actively involved in its production.”  Also known as Josip J. Knezevic, Braddock asked the court
for money damages, and awards of litigation costs and attorney
fees. Additionally, he asked for an order barring the
distribution and performance of the film.  In her response filed with the court Sept. 4, Jolie said
the film was created “independently without any influence” of
Braddock’s work.  She said that many of the elements Braddock
claims are infringed aren’t protectable under U.S. copyright
law.  She and her co-defendants asked the court to give nothing
to Braddock and for awards of litigation costs and attorney
fees.  The case is Braddock. v. Jolie, 2:12-cv-05883-DMG-VBK, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  Obama ‘Hope’ Artist Fairey Sentenced to Community Service  Shepard Fairey , the artist who created an iconic 2008
election poster of Barack Obama based on an  Associated Press 
photo, was sentenced to 300 hours of community service for
destroying documents and manufacturing evidence in a copyright
suit with the AP over that image.  Fairey, of Los Angeles, was also ordered to pay a $25,000
fine by U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas Sept. 7 in Manhattan
federal court. Fairey pleaded guilty in February and faced as
long as six months in jail.  The plea stemmed from a civil copyright case Fairey and the
AP settled last year. Fairey had sued AP in 2009, seeking a
ruling that his poster didn’t infringe the copyright because his
use of the photograph was protected by “fair use.” The news
organization countersued.  In addition to the fine and community service, Maas
sentenced Fairey to two years’ probation, which he said may be
reduced after a year once he completes the community work.  In support of Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign, Fairey
made posters using a stylized likeness of the candidate with the
words “Hope” and “Progress” below the images, relying on a
photograph copyrighted by AP, according to the government.  In his complaint, Fairey claimed he used as a visual
reference an AP photograph of then-Senator Obama and actor
 George Clooney  taken at an April 2006 National Press Club event,
according to prosecutors. In fact, Fairey used another image
from the same event -- a tightly cropped image of Obama gazing
up, which was also an AP photograph, the government claimed.  To cover up his false complaint, Fairey created multiple
fraudulent documents attempting to show that he had used the
photograph of Obama and Clooney, and he tried to delete
electronically stored documents that demonstrated that he had
used the tightly cropped image, prosecutors said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Fairey, 1:12-cr-00180, and the
civil case is Fairey v. Associated Press, 1:09-cv-01123, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 