-- Florida Brain-Injury Center Fights Order to Move Patients
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-09-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/florida-brain-injury-center-fights-order-to-move-patients.html
A Florida brain-injury  facility 
accused of abusive and substandard practices is fighting a state
order to move out scores of patients, saying regulators are
overstepping their authority.  The Florida Institute for Neurologic Rehabilitation,
located 50 miles southeast of Tampa in rural Wauchula, told the
state Friday that it would not begin the process of discharging
any patients until a judge hears an appeal it filed on Aug. 28.  That action, before the Division of Administrative
Hearings, alleges state regulators exceeded their authority in
ordering the removal of patients and acted in an “arbitrary and
capricious” way.  The dispute stems from a surprise inspection last month by
three state agencies. Regulators moved in after  Bloomberg News 
reported on dozens of cases of alleged abuse and neglect at the
for-profit facility, known as FINR. Patients’ families or state
agencies have accused the center’s staffers of abuse or care
lapses in at least five residents’ deaths since 1998, two of
them in the last two years.  Michelle Dahnke, a spokeswoman for the state’s Agency for
Health Care Administration, which was sent FINR’s response,
declined to comment.  State investigators determined FINR was breaching its
license by treating 50 patients who weren’t brain or spinal cord
injured. That represented more than half of the 98 patients
whose records the state reviewed.  Relocation Ordered  The state ordered FINR to submit a plan to relocate those
patients to facilities “appropriate to meet their needs.”  In its response Friday, FINR said it would begin that
process only if its legal challenge is unsuccessful.  The state is exceeding its authority by trying to enforce a
narrow definition of brain injury limited only to patients who
suffered a traumatic event, such as a car accident, FINR said.
Such an interpretation unfairly denies treatment to people with
other kinds of brain injuries, the company’s filing said,
without specifying the injuries in question.  FINR said it was acting to address other concerns raised by
regulators, including an allegation it was keeping patients too
long. The company said its chief medical officer will review the
length of stay for all residents to ensure appropriateness. It
said such a review of current patients found they all required
the treatment they were receiving or were making progress in
their rehabilitation.  After initially balking at providing investigators its
internal reports on incidents involving patients from the past
year, FINR said Friday that it had recently made those records
available.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in  Boston  at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  