-- Ford Expects to Reverse Market Share Losses on 2 Models
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-09-10T20:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/ford-expects-to-reverse-market-share-losses-on-2-models.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, expects to begin reversing share losses in its
home market because of two new models, the midsize Fusion sedan
and the Escape sport-utility vehicle.  “With these new products, we’ll have the opportunity to
gain share,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas,
told reporters at the automaker’s Flat Rock,  Michigan , factory,
which will begin building the redesigned Fusion next year. “We
won’t go after share for share itself. We want a good,
profitable business.”  Ford is bringing Fusion production to the U.S. and will add
a second shift of 1,200 workers at the Flat Rock plant, which
also builds the Mustang sports car. Hiring will begin in next
year’s second quarter, Fields said. Ford will continue to build
the Fusion at a factory in Mexico. It captured 15.6 percent of
the U.S. market this year through August, down from 16.8 percent
a year earlier.  The company has lost market share this year because it was
“in sell down” on old Fusion and Escape models, which depleted
inventory, Fields said.  “The reason I mention those two segments is because one
out of every three retail sales is in those segments,” Fields
said.  The executive also blamed Ford’s U.S. total share slide on
full-size pickup sales not recovering “as much as they have in
the past.” Prior to this year, Ford gained share in the U.S.
for three consecutive years, its longest run of growth in four
decades. F-Series pickups comprise the company’s biggest-selling
line of vehicles. F-Series gained 13 percent this year through
August.  Alliance Ends  Ford, after ending a 20-year production alliance with  Mazda
Motor Corp. (7261) , is renaming the factory the Flat Rock Assembly
plant, Fields said. Since 1992, the factory had been known as
Auto Alliance International to reflect the joint production of
models for Ford and Mazda.  Ford is taking over operational control of the factory,
though Mazda retains an ownership stake. The final Mazda6 rolled
off the assembly line last month.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  said Sept. 6 that Ford
will begin selling the Mustang in Europe “soon,” without
offering more specific details.  Mulally, since arriving from  Boeing Co. (BA)  in 2006, has moved
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford away from alliances and ownership
of foreign automakers. He sold off Jaguar,  Land Rover ,  Aston
Martin  and Volvo and reduced Ford’s stake in Mazda. Ford also no
longer relies on Mazda for small-car development.  Mustang Surges  Mustang sales in the U.S. are up 21 percent this year to
62,382, according to researcher Autodata Corp. of Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey. Ford’s U.S. sales have risen 6 percent this
year through August, less than the industrywide gain of 15
percent.  Ford’s North American operations have delivered record
profits this year while the automaker has lost money in its
international operations. The company earned $4.14 billion in
 North America  in 2012’s first half and had an operating profit
margin of 10.8 percent.  Ford fell 0.3 percent to $10.11 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Flat Rock, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  