-- Four in Five Dengue Mosquitoes Died in Cayman Trial
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-09-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/four-in-five-dengue-mosquitoes-died-in-cayman-trial.html
Genetically modified mosquitoes
released by U.K. biotechnology start-up  Oxitec Ltd.  wiped out 80
percent of the bugs that carry dengue in a Cayman Islands study,
according to a report today in the journal Nature Biotechnology.  More than 3 million of the male mosquitoes, members of the
Aedes aegypti species that carries dengue, were released in a
trial that closely held Oxitec and the Mosquito Research and
Control Unit on Grand Cayman conducted in a 16-hectare (39.5-
acre) area in 2010. At the end of 23 weeks, mosquito numbers had
dwindled by four-fifths in the treated area of the site,
compared with the untreated area, the researchers reported.  “This mosquito is really hard to control,” Luke Alphey,
chief scientific officer of Abingdon, England-based Oxitec, said
in a telephone interview. “There are plenty of toxins you can
use, but that only works if you can find every single breeding
site. This shows there is another mosquito control method and
it’s incredibly effective.”  Dengue, which is caused by a virus carried by the insects,
afflicts as many as 100 million people a year globally, about 20
times the number of serious influenza cases, according to the
 World Health Organization . In its worst form, the virus can
cause severe flu-like symptoms and fatal bleeding. About 2.5
percent of the 500,000 people who develop the severe form die.  Oxitec has released genetically modified mosquitoes in
other experiments in Malaysia and  Brazil . The  U.S. Food and Drug
Administration  is reviewing Oxitec’s proposal to release the
mosquitoes in a trial in  Key West ,  Florida .  The company’s technology alters the DNA of the dengue-
carrying Aedes aegypti mosquito by inserting one copy of an
altered gene into the mosquito. The modification causes the
insects to produce excessive amounts of a protein that disrupts
their cell machinery -- unless they’re given the antibiotic
tetracycline. When modified male mosquitoes with this gene are
released and reproduce with wild females, their offspring
inherit the trait and, without the antibiotic, die before
adulthood, reducing their overall numbers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  