-- French Sentiment, Factory Output Rise, Point to Rebound: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-09-10T11:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/french-sentiment-factory-output-rise-point-to-rebound-economy.html
French business confidence climbed
for the first time this year last month and factory output 
unexpectedly increased in July, suggesting the euro region’s 
second-largest economy may regain some strength.  Sentiment among manufacturing executives  rose to 93 from 90
in July, the Bank of  France  said today.  Industrial production 
increased 0.2 percent in July from the previous month, when it
stalled, a separate release showed. Economists in a Bloomberg
News forecast had forecast a decline of 0.5 percent, according
to the median of 23 estimates.  The increases are among the first signs of a possible
recovery in France, where President  Francois Hollande  said late
yesterday that growth will almost grind to a halt this year and
be less than 1 percent in 2013. With unemployment at a 13-year
high, Hollande said he wants to accelerate labor market reform
such by cutting payroll taxes while giving himself two years to
fix the nation’s economy.  “The numbers are going in the right direction but their
absolute level remains very low,” said  Dominique Barbet , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in Paris. “There’s no recession but
no growth either.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.2 percent at 12:57 p.m.
in Paris, following its biggest weekly gain in three months.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.2 percent. The
euro traded at $1.2784, down 0.3 percent on the day.  Economic Contraction  The Bank of France said the industrial sentiment reading,
along with a similar survey of service industry executives that
also improved in August, point to a 0.1 percent contraction for
the French economy in the third quarter. French  gross domestic
product  stalled in the three months through June.  Industrial production fell 3.1 percent in July from a year
earlier, Paris-based statistics office Insee said today.
Manufacturing output rose 0.9 percent in July from June.  “Order books have firmed up and inventories have ebbed
slightly,” the Bank of France said. Yet “production capacity
hasn’t progressed and remains below its long-term average.”  European investor confidence rose in September after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged last week
to buy government bonds of distressed nations such as Italy and
 Spain  in tandem with  Europe ’s rescue fund, according to an index
published by the Sentix research institute. A gauge of
expectations in the euro-area’s economy also rose, it said.  China, Japan  In  China , imports unexpectedly fell and industrial output
rose the least in three years, signaling more stimulus may be
needed after the government last week said it approved subway
and road projects across the nation. Inbound shipments slid 2.6
percent in August from a year ago as exports rose 2.7 percent,
the customs bureau said in Beijing today. Production increased
8.9 percent, the National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday.  Japan ’s economy expanded in the second quarter at half the
pace the government initially estimated, underscoring the risk
of a contraction as Europe’s debt crisis caps exports, a
government report showed today. GDP grew an annualized 0.7
percent in the three months through June, less than a
preliminary calculation of 1.4 percent.  South Korea  said it will add 5.9 trillion won ($5.2
billion) of economic support measures including extra spending
and tax cuts as exports slow.  For Hollande, the lack of growth means increased pressure
to find fresh-deficit reduction measures to keep a commitment to
reduce France’s budget shortfall to 3 percent of GDP next year
from 4.5 percent in 2012. Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  has
said the government will reach those targets to keep French
borrowing costs low in the face of the debt crisis.  ‘No Choice’  “The government has no choice, it needs to keep its
deficit promise,” BNP Paribas’s Barbet said.  Hollande said on TF1 television yesterday that the 2013
budget, due to be presented Sept. 26, will included 10 billion
euros ($13 billion) in spending curbs, 10 billion euros in
corporate taxes and 10 billion euros in levies on individuals.
State spending won’t increase next year, he said.  Cutting the 2013 growth forecast to 0.8 percent from 1.2
percent, Hollande also said unions and business leaders need to
find a way to reduce payroll taxes by year-end or his government
will act to boost French competitiveness.  “If this historic compromise is reached by year end, this
reform will be given the force of law,” he said. “But if the
partners can’t agree, then I’m sorry, but then the state will
assume its responsibilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  