-- Fumbled DNA Tests Mean Peril for Breast-Cancer Patients
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-09-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/fumbled-dna-tests-mean-peril-for-breast-cancer-patients.html
Debbie McCarron was prepared to get
both of her breasts taken off if a blood test in December 2006
revealed she carried a gene that vastly increases the risk of
breast cancer. Having survived the disease five years earlier,
she didn’t want to risk getting it again.  To her relief, her oncologist told her the test, done by
 Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) , had come back negative, “just like I knew
it would,” McCarron recalls her doctor saying.  He was wrong. The results, in fact, were positive. McCarron
didn’t learn this, though, until July 2009, more than two years
later, when a genetic counselor reviewed the test following
McCarron’s surgery to remove a new malignant breast tumor. Since
then, her oncologist,  Haresh Jhangiani , told Bloomberg he isn’t
clear about what happened.  “I don’t think she was positive. Was she positive?” the
doctor said. “I would not tell her it was negative if the test
was positive, there must be something more to it.”  McCarron, now 50, was devastated when she found out. “The
whole world crumbled down on me that day,” the  Huntington Beach ,
 California , woman said in an interview. “I never would have
gotten that second cancer.”  More than 2,700 diseases can now be identified through gene
testing, compared with fewer than 800 in 2000, according to the
government-funded website  GeneTests.  DNA screening offers the
potential to transform medicine by predicting the risk of cancer
or other severe diseases years in advance. Yet the very nature
of the tests creates the potential for catastrophic error
because they’re often used to make irreversible decisions, such
as terminating a pregnancy or undergoing surgery to prevent
cancer.  Costly, Complex  The tests can cost thousands of dollars, so doctors and
patients often delay using them fearful insurers won’t pay.
They’re complex in their makeup and difficult to corroborate.
And there is a general lack of training among doctors who
authorize them and must explain the results, according to recent
studies.  As a result, errors such as the one affecting McCarron can
go undetected for years, harming entire families. Since she
found out she was positive, McCarron has advocated her family
get tested, helping them navigate a system that has thrown up
multiple barriers along the way. So far, 10 relatives have
tested positive, including McCarron’s father, uncle, aunt, six
cousins and her oldest daughter.  Mistakes Counted  ARUP Laboratories , a nonprofit laboratory affiliated with
the University of Utah, found that 30 percent of orders for
complex gene tests from February to December 2010 contained
mistakes in handling by clinicians. Doctors requested the wrong
test or mixed up rare diseases with similar names, or ordered a
test for one cancer mutation when another ran in the family,
said Christine Miller, an ARUP genetic counselor.  About 74 percent of internists said their knowledge of
genetics was somewhat or very poor and 79 percent wanted more
training on when to order the tests, according to a  Columbia
University  study surveying 220 internists.  “Even if you have been out of medical school for five
years, you are totally out of date,” said Wendy Chung, a
pediatrician and geneticist at  Columbia University  Medical
Center who was a co-author on the study.  Since McCarron found out about her bad gene in 2009, she
has urged relatives at family reunions to get tests. She has
also intervened multiple times when her relatives’ doctors have
had trouble ordering the right test or explaining the results,
according to McCarron.  ‘Horrible Experience’  With one cousin, the testing lab called McCarron on her
mobile phone to ask which test to run; the doctor hadn’t
completely filled out the order, she said. Another cousin’s
doctor ordered the wrong test, while other doctors weren’t
familiar with recommended screenings for those who test positive,
she said.  When it comes to genetic tests, too many doctors “don’t
know what to test for, they don’t know what box to check, they
don’t know how to read the results, they don’t know what to tell
their patients,” McCarron said.  “My family’s experience has been horrible,” she said.
“It is important to me that this not happen to anybody else.”  Other families have faced similar issues, according to
genetic counselors at the  Yale Cancer Center  and elsewhere who
have published two studies with details on 30 cases in which
doctors have misordered, misread, or misinterpreted gene tests.
One study was published in the July/August 2012 edition of the
 The Cancer Journal , while the other was released in August 2010
in the journal  Connecticut Medicine.   Ambiguous Results  The situation may get worse as doctors move from testing
one gene at a time to dozens or thousands -- increasing the odds
of ambiguous results that are easy to misinterpret.  “If we can’t even interpret relatively simple genetic
tests for one or two genes, how are these people going to
interpret a complex panel that includes tens or thousands of
genes that are rare and we know little about?,” said Ellen
Matloff, director of cancer genetic counseling at the Yale
Cancer Center in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , and a senior author on
the two studies.  McCarron is 5 feet 2 inches tall with shoulder-length dark
brown hair, and likes to hug people. Raised in the Los Angeles
area, she and her husband have two daughters.  She was first diagnosed with cancer in December 2001, when
she was 39. She got a mammogram after finding a lump in her
right breast. While that one was benign, her mammogram found a
real tumor on the left side. She was treated with surgery,
chemotherapy and radiation to make sure it didn’t return.  Grandmother’s Cancer  It wasn’t the first case of early cancer in her family.
McCarron’s paternal grandmother died at 35 from ovarian cancer,
and an aunt contracted ovarian cancer at 48.  McCarron said that while she mentioned the ovarian cancers
to her doctors, she didn’t press the matter initially because
she didn’t have any idea that her relatives’ diseases might be
related to her  breast cancer .  McCarron’s mother wanted to be sure there was no genetic
link. She pushed Debbie to get tested for the BRCA1 and BRCA2
breast cancer genes in 2002. The  BRCA test , sold by Salt Lake
City-based Myriad, looks for mutations in the two genes that are
the most common forms of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer.  Jhangiani, McCarron’s oncologist at the time, initially
said he wasn’t sure the test was necessary, McCarron and her
mother, Elizabeth Fabrizio, recalled in interviews.  “He kept telling me this is a very expensive test that
your insurance isn’t going to pay for,” McCarron said.  Insurance Appeal  While she was initially turned down by her insurer, she
said an appeal won her at least a partial payment for the test,
which Myriad now  sells  for $3,340. She gave blood on Dec. 14,
2006, and Myriad sent a first set of results to Jhangiani on Dec.
27.  Not too long afterward, she said, -- McCarron doesn’t
remember the date -- Jhangiani told her the test was negative,
that she didn’t have a cancer-causing mutation.  “I was ecstatic,” McCarron said. “It was a huge monkey
off my shoulder.”  Relieved, she moved on with her life. She was now so
confident, she said, that she put off a mammogram for five
months. When she finally got the X-ray on Jan. 6, 2009, it found
the right-breast lump.  This malignancy was aggressive and had already spread to
five lymph nodes. “I thought this was it,” McCarron recalled.  Surprise Reaction  Jhangiani was incredulous when McCarron told him she had
breast cancer again, according to her husband, Joseph Alexander
McCarron, and her mother, both of whom were present at the
appointment. McCarron wanted both breasts removed. Jhangiani
recommended a less radical operation that would only take out a
lump of tissue around the new tumor.  That day, McCarron decided she needed a new doctor. “No
more Dr. J.,” reads her calendar for Jan. 13, 2009.  McCarron then had both breasts removed, along with her
uterus and ovaries, in a six-hour operation. That was followed
by three months of “dose dense” chemotherapy, an intense form
of treatment where doctors reduce the time between treatments to
maximize the odds of a cure.  One drug in her cocktail, Adriamycin, is nicknamed the
“red devil” for its bright color and nausea-inducing effects.  McCarron lost her hair and was constantly fatigued, dizzy
or nauseous from her treatments. Sometimes, after going to the
bathroom, she would lay on the cold bathroom tile for as long as
an hour, too weak to move, she said. Twice she needed blood
transfusions.  Genetic Counselor  In the summer of 2009, McCarron’s new oncologist,  Khosrow
Mahdavi , recommended she visit a cancer genetic counselor at the
hospital. Her new doctor insisted that she go even when she
protested that she had been tested for the breast cancer genes
and was found not to have them, McCarron said. Mahdavi confirmed
the account in a telephone interview.  In the early afternoon of July 10, 2009, Mariana Niell, a
genetic counselor, met McCarron and her mother on the second
floor of the cancer center at Hoag Hospital  Newport Beach . She
took a detailed family history, noting the relatives who had
died from ovarian cancer.  Based on the family and personal history alone, Niell
estimated that McCarron had as much as a 94.9 percent chance of
having a BRCA mutation, according to a report she sent to
Mahdavi. When McCarron told Niell she had tested negative for
the genes, the counselor contacted Myriad to get the results.
When the lab couldn’t immediately locate the records, McCarron
and her mother returned to her new doctor’s office and the clerk
there called Jhangiani’s office to get his copy of the results.  Faxed Test  “I remember standing there while they called and asked if
they could please fax over the BRCA test, and this is what they
sent over,” Fabrizio said.  The single-page fax, stamped 2:22 p.m. on July 10, 2009,
contained a sentence in bold type: “No large rearrangement
detected.” In four places it said, “No mutation detected.”
Large rearrangement is a type of mutation that accounts for 6
percent to 9 percent of mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes,
according to Myriad.  At 8:27 a.m. the next business day, Myriad faxed along its
own copy of the findings. Unlike the version received from the
doctor’s office, this one was three-pages long and contained
additional results.  Here is where the confusion may have started. Unbeknownst
to McCarron, Myriad had performed not one but two tests on her
blood. One test, designed to find defects called large
rearrangements, was negative. The other, Myriad’s main test for
defects in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, concluded she was
“positive for a deleterious mutation.”  84% Risk  The mutation gives McCarron as much as an 84 percent risk
of breast cancer and a 27 percent chance of ovarian cancer by
age 70, the report said. Myriad’s records, some of which the
company provided last month to McCarron, indicate it was sent
via Federal Express to Jhangiani’s office on Dec. 27, 2006.  The second test with negative results was sent to
Jhangiani’s office more than a week later, on Jan. 9, 2007.  McCarron cried as she called her mother to share the news.
“It was one of the worst days of my life,” said McCarron. “It
was almost worse than hearing you had cancer.”  Jhangiani, McCarron’s initial oncologist, is listed as
senior physician on the website for  Compassionate Cancer Care
Medical Group , a group practice that has offices in  Fountain
Valley , Corona, and Riverside, California. In a telephone
interview, he said he remembered little about the chain of
events surrounding McCarron’s test.  Missing Initials  After looking at copies of McCarron’s test results e-mailed
to him by  Bloomberg News , Jhangiani said his initials were
missing from the page with the positive finding.  “There is a very good possibility I never even saw the
second page,” he said. “The fact that the second page does not
have my signature and it is positive and it has not been circled
means I never even saw that.”  If he had known about a positive result, he “definitely”
would have advised McCarron differently, including about the
possibility of having her breasts and ovaries removed to prevent
cancer, he said.  Laboratories should report positive test results on one
page, Jhangiani said, as his office has “tons of paper” coming
in. “If any part of the test is positive they should report it
on the first page,” he said. “They didn’t report it the way it
should be reported.”  Jhangiani said he would need to go back to his records to
determine what might have happened.  Lawyer’s Response  A week later, a call to Jhangiani was returned by his
lawyer,  Raymond McMahon  of Bonne Bridges Mueller O’Keefe &
Nichols in  Santa Ana , California, who said in an e-mail he was
“not comfortable under the situation before us to state
anything further.”  Rebecca Chambers, a Myriad spokeswoman, defended the
company’s presentation of its results. They “do not require
physician interpretation,” she said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  However, Myriad’s decision to conduct and report a second
test “could confuse some people” unfamiliar with the
procedures, according to  Chung , the geneticist at Columbia
University.  Someone at Myriad may have realized that the negative
result, coming more than a week after the first positive finding,
might need clarification. Myriad’s communications log for
McCarron’s case lists an outbound telephone call to Jhangiani’s
office on Jan. 16, 2007.  Voice Mail  “Left voice mail for RN in office to clarify test results
-- Explain the BART results and that they do not change the
interpretation” of the main test, the communications log read.
Following inquiries by Bloomberg, Myriad provided copies of the
communications log to McCarron.  Myriad’s typical practice is to contact doctors after
results are delivered if they order a new test, Chambers said.
Jhangiani hadn’t previously ordered the large rearrangement test,
she said.  “It is important to remember the test was done for free
and in a good faith effort to provide the patient and physician
with important information,” Chambers said.  Matloff at the Yale Cancer Center, who has studied why
doctors make mistakes in ordering and interpreting cancer gene
tests, criticized Myriad for marketing complex tests to
gynecologists and other doctors who may not have expertise in
genetics.  In an e-mail, Myriad said it markets its tests to
gynecologists, oncologists and surgeons in accordance with
various professional society guidelines regarding genetic
testing.  Care Standards  “When companies start marketing their tests and making
them available and say you are qualified to order the test when
you probably aren’t, it lowers the standard of care,” said Sue
Friedman,  executive director  of  Facing Our Risk of Cancer
Empowered , a nonprofit group in Tampa,  Florida .  Harried primary-care doctors may not have the time to
properly explain the results.  “It takes more than a 10-minute meeting with a patient”
to explain cancer gene-test results, Friedman said.  Matloff, and Columbia’s Chung, are plaintiffs in a patent
lawsuit against Myriad, and Friedman’s group filed a brief in
support of the plaintiffs. A federal appeals court ruled Aug. 16
in favor of Myriad.  The number of doctors certified in genetics isn’t growing
much, and is perhaps one-third of what is needed, said Michael
Watson, executive director for the  American College of Medical
Genetics and Genomics . The lack of education about genetics
“could become increasingly problematic” as more patients start
asking primary-care physicians for such tests, he said.  Informing Family  After McCarron found out about the bad gene, there was a
clear next step ahead. Her family needed to be informed, she
said. Each child of someone with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation
has a 50 percent chance of inheriting it.  McCarron called her three half-sisters and her father, from
whom she had inherited the cancer-risk gene, and arranged to
meet them that night. She brought copies of her test results for
each, and explained what it could mean about their risk of
getting cancer and why testing was important. She repeated the
performance two weeks later for her aunts and an uncle.  McCarron, who has resumed working in her job as a mortgage
underwriter, now is busy with activities that raise money for
breast cancer research and awareness.  In an interview at her home, McCarron wore a pink sundress,
the color of breast cancer activism, pink nail polish, earrings,
and two pink bracelets. Her closet is full of dozens of breast-
cancer themed shirts, hats and jewelry.  ‘They’re Fake’  One shirt reads, “Yes they are fake (My real ones tried to
kill me).”  McCarron said she has mixed feelings toward her first
oncologist, Jhangiani. She feels betrayed, even though “it
obviously wasn’t done on purpose” she said.  While she has thought frequently about confronting the
doctor, and even drafted several letters to him, she hasn’t
mustered the courage to go through with it. She also thought
about suing the doctor and talked to a lawyer, but said she has
decided against it.  Now her fear is that her life may be shortened because she
didn’t get the correct gene-test results in time to prevent
another cancer, she said. There may be a few malignant cells
left from the second breast cancer somewhere in her body, she
says, and they may someday return.  “I definitely think my life is going to be shorter because
of it,” she said. “I don’t want to be taken off this earth
before my time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  