-- Gamco’s Howard Ward Says U.S. Stocks May Reach Record: Tom Keene
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-09-10T17:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/gamco-s-howard-ward-says-u-s-stocks-may-reach-record-tom-keene.html
U.S.  stocks  may rally to record
highs in the next four months as consumers increase spending and
help drive up corporate earnings, said Gamco Investors Inc.’s
Howard Ward.  Benchmark indexes will continue to advance if the economy
can avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, Ward said, referring to
$600 billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will take
effect automatically at the end of the year unless Congress
acts. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index last week climbed within
10 percent of its record reached five years ago.  “The key message to investors is get in stocks,” Ward, a
 fund manager  who helps oversee $35.6 billion at Gamco in Rye,
New York, said in a television interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Sara Eisen. “It’s not too
late. If we can avoid a fiscal cliff-driven, recession-type of
hit, we’re going to have a new high in stocks in the next three
to four months.”  The almost $2 trillion  restored  to U.S. equity prices in
2012 has pushed the benchmark gauge for American equities more
than 7 percentage points closer to a record than any country
among the world’s biggest stock markets. Stocks are climbing
amid better-than-estimated earnings and speculation on policy
measures to stimulate the economy.  Approaching Record  The  S&P 500  added 2.2 percent to 1,437.92 last week amid
bets the Fed will announce a third round of quantitative easing,
or asset purchases meant to stoke the economy, and as the
 European Central Bank  announced a bond-buying plan to tame the
region’s debt crisis. Last week’s gain left the index 8.8
percent from its record of 1,565.15 reached Oct. 9, 2007.  Bets on further stimulus measures grew as a Sept. 7 report
showed payrolls increased less than projected in August and the
 unemployment rate  was unexpectedly driven down by Americans
leaving the  labor force .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called the labor market a
“grave concern” in an Aug. 31 speech and said the central bank
will provide additional stimulus as needed to promote a stronger
recovery. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will release a
policy statement on Sept. 13.  “The jobs report was weak,” said Ward. “And I think it
gives Bernanke cover to go ahead with QE3. I think he wants to
do it. This is exactly what he needed to get him over the goal
line.”  Profits, Confidence  Whether or not the Fed announces QE3, the strength in the
equity market is warranted because of the growth in corporate
profits and a rebound in consumer sentiment, Ward said.  Consumer confidence  improved more than projected in August
as merchant discounts and record-low  interest rates  helped U.S.
households bolster finances, a Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan sentiment index showed Aug. 31.  While profits may decline 1.8 percent this quarter, they
will rebound 11 percent in the final three months of 2012 and
rise 11 percent next year and 12 percent in 2014, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings for S&P 500
companies are forecast to set a record of $103.38 a share this
year, the  data show .  “It is not just built on the Fed,” said Ward. “ Monetary
policy  is very easy regardless. But let’s look at the economy.
Record corporate profits, you don’t hear the bears talk about
this very much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  