-- General Growth Rejects Ackman’s Call for Sale of Company
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-09-11T20:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/general-growth-rejects-call-to-put-itself-on-the-market.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
second-largest U.S. shopping-mall owner, rejected investor  Bill Ackman ’s call to put itself up for sale and said it plans to
remain independent.  “The board has unanimously determined that the best value
for all shareholders will be achieved by GGP continuing to
execute on its well-conceived business plan,”  Sandeep Mathrani ,
General Growth’s chief executive officer, said in a letter to
Ackman, founder of  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP. The
letter was filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Pershing Square, General Growth’s No. 2 shareholder, first
urged the landlord on Aug. 23 to form a committee to consider
selling the company. Ackman said at the time that  Simon (SPG)  Property
Group Inc. was interested in buying its smaller competitor.
General Growth should “initiate negotiations with Simon
promptly,” he said in a letter filed Aug. 27 with the SEC.  “They have a new management team that’s doing very well,”
 Rich Moore , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Solon,  Ohio ,
said of General Growth in a telephone interview. He has a
sector-perform rating on General Growth shares, the equivalent
of a hold. “There’s every reason to believe, with the mall
business being as good as it is, they’ll do quite well over
time.”  General Growth fell 2.5 percent to $20.09 today in New
York. The  shares  have gained 8.5 percent since Aug. 22.  Bankruptcy Exit  General Growth exited bankruptcy protection in November
2010 following a takeover battle between Simon and an investor
group that included Pershing Square and  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc. (BAM/A)  The mall owner filed for bankruptcy in 2009
after weighing itself down with $27 billion in debt that it was
unable to refinance because of the financial crisis and collapse
of the commercial mortgage-backed  securities market .  An e-mail to Ackman and a telephone message left at his New
York office weren’t returned yesterday. A message left for Les Morris, a spokesman for Indianapolis-based Simon, also wasn’t
returned.  General Growth’s chairman is J. Bruce Flatt, chief
executive officer of Toronto-based Brookfield, which has a stake
of about 42 percent in Chicago-based General Growth. Ackman said
last month that Brookfield had also expressed interest in taking
over the mall owner. Following Ackman’s disclosure, Brookfield
said it wasn’t trying to buy General Growth nor did it want to
sell its stake in the company.  Brookfield Agreement  “We agree with the position unanimously taken by GGP’s
board to have GGP continue to execute on its business plan,”
Flatt said yesterday in a letter to General Growth’s board and
shareholders. “GGP is currently performing extremely well and
we believe GGP is positioned for superior growth over the next
five years versus any comparable retail mall investment.”  Tenant sales and occupancies are rising at General Growth’s
malls, which include Fashion Show in  Las Vegas . Company revenue
rose to $624.1 million in the second quarter, up 3.5 percent
from a year earlier, according to an Aug. 1 statement. Funds
from operations, which gauge a property company’s ability to
generate cash, rose 10 percent to $102.2 million.  Simon had discussed paying 0.1765 of a Simon share for each
General Growth share, according to Ackman. That would value
General Growth at $27.57 a share, based on Simon’s closing price
yesterday.  That would have given General Growth a higher per-share
value than Simon’s proposed takeover from more than two years
ago. Simon said in May 2010 that it offered $20 a share for its
competitor, which was under  bankruptcy protection  at the time.  General Growth owns or has stakes in 149 regional shopping
malls with about 141 million square feet (13 million square
meters) of leasable space in the U.S. and Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  