-- Germany’s Schaeuble Said to Oppose Spanish Sovereign Bailout
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-09-10T18:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/germany-s-schaeuble-said-to-oppose-spanish-sovereign-bailout.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin today that  Spain  doesn’t need
a full sovereign bailout, according to two party officials who
participated in the briefing.  Schaeuble praised the reform efforts of Spain and Italy,
the officials said on condition of anonymity because the meeting
was held in private. The finance minister said Spain doesn’t
need to apply for a full program because economic and fiscal
progress made since implementing reforms means that a full
bailout isn’t necessary, the officials said.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has so far declined to
say whether he will seek a full bailout, saying he needs time to
study a proposal announced by European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  to lower government borrowing costs. Rajoy has
already sought a rescue for Spain’s banks of as much as 100
billion euros ($128 billion).  “We will take a decision taking into account the interests
of the Spanish people and the euro zone,” Spain’s European
Affairs Minister Inigo Mendez de Vigo said today in an interview
with Bloomberg Television. Any decision on possible outside aid
“has nothing to do” with regional elections next month.  Spanish bonds rallied last week after Draghi said the ECB
will buy unlimited quantities of sovereign bonds as long as
governments in countries such as Spain and Italy request aid
from Europe’s rescue funds and sign up to strict conditions. The
yield on Spanish 10-year bonds rose 7 basis points to 5.70
percent today.  Schaeuble and  Chancellor Angela Merkel , who also attended
the meeting, reiterated to lawmakers that Draghi’s plan to buy
sovereign bonds is within the ECB’s mandate, the officials said.  The ECB plan is an efficient solution “which is going to
work as a stopgap,” billionaire investor  George Soros  said in a
speech in Berlin today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  