-- Xstrata Climbs as Glencore Makes Final $35 Billion Takeover Bid
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-09-10T16:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/glencore-says-raised-all-share-36-billion-xstrata-bid-is-final.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  rose to a four-month
high in London as investors bet a 9 percent increase in  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) ’s offer for the Swiss mining company boosts
the odds this year’s biggest takeover will be completed.  Xstrata, the world’s largest exporter of coal for power
stations, advanced 1.2 percent to close at 1,026.5 pence, the
highest since May 11. The Zug-based target of Glencore’s $35
billion offer will “consider carefully the proposal received
and consult with major shareholders before responding,” it said
in a statement today.  “We expect this transaction to be completed under the
revised proposed terms,” Jefferies Group Inc. analysts
Christopher Lafemina and Seth Rosenfeld wrote in a report. It
“should ultimately be satisfactory to the Xstrata board and
most Xstrata shareholders.”  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg today made
his final offer as he seeks to shore up support for the all-
stock deal after investors including Qatar’s sovereign wealth
fund opposed his original bid. There’s now an 80 percent chance
of the bid succeeding, Liberum Capital Ltd. said after Glencore
raised its offer to create the fourth-largest mining company to
3.05 of its shares for each one in Xstrata, from 2.8.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly-traded commodities
supplier, declined 2.1 percent to 370 pence. Xstrata stock
traded at 2.77 times that of Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore,
up 3.4 percent from a ratio of 2.68 on Sept. 7.  Mick Davis  Along with the sweetened terms, Glencore said its revised
takeover plan would see Xstrata CEO  Mick Davis  departing within
six months. Davis, a 54-year-old South African, would run the
combined group before handing over to Glasenberg, Glencore said
in a statement today. That scraps an earlier plan for the
Xstrata head to take the top job.  Glencore said its offer represents a “substantial
premium” for a company with a 34 percent shareholder, referring
to its stake in the company, which also produces copper, zinc,
nickel and lead from mines in  Australia ,  South Africa ,  South
America  and  Canada .  Davis is ready to step down, provided shareholders get the
right price, a person familiar with the situation said of
Xstrata, which is based just two miles from Glencore’s
headquarters. As many as 20 senior Xstrata executives may leave
after the transaction is completed, the person said.  ‘Significant Risk’  The proposal for Glencore’s Glasenberg to be CEO of the
combined group “represents significant risk” for retention of
Xstrata’s management team and goes against the merger of equals
agreement made in February, Xstrata said Sept. 7. Today’s
announcement confirmed the original plan for Xstrata’s  John Bond 
to be chairman of the combined group.  Under the original deal, Xstrata proposed retention
payments totaling 172.8 million pounds ($276 million) for Davis
and 72 other executives. Those payments were criticized as
excessive by investors including Standard Life Investments.  Glencore is “content” with Xstrata’s request for
executives to “receive appropriate retention and incentive
packages,” it said today. Glencore asked Xstrata’s board to
consider if there are any changes it wishes to propose to the
payments which included 28.8 million pounds in shares of the
combined group to Davis over three years.  “The intention to replace Mick Davis as CEO and to amend
the management incentive arrangements carries the risk of seeing
key management depart,” Alain William, a Paris-based analyst at
Societe Generale SA, said in a note today. “This is not a done
deal and we have to recognize the possibility that Xstrata’s
board might decide to walk away.”  Takeover Option  The proposal will continue to be structured as a so-called
scheme of arrangement, requiring an approval threshold of 75
percent, with Glencore unable to vote its stake.  Glencore could switch to a takeover, needing support of
more than 50 percent of shareholders, with the consent of the
U.K. takeover panel and Xstrata, the commodities trader said.  The new proposal “is better than the old one,” said Jane Coffey, head of equities at Royal  London  Asset Management, which
holds shares in each company. Glasenberg becoming CEO “is fine
by me,” she said in an interview today.  Glencore unexpectedly called off a shareholder meeting on
Sept. 7 arranged to vote on the all-stock offer. Xstrata
released a statement the same day saying it had received a
proposal from Glencore with a 17.6 percent premium that was
“significantly lower than would be expected in a takeover.”  Less Aggressive  “The new proposal is structured far less aggressively than
the straight takeover hinted at on Friday,” Liberum analysts
wrote today. “We expect the revised structuring should get
Xstrata board’s recommendation.”  In February, Glencore offered 2.8 of its shares, prompting
investors including Qatar Holding LLC and  Knight Vinke  Asset
Management LLC to say they would vote against the bid.  Qatar Holding, controlled by the Persian Gulf state’s royal
family and owner of 12 percent of Xstrata, is Glencore’s biggest
obstacle to completing the deal. The terms were changed after a
negotiating session in a London hotel on the evening of Sept. 6
between Glasenberg and Qatar’s premier, mediated by former U.K.
Prime Minister  Tony Blair , according to a person with knowledge
of the discussions.  Knight Vinke rejects Glencore’s latest proposal and urged
Xstrata’s independent board members “to seek the highest
possible price and invite third party offers,” it said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  