-- Goldman Sachs Analysts Say Bank Slowdown Isn’t Temporary
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-09-10T19:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/goldman-sachs-analysts-decide-u-s-bank-slowdown-isn-t-temporary.html
New  bank regulations  and  capital
requirements  are “structural” changes to the industry that are
more to blame for declining profits than the U.S. economic
slump,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts said.  “The operating environment is unlikely to change any time
soon, and we see shareholders of challenged banks becoming more
demanding in asking management teams to lay out a path to
unlocking value in the near term,” analysts led by  Richard Ramsden  in  New York  wrote in a report published today.  Their view contrasts with Goldman Sachs Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, who said in November, “I don’t
think we can conclude that the slowdown is secular rather than
cyclical change.” Goldman Sachs, based in New York, is the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets.  More than half of the top 25 U.S. banks aren’t earning
enough to cover their cost of capital, leading to stock prices
that are “significantly lagging previous global recoveries,”
according to the note. “The vast majority of the reduction
relative to pre-crisis levels is attributable to structural
issues like deleveraging and regulatory reform.”  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-biggest U.S. bank, and similar
firms could improve returns by shrinking businesses like fixed-
income trading and distressed-mortgage investing that require
high levels of capital, according to the note. Using that
capital to buy back shares instead “could be meaningfully
accretive to shareholders,” the analysts wrote.  Bank Conversions  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were the biggest U.S.
securities firms before converting to banks in September 2008.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. lender, could spin
off about $100 billion of U.S. mortgages into a new company to
boost profit and improve its share price, the analysts wrote.  Shareholders could choose to own stock in the new firm,
which would be funded by a loan from the New York-based lender,
the analysts wrote. The move could help to increase the bank’s
“theoretical valuation” to $50 a share from about $30 a share
 today , said the analysts, who reaffirmed their buy rating on the
company.  The loans, which are almost equal to the total assets of
Cincinnati-based Fifth Third Bancorp, are now in the Citi
Holdings division, which CEO Vikram Pandit created for unwanted
assets in 2009. The part of the division that contains the loans
lost $1.5 billion for the first half of 2012, compared with $2.2
billion for the same period last year.  ‘Eliminate Assets’  “The most efficient way to boost returns -- and create
value for shareholders -- is to eliminate assets with both the
largest losses and largest capital requirements,” according to
the note. “While we recognize the challenges for Citigroup
given the size and complexity of the portfolio, the North
America mortgage book within Citi Holdings fits the bill for
both.”  John Gerspach , Citigroup’s chief financial officer, said
today that the lender had sold about $14 billion of mortgages
since 2010. Roughly 60 percent of those were delinquent, he said
at a conference in New York.  Pandit, 55, speaking at the same conference, said that his
bank was ready for regulatory changes after “reshaping our
businesses.” Some of the problems facing the industry,
including a slump in trading revenue, are likely to be
temporary, he said.  Low Volume  “Some of what you’re seeing in the capital markets
activities today are likely to be more cyclical than secular,”
Pandit said. “You cannot make a case to say that low volumes
can continue for a long period of time.”  The Goldman Sachs note also raised the firm’s
recommendation on  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the 10th biggest U.S.
bank by deposits, to conviction buy from buy because the
analysts estimate the Birmingham, Alabama-based lender’s shares
could increase 35 percent if it cuts branches or sells
businesses.  Goldman Sachs lowered San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , the U.S. bank with the biggest market value, to buy from
conviction buy because the stock has outperformed rivals
recently, according to the note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  