-- Guangshen Slumps as Falling Imports Sink ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-10T21:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/guangshen-leads-slump-in-adrs-as-imports-fall-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in  New York 
dropped, sending the benchmark  index (SHCOMP)  lower for the first time in
three days, after the Asian nation’s import fell and industrial
output growth eased, adding to signs the economy is slowing.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the New York declined 1 percent to 87.92
yesterday, the biggest slump since July 30. Train operator
 Guangshen Railway Co. (GSH)  sank the most since June after August
cargo volume fell and mobile-chip designer  Spreadtrum
Communications Inc. (SPRD)  tumbled the most in a month.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) 
led Internet companies lower while  China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp.  climbed as the country raised fuel prices.  Imports slid 2.6 percent in August from a year earlier,
trailing a median estimate for a 3.5 percent gain among 35
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  China ’s  industrial production 
increased 8.9 percent in August from a year earlier, the least
since May 2009, the statistics bureau said Sept. 9. President  Hu
Jintao  said Sept. 8 that  China’s economy  faces “notable
downward pressure” due to a slowdown in the nation’s exports.  “General business conditions for public companies have
deteriorated markedly in China,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of
New York-based Marketfield Asset Management, which oversees $2.7
billion, said by phone yesterday from New York. “There’s a very
definite trend toward moderating activity over the last 18
months. It takes months for stimulus to really take effect.”  China ETF Tumbles  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., lost 1.8 percent to $33.06,
snapping a two-day gain. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the
biggest U.S. shares slid 0.6 percent to 1,429.08 as concern over
Greece’s debt crisis overshadowed speculation central banks will
take action to spur the economy.  Consumer prices  rose 2 percent last month in China,
accelerating for the first time in five months, and compared
with 1.8 percent in July, the statistics bureau said Sept. 9.
China’s top planning agency last week approved the construction
of new roads, railways and urban infrastructure, while the
People’s Bank of China has held off further monetary policy
easing since July 5 when it cut benchmark  interest rates  for the
second time in less than a month.  “With rising property prices, which is what really bothers
the Chinese, an inflation no longer in decline, it doesn’t
appear the case for lower rates is made,” Nicholas Smithie, a
New York-based emerging market strategist at UBS AG, said in a
phone interview.  Guangshen Declines  Shenzhen-based Guangshen Railway, which operates trains in
China’s richest Guangdong province, plunged 4 percent to $14.58
yesterday, the steepest decline since June 15.  Railway cargo volume declined 9.2 percent from a year
earlier and passenger volume climbed 6 percent, while fixed-
asset investment in the sector surged 29.7 percent, according to
data from China’s Ministry of Railways yesterday.  The figures suggest “the return on capital of much of this
investment will be well below acceptable levels,” Marketfield’s
Shaoul said.  Sohu, owner of China’s fifth-most visited website, slid 4.2
percent, the most in two weeks, to $40.6.  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) ,
operator of video sharing websites, fell 3.1 percent in the
first retreat in three days to $17.29. Sina Corp., which runs
the Twitter-like Weibo service in China, dropped 2.4 percent to
$62.08, the biggest decline in a month.  ‘Positive Role’  The Chinese government will work to have social media play
a “greater and more positive role” in the country, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing  Wang
Chen , head of the State Internet Information Office. Authorities
will seek to stop the spread of rumors, fraud and “vulgarity”
online, according to the Xinhua report.  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based chip designer, tumbled 8.4
percent to $19.95 in New York, the most in a month. The company
had gained 13 percent over the previous two days.  “There may be a bit of profit taking in a tough macro
environment,” Alex Gauna, an analyst at JMP Securities in  San
Francisco  said in a phone interview. Gauna rates Spreadtrum a
market outperform with a 12-month price target of $27.50.
Spreadtrum had gained 4.3 percent this year through Sept. 7.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  dropped the most in five weeks,
falling 2.2 percent to $23.76, the lowest price since the
Shanghai-based advertising company received a $27 per share
buyout proposal on Aug 12. The stock closed 12 percent below the
bid from a consortium of private-equity firms including Carlyle
Group LP and FountainVest Partners.  Sinopec Climbs  China Petroleum, the nation’s largest oil refiner also
known as Sinopec, rose 1.1 percent to $91.09 in its third day of
gains.  The state planning agency yesterday announced a second
increase in about a month to gasoline and diesel prices on its
website, as rising crude costs threaten to curb profits at the
nation’s largest oil refiners. The maximum at which gasoline can
be sold to motorists rose by 550  yuan  ($87) a metric ton and
diesel by 540 yuan today.  The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.3 percent yesterday to
2,134.89, the highest level since Aug. 14, while the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
lost 0.4 percent to 9,393.60.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  