-- Microsoft May Raise Dividend by 15 Percent This Month
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-09-10T20:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/microsoft-may-raise-dividend-by-15-percent-this-month.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may announce a 15
percent increase to its quarterly dividend later this month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the world’s largest
software maker faces a growing cash position.  The company’s board typically holds its annual meeting to
set the dividend in September and has boosted the payout in each
of the previous two years, including a 25 percent increase last
year. Analysts estimate the software maker will raise the
dividend by three cents to 23 cents a share.  Microsoft’s  cash and short-term investments  as of June 30
surged to more than $63 billion, from $52.8 billion a year
earlier, just before the last dividend increase. While another
boost would benefit investors, the company’s ability to increase
the payout is constrained because most of its cash is held
overseas and would be taxed if it were brought back.  “The board is likely to consider factors such as available
onshore cash” in making its decision,  Heather Bellini , an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a research note.  “One benchmark the company and the board look to when
determining the dividend increase is the growth in the prior
year’s operating income,” wrote Bellini,  who is expecting a 2
cent, or 10 percent, higher dividend. “As such, given that
operating income only grew 3 percent in fiscal 2012 versus 12
percent in fiscal 2011, we also would expect the dividend
increase to moderate from the 25 percent increase.”  Smaller Boost  Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment. The company has increased the
dividend regularly since it began payouts in 2003  About $54 billion of Microsoft’s cash and equivalents was
held overseas and “would be subject to material repatriation
tax effects” if the company were to shift it back to the U.S.
for uses such as the dividend, the software maker said in a July
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  A smaller increase could disappoint some investors since
Microsoft options have a 3-cent dividend priced in to them,
Bellini said, citing calculations by Goldman’s options
strategists. Currently Microsoft has a dividend yield of 2.6
percent, less than more than half of the companies in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average . Still its yield is larger than many of
its technology rivals such as  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Bellini also said she doesn’t expect a significant number
of shares to be repurchased in the current fiscal year.
Microsoft has about $8.2 billion remaining in the last share
buyback program approved by the board, she said.  Bloomberg dividend forecasts look at seven criteria,
including dividend history and public estimates.  Microsoft’s shares have increased 18 percent this year. The
shares fell less than one percent to $30.74 at the close in  New
York .  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Lisa Rapaport  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  