-- Indonesian 10-Year Yields Drop to Two-Week Low; Rupiah Advances
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-09-10T09:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/indonesian-10-year-yields-drop-to-two-week-low-rupiah-advances.html
Indonesian bonds rose, pushing 10-
year yields to the lowest level in more than two weeks, and the
rupiah gained after global funds boosted holdings of local debt.  Overseas investors increased ownership of the securities by
 1.68 trillion rupiah  ($175 million) last week through Sept. 6,
the biggest inflow since the five days ended Aug. 3, Finance
Ministry data show. The cost to protect Indonesian notes from
 default  dropped to the least since March. The  European Central
Bank  agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program last week to
tackle the debt crisis, while the  U.S. economy  added fewer jobs
than forecast in August, spurring speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will announce more stimulus measures.  “ Indonesia ’s risk lessened along with improving global
conditions, increasing appetite for local assets such as bonds
and the rupiah,” said Nurul Eti Nurbaeti, the Jakarta-based
head of treasury research at PT Bank Negara Indonesia. “The
disappointing jobs report from the U.S. increased expectations
for Fed stimulus, while we see progress in  Europe .”  The yield on the government’s 7 percent securities due May
2022 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.98
percent, the lowest level since Aug. 23, according to closing
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  Five-year credit-default swaps declined 29 basis points
last week to 152, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a government or company fails to adhere to its
debt agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually to protect
$10 million of debt.  The rupiah strengthened 0.2 percent to 9,572 per dollar as
of 4:26 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg show. One-month implied volatility, which measures
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 15 basis points
to 5.85 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  