-- Infosys to Buy Consulting Firm Lodestone for $349 Million
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-10T12:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/infosys-to-buy-consulting-company-lodestone-for-349-million.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-
largest software exporter, agreed to buy Swiss management
consulting company Lodestone Holding AG for 330 million Swiss
francs ($349 million) to diversify its business.  The Bangalore-based company’s biggest acquisition on record
will add more than 750 consultants and 200 customers in
industries including manufacturing, automotive and life
sciences, Infosys said in a statement today.  The purchase may help Infosys meet its goal of securing a
third of its  revenue  from consulting and systems integration
work amid rising competition in outsourcing from  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and International Business Machines
Corp. Infosys will gain access to Lodestone’s customers
including Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
according to Chief Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan.  “Consulting is an area of focus for Infosys and other IT
companies after they’ve developed their capabilities in
traditional IT services,” said Ankita Somani, an analyst at
Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai. “It’s definitely got higher
margins, and a lot of new clients, with minimal overlap. Infosys
will be able to scale up its total client base.”  Consulting and systems integration accounted for  30 percent 
of Infosys’s sales at the end of June. Lodestone will have
revenue of 250 million Swiss francs in 2012, Balakrishnan said
in a telephone interview.  “About 50 percent of their revenue comes from  Switzerland 
and 23 percent from  Germany ,” Balakrishnan said. “We want to
focus there because these are the economies in Europe which are
growing.”  Europe M&A  UBS AG is acting as a financial adviser to Lodestone on the
deal, Infosys said in the statement.  “The process attracted a lot of attention from the large
Indian IT companies because  Lodestone  had large Fortune 500
clients and whoever could bring them into the fold could also
cross-sell a lot of other business to these companies,” said
Ravi Shankar, head of technology investment banking at UBS in
Mumbai.  Tata Consultancy and  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) 
are among Infosys’s competitors that have said they’re looking
for acquisitions in continental  Europe .  Infosys rose 0.7 percent to 2,512.35 rupees at the close of
trading in Mumbai, the highest level since June 15. India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index gained 0.1 percent.  Cash Pile  Infosys had 206 billion rupees ($3.7 billion) in  cash  and
cash equivalents as of June 30, the most among Indian software
developers, according to a company  statement .  Excluding a $28 million acquisition of three back-office
service centers in 2007, Infosys hasn’t completed a deal in
Europe after discussing the idea for at least a decade, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. In 2008, the company walked away
from a plan to acquire U.K.-based Axon Group Plc after its 407.1
million-pound ($651 million) bid was trumped by  HCL Technologies
Ltd. (HCLT)   After the acquisition of Lodestone, Infosys’s consulting
practice focusing on  SAP AG (SAP) ’s software will have revenue of more
than $1 billion, the company said in a statement. The
transaction will close by the end of October, it said.  The deal gives Infosys access to customers in Switzerland,
Germany and “surrounding high-growth areas,” and key
customers, Shankar said.  The “global reach of Infosys and its leadership in the
consulting and technology arena” will add value for clients,
Ronald Hafner, chief executive officer at Zurich-based
Lodestone, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  