-- Tinkler Wins Delay on Mirvac’s Contempt Request Over Land Deal
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-09-10T05:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/tinkler-wins-delay-on-mirvac-s-contempt-request-over-land-deal.html
Nathan Tinkler , the largest
shareholder in  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , won more time to defend
himself against a bid to hold his companies in contempt of court
over a failed property deal with  Mirvac Group. (MGR)   Mirvac wants a judge to hold Buildev Group Pty and Ocean
Street Holdings Pty in contempt after they failed to comply with
an Aug. 1 order to complete the purchase of  industrial land 
north of Sydney by Sept. 1. New South  Wales  Supreme Court
Registrar Andrew Musgrave today gave Tinkler’s lawyers until
Sept. 18 to prepare their defense.  Tinkler, an electrician-turned-miner, scrapped a A$5.3
billion ($5.5 billion) initial offer for Whitehaven last month,
giving the company no reason for not proceeding with the bid,
according to Chief Executive Officer Tony Haggarty. That came as
coal explorer  Blackwood Corp. (BWD)  said Aug. 31 it began a lawsuit to
recover money after Tinkler’s Mulsanne Resources Pty missed a
deadline to complete the purchase of A$28.4 million of shares in
the company.  Tinkler’s “financial difficulties are a matter of some
notoriety,”  Jason Lazarus , a lawyer representing Mirvac’s
Domaine Steel Pty unit, told Musgrave at a hearing in Sydney
today.  Tim Allerton, a spokesman for Tinkler at City Public
Relations, declined to comment on the hearing. Documents filed
in the case weren’t immediately available from the court
registrar’s office.  Buildev and Ocean Street were ordered by NSW Supreme Court
Justice John Sackar on Aug. 1 to complete the purchase of Steel
River Echo Industrial Estate by Sept. 1. The acquisition wasn’t
completed.  Mirvac wanted the case to be heard before a judge today,
while Michael Wigney, a lawyer representing Ocean Street, said
the company needed time to put together evidence.  The case is Domaine Steel Pty v. Ocean Street Holdings Pty.
2012/00126536.  Supreme Court  of New South Wales (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  