-- Iron Ore Climbs Most in Four Years on Subways-to-Railways Spend
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-09-10T14:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/iron-ore-climbs-most-in-four-years-on-subways-to-railways-spend.html
Iron ore jumped the most in almost
four years and derivatives rebounded from a collapse as Chinese
 steel mills  accelerated purchases following government plans to
boost spending on subways, railroads and other projects.  The  commodity  at the Chinese port of Tianjin rose 6.7
percent to $95 a metric ton, the largest one-day gain since
December 2008, according to data from The Steel Index Ltd. Swaps
to bet on, or hedge, the price in October exceeded $100 a ton
for the first time in three weeks, according to Clarkson
Securities Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  China  said last week it will increase spending on railways
and subways and also backed construction of 1,254 miles of
roads, nine sewage-treatment plants, five port and warehouse
projects, and two waterway improvements. Traders are speculating
the developments will fuel demand for  iron ore  from the world’s
largest importer of the steelmaking raw material, Alex Gray,
chief executive officer of Clarkson Securities, said by phone.  “China has shown its hand,” Richard Lee, an iron ore and
dry-bulk trader at Barclays Plc in  London , said by e-mail today.
“It intends to add a number of new projects and mills are now
short, and therefore they are restocking.”  October swaps traded at between $106 a ton and $107 a ton
at about 2:00 p.m. in London compared with $97 a ton on Sept. 7,
according to Clarkson data. The last time they exceeded $100 was
Aug. 20, according to Gray.  Shipping costs for the raw material, the largest dry-bulk
cargo transported by sea, advanced for the first day in three.
Rates for Capesize vessels jumped 1 percent to $3,485 a day,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London, a publisher of
freight rates on more than 50 maritime routes.  $20,000 a Day  China’s plans may lead to a resurgence in steelmaking,
boosting charter rates for Capesize vessels as they translate
into extra iron ore imports,  Omar Nokta , a New York-based
analyst at investment bank Dahlman Rose & Co., said today in a
report. Capesize rates could increase “beyond $20,000 a day”
as a result, he said.  Forward freight agreements for Capesizes in October rose
7.1 percent to $7,500 a day, Clarkson data show. The contracts
have risen for three consecutive sessions.  Capesizes are the largest vessels in the Baltic Dry Index,
a wider measure of costs to transport commodities by sea, which
slid 0.4 percent to 666, according to the exchange. The gauge
dropped 22 percent in August, the second straight monthly
retreat.  Iron Ore Slump  Daily average returns for Panamaxes, the biggest ships to
navigate the Panama Canal, declined 2.9 percent to $4,619 today,
the exchange’s figures showed. Supramaxes that are about 25
percent smaller slipped 0.6 percent to $8,652. Handysizes, the
smallest ships in the index, added 0.6 percent to $6,725, the
exchange data showed.  Iron ore slumped this year as China drew on inventories
instead of imports. The Tianjin price dropped as much as 35
percent since the end of June to $87 a ton, within 30 cents of
the lowest level since October 2009, according to The Steel
Index.  “Beyond the gloom of the collapse in iron ore spot prices,
we’re seeing large volumes of physical trading,”  Peter Norfolk ,
a London-based analyst at Freight Investor Services Ltd., a
shipping and commodity derivatives broker, said by phone today.
“It’s an indication of more buying, and this has seen prices
rise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  