-- J&J Settles Risperdal Lawsuit on Opening Day of Trial
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-10T17:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/j-j-settles-risperdal-lawsuit-on-opening-day-of-trial.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  settled a lawsuit
on the first day of a trial over claims its antipsychotic drug
Risperdal caused a male plaintiff to grow breast tissue, one of
his lawyers told a state judge in Philadelphia.  The lawsuit by Aron Banks, 21, was the first to go to trial
on claims that Risperdal caused boys to grow breasts. Another
trial on the same claim is set to begin Sept. 20 in
Philadelphia. The terms of the settlement are confidential,
Steve Sheller, another of Banks’s attorneys said following the
announcement in court today.  “The case resolved and the client is satisfied,” Sheller
said in an interview.  The lawsuit is one of about 420 against J&J and its Janssen
unit that allege personal injuries caused by Risperdal, the
company said in a regulatory filing last month. About 130 of the
suits involve claims that the drug caused young males to grow
breasts, Sheller said.  Banks claimed he sustained psychological trauma from breast
growth he experienced while taking the drug as a child from 2000
to 2004 when it wasn’t approved for children.  The  Food and Drug Administration  gave its approval to
Risperdal for psychotic disorders including schizophrenia in
1993. It was later approved for other uses.  Teresa Mueller , a spokeswoman  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based Johnson & Johnson, didn’t immediately return a phone call
for comment on the settlement.  ‘Human Cost’  “The billions J&J made had a terrible human cost,” Bob Hilliard, one of Banks’s lawyers, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This drug caused female breasts to grow on little boys around
the country. Their childhoods were stolen, but billions were
made.”  J&J and Janssen’s marketing of Risperdal has also been the
subject of government investigations and lawsuits.  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations that the company marketed the
drug for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a regulatory
filing.  J&J officials reached an agreement with the U.S. Justice
Department to pay as much as $2.2 billion to resolve probes of
its sales of drugs, including Risperdal, according to people
familiar with the matter,  Bloomberg News  reported earlier this
year.  The company last month agreed to pay $181 million to
resolve claims by 36 states that it improperly marketed and
advertised Risperdal and Invega, another antipsychotic.  Arkansas Order  In April, a judge in  Arkansas  ordered the drugmaker to pay
$1.2 billion in fines over Risperdal marketing. That verdict
came three months after J&J decided to end a trial in  Texas  over
the drug’s sales with a $158 million settlement. The Texas case
included claims that the company marketed the drug for children
while lacking approval by regulators for such use.  In June 2011, a judge in  South Carolina  ordered J&J to pay
$327 million in penalties for deceptively marketing the
medicine. The company on Aug. 31 lost a bid to have a Louisiana
appeals court throw out an award of almost $258 million that a
jury ordered it to pay over Risperdal marketing in that state.  The drug’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. It generated
$3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s revenue,
according to company filings. Sales of the drug fell to $527
million in 2010, according to earnings reports.  Lawyers for Banks intended to call J&J Chief Executive
Officer  Alex Gorsky  as the second witness in the trial, Sheller
said. Gorsky had been vice president of sales and later
president of J&J’s Janssen unit.  The case is Banks v.  Janssen Pharmaceuticals , Philadelphia
Court of Common Pleas, January Term 2010, No. 00618.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  