-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Fall on Greece Bailout
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-10T23:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/japan-australian-stock-futures-fall-on-greece-bailout.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  fell as as concern over Greece’s debt crisis
overshadowed speculation central banks will take action to spur
economic growth.  American depositary receipts of camera maker  Canon Inc. (7751) ,
which gets 31 percent of its revenue in Europe, slid 1 percent
from the closing share price in Tokyo. ADRs of  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Australia’s third-largest lender,
dropped 0.8 percent. Shares of  China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp.  may be active as China increases gasoline and diesel
prices.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 8,815 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,870
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,810 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index dropped 0.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
added 0.2 percent in Wellington.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty around the
implementation of policy in Europe,” said  Stephen Halmarick ,
Sydney-based head of investment markets research at Colonial
First State Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150
billion. “The German constitutional court ruling on ESM is
obviously a key risk over the next few days and there’s talk
about Greece struggling to come out with budget cuts,” he said,
referring to the European Stabilization Mechanism that is
designed to rescue indebted nations in the  euro zone .  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 1.7 percent this quarter
through yesterday as expectations of further stimulus measures
overshadowed signs of a global economic slowdown. The Asian
benchmark traded at 12.4 times estimated earnings, compared with
13.8 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12 times for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Budget Cuts  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee meets this
week and will release a statement on Sept. 13.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The index fell 0.6 percent in New York yesterday
as Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras met officials from the
nation’s creditors after failing to secure agreement from
coalition partners on spending cuts.  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court is due to rule
tomorrow on the country’s participation in the European
Stability Mechanism, a permanent 500 billion-euro fund that
offers loans to member states and may buy their bonds to lower
borrowing costs.  China, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, increased
gasoline and diesel prices for the second time in about a month
as rising crude costs threaten to curb profits at the nation’s
largest oil refiners.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the New York lost 1 percent to 87.92
yesterday, the biggest slump since July 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 