-- Japan Banking Minister Matsushita Found Dead at His Home
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-09-11T00:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/japan-financial-services-minister-matsushita-dies-at-73.html
Japanese Financial Services
Minister Tadahiro Matsushita, who since taking the post in June
led a crackdown on  insider trading  that triggered resignations
of the top two executives at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , has died. He
was 73.  The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department concluded that
Matsushita committed suicide and has closed the investigation,
according to a police spokesman. They received an emergency call
at 4:59 p.m. yesterday after his wife found him unconscious at
his home in Tokyo, the spokesman said, adding Matsushita left
several notes.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  appointed Matsushita, a
lawmaker from junior government coalition partner the People’s
New Party, as part of a Cabinet reshuffle three months ago.
Matsushita vowed to deepen the Financial Services Agency’s probe
into the insider-trading scandal and restore confidence in the
world’s second-largest stock market.  “I was so shocked to hear this sad news,” Noda told
reporters at his official residence last night. “I’m lost for
words. He always cheered me up during difficult times.”  Nomura’s Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe and Chief
Operating Officer Takumi Shibata resigned in July after the FSA
found that employees leaked information on share sales managed
by the firm. In August, the agency ordered Nomura,  Japan ’s
biggest brokerage, to improve its compliance.  ‘Big Loss’  “This is a big loss for Japan’s financial industry,” said
Hideaki Miyajima, a commerce professor at  Waseda University 
specializing in corporate governance. “But I expect Japan’s
financial regulatory framework will remain intact.”  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today that he will act as
financial services minister. Noda, who on Sept. 21 will face
challenges from three rivals to lead his ruling  Democratic Party 
of Japan, has pledged to call a general election “soon.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.8 percent at 9:43 a.m.
in Tokyo, putting it on course to snap a three-day winning
streak. The  Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  slid 1 percent.  A month into the role, Matsushita asked an advisory panel
at his agency to examine stiffer penalties for insider trading,
including bigger fines for traders and disciplinary action
against leakers of non-public information.  ‘Half Done’  “The job is only half done,” Shiro Yoshioka, an analyst
at  Japaninvest Group Plc (3827)  in Tokyo, said of the insider-trading
investigation. “His successor will need to scrutinize the issue
further and make efforts to restore confidence.”  Matsushita was also overseeing an application by state-
backed Japan Post Bank Co. to begin retail and commercial
lending next April. Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday
that the move would detriment regional banks, which are already
competing with each other for mortgage lending.  “It certainly would have put a lot of pressure on him if
he’d taken the job too seriously instead of just letting the FSA
bureaucracy guide him through the Nomura shoals,” Jun Okumura,
a senior adviser for the Eurasia Group consulting firm in Tokyo,
said in an e-mail.  Matsushita was born on Feb. 9, 1939, in Kagoshima. He
studied agriculture at  Kyoto University , graduating in 1962
before beginning his career at the construction ministry,
according to his  website .  “He was very earnest and worked very hard,” Kazuo
Nagayoshi, a senior official at the minister’s office in
Kagoshima, said in a telephone interview. He commuted back to
the regional office from Tokyo almost every weekend, Nagayoshi
said. Matsushita traveled to Fukushima prefecture, site of the
nuclear crisis that followed last year’s earthquake and tsunami,
when he was deputy minister for disaster reconstruction,
Nagayoshi said.  Matsushita was elected to the lower house of Japan’s Diet
five times. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter,
according to his Kagoshima office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  