-- Japan Cost-Cutting Leaves Compensation Nearing Crisis Low
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-09-11T09:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/japan-cost-cutting-leaves-compensation-approaching-crisis-low.html
Cost-cutting by Japanese companies
is dragging on wages, resulting in weaker consumer demand and a
stronger case for monetary easing to counter deflation.  Nationwide compensation fell to 243.5 trillion yen ($3.1
trillion) in the second quarter, according to a government
report in  Tokyo  yesterday. The number, which is seasonally
adjusted, was only 0.7 percent above the level in the final
quarter of 2009, which was the lowest since 1991.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  today unveiled additional wage cuts, joining
fellow exporter Panasonic Corp., and  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ,
the operator of the nuclear plant destroyed by the 2011 tsunami,
in compressing costs. The moves risk prolonging the deflation
that’s plagued Japan since the 1990s, and hurting consumption
already facing a threat from a sales-tax boost looming in 2014.  “As long as wage deflation continues, there will be no
doubt that the Bank of Japan will have to continue monetary
easing,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “There won’t be an end.”  Second-quarter economic growth was yesterday revised down
to an annualized 0.7 percent from 1.4 percent, fueling concern a
contraction is possible in the three months ending September.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  closed 0.7 percent lower today,
paring this year’s gain to 4.2 percent, as investors focused on
 Europe ’s debt crisis, including the struggle by  Greece  to
qualify for aid.  Sharp Cuts  Sharp today said it will reduce managers’ salaries by 10
percent starting next month and cut bonuses in half to save a
total of 14 billion yen ($179 million) in fixed costs. The
Osaka-based company already lowered manager wages by 5 percent
in April and their bonuses by 30 percent in June. Similar
reductions will be applied to union members after discussions
are completed, Sharp said in a statement.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today that the government
will keep monitoring the Japanese economy “for a while” before
deciding whether any extra policy measures are warranted. In one
positive sign, Japan’s largest manufacturers turned optimistic
for the first time in four quarters, according to a government
index released today.  Unit labor costs, measured by the difference between growth
in compensation for workers and real gross domestic product,
fell 3.6 percent in the three months through June from a year
earlier, the largest decline since the July-September period in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nominal Wages  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says declines in nominal wages are
lengthening the route to an exit from deflation. JPMorgan
Securities Japan said this month that softness in incomes may
partly explain a weakening in private consumption.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  remains distant from a 1 percent
inflation goal, with the benchmark consumer-price gauge falling
0.3 percent in July from a year earlier. At the same time, the
government sees improvements ahead, predicting the gross
domestic product deflator, the broadest gauge of price trends,
will rise 0.2 percent in the year ending March 2014, the first
increase in 16 years.  In  China  today, a central bank report showed that new
lending last month was the highest of any August on record, as
banks extended a more-than-estimated 703.9 billion  yuan  ($111
billion). The extra money may aid government efforts to reverse
a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy. At the same
time, M2 money supply rose a less-than-estimated 13.5 percent.  Australia Confidence  Australian business confidence declined in August as a
slowdown in global growth intensified pressure on the resources
industry that drives the nation’s economy, a National Australia
Bank Ltd. survey released in Sydney today showed.  Other economies in the Asia-Pacific region are showing
signs of withstanding the slowdown. Philippine exports rose for
a fourth month in July, a report showed today. New Zealand
consumer purchases on debit, credit and store cards at retail
outlets rose by the most since December 2002.  The U.S. will probably report a trade deficit of $44
billion in July, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey ahead of a report today.  Besides falling prices, the economic backdrop in Japan
includes declines in exports and industrial output in July, the
most recent month for which that data has been released.  “The economy has been losing momentum this quarter, with
exports likely to decrease while consumption and  capital
spending  are deteriorating,”  Kiichi Murashima  , chief economist
at Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc., said after yesterday’s
report. “The chance that the Japanese economy will slip into a
contraction in the third quarter is increasing.”  BOJ Meeting  The Bank of Japan may increase its asset-purchase program
at a meeting on Sept. 18-19 if the U.S Federal Reserve leads the
way by easing, Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo says.  Panasonic will probably cut costs by 130 billion yen this
fiscal year after reducing them by 64 billion yen in the first
quarter from a year earlier, according to Chief Financial
Officer Hideaki Kawai.  Some businesses are moving operations overseas to locations
where workers are paid less, a shift illustrated by Nissan Motor
Co. making cars abroad to sell in  Japan .  Tepco, the operator of the wrecked Fukushima plant, needs
to contain costs after the government ordered it to scale back
an electricity rate increase. The company predicts a net loss of
160 billion yen in the year ending March 2013.  At Mitsubishi Research Institute, economist Akihiro Morishige said that causes of declining labor costs include
exporters’ efforts to compete with companies from nations where
workers earn less.  Asian Competitors  “To compete against China and other Asian nations which
have lower labor costs in relation to Japan, Japanese exporters
need to secure profits by cutting fixed costs, such as wages,”
Morishige said. In Japan, “deflationary expectations” make it
more difficult for companies to pass on higher costs to
consumers, the analyst said.  The government faces the risk that boosting the  sales tax 
to help contain the world’s biggest public debt will be a
further drag on consumption.  “There will be a flood of demand right before the sales-
tax rise, and a reaction to that after it rises,” said Masahiko
Hashimoto, an economist at Daiwa in Tokyo. “There will almost
definitely be a chill in consumption when the tax is raised.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  