-- Japan Airlines Initial Share Sale Priced at Top of Range
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-09-10T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/japan-air-663-billion-yen-ipo-priced-at-top-of-range-cnbc-says.html
Japan  Airlines Co.’s parent priced
a 663 billion yen ($8.5 billion) initial public offering in the
carrier at the top of a range after record earnings lured
investors to the biggest IPO since  Facebook Inc. (FB)   The stock price was set at 3,790 yen, according to a
regulatory filing today. Shares in the Tokyo-based carrier will
begin trading on the city’s stock exchange Sept. 19.  JAL will be the world’s fourth-biggest carrier by market
capitalization when it returns to the stock market having
completed a trip through  bankruptcy protection  and a turnaround
that included shedding a third of workers, canceling routes and
retiring older planes. The airline is being priced at about five
times forecast earnings, compared with about 13 times for  All
Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , Japan’s largest carrier.  “It’s a reformed company,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees the equivalent of $600 million in assets in  Tokyo  at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “Even while the overall
market is doing badly, there’s a chance for investors to make
some short-term profits.”  The Topix index has dropped about 16 percent from this
year’s peak on March 27 because of concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
is deepening and that growth is slowing in  China  and the U.S.
Japan’s economy expanded an annualized 0.7 percent in the
quarter ended June, half the pace the government initially
estimated, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo today.  ETIC Stake  The JAL offering was marketed at 3,500 yen to 3,790 yen.
The carrier’s state-backed parent, Enterprise Turnaround Corp.
of Japan, is selling 175 million shares or a 97 percent stake.
The airline won’t receive any money from the IPO.  “Total demand for the shares well exceeds those on sale,”
the carrier said in a statement.  The airline will list on the first section of the Tokyo
Stock Exchange under the ticker 9201, it said. The company
traded under that number until a 2002 merger with Japan Airlines
System Corp., when it was given the ticker 9205. It retained
that number until its bankruptcy and delisting in 2010.  JAL will surpass ANA as Japan’s biggest carrier by market
value following the sale and will only trail Latam Airlines
Group SA, Singapore Airlines Ltd. and  Air China Ltd. (601111)  worldwide,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High Demand  “Pricing at the top end indicates high demand from
individual investors,” Yoshinori Ogawa, a stock-market analyst
at Faith Inc. said by telephone. “‘It’s also Japan’s most-
watched IPO of the year, so brokers probably wanted to settle at
the upper end to avoid any concern it isn’t popular.”  ANA rose 2.3 percent to 180 yen at close of trading in
Tokyo. The carrier, which completed a share sale last month, has
fallen 16 percent this year.  JAL is returning to the stock market after a two-year
turnaround in bankruptcy protection that transformed it into the
world’s most profitable airline. The government drafted in Kazuo Inamori, the founder of electronics company  Kyocera Corp. (6971) , to
oversee the restructuring.  The plan was supported by a 350 billion-yen investment from
state-backed ETIC. The fund, which can only invest in companies
for three years, will get back more than it invested, Inamori,
who is now JAL’s chairman emeritus, has said.  “With the pricing finally being set, we can draw a line on
JAL’s restructuring,” Osamu Yoshida, a vice transport minister,
told reporters today in Tokyo. “The return of funds after
steadfast government financing shows that they did a good job.”  GM IPO  JAL isn’t the first transportation company to return to
being publicly traded following a government rescue. In the
U.S.,  General Motors Co. (GM) , emerged from a government-backed
bankruptcy in 2009 and had an IPO in November 2010. The shares
slid 29 percent through Sept. 7 to $23.37 from the IPO price of
$33. The U.S. government still holds a  32 percent  stake in GM.  GM became the top-selling global automaker in 2011,
retaking the title from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , whose output was
limited following natural disasters in  Asia . Toyota is on pace
to be No. 1 this year. The company’s sales rose 34 percent in
the first six months to 4.97 million globally, leading GM by
300,000 deliveries.  Japan IPOs  Prior to today, companies have raised more than 130 billion
yen in 23 priced IPOs in Japan this year. That’s little changed
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Activia Properties Inc. (3279)  raised 94.3 billion yen in a sale in
May. Facebook raised $16 billion in its  New York  IPO in May. The
 shares  have since fallen about 50 percent.  JAL posted a record profit of 187 billion yen in the year
ended March, more than twice that of Beijing-based Air China,
the most profitable listed carrier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The airline is predicting a profit of 130 billion
yen this fiscal year, compared with 40 billion yen at ANA.  JAL has benefited from tax credits against past writedowns,
which have prompted complaints from opposition lawmakers.  ANA and JAL are also both facing new competition in Japan
from three discount carriers that have started flights this
year. JAL owns a stake in one, Jetstar Japan Co., while the
other two are part-owned by Tokyo-based ANA.  The three newcomers all filled about 90 percent of domestic
seats during last month’s peak holiday season. JAL and ANA both
had load factors of less than 80 percent for flights within the
country, and both reported declines from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  