-- Most Japanese Stocks Gain on Global Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-10T06:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/japan-stocks-drop-as-second-quarter-economic-growth-slows.html
Most Japanese  stocks  gained as
reports from the U.S.,  China  and  Japan  signaled global economic
growth is slowing, adding pressure for policy makers to do more
to support expansion.  Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-biggest construction
equipment maker that generates revenue in Japan, the U.S. and
China, rose 3.2 percent.  Tokyo  Electron Ltd. and Nikon Corp.,
suppliers to  Intel Corp. (INTC) , lost more than 2.9 percent after the
world’s No. 1 semiconductor maker cut its sales forecast. Toho
Holdings Ltd. surged 12 percent as the manufacturer of medical
tools said it will spend 5 billion yen ($64 million) buying back
its shares.  The  Topix (TPX)  Index gained 0.3 percent to 737.34 at the close
of trading in Tokyo, with almost twice as many shares climbing
as falling. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell less than 0.1
percent to 8,869.37. A report today showing Japan’s economy
expanded in the second quarter at half the pace the government
initially estimated, adds to signs of a global slowdown after a
data yesterday showed China’s industrial production dropped and
the U.S. last week reported weaker-than-estimated payrolls.  “Following the weak U.S. jobs report, the backdrop is
ideal to act this week and deliver more quantitative easing,”
said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of investment
strategy at UBS AG’s Australian wealth management unit. The
Swiss bank has about $1.5 trillion in assets under management.
“This week is looking like the last window for the Fed to
act,” before the U.S. election.  Japan’s gross domestic product grew an annualized 0.7
percent in the three months through June, the Cabinet Office
said in Tokyo today, less than a preliminary calculation of 1.4
percent. The median forecast of 26 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was for a revised 1 percent gain.  Current Account  The nation’s current-account surplus narrowed 41 percent
from a year earlier to 625.4 billion yen in July, a finance
ministry report showed.  Chinese industrial output increased 8.9 percent in August
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
yesterday in Beijing. The data underscore risks that full-year
growth in the world’s second-biggest economy will slow to its
weakest pace in more than two decades and undermine support for
the ruling Communist Party during its once-a-decade power
transition to a new generation of leaders later this year.  Employers in the U.S. last month added fewer jobs than
economists forecast, adding pressure on the  Federal Reserve  to
act to spur growth when policy makers meet Sept. 12-13.  The Topix dropped 16 percent from this year’s peak on March
27 on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening and growth is
slowing in China and the U.S. The gauge trades at 0.9 times book
value, compared with 2.2 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
1.5 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. A number below one means
companies can be bought for less than the value of their assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  