-- Jewish Artist’s Heirs Pressure Museums on Nazi-Era Losses
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-09-11T09:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/jewish-artist-s-heirs-pressure-german-museums-over-nazi-losses.html
The great-granddaughters of the
German-Jewish painter Max Liebermann are growing impatient with
Berlin museum authorities about two drawings from his collection
they say were lost as a result of Nazi persecution.  The drawings by Adolph Menzel in the  Kupferstichkabinett  in
Berlin are among thousands of works that Liebermann’s heirs are
trying to recover. Liebermann was not only one of the most
famous German Impressionists; he was also a great collector.
Works by Edouard Manet,  Edgar Degas ,  Claude Monet  and Auguste
Renoir adorned his imposing home next to the  Brandenburg Gate .  Forced to resign as honorary president of the Prussian
Academy of Arts after the Nazis took power, Liebermann died
isolated and embittered in 1935, leaving his estate to his
widow. She sold some artworks to pay the rent and buy food and
medicine before committing suicide in 1943.  “For the heirs, it’s difficult to understand why public
institutions are so hesitant,” said Georg Castell of Heinichen
 Laudien von Nottbeck Rechtsanwaelte  in Berlin, the lawyer
representing the great-granddaughters. “Without cooperation
from the museums, we can’t get very far.”  Impoverished by the Nazis’ punitive financial demands,
Martha Liebermann took poison at the age of 85 to escape
deportation to a concentration camp. The art that remained in
her apartment after her death was seized by the Gestapo.  The Liebermanns’ daughter, Kaethe Riezler, escaped to the
U.S. Her granddaughters do not wish to be identified by name,
Castell said.  Duress Sales  Under postwar laws crafted by the western allies and later
West German laws, any art sales by Jews after 1935 are presumed
to have been under duress and therefore invalid. The 1998
 Washington principles , endorsed by 44 nations, require public
museums to find “just and fair solutions” with the original
owners of art stolen by the Nazis.  The two Menzel drawings are known to have been in Martha’s
possession until 1938, which makes it likely she swapped them
for food or medicine at a time when Jews were frequently denied
access to doctors and basic provisions, said Monika Tatzkow, who
is researching Liebermann’s collection on behalf of the artist’s
great-granddaughters. Tatzkow is collaborating with the  Max
Liebermann Gesellschaft  on a book about the collection to be
published next year.  Prominent Artist  Menzel was one of the most prominent artists of 19th-
century Berlin and Liebermann owned more than 60 of his works.  One of the sketches in the Kupferstichkabinett is for his
important historical painting “Floetenkonzert” (Flute Concert)
showing Frederick the Great playing to an audience at Sanssouci
Palace; the other, “Koenigshuette,” is a mining scene.  “The  Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation  has been
brooding over these drawings for more than three years,”
Tatzkow said. “It is completely incomprehensible. We know they
were lost due to Nazi persecution.”  Stefanie Heinlein, a spokeswoman for the Prussian Cultural
Heritage Foundation, the organization that runs Berlin’s museums
including the Kupferstichkabinett, declined to comment on
“ongoing procedures.”  The foundation has, however, this year returned four Menzel
drawings to the Liebermann heirs, who will auction them at
Berlin’s  Villa Grisebach  on Nov. 28. They were known to have
been in Martha Liebermann’s possession until 1937.  Hidden History  Castell said he’s sure more works belonging to the family
are still in Berlin’s public collections.  “All of it is still somewhere,” Castell said by phone.
“What we want is for the museums to take an appropriate stance
toward this part of the Liebermanns’ history. Everyone loves
Liebermann -- there are exhibitions, his bon mots are quoted --
but the second part of the story is suppressed.”  The son of a wealthy textiles manufacturer, Liebermann once
wrote to a fellow collector that “you can have too many Manets,
but never enough.” He also acquired graphics by Rembrandt and
works by 19th-century German artists such as Menzel and Carl
Blechen. Some of his collection was shipped abroad in the early
1930s and saved. Most was dispersed and lost.  Two more restituted artworks from the collection will also
be auctioned at Villa Grisebach in November -- a Menzel portrait
drawing and an oil painting by Blechen, “Hoehenzug mit blauen
Schatten” (Mountain Range With Blue Shadows), with a high
estimate of 30,000 euros ($48,000).  Hitler’s Museum  These works were seized by the Nazis and intended for the
“Fuehrermuseum” that  Adolf Hitler  planned to build in Linz.
They were handed to the German government by the Allies after
World War II on the understanding that they would be returned to
the original owner.  While Berlin has at least handed back some works, other
museums are declining to cooperate. A painting by Manet,
“Portrait of Monsieur Arnaud on Horseback,” was in the
Liebermann collection until at least 1936, according to Tatzkow.  It is now in the  Galleria d’Arte Moderna  in Milan, which
has failed to respond to requests for provenance information,
she said. Sara Minotti, a spokeswoman for the museum, said by e-
mail that curator Paola Zatti could only confirm it received the
painting as a donation from Carlo Grassi in the mid-1950s.  “I am sorry but we are not able to give you any further
details on the provenance,” Minotti wrote.  The heirs have also tried to recover the last portrait of
Martha Liebermann by her husband from the  Museum Georg Schaefer 
in Schweinfurt. The oil, “Martha Liebermann in an Armchair,”
was on a Gestapo list of more than 50 objects seized from her
apartment after her suicide.  Tatzkow said the museum made a “derisory” compensation
offer that the heirs rejected. In a statement sent by fax to
 Bloomberg News , the museum said its board recognized no legal
obligation to return the painting and said it had received no
response to its compensation offer from the heirs’ lawyer.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on arts and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 