-- Kodak to Cut 1,000 More Jobs as It Slims Down Bankrupt Business
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-09-10T13:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/kodak-to-cut-1-000-more-jobs-as-it-slims-down-bankrupt-business.html
Bankrupt photography pioneer
 Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  is losing more executives and plans to cut an
additional 1,000 jobs by the end of the year as it shrinks into
a commercial printing-focused company.  The latest job cuts follow the reduction of about 2,700
employees globally this year, the Rochester, New York-based
company said today in a statement. Kodak is “making progress”
in a restructuring that includes selling its consumer-film,
photo-kiosk and commercial-scanner businesses and an extended
effort to auction its digital-imaging patents.  Kodak also is shaking up its management structure and
losing key executives. Chief Operating Officer Philip Faraci and
Chief Financial Officer Antoinette McCorvey are leaving the
company. Rebecca Roof, a managing director of restructuring
adviser AlixPartners, will become interim CFO.  The company has been selling businesses to help fund a
turnaround after seeking Chapter 11 protection in January. It’s
also focusing less on photography and more on corporate services
and commercial printing.  “We recognize that we must significantly and expeditiously
reduce our current cost structure, which is designed for a much
larger, more diversified set of businesses,” Chief Executive
Officer Antonio Perez said in the statement. Reorganizing
management “will help accelerate the creation of a sustainable
cost structure.”  Co-president Laura Quatela will oversee the sale of the
personalized-imaging business, and Dolores Kruchten will lead
the document-imaging unit through its sale. Kodak expects both
transactions to be completed by the first half of 2013.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash while the rise of digital photography eroded its film
business. The company had spent $3.4 billion on restructuring
before bankruptcy, including payouts to fire 47,000 employees
since 2003, closing 13 factories that produced film, paper and
chemicals, and 130 photo laboratories.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  