-- Navistar Criticizes Icahn’s ‘Unproductive Tactics’
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-10T20:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/navistar-criticizes-icahn-s-unproductive-tactics-.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , which
ousted its chief executive officer amid an inquiry from
regulators and a failed engine strategy, called billionaire
investor  Carl Icahn ’s threat of a proxy fight “unproductive.”  Icahn yesterday raised the prospect of a proxy fight,
calling the truckmaker a “poster child for abysmal business
decisions and poor  corporate governance ,” in a letter to
Navistar’s board.  Icahn is pressuring Navistar’s new management, led by
former  Textron Inc. (TXT)  CEO Lewis Campbell, after the company had a
net loss of $241 million for the first three quarters of its
fiscal year. The investor said in the letter to Navistar he
wants four board seats made available to shareholders
“immediately” and that he’d proceed with “protracted
litigation and a proxy fight” if necessary to protect his
investment.  The truck- and engine-maker ousted Dan Ustian as CEO after
an inquiry from regulators and reversed course on an engine
strategy that had prevented it from meeting 2010 federal
emission standards. Icahn, who holds 14.9 percent of Navistar,
said large shareholders weren’t consulted about management
changes, including Ustian’s departure, made last month.
Navistar’s four largest shareholders hold about  50 percent  of
the shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It would be a simple matter for this board to discuss and
reach a consensus regarding important decisions concerning the
company that WE own,” Icahn said in the letter to Navistar.
“It is therefore outrageous that you have not reached out to
obtain our opinion (and I assume you have not obtained the
opinions of the other large holders) on issues such as choosing
a new management team to lead this company.”  Company Restrictions  Companies are restricted from disclosing material
information to certain shareholders without also providing that
information publicly, said  Charles Elson , who is director of the
John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the
 University of Delaware .  “If Icahn wanted to discuss his concerns to the board,
that’s fine,” Elson said. “But if they start to tell him
material things, that becomes a disclosure issue.”  The role of the board is to make management decisions and
investors have recourse to change board members if they aren’t
happy with the decision, he said.  Icahn didn’t immediately return a telephone message left
with  Susan Gordon , his assistant.  ‘Ongoing Dialogue’  Navistar said in a statement today it has “an ongoing
dialogue with its shareholders” and that its board “takes its
fiduciary duties very seriously and is committed to acting in
the best interest of the company and all of its shareholders.”
The response said Icahn “has chosen to pursue his unproductive
tactics of threats, attacks, and disruption.”  Navistar’s truck, engine and parts unit in  North America  is
its primary business, Campbell said on a conference call last
week. The company is reviewing “non-core” units, he said. The
truckmaker also produces Monaco recreational vehicles,
International school buses and military vehicles.  The company withdrew its 2012 forecast Aug. 2 after
disclosing a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry. On
Aug. 27, the company said Ustian had stepped down “effective
immediately.” The company named Campbell executive chairman and
interim chief executive officer.  Navistar gained 18 percent on June 8, after Icahn boosted
in his stake in the truckmaker to 11.9 percent from 10.6 percent
at the end of March. Hedge-fund manager  Mark Rachesky  also holds
 14.98 percent  of Navistar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s board adopted a poison pill in June to
help fend off hostile bids.  Icahn last November agreed to not seek nominees to
Navistar’s board this year. Navistar agreed to start electing
directors on an annual basis.  Navistar, based in Lisle,  Illinois , fell 3.1 percent to
$23.99 at the close in  New York . The shares have slid 37 percent
this year after tumbling 35 percent in 2011.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  