-- Netherlands Unlikely to Back EU CO2-Permit Sales Delay Plan
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-10T15:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/netherlands-says-it-s-unlikely-to-back-eu-co2-sales-delay-plan.html
The Netherlands, the euro area’s
fifth-largest economy, is unlikely to support a proposal by the
European Union to delay some auctions of carbon permits as of
2013, according to the Infrastructure and  Environment Ministry .  “The proposal could lead to temporarily higher costs for
companies in the Netherlands that compete internationally, which
could indirectly bear a disadvantage on the Dutch economy,”
Marie-Christine Reusken, a spokeswoman for the ministry, said by
e-mail. “The proposal could also bring further uncertainty to
the carbon market.”  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm in
Brussels, is seeking member states’ support for its plan to
postpone some auctions of carbon allowances in the next stage of
the bloc’s emissions market which starts in 2013 to curb
oversupply in the market and help prices recover. EU carbon
permits for delivery in December lost as much as 6.9 percent to
7.80 euros today following the Dutch comments.  “The  Netherlands  will probably not back it, although
formally the Netherlands has not taken a final position,”
Reusken said, adding that the decision will be preceded by a
discussion in the parliament. “We will elaborate our position
following further analysis of its impacts on the economy, and on
the basis of the position of other member states.”  The proposal to delay some auctions of carbon permits in
the EU  emissions trading  system, or the ETS, will be considered
in the so-called comitology procedure, in which a measure put
forward by the commission needs qualified-majority support from
representatives of national governments to pass.  Weighted Ballot  The Netherlands has 13 out of 345 votes in the EU’s
weighted ballot system that favors larger countries.  Poland ,
which has repeatedly said it opposes any measure to
“manipulate” the European emissions market, has 27 votes. A
blocking minority requires 91 votes.  Poland’s Environment Minister Marcin Korolec said the
commission’s backloading plan was “quite confusing” as the
carbon market works, and offers liquidity and a price signal.  “ETS needs a structural reform towards 2030, not a
patch,” he said by e-mail today. “I hope we will manage to put
that message across in the council of ministers.”  The Netherlands’ position could shift after elections set
for Sept. 12, according to some analysts including Jos Cozijnsen, a Dutch consulting attorney specialising in emissions
trading. The lead of Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s pro-austerity
 Liberal Party  narrowed in polling before the vote.  Election Result  “The election results may make the government move a bit
closer to the commission on this issue as most political parties
want a higher carbon price and want the Netherlands to be a
leader in renewable energy and innovation,” Cozijnsen said.  The  Labor Party , which advocates less austerity and more
time for the country to meet its budget-deficit limit as a way
to boost growth, cut the gap with the Liberal Party, according
to a poll by Ipsos Synovate on Sept. 8. Labor stands at 35
seats, the same as the Liberal Party and 14 more than the
Socialist Party, the poll showed.  The commission sent its draft proposal on CO2 auction
delays, otherwise known as “backloading”, to  member states  in
July and the first discussion by representatives of governments
is scheduled for Sept. 19. The draft will be followed later this
year by a formal proposal that will include the number of
permits to be postponed at auctions.  Draft Amendment  Also in July the commission put forward a draft amendment
to the EU carbon law to clarify its right to decide on the
auctioning timetable. The legal change, considered in a separate
legislative process and aimed at removing uncertainty about the
commission’s powers, was first discussed by representatives of
national governments at a meeting in Brussels on Sept. 7.  “We have some legal questions on the way this amendment is
drafted,” Reusken said. “In 2011 the Netherlands voted in
favor of adjusting the timetable to allow for early auctions as
was advocated by power companies under the ETS.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  