-- Novatek Sinks Most in Seven Weeks on Gazprom Halt: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-09-10T16:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/novatek-sinks-most-in-seven-weeks-on-gazprom-halt-moscow-mover.html
OAO Novatek,  Russia ’s second-
biggest natural-gas producer, fell the most in seven weeks after
state-run OAO Gazprom said it was suspending purchases of the
fuel from independent producers.  Novatek had the largest decline on the Micex Index, falling
2.5 percent to 360.58 rubles by the close in Moscow, the biggest
drop since July 23. Gazprom added 0.6 percent to 164.16 rubles.  Gazprom notified independent producers it was halting
purchases for an indefinite period, given unstable domestic
demand, the natural-gas export monopoly said today by e-mail.
Gazprom has struggled to maintain output as demand in  Europe 
declined, while Novatek has signed a foreign supply deal and
added contracts with customers in Russia in the past two months.  “The market reacted negatively because if Gazprom halts
gas purchases for a quarter, this could cut Novatek’s quarterly
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
by $100 million,” Sergey Vakhrameev, an analyst at IFC Metropol
in Moscow, said by phone. “Gazprom is using odd methods in
trying to deal with its issues. This was very sudden.”  Novatek has received notification from Gazprom, Mikhail Lozovoy, a company spokesman, said by phone, declining to
comment further until talks are completed.  Gazprom didn’t elaborate on the volumes it would reject.
The halt may affect 42 million cubic meters a day from Novatek,
or 28 percent of the company’s output, according to the
Vedomosti newspaper. OAO Lukoil sells 27 million cubic meters a
day to Gazprom, while Sibneftegas, a Novatek venture with Itera,
sells 8.6 million cubic meters a day, Vedomosti said.  Behind Target  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas supplier, aims to close a
gap between actual and forecast output in the last six months of
the year, Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller said in June.
First-half output lagged 10 billion cubic meters behind the
plan, while the full-year target was to produce 529 billion
cubic meters of gas.  The move doesn’t affect gas supplies that Gazprom
transports for producers to their direct customers or that other
units in the Gazprom group buy, the company said today.  “The market reaction is a bit overblown,” Mariya Yegikyan, an analyst at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said by phone.
“The company valuation will be cut only if Novatek fails to
find a substitute for Gazprom.”  The drop is “a great opportunity to buy Novatek,”
Vladimir Alexandrov, a trader at Rye, Man & Gor Securities in
Moscow, said by phone.  ‘Miserable’ Results  Gazprom’s  first-quarter profit  slumped 24 percent, missing
analyst estimates, on lower export sales and refunds to European
customers, according to results published Sept. 6. VTB Capital
cut the stock to hold from buy and reduced the 12-month price
estimate to $5.60 following the “miserable” results, according
to a note today from analysts led by Dmitry Loukashov.  Customers in Europe, Gazprom’s biggest market by revenue,
have sought changes to their purchasing deals after the
2008-2009 recession cut demand, dragging spot prices below long-
term contract levels. Gazprom ties its contracts to prices for
crude and refined-oil products with a time lag of as much as
nine months.  After receiving notice of a halt, Lukoil reached an
agreement with Gazprom to overturn the decision and will
continue supplying natural gas to Gazprom at the same level, a
Lukoil press official said, declining to be identified because
of company policy. Gazprom declined to comment.  Lukoil rose 0.3 percent to 1,929.60 rubles, the highest
close since April 25, after losses of as much as 0.4 percent
earlier today.  “We think it unlikely that Gazprom will follow through
with any meaningful reductions,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by
 Ronald Smith  said in an e-mailed note. “Following through with
reduction could actually lead to a more rapid loss of domestic
market share for Gazprom rather than slower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  