-- Obama Makes Cameo in Chabon’s Jazzy Novel: Interview
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-09-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/obama-makes-cameo-in-chabon-s-jazzy-novel-interview.html
Michael Chabon is a certified pop-
culture expert, having won a Pulitzer Prize for “ The Amazing
Adventures of Kavalier & Clay ,” the tale of two comic-book
artists in 1940s  New York .  His brilliant, expansive new novel, “ Telegraph Avenue ,”
is about two friends who own a used-record store on the border
of Oakland and Berkeley,  California . Archy, who’s black, and
Nat, who’s white, like nothing more than hanging out and talking
obscure jazz albums. Their wives, Gwen and Aviva, work together
in a midwifery practice.  The two men’s stable -- though hardly booming -- business
is threatened when a rich former football player announces plans
to open a megastore nearby.  We recently spoke by phone while Chabon, 49, was on
vacation in  Maine .  Muchnick: I heard Tom Wolfe talk recently and he said his
first rule of writing a novel is that you should get out of the
house. Did you hang out in record stores for “Telegraph
Avenue”?  Chabon: Yes, the research was arduous. I had to spend
untold hours of pain in used-record stores. It was really a
hardship for me, but I’m willing to suffer that kind of torment
for the sake of my art.  Muchnick: That’s noble. Did you drop a lot of cash?  Chabon: I did. Purely for research purposes, of course. And
the vintage turntable I acquired for listening to the records
was also purely for the purposes of research.  Muchnick: You can totally write that off.  Chabon: Exactly! You know, the books that I decide to write
are very often the ones that seem like they’re going to promise
the most entertaining or absorbing research.  Detective Novels  When I was contemplating “Kavalier & Clay,” there was the
idea of plunging myself into the world of comic books, which I
had left when I was a teenager.  In “ The Yiddish Policemen’s Union ,” there was Yiddish and
chess and hard-boiled detective fiction. Like, I’m thinking of
writing a book and I’m going to have to read or reread all of
Chandler and a bunch of Ross Macdonald’s Lew Archer novels --
how fun is that going to be?  The excuse to do all that is part of the motivation to
write the book. And that was definitely true with “Telegraph
Avenue,” too. I just looked forward to plunging myself into the
music and the history of Oakland and Berkeley, where I live, and
martial-arts movies and blaxploitation cinema.  Meeting Midwives  Muchnick: And  midwives ?  Chabon: That was just the world I lived in. My wife and I
have four kids, and we live in Berkeley. Birth and midwifery
were in the air and water around me, part of every conversation.  I did talk to some midwives and tried to get my facts
straight and learn things I hadn’t known.  Muchnick: Have your kids introduced you to new stuff?  Chabon: All the time. There’s a computer game that I’ve
never even seen called “Red Dead Redemption,” which I gather
is kind of Sergio Leone-inspired. And my son heard about it, and
he came home and said, “You know, the music is amazing from
this game.”  I poked around and found you could download the music and
he was totally right. It was something he encountered in the
context of his own world that he realized I would probably like,
and he turned me on to it. So that was fun.  Muchnick: Because of the way the characters in “Telegraph
Avenue” are so immersed in the pop culture of the past, I
couldn’t really tell when the book was set. Then Illinois state
senator  Barack Obama  walked into a scene set at a John Kerry
fundraiser. What’s that about?  Real People  Chabon: That’s something I’ve done before, especially in
“Kavalier & Clay.” A number of real-life personages flit
through the pages:  Orson Welles  and  Salvador Dali  and many
others.  So it just feels natural to me, like something in my
toolbox that I could reach for when I felt like I needed it.  In the case of “Telegraph Avenue,” I realized that the
Telegraph Avenue I was writing about has begun to change. A
bakery that Archy goes to in the book has already gone out of
business. So I thought: Well, what summer is this? And I didn’t
make a conscious or deliberate choice, but it just felt like the
summer of 2004. I can’t really explain it.  And once I started thinking about the summer of 2004, what
moved into my consciousness was the election that year that was
coming to a head by August, and the mounting sense of doom that
I felt going into the Kerry-Bush election.  Kerry Fundraiser  Then I got to the point where Archy and Nat had a gig with
a band they play in, and I thought, maybe they’re playing a
fundraiser for Kerry. And let’s say it’s this really deluxe
thing where everybody’s paid a lot of money, so there’s going to
be some fancy speaker. And I just thought, August 2004, that’s
right after Obama gave that speech at the Democratic National
Convention.  And as soon as I thought of it, I was like, “Yes, yes,
yes!”  I’m making this all sound like a rational, deliberate,
conscious process. These kinds of decisions get made in a split
second without you having any conscious, rational reason for it
at all. And when you’re asked the question by an interviewer,
and you have to account for what you’ve done, then that’s when
you come up with a reason.  “Telegraph Avenue” is published by Harper in the U.S. and
Fourth Estate in the U.K. (468 pages, $27.99, 18.99 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 