-- Obama Gets Post-Convention Bounce Over Romney in Polls
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2012-09-11T19:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/obama-gets-post-convention-bounce-over-romney-in-cnn-poll.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  remained in a virtual tie
among likely voters in an ABC News/Washington Post poll, though
the incumbent opened up a six-point lead among registered voters
following the Democratic and Republican nominating conventions.  The poll gave Obama 49 percent and Romney 48 percent among
likely voters, showing little movement from a survey taken
before the party gatherings, which had Romney ahead by two
points. Both of those results were within the margins of error
for the surveys.  The tightness of the race among likely voters compared with
registered voters reflects that Romney supporters say they are
more likely to vote, and therefore the race may turn on which
side gets its backers to the polls, said  Gary Langer , president
of New York-based Langer Research Associates, which conducted
the poll.  Among registered voters, the ABC/Post poll found 50 percent
supporting Obama and 44 percent backing Romney in the three days
after the Democrats’ nominating convention wrapped up Sept. 6 in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  A CNN survey conducted over the same period, Sept. 7-9,
showed Obama ahead of Romney, 52 percent to 46 percent, among
likely voters. A CNN survey taken Aug. 31-Sept. 3, following the
 Republican National Convention  in Tampa, Florida, had the two
tied at 48 percent.  Obama Advantage  The results in the ABC/Post poll among registered voters
and the CNN post-convention poll are similar to what the  Gallup
Poll  showed in its tracking of the presidential contest. Obama
led Romney, 50 percent to 44 percent, in a survey of voters
taken Sept. 7-10, after the Democratic convention, compared with
a 47 percent to 46 percent edge in an Aug. 31-Sept. 3 poll
following the Republican gathering. Gallup’s survey of 1,896
registered voters had a margin of error of plus or minus three
percentage points.  Neil Newhouse , pollster for the Romney campaign, yesterday
dismissed post-convention gains for Obama as “a bit of a sugar
high.”  “The reality of the Obama economy will reassert itself as
the ultimate downfall of the Obama presidency,” he said.  Gender Gap  The CNN survey of likely voters found a narrowing gap among
men, who tended to support Romney in pre-convention polling.
Obama led Romney, 48 percent to 47 percent, among men in this
survey and continued to hold an advantage among women, 55
percent to 44 percent.  The ABC/Post poll’s six-percentage-point advantage for
Obama among registered voters compares with a one-point
advantage for Romney -- 47 percent to 46 percent favoring Obama
-- in a survey of a similar group taken immediately before the
conventions.  Langer said the biggest shift has been among Democrats
coalescing around their party’s nominee. Obama’s support among
Democrats registered to vote has advanced by eight percentage
points, to 91 percent, following the convention.  In the eight states that Obama and Romney are contesting
most heavily -- which include Ohio and  Florida  -- the ABC/Post
poll found a 54 percent to 40 percent advantage for the
president among registered voters. Before the conventions,
Romney led Obama in a comparable sampling from these states, 48
percent to 42 percent.  Details Wanted  Sixty-three percent of the registered voters surveyed say
Romney hasn’t provided enough details about the policies he
would pursue as president, compared with 31 percent who say he
has.  While 53 percent of registered voters disapprove of Obama’s
handling of the economy, and 43 percent say the economy has
gotten worse under his presidency, 57 percent say it wouldn’t
have done any better under Romney.  By 10 percentage points -- 50 percent to 40 percent -- most
surveyed say the president better understands economic problems
people are having, and a wide margin -- 61 percent of those
polled -- rate the president as more personally likeable, while
27 percent preferred Romney.  Obama is viewed as a stronger leader by 50 percent,
compared with 42 percent for Romney, and as better able to work
with both sides of Congress by 46 percent, compared with 41
percent for Romney.  The ABC/Washington Post survey of 826 registered voters has
a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points; for
its sample of 710 likely voters, the error margin is 4.5 points.
The CNN/ORC international poll of 709 likely voters has a margin
of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  Economic News  One reason Democrats may be coalescing around Obama is
their perception that the economy is improving. A  Pew Research
Center  poll released today found just 15 percent of Democrats
say news about the economy is mostly bad, down from 31 percent
last month and 62 percent in August 2011. Among Republicans, 60
percent said they are primarily hearing bad economic news,
basically unchanged from last month and down from 71 percent in
August 2011.  Among adults overall, 35 percent said news about the
economy was mostly bad, a decline from 41 percent a month ago
and 67 percent in August 2011.  The Pew survey of 1,012 adults was taken Sept. 7-9 and had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points
overall, 7.3 percentage points for Republicans and six
percentage points for the Democratic sample.  Convention Highlights  Separately, the  Pew  poll found former President  Bill Clinton ’s address was the highlight of the Democratic National
Convention, overshadowing Obama’s speech accepting the
presidential nomination.  Pew reported that 29 percent of adults who watched the
convention identified Clinton’s address as the highlight,
compared with 16 percent who picked Obama’s speech and 15
percent who cited first lady  Michelle Obama ’s remarks to the
delegates.  A Pew poll last week found that the highlight of the
Republican convention was actor  Clint Eastwood ’s “dialogue”
with an empty chair, followed by Romney’s acceptance speech.  Obama’s acceptance speech was viewed favorably by 60
percent by those who watched it compared with 53 percent of
those who tuned in to see Romney, according to the Pew poll.  Obama’s speech reached more people; 43 percent said they
watched some or all of the Democratic convention last week,
compared with 38 percent who saw some or all of the Republican
gathering. Four years ago, 46 percent of adults watched all or
some of the Democratic convention and 56 percent saw all or some
of the Republican event.  Both nominees received boosts from the convention, with 25
percent saying their opinion of Romney was more favorable
following the Republican gathering and 26 percent saying their
opinion of Obama was more favorable after the Democratic
convention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  