-- Oil Is Steady as Traders Await Federal Reserve Decision
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-10T20:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/oil-falls-on-greece-concern-disappointing-economic-data.html
Oil was little changed in  New York 
as traders waited to see whether the  Federal Reserve  will
announce measures to revive the economy this week.  Futures stayed in a $1.29-a-barrel range as traders focused
on the  Federal Open Market Committee , which starts a two-day
policy meeting on Sept. 12 and may implement a third round of
asset purchases known as quantitative easing.  “The market is in a holding pattern at the moment,” said
 Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “Prices shouldn’t do a lot until later this week. The
FOMC meeting on Thursday will be a key.”  Oil for October delivery rose 12 cents to settle at $96.54
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The range for the
past 10 sessions has been $93.95 to $97.71. Prices are down 2.3
percent this year.  Brent for October settlement advanced 56 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $114.81 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent was at a $18.27 premium
to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate crude, up from $17.83
on Sept. 7.  The European benchmark grade rose on concern that Middle
East unrest will disrupt shipments from the region. A series of
bomb attacks yesterday killed 34 people in  Iraq , including more
than a dozen in the northern oil region of Kirkuk, Deputy Health
Minister Khamees al-Saad said. Iraq is the second-biggest oil
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  “Brent may be getting some support because of concern
about Iraqi supplies,” Evans said. “Brent is more sensitive to
events in the region because  Europe  is more dependent than the
U.S. on Middle East supplies.”  ‘Wait-And-See Mode’  Oil slipped as much as 1.1 percent in intraday trading on
concern that the  European debt crisis  is spreading and weaker-
than-expected economic reports. Greece struggled to qualify for
another round of aid and traders awaited a German court ruling
and Dutch elections.  Germany’s  Federal Constitutional Court  in Karlsruhe will
decide whether to suspend the 500 billion-euro ($639 billion)
European Stability Mechanism on Sept. 12. On the same day, Dutch
voters will decide whether to back parties questioning an
expansion of European Union powers.  “The market is in wait-and-see mode,” said Bill O’Grady,
chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in
 St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “We have a lot
happening this week with the German court decision, the Dutch
election and the Fed meeting.”  China Output  China’s  industrial output  rose the least in three years,
the  National Bureau of Statistics  said yesterday. Chinese
imports fell 2.6 percent in August from a year earlier as
exports rose 2.7 percent, the customs bureau said today.  Japan’s economy expanded in the second quarter at half the
pace the government initially estimated.  Gross domestic product 
grew an annualized 0.7 percent in the three months through June,
the Cabinet Office said in  Tokyo .  Italy’s economy  contracted  more than initially reported in
the second quarter. GDP shrank 0.8 percent from the previous
three months, more than the 0.7 percent first reported by the
National Statistics Institute on Aug. 7.  “Oil should move lower this week,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
Connecticut. “There really isn’t the demand out there to
support these prices.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 398,631
contracts as of 4:10 p.m. Volume totaled 560,581 contracts Sept.
7. Open interest was 1.57 million, the most since May 9.  “Prices have been above $90 for a while now,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in
Houston. “When there’s anticipation that prices are going to
rise, open interest increases.”  Oil in New York has traded above $90 a barrel since Aug. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 