-- Oil Trades Near Three-Week High as Investors Await Policy
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-11T07:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/oil-drops-from-three-week-high-on-u-s-fed-meeting-saudi-arabia.html
Oil traded near the highest level
in almost three weeks in  New York  as investors waited to see if
the U.S. will add stimulus to its economy, countering concern
that Europe’s bailout plan will falter and derail the recovery.  Futures were little changed, paring an earlier decline. The
 Federal Reserve  starts a two-day meeting tomorrow where it may
announce measures to boost the  U.S. economy  amid slowing jobs
growth. Separately, a court ruling is due on  Germany ’s
participation in the euro-area fund for fighting the region’s
debt crisis. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said West Texas
Intermediate oil may rise to narrow the gap between the
benchmark grade and other regional crudes.  “The market is waiting on the two big news events in the
German court decision and whether or not the Fed does
something,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC
Markets in Sydney. “With oil we’re looking at a fairly gradual
expansion in demand against a backdrop of fairly well-covered
supply.”  Crude for October delivery was at $96.44 a barrel, down 10
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:37 p.m. Singapore time. It earlier slid as much as 46
cents. The contract rose 12 cents to $96.54 yesterday, the
highest close since Aug. 22. Prices are 2.4 percent lower this
year.  Brent oil for October settlement fell 7 cents to $114.74 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $18.30, from $18.27 yesterday.  Technical Support  Brent, a benchmark grade for more than half of the world’s
oil, has risen 29 percent since this year’s lowest close on June
21, as a European Union embargo on crude purchases from  Iran 
took full effect on July 1. Global supply, demand and
inventories of crude don’t justify the increase in prices, Saudi
Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said yesterday, according to
the official Saudi Press Agency. The kingdom is the world’s
largest crude exporter.  Oil in New York has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at around $94.30 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted
declines near this indicator in July and August. Buy orders tend
to be clustered near chart-support levels.  Goldman Forecast  WTI may rise to about $107 a barrel to attract crude flows
from  Canada  and the Bakken shale formation to Cushing,  Oklahoma ,
the delivery point for New York-traded contracts, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The benchmark grade may narrow its
discount to other crudes as increased railway capacity reduces
an oil glut in the U.S. Midwest, Goldman said in a report e-
mailed today.  “We expect that Bakken and Canadian  crude oil  will need to
continue to flow to Cushing in the fourth quarter 2012, and WTI
prices will need to rise back above Canadian and Bakken prices
in order to motivate these flows,”  David Greely , a New York-
based analyst at Goldman Sachs, said in the report.  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court will tomorrow rule
on the country’s participation in the European Stability
Mechanism, a permanent 500 billion-euro ($638 billion) fund that
offers loans to  member states  and may buy their bonds to cut
borrowing costs. Germany will be the biggest contributor to the
fund with a 27 percent share, a statement from the European
Commission shows. The Netherlands holds elections the same day.  Fed Meeting  The U.S. Fed may announce a third round of asset purchases,
or quantitative easing, after its meeting. The nation, the
world’s biggest oil consumer, added 96,000 workers in August
compared with 141,000 in July, Labor Department figures showed
Sept. 7.  U.S. crude inventories probably dropped  2.63 million
barrels  last week, according to the median of eight analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. Gasoline supplies may have slipped 1.65 million
barrels, the survey shows.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release separate stockpile data today. The API collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  