-- Oil Trades Near One-Week High on Outlook for Economic Stimulus
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-09-10T12:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-on-outlook-for-economic-stimulus.html
Oil traded near the highest level
in a week in New York amid speculation that the U.S. and China
will implement measures to revive their economies.  Futures were little changed after three days of gains, the
longest rising streak in three weeks. The  Federal Reserve  meets
this week to discuss monetary policy after the  European Central
Bank  agreed last week on bond purchases to ease the euro area’s
debt crisis. Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said
supply, demand and inventories of crude don’t justify the
current increase in prices, the Saudi Press Agency reported.  “The market is balancing hopes for a third round of
quantitative easing and Chinese stimulus versus poor
fundamentals,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt who predicts Brent crude may advance to $117 a
barrel this week. “Market balances indicate an oversupply.”  Crude for October delivery was at $96.30 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 12
cents, at 1:21 p.m. London time. The contract climbed 0.9
percent to $96.42 on Sept. 7, the highest close since Aug. 31.
Prices are 2.6 percent lower this year.  Brent for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $114.61 a barrel, up 36 cents.
The European benchmark was at a premium of $18.35 to New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate crude, up from $17.83 on Sept. 7.  Saudi Arabia’s Naimi said the kingdom was monitoring prices
and is always “taking necessary steps to make sure supply is in
line with demand and will meet the needs of its customers”.  Saudi Minister  Naimi said Saudi Arabia will continue, in cooperation with
fellow Gulf Cooperation Council and OPEC member states, to
“preserve the stability of the international oil market,” the
agency reported today.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, around $94.08 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures rebounded from
this indicator in July and August. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  China reduced net crude imports last month to the lowest
level in almost two years, customs data show. The nation bought
18.2 million metric tons of crude in August, or about 4.3
million barrels a day, according to data from the General
Administration of Customs. That’s down 13 percent from a year
earlier and the lowest rate since October 2010.  Fire Power  Measures to support and stabilize foreign trade will be
announced soon, according to an interview with Commerce Minister
 Chen Deming  broadcast yesterday by  China Central Television .
China’s economic expansion faces “notable downward pressure,”
President  Hu Jintao  said Sept. 8.  “The economy is weak,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter
in Sydney. “The stimulus plans are designed to placate the
market rather than improve the economies. You are putting in
fire-power just to stop things falling.”  Money managers raised net-long positions in New York crude
by 1,153, or 0.6 percent, to 193,624 futures and options
combined in the seven days ended Sept. 4, according to a U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission report on Sept. 7.  In London,  hedge funds  and other money managers raised
 bullish bets  on  Brent crude  to their highest in four months in
the week ended Sept. 4, according to  data from ICE Futures
Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 110,475 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s an increase of 2,590 contracts from
107,885 on Aug. 28 and the highest since May 1, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  