-- London Immigrants Develop Diabetes at Double Rate of Local Brits
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-09-10T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/london-immigrants-develop-diabetes-at-double-rate-of-local-brits.html
Men and women who immigrated to the
U.K. from  India , West Africa and the Caribbean developed
diabetes at twice the rate of British people of European
descent, according to a 20-year study.  Type 2 diabetes  developed in 33 percent of Indian
immigrants and 30 percent of African Caribbeans, compared with
14 percent of Brits of European descent, according to a study
led by Nish Chaturvedi at  Imperial College London  following
almost 5,000 people. The study was published today in  Diabetes
Care , the journal of the  American Diabetes Association .  Type 2 diabetes typically results from obesity around the
waistline and growing resistance to insulin, which helps the
body metabolize sugar. The higher prevalence of diabetes among
Indians and African Caribbeans may have resulted from observed
changes in diet, particularly increased consumption of higher-
fat meals, when migrating to the U.K., rather than genetic
factors, Chaturvedi said.  “The jury is still out as to whether there is a genetic
explanation,” Chaturvedi told reporters in  London  today.  The study, funded by the  Wellcome Trust  and British Heart
Foundation, looked at first-generation migrants in London
between the ages of 40 and 69 who didn’t already have Type 2
diabetes at the start of the study in 1988.  While Africans, African Caribbeans and Europeans are
typically diagnosed at about age 66 or 67, South Asian men were
five years younger on average at the time of diagnosis,
suggesting they are at greater risk of complications, according
to the study authors.  Type 2 diabetes affects approximately 2.9 million people in
the U.K., requiring 11.9 billion pounds ($19 billion) in
treatment of the condition and its complications such as heart
attack, stroke and  kidney disease , according to the Wellcome
Trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  