-- Most Hong Kong Stocks Climb on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-09-10T08:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/most-hong-kong-stocks-climb-as-slowdown-spurs-policy-bets.html
(Corrects name of phone company in second paragraph.)  Most  Hong Kong   stocks  rose,
extending last week’s gains, amid speculation central banks will
take more steps to boost economic growth amid signs of slowing
expansion in China and abroad.  ZTE Corp. (763)  rose 6.1 percent after a report the equipment
manufacturer is among winners of tender to make China Mobile
Communications Corp.’s fourth-generation mobile phones. Pacific
Basin Shipping Ltd., a dry-bulk ship operator, gained 4.4
percent after agreeing to sell its fleet of roll-on, roll-off
ships. China Coal Energy Co. pared its increase to 0.5 percent
after August export growth missed economists’ estimates.  About five stocks rose for every three that fell on the
 Hang Seng Composite Index (HSCI) , the city’s broadest gauge of stock
performance. China’s President  Hu Jintao  said the economy faces
“notable downward pressure,” signaling the country may add to
road and rail projects announced last week. The U.S. Federal
Reserve meets this week to discuss whether to expand asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing.  “People are quite bullish because the prospect of QE3 in
the U.S. and the bond buying by the  European Central Bank  are
supportive,” said  Alex Wong , asset-management director at Ample
Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong. “For China, people are not
concerned because the government is finally doing something to
try and stimulate the economy.” In Hong Kong, the “accumulated
short interest in the market is huge so we would probably be in
the phase of short covering for a while.”  The Hang Seng Index dropped less than 0.1 percent to
19,792.11 as of 2:45 p.m. local time, after rising as much as
0.4 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies, or the H-share index, slipped 0.4 percent to
9,392.89.  Short Selling  The total  short selling  by value on Hong Kong’s mainboard
rose 37 percent last week to HK$6.78 billion ($874 million),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)   traded  at 10.6 times estimated earnings
on average, compared with 9.8 for the Shanghai Composite Index
and 13.9 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPXL1)  The Hong Kong
gauge climbed 8.9 percent from this year’s low on June 4 through
Sept. 7 amid optimism central banks will take more steps to
boost the slowing economies.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent
today, ahead of this week’s Fed policy meeting. The underlying
index gained 0.4 percent on Sept. 7 amid stimulus bets after
Labor Department figures showed that U.S. nonfarm payrolls
increased by 96,000 in August, less than the median estimate of
130,000 in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 that the weak jobs market posed a
“grave concern.”  China Output  “Following the weak U.S. jobs report, the backdrop is
ideal to act this week and deliver more quantitative easing,”
said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of investment
strategy at UBS AG’s Australian wealth management unit. The
Swiss bank has about $1.5 trillion in assets under management.
“This week is looking like the last window for the Fed to
act,” before the U.S. election.  China’s biggest lenders were the heaviest  drags  on the Hang
Seng Index today, with China Construction Bank Corp. slipping
2.3 percent and Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the
world’s No. 1 lender by market value, dropping 2.3 percent.  In  China ,  industrial output  grew at the slowest pace in
three years. Production increased 8.9 percent in August from a
year earlier and fixed-asset investment growth in the first
eight months eased to 20.2 percent, the National Bureau of
Statistics said yesterday in Beijing.  Exports rose 2.7 percent in August from a year earlier
while imports fell 2.6 percent, resulting in a trade surplus of
$26.7 billion, the customs bureau said today in Beijing. The
increase in overseas shipments compares with the median estimate
for 2.9 percent growth from analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.
Economists forecast import gains of 3.5 percent and a trade
surplus of $19.5 billion.  “China is also supportive because they are spending money
on infrastructure again, that’s another factor making people
happy,” said Ample Asset Management’s Wong.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index retreated 0.3 percent to
19,803. The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  climbed 0.2 percent to 18.74,
indicating traders expect a swing of 5.4 percent for the equity
benchmark in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  