-- Most Asian Stocks Gain on Stimulus Bets Before FOMC Meet
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-10T10:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/most-asian-stocks-decline-on-economic-growth-concerns.html
Most Asian  stocks  gained as reports
from the U.S., China and Japan showing slower growth in the
world’s biggest economies stoked speculation central banks will
add to stimulus measures.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-biggest mining company,
rose 4.4 percent in Sydney as copper gained for a second day.
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co., China’s No. 2
maker of construction equipment, jumped 6.1 percent in Hong Kong
after Chinese President  Hu Jintao  urged Asian governments to
speed up infrastructure development. Tokyo Electron Ltd., a
maker of chip production equipment, fell 3.3 percent in Tokyo
after customer Intel Corp. cut its sales forecast.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained less than 0.1 percent to
119.18 as of 7:03 p.m. in Tokyo, erasing losses of as much as
0.2 percent. About five shares rose for every four that fell on
the measure. The regional benchmark gauge posted its biggest
gain this year on Sept. 7 after the  European Central Bank 
unveiled a bond-buying program and China boosted stimulus
measures.  “Following a weak U.S. jobs report, the backdrop is ideal
to act this week and deliver more quantitative easing,” said
George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of investment strategy at
UBS AG’s Australian wealth management unit. The Swiss bank has
about $1.5 trillion in assets under management. “This week is
looking like the last window for the Federal Reserve to act,”
before the U.S. election.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.3 percent. The
country’s industrial output grew at the slowest pace in three
years and imports unexpectedly dropped, signaling officials may
need to add further to stimulus after approving subway and road
projects. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.1 percent.  Kospi, Nikkei  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  added 0.2 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index climbed 0.8 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index slid
0.3 percent.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed. The
nation’s economy expanded in the second quarter at half the pace
the government initially estimated, underscoring the risk of a
contraction as Europe’s debt crisis caps exports.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The gauge gained 0.4 percent on Sept. 7 amid bets the
 Federal Reserve  will add to stimulus measures after a report
showed American payrolls increased less than projected last
month. The Fed will hold its policy meeting Sept. 12-13.  Copper, Ore  Raw-material producers posted the biggest advance among the
 10 industry groups  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Copper
climbed to a 17-week high, while iron-ore prices gained by most
since December. Oil traded near the highest level in a week.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s No. 3 iron-ore
supplier, jumped 7.3 percent to A$3.55.  Rio Tinto  climbed 4.4
percent to A$54.70 in Sydney. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
largest mining company, added 1.5 percent to A$32.46.  Jiangxi
Copper Co. (358) , China’s biggest producer of the metal, rose 1.9
percent to HK$18.16 in  Hong Kong .  China’s construction-related companies rallied. Speaking to
business executives at an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
forum in Vladivostok on Sept. 8, President Hu said China’s small
and medium-sized enterprises are having a “hard time” and
exporters are facing more difficulties. The government has an
“arduous task of creating jobs for new entrants to the  labor
force .”  Zoomlion jumped 6.1 percent to HK$9.03 in Hong Kong. Sany
Heavy Equipment International Holdings Co. climbed 3.4 percent
to HK$4.25.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) , China’s biggest cement
maker, gained 3.3 percent to HK$22.10.  Intel Suppliers  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 7.7 percent from this
year’s high in February through last week on signs of a
deepening global economic slowdown. The Asian benchmark  traded 
at 12.4 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.9 times for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  Suppliers of  Intel (INTC)  were among stocks that dropped as the
world’s biggest semiconductor maker slashed its third-quarter
sales forecast amid declining demand for personal computers.  Tokyo Electron slipped 3.3 percent to 3,625 yen.  Nikon
Corp. (7731) , a Japanese maker of cameras and supplier of chip-making
equipment, fell 2.9 percent to 2,096 yen.  Lend Lease Group (LLC) , Australia’s biggest developer, sank 6.6
percent to A$7.88 in Sydney after disclosing discrepancies in
two projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  