-- Tougher Dodd-Frank Fiduciary Standard for Brokers Stalled
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-09-10T14:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/tougher-dodd-frank-fiduciary-standard-for-u-s-brokers-stalled.html
Even with  Wall Street  and consumer
advocates allied in pushing for it, a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission proposal to raise standards for brokers
advising retail investors has run aground.  The SEC, which has been drafting a rule for almost two
years, has scheduled no action on the measure as 2012 wanes and
a presidential election approaches.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who pushed to include the
measure in the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure clients receive equal
treatment from brokers and investment advisers, said other rules
will probably take precedence in coming months.  “It’s important for us to get this done, but Congress
handed us a lot of important things to do,” Schapiro said in an
interview. “We continue to advance this issue within the
building and remain committed to it.”  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
response to the 2008 credit crisis, instructed the SEC to
consider mandating that brokers operate under a fiduciary
standard as rigorous as that for investment advisers. Lawmakers
sought the uniform standard to eliminate investor confusion over
the roles of brokers and advisers, and to protect customers from
being overcharged or sold inappropriate products.  Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the
Washington-based Consumer Federation of America, said there’s
rare common ground between Wall Street and consumer advocates on
the need for the rule.  ‘This Hard’  “It’s hard to imagine how they could possibly get from
where they are to a final rule in the remainder of this year,”
Roper said of the SEC. “It shouldn’t have been this hard.”  Schapiro declined to predict when the SEC will act on the
rule, which is considered optional under Dodd-Frank. The agency
is “steadily working through all the mandated rulemakings,”
she said.  Because it’s not required, the rule could be dropped
completely if Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  defeats
President  Barack Obama  and installs a new SEC chairman.  Schapiro, facing pressure from those who want the change,
meets tomorrow with a group of advocates including  John Bogle ,
founder of mutual fund company Vanguard Group Inc. According to
a statement, the group will present a “fiduciary declaration”
signed by past regulators such as former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair , former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  and  Arthur Levitt , a former SEC chairman.  ‘Best Interests’  Retail investors typically put their money in the hands of
broker-dealers or investment advisers. Brokers earn commissions
on sales and work under a professional standard that requires
them to promote products “suitable” for clients. Registered
investment advisers work for set fees and manage portfolios
under a standard that their advice be in customers’ “best
interests.”  A 2011 SEC report -- opposed at the time by the agency’s
two Republican commissioners -- said consumers are often baffled
by the distinction between brokers and advisers. The report
recommended a uniform standard “to act in the best interest of
the customer without regard to the financial or other interest
of the broker, dealer, or  investment adviser .”  Schapiro called the change a priority and said in December
that “it remains difficult to justify” two standards for the
same type of advice.  Sifma Support  In a departure from criticism of other Dodd-Frank rules,
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, the
Wall Street trade group, supports the change.  “Sifma is very much in favor of establishing a new uniform
fiduciary standard for both brokers and advisers where they’re
basically doing the same thing for retail customers,”  Ira Hammerman , Sifma’s general counsel, said in an interview.
“There are literally trillions of dollars of individual savings
and investments that we’re talking about here.”  The fiduciary idea has taken “a back seat” to rules the
SEC has to get done, Hammerman said, and it’s “difficult to
expect” the rule to be adopted this year.  Amid general agreement that investment professionals
offering advisory services should act in their clients’ best
interests and operate under the same standards, there’s division
over how to implement a uniform fiduciary standard to the
brokerage-industry business model, according to Steven Wallman,
a former SEC commissioner and founder of online brokerage Folio
Investing in McLean, Virginia.  Republican Opposition  Investment advisers generally don’t want a definition that
would weaken the current standard, while some Republican 
lawmakers oppose the rule altogether.  U.S. Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican
who leads a panel that oversees the SEC, said in a December
letter to Schapiro that a hearing he held yielded a “consensus
view that there is currently no evidentiary basis for proposing
new standard-of-conduct regulations.”  A court decision has contributed to the delay. In 2011, the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington rejected an unrelated SEC
rule, saying the agency failed to adequately assess its costs.
Since then, the SEC has returned to the drawing board to bolster
cost-benefit cases for many rules.  For the uniform fiduciary standard, the SEC plans to first
put out a request for public comments on its potential costs.
After a 60- or 90-day comment period, the agency would issue a
proposal that would then also require a public-comment process
and revisions before commissioners could vote. Even if started
today, the typical process would extend well into 2013.  Conflicts ‘Ameliorated’  The fiduciary standard should apply to institutional money
managers as well as brokerages and investment advisers, said
Bogle, who plans to attend the meeting tomorrow at the SEC.  “The industry is not performing up to its potential to
serve investors,” said Bogle, who expressed confidence that
the change will happen but said he isn’t sure when. “We can
never eliminate conflicts of interest, but they can be
ameliorated by this standard.”  While the SEC writes a rule that Schapiro has described as
“more disclosure oriented,” the U.S. Labor Department is
working on a similar measure to make investment professionals
more accountable for the advice they give to employers and
individuals in  retirement plans  such as 401(k)s and individual
retirement accounts known as IRAs. Its implementation was
delayed last year after firms such as  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith
Barney and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said it was too broad.  The Labor Department is continuing to work on its
initiative and doesn’t expect the rule to be proposed again
before the end of the year, Jason Surbey, a spokesman for the
agency, said in an e-mail.  Election Impact  “The future of this rulemaking from both agencies depends
somewhat on the outcome of the election,” said Knut Rostad,
president of the Institute for the Fiduciary Standard, which
organized the meeting with Schapiro. “One scenario is that it
could be dormant for a long time.”  Among those knocking on Schapiro’s door tomorrow, Tamar Frankel, a professor at Boston University’s law school, said she
harbors a “very small hope” that the effort won’t die.  “This has to continue until people realize how important
it is,” said Frankel, a specialist in fiduciary law and
financial regulations who said she is concerned investors will
be sold inappropriate products or overcharged without the rule.
“With millions of Americans retiring, this scares me.”  Levitt, an adviser to  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and board member of Bloomberg LP, parent of  Bloomberg
News , said he thinks brokers and advisers should generally be
treated the same.  “I think the chairwoman feels this is a legacy issue,”
Levitt said of Schapiro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  