-- Palo Alto Networks Falls Most Since July Initial Offer
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-09-11T20:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/palo-alto-networks-fourth-quarter-profit-sales-top-estimates.html
Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  fell the
most since its July initial public offering after an earnings
report by the network security provider failed to meet analysts’
most bullish expectations.  While the company reported a fourth-quarter profit
yesterday that exceeded the average analyst estimate, it fell
short of the high end of projections.  The shares tumbled 7.2 percent to $66.60 at today’s close
in  New York , the biggest decline since July 20. Through Sept.
10, Palo Alto had  gained  71 percent since its market debut,
fueling speculation that the company would top predictions by a
wider margin, said Jonathan Ho, an analyst at William Blair &
Co. in  Chicago .  “It wasn’t a weak quarter -- they clearly beat the
consensus expectations,” Ho said in an interview. “But I think
the investor expectations were ahead of the Street and they
couldn’t meet those numbers. It’s still a very healthy growth
rate for the company, but given the run-up in the stock, we
think there was an investor disconnect there.” Ho has an
 outperform rating  on the shares.  Helped by rising demand for anti-hacking technologies and
other security products,  Palo Alto  reported profit before
certain costs in the July period of 3 cents a share, compared
with a break-even estimate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The highest analyst estimate was for a profit of 9
cents a share.  The net loss was $4.6 million, or 18 cents, it said in a
statement. Sales rose to $75.6 million, higher than the
prediction for $71.3 million.  Big Competitors  On a conference call yesterday, the  Santa Clara ,
California-based company forecast first-quarter profit before
some items of 3 cents a share, matching the average analysts’
estimate. Revenue will be $80 million to $84 million, Palo Alto
said, compared with an average projection of $80.9 million.  Palo Alto sales are rising as companies seek to defend
themselves amid an increase in sophisticated hacking attacks
that traditional security technologies have had difficulty
stopping. The company is challenging bigger security-technology
providers, including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR) , as well as  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  and
 Fortinet Inc. (FTNT)   Worldwide security software revenue rose 7.5 percent last
year to $17.7 billion, driven by growth in threats and
regulatory requirements, according to market researcher  Gartner
Inc.  Palo Alto’s technologies are a combination of hardware and
software. The company raised $299.5 million in its July 19 IPO,
when it sold 7.13 million shares.  Although Palo Alto is still a small player in security
technology, its valuation exceeds those of its larger rivals.
The company’s shares trade at  13 times  estimated sales over the
next four quarters, compared with a price-to-sales ratio of 7.5
for Fortinet and 6.9 for Check Point Software. Cisco and
Juniper, the two biggest U.S. providers of computer-networking
equipment, each trade for about 2 times revenue over the next
year.  -- With assistance from Ari Levy and Jillian Ward in  San
Francisco . Editor: Jillian Ward, Niamh Ring  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  