-- Panasonic Credit Ratings Cut by Moody’s on Weak Earnings
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-10T09:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/panasonic-credit-ratings-cut-by-moody-s-on-weak-earnings-1-.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the Japanese
electronics maker trying to recover from a record annual loss,
had its credit ratings cut by Moody’s because of weak earnings
and higher debt.  The company’s long-term  credit rating  was lowered by two
levels to Baa1 from A2, while its short-term rating was cut one
rank to Prime-2 from Prime-1, according to a statement from the
ratings company. Both ratings, among Moody’s investment grades,
are assigned with a stable outlook, Moody’s said.  The ratings downgrade is due to the company’s low
profitability and net debt that increased almost eightfold after
 acquisitions  of Sanyo Electronics Co. and Panasonic Electric
Works Co., Moody’s said. Falling TV prices and a stronger yen
are “a long-term structural disadvantage that will be difficult
to overcome” for Panasonic, Moody’s said.  “Panasonic, like its domestic peers, has been struggling
to generate hit products that can lure consumers,” said Hideki Yasuda, an  analyst  at Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Panasonic’s
ratings are still among the investment grades and the downgrades
won’t likely impact the stock.”  The maker of Viera televisions and Lumix cameras is trying
to turn around its unprofitable TV, electronic component and
battery operations this fiscal year after closing plants and
eliminating 36,000 jobs amid falling prices and a surging yen.
New President Kazuhiro Tsuga pledged to revive the Japanese
manufacturer “by all means.”  Earnings Forecast  Panasonic,  Japan ’s biggest appliance maker, kept unchanged
its full-year  forecast  to post net income of 50 billion yen for
the year started April 1, compared with a 772 billion-yen loss
the previous 12 months. The company may rearrange businesses and
withdraw from unprofitable operations, Tsuga said in July.  The company’s net debt increased to more than 950 billion
yen at the end of June from about 120 billion yen at the end of
March 2010, Moody’s said. Panasonic will probably cut costs by
130 billion yen this fiscal year after reducing them by 64
billion yen in the first quarter from a year earlier, Chief
Financial Officer Hideaki Kawai has said.  Consumer-electronics makers  Sony Corp. (6758) , Sharp Corp. and
Panasonic are restructuring after competition with  South Korea ’s
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Cupertino, California-based  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  pushed them into losses.  Last month, Moody’s said Sony’s Baa1 long-term rating and
Prime-2 short-term rating may be lowered. Moody’s cut Sharp’s
short-term ratings to Not-Prime from Prime-3 earlier this month,
citing a high level of short-term debt and weak operating
performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 