-- Pink Floyd Tops Bill in China’s Education Farce
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-09-10T21:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/pink-floyd-tops-bill-in-china-s-education-farce-william-pesek.html
China’s surreal and uneasy
relationship with  Hong Kong  is a story you just have to love.  The latest chapter: the mainland government’s campaign to
force-feed “patriotic education” to Hong Kong’s students,
extolling the genius of the Communist Party and all it has done
for China and humanity. That mind-numbing phrase evokes a wealth
of literary -- not to mention rock ’n’ roll -- references that
parents, teachers and students rallied around as the school year
started.  Hong Kong wisely heeded  public pressure  and shelved the
plan, at least for now. Yet anger over China’s meddling won’t be
disposed of so easily. Nor is China about to abandon its quest
to bring the city’s 7 million residents to heel.  This sorry tale coincides with the 15th anniversary of Hong
Kong’s return to Chinese rule, an event celebrated in 1997 with
unbridled optimism, lavish parties and skies ablaze with
fireworks. Today, the fireworks are on the ground.  Tens of thousands first took to Hong Kong’s streets in late
July to oppose a curriculum devised to stifle independent
thinking in an economy that thrives on it. Student protests
became such a concern for Hong Kong’s leaders that Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying canceled his first overseas official
visit, skipping last weekend’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit in  Russia .  Trying to impose an education program that amounts to a
whitewashing of Chinese history backfired horribly. Walking the
 streets  of Hong Kong recently, I saw the anger firsthand. I
encountered hundreds of protesters carrying placards stating
“We don’t need no thought control,” and singing the lyrics
made famous by  Pink Floyd ’s 1979 hit “Another Brick in the
Wall.”  ‘The Party’  Chatting to them, I heard several mentions of  George Orwell ’s 1949 classic “Nineteen Eighty-Four,” a dystopian
story of a society in thrall to “The Party” and its
totalitarian ideology. In this real-life narrative, the
Communist Party wants to weave its rigid dogma into the lives of
Hong Kongers.  “It’s so offensive that China thinks we are this stupid,”
said Andy Tang, a 20-year protester and engineering student.
“Most mainlanders don’t even know about  Tiananmen Square  or the
millions who died thanks to Mao Zedong’s policies. They don’t
know a thing about their government’s real history. And now
China wants to keep us in Hong Kong in the same darkness?”  China  must tread carefully. It is risking the little
remaining credibility it has with many in Hong Kong, just as it
did 10 years ago with a notorious anti-subversion law known as
Article 23. Massive demonstrations defeated that legislation
which, thanks to ambiguous wording, would have curbed basic
liberties, including freedom of the press and information. Under
it, a Hong Kong economist making skeptical forecasts about
Chinese growth might have been in legal trouble.  Hong Kong is highly sensitive to anything that threatens
the “one country, two systems” arrangement. China’s recent
handiwork speaks to the clumsiness of its oversight of a city
that once put out the welcome mat.  At first, China earned it. The country’s rapid growth made
Hong Kong a boomtown during much of the decade after the
handover. China opened the emigration floodgates, allowing more
and more of its nouveau riche to visit Hong Kong, spend lavishly
and transform the city into a luxury-shopping mecca. Their money
also caused a housing bubble like few before it.  The result is one of the fastest-widening gaps between rich
and poor. Hong Kong’s  Gini coefficient , which measures  income
inequality , rose from 0.43 in 1971 to 0.537 in 2011 (a reading
of zero means income equality and one complete inequality). Hong
Kong is getting squeezed on both ends of the economic food
chain. Low-wage mainlanders are taking more and more jobs away
from middle-class Hong Kong residents, while wealthy Chinese are
driving property prices far out of their reach.  Billionaires Dominate  Since his inauguration in July, Leung has struggled to cool
real-estate prices that have almost doubled since 2009 even
after predecessor  Donald Tsang  sought to rein in speculation
with higher minimum mortgage deposits and transaction taxes, and
by making more land available for development. For all the
chatter about Hong Kong being the freest economy, it is
dominated by a handful of billionaires and their political
benefactors in Beijing who have little time for the middle
class. That has fueled a new sense of anxiety among the broader
public.  The dismal timing of China’s brainwashing campaign shows it
still doesn’t get it. Hong Kongers are proud of their Chinese
heritage. They feel pride when China tops the medals tables at
the Olympics, sends rockets into space, records pop music to
which the world sings along, makes movies that win Oscars and is
touted as the economic and geopolitical power of the future. But
they don’t want a one-sided and dangerous cherry-picked version
of history forced on them.  Officials in  Beijing (SHCOMP)  should never have tried to impose the
“China Model” textbook on Hong Kong, which calls the corrupt
Communist Party “selfless” and an unambiguous force for good
and success. Nor should it try again in a year or two, as seems
likely. China should be learning from the place. Hong Kong’s
press freedoms, transparent banking system, entrepreneurial
spirit and reasonable constraints on lawmakers who line their
pockets are virtues China needs.  In today’s globalized and interconnected world, Hong Kong’s
residents need all the education they can get. What they don’t
need is China’s thought control.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Hong Kong at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  