-- Plains Exploration to Buy Gulf Fields for $6.1 Billion
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-10T20:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/plains-exploration-to-buy-5-55-billion-gulf-fields-from-bp.html
Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP) 
agreed to buy  BP Plc (BP/) ’s and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s stakes in a
group of  Gulf of Mexico  oil fields for $6.1 billion, doubling
crude production in its biggest acquisition since 2007.  BP, which has been selling assets after causing the worst
marine oil spill in U.S. history, sold its fields for $5.55
billion. Shell sold its stake in a field co-owned with BP for
$560 million, according to a statement today.  The acquisition amount is larger than Houston-based Plains’
 market value . The purchase gives Plains oil production in the
Gulf’s deep waters two years after it sold shallow-water assets
to focus onshore. The company, which started the day with a
market value of $5.2 billion, will borrow $7 billion for the
deals. The shares fell the most in 13 months.  “Their change in strategy took everybody by surprise,”
Eliecer Palacios, a New York-based energy sector specialist for
Maxim Group LLC who doesn’t rate or own the stock, said today in
an telephone interview. “Deep-water production is usually
capital intensive and they’d indicated to the street they wanted
to get out of it.”  Plains  declined  11 percent to $36.09 at the close in New
York, the most since Aug. 8, 2011. BP rose 0.7 percent to 437.8
pence at the close in London.  ‘Full Price’  Plains paid “full price” for the fields and needs to find
oil deeper or nearby to make the deals work, Duane Grubert, a
Stanford, Connecticut-based analyst for Susquehanna Financial
Group, wrote in a note to clients today.  Standard & Poor’s  put Plains’  ratings  on watch with
negative implications. “The acquisition represents a strategic
shift for Plains and presents increased execution risk,
particularly given the complexities associated with operating in
the deep-water Gulf,” according to an S&P note today from a
group of analysts led by Lawrence Wilkinson.  The acquisition is Plains’ biggest since it bought Pogo
Producing Co., adding onshore U.S. fields for $5.84 billion of
cash, stock and debt in 2007, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Production from the deep-water fields is equivalent to
67,000 barrels of oil a day and is expected to increase as more
wells come online, James C. Flores, Plains chairman and chief
executive officer, said on a  conference call  today.  Controlling Destiny  The purchase will make Plains owner of three offshore
platforms, Flores said on the call. It includes sole ownership
of BP’s Marlin, Dorado, King and Horn Mountain fields and
minority stakes in fields operated by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
Shell. Plains gets full ownership of the Holstein field and
platform, buying both halves from BP and Shell.  “There’s only one way to play the deep-water Gulf of
 Mexico : It’s with infrastructure,” Flores said of the platforms
on the call. “We’ll be able to control our own destiny.”  Deep-water platforms can cost $2 billion before pumping any
oil, he said later in an interview. The three platforms will pay
for themselves as Plains drills additional wells neglected by BP
as it sought higher profits elsewhere, he said.  “The deal is accretive and it will make sense, but it
changes investors’ time line a bit,” said David Deckelbaum, an
analyst for KeyBanc Capital Markets in  Cleveland ,  Ohio . Plains
paid about $91,000 for each flowing barrel of crude from the
fields. Deckelbaum said a comparable price for recent
transactions is about $60,000.  Selling Gas  Plains will reduce borrowings by selling stakes in natural-
gas fields for as much as $2 billion and with $1 billion of
annual free cash from the Gulf fields, Chief Financial Officer
Winston Talbert said on the call.  The company will sell stakes in Wyoming gas fields operated
by  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and in Louisiana’s Haynesville shale mostly
operated by  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  within a year, Flores said.
It will hedge as much as 90 percent of oil output to cover debt
payments and reduce borrowings, he said.  Plains’ $1 billion of 6.75 percent notes due February 2022
fell 2.75 cents to $1.06 on the dollar to yield 5.78 percent as
of 2:22 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “There’s always disruption when you’re talking about deals
of this size versus our enterprise value,” Flores said of the
share price decline today in an interview. “We’ve got to go out
and hold a few hands and make sure everybody understands that
we’re doubling  cash flow  per share.”  Gulf Sale  Flores said he’d offered to buy Holstein three years ago,
and was rebuffed. Today’s transaction was possible only because
BP was forced by the Gulf oil spill to shed assets, the Plains
CEO said.  BP is targeting $38 billion in divestitures by the end of
next year to raise cash after a 2010 explosion at its Macondo
well in the Gulf killed 11 workers. It’s setting aside $38
billion for costs of the disaster, including a $20 billion  trust
fund  for victims.  Today’s transaction brings BP’s total asset sales since the
beginning of 2010 to more than $32 billion, the London-based
company said in a statement.  “BP’s got a good price, we were counting on them getting
about $3.5 billion,”  Jason Gammel , an analyst at Macquarie
Capital Europe Ltd. in London, said today in a phone interview.
“They’re almost done with their asset sales now.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advised Plains on the
deal, effective Oct. 1 and expected to close by year-end.
JPMorgan led financing by a bank group that also includes
Barclays,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Bank of Montreal ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Canada ,  Bank of Nova Scotia ,  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  