-- Transocean to Exit Coastal Drilling Market After 50 Years
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-09-10T20:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/transocean-to-sell-shallow-water-rigs-to-shelf-for-1-05-billion.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  agreed to sell most
of its shallow-water drilling fleet for $1.05 billion as part of
the company’s exit from the market for rigs propped up on steel
legs that it created more than 50 years ago.  Shelf Drilling International Holdings Ltd., a newly formed
company owned by private equity investors and management, will
pay $855 million in cash and $195 million in preferred shares
for 38 rigs that can drill in seas shallower than about 400 feet
(122 meters), Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean said today
statement.  Chief Executive Officer Steven L. Newman is shedding
shallow-water rigs to focus on deep-water and specialized
drilling gear that commands higher rates from oil producers.
Transocean vessels that can operate in 10,000 feet of water and
drill several miles into the Earth can garner more than $400,000
a day, four times the going rate for so-called jackup rigs that
have retractable legs that can reach the seafloor.  Transocean expects to recognize a “significant” loss on
the sale, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The company valued the assets at about $1.4
billion at the end of the second quarter.  The company plans to sell its seven remaining standard
jackups and exit that business in the third quarter.  Transocean fell 3.5 percent to $45.95 at the close in  New
York , it biggest one-day drop since June 21.  The shares  have
declined 15 percent in the past year.  Global Driller  The deal is expected to be completed in the last three
months of this year. Shelf Drilling, whose owners include Castle
Harlan Inc., Champ Private Equity and Lime Rock Partners, will
seek to offer shallow-water services globally, according to the
statement.  Transocean’s stock has tumbled 50 percent since its
Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April 2010 during a blowout at
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico . The accident killed
11 workers and triggered the worst U.S. marine oil spill.  Transocean built the oil industry’s first jackup rig in the
1950s, Newman told analysts and investors at a Barclays Plc-
sponsored energy conference in New York on Sept. 5.  Separately, Transocean yesterday named Esa Ikaeheimonen, a
former executive at  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)  and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, to
replace Gregory Cauthen as chief financial officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  