-- Transocean Had Talks to Settle U.S. Spill Case for $1.5 Billion
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-10T17:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/transocean-had-talks-to-settle-u-s-spill-case-for-1-5-billion.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  said it had been
negotiating to pay $1.5 billion to the U.S. to settle civil and
criminal claims arising from the 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill .  The U.S. sued Transocean in 2010, alleging violations of
federal pollution law. Transocean was the owner and operator of
the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, which exploded and sank in the
Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, setting off the largest offshore
oil spill in U.S. history.  “The parties have been unable to come to an agreement on a
settlement,” Transocean said in a regulatory filing today.
“There are a number of issues that the parties would need to
resolve in order to reach any settlement.”  One sticking point is whether any settlement would cover
costs to Transocean for natural resources damage under the Oil
Pollution Act of 1990, Transocean said in the filing. This
clause requires responsible parties to reimburse governments for
the cost of restoring natural resources to pre-incident
conditions.  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon, which
killed 11 workers, prompted hundreds of lawsuits against London-
based  BP Plc (BP/) , owner of the Macondo well; Vernier, Switzerland-
based Transocean; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services.  BP and lawyers for private parties reached a $7.8 billion
partial settlement of claims in March. The U.S. claims against
BP and Transocean remain.  Trial Date  The judge presiding over the litigation set a Jan. 14 trial
date to determine fault for the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
and resulting undersea leak.  Transocean has set aside $2 billion as a reserve for
Macondo-related claims, the company said. Transocean had been in
discussions with BP and lawyers on the plaintiffs’ steering
committee about possible settlements, the company said. These
discussions ended in February because the amounts proposed by BP
and the plaintiffs’ lawyers were excessive, Transocean said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  