-- Redwood to Sell Securities Backed by $313.2 Million of Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-09-10T16:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/redwood-to-sell-securities-backed-by-313-2-million-of-mortgages.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  plans to sell
bonds backed by $313.2 million of new U.S. home loans, in the
ninth sale of such securities without government backing since
the market froze in 2008, according to credit-rating companies.  Redwood, a specialist in so-called jumbo mortgages, issued
six of the previous offerings of such securities since the
market restarted in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors Service, Kroll Bond Ratings Inc.
and Fitch Ratings expect to assign top grades to $290.4 million
of the bonds in the latest deal, according to “pre-sale”
reports sent today by e-mail.  Issuance of so-called non-agency  home-loan bonds  peaked at
$1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006 before collapsing as their
prices tumbled amid soaring foreclosures and plunging home
values. The market’s revival is being limited by taxpayer-
supported mortgage programs that account for about 90 percent of
lending and demand from banks for unsecuritized loans to hold.  Redwood is “hopeful that the stabilizing housing market
will reduce pressure on Congress to maintain the government’s
current dominant presence in the mortgage market,” Chief
Executive Officer Martin S. Hughes and President Brett D. Nicholas said in a quarterly  investor letter  posted Aug. 2 on
the  Mill Valley , California-based company’s website.  Michael McMahon , a spokesman for the real estate investment
trust, declined to comment on the bond transaction. Barclays Plc
is managing the offering, which would be Redwood’s fourth this
year, according to Bloomberg data.  Reducing Costs  Redwood said in its quarterly letter that it expected to
conduct a mortgage-bond sale this quarter. It held $383 million
of loans as of July 31, and had identified another $518 million
it intended to purchase. The REIT has also started reselling
some mortgages outside of securitizations.  On its last two mortgage-bond deals, Redwood entered into
forward-sales agreements with its underwriter, reducing “our
hedging timeframe and costs,” according to the letter.  Credit Suisse Group AG and  Chimera Investment Corp. (CIM) , the
New York-based REIT, have teamed on the non-agency market’s
other two sales in this year, totaling about $1.2 billion,
packaging jumbo mortgages sold mainly in bulk by MetLife Inc.  Jumbo home loans are ones larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in some areas. For  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac loans, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500 with
the lowest costs for borrowers using 20 percent down payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  