-- Repsol Falls on Report Biggest Holder Seeks CEO Replacement
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-10T15:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/repsol-falls-on-report-biggest-holder-seeks-ceo-replacement-2-.html
Repsol SA (REP) , the Spanish oil producer
that’s lost $12.6 billion of market value this year as its
Argentine unit was nationalized, fell after a report that its
biggest shareholder is trying to replace  Antonio Brufau .  Repsol slid 0.7 percent to 15.58 euros in  Madrid . The stock
is  down  34 percent this year.  CaixaBank (CABK) , the Spanish lender that owned 12.5 percent of
Madrid-based Repsol at the end of last year, is unhappy with how
Brufau handled the YPF expropriation and has spoken with other
shareholders about replacing him, Expansion reported, citing
unidentified Repsol board members. Brufau has been chairman and
chief executive officer of the company since 2004.  “Even though Caixa is a big shareholder, other investors
will be aggressively against removing Brufau,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in London.
“There’s not a natural successor. He’s had issues that are
outside of his control, and where he’s had control he’s done
well.”  Caixa has been talking to other shareholders about finding
a new CEO for Repsol since June and would propose naming its CEO
Juan Maria Nin as Brufau’s successor, Expansion said. Sacyr
Vallehermoso, the second-biggest Repsol shareholder, said Nin
doesn’t fit the profile for Repsol CEO, the paper said.  In April, Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  nationalized YPF, her country’s largest oil company,
saying Repsol failed to invest enough in the business. Analysts’
concerns focused on how Repsol will finance its expansion after
the seizure. Brufau faced criticism for his handling of the YPF
seizure at an annual meeting of Repsol shareholders in May.  Repsol, Spain’s biggest oil producer, lowered its  dividend 
payout ratio to 40 percent to 55 percent of this year’s profits
on May 29. It also plans to bolster production from its
remaining assets outside of  Argentina  by 7 percent a year
through 2016 and add new reserves covering 120 percent of the
oil pumped.  Spokesmen for Repsol and CaixaBank declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  