-- Rested Andy Murray Is Underdog to Dethrone Djokovic at U.S. Open
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/rested-andy-murray-is-underdog-to-dethrone-djokovic-at-u-s-open.html
One day after playing in a wind so
strong it blew a chair onto the court,  Andy Murray  took a seat
to rest up for the U.S. Open final.  Defending champion Novak Djokovic had to finish his delayed
semifinal at the National Tennis Center in New York yesterday,
beating fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  of Spain 2-6, 6-1, 6-4, 6-2
to reach his fifth final in six major tournaments.  Today’s men’s championship, pushed to Monday for the fifth
straight year due to weather, features two players who have
traded wins in their last six matches. Murray, a four-time Grand
Slam runner-up who is seeking to become the first male British
major tournament winner in 76 years, last played Djokovic in the
semifinals at the London Olympics, winning 7-5, 7-5 en route to
a gold medal. Their last Grand Slam meeting came in the final
four at January’s Australian Open, a match Djokovic won in five
sets before notching his fifth major title.  “I guess there is no clear favorite,” Djokovic, who at 25
is one week younger than Murray, said yesterday at a news
conference. “He’s going to be very motivated to win the title,
but me too.”  Second-seeded Djokovic is the 2-5 favorite to win his sixth
Grand Slam championship at the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book,
meaning a successful $250 wager on the Serb would net $100. A
successful $100 bet on underdog Murray, the No. 3 seed, would
yield a $210 profit. The match starts at 4 p.m. New York time.  In yesterday’s women’s final,  Serena Williams  of the U.S,
captured her fourth U.S. Open title with a 6-2, 2-6, 7-5 win
against  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus.  Winning Return  Djokovic was trailing 5-2 in the first set against Ferrer
in Arthur Ashe Stadium and looking overwhelmed by the wind when
the threat of severe weather prompted the U.S. Tennis
Association to postpone play. He returned yesterday and
dominated the Spaniard, winning the final three sets in 1 hour,
55 minutes.  A day earlier, the USTA considered playing both semifinals
at the same time to beat the approaching storm -- with one in
Louis Armstrong Stadium, which is less than half the size of
23,000-seat Ashe -- and decided against it. It was a decision
Djokovic said he agreed with.  He also didn’t mind having play halted, even if it meant
playing the semifinal and final on back-to-back days, and facing
a well-rested Murray.  “The outcome is the way it is,” Djokovic said, smiling,
when asked if he could have beaten Ferrer in the wind. “I don’t
want to go back.”  Maturing Murray  Instead he’s looking forward to facing Murray, whose first
appearance in a Grand Slam final was four years ago in New York,
a straight-set loss to  Roger Federer . Since then, Murray also
has dropped two finals in  Australia , to Federer in 2010 and
Djokovic last year, and another to Federer at Wimbledon this
year before avenging the defeat with Olympic gold.  “I’m obviously a lot more mature,” Murray said in a news
conference. “I have had a lot more experience in these sort of
situations.”  Djokovic, who holds an  8-6 career  advantage in matches
against Murray, said his five-set win over the Scot in  Melbourne 
this year was difficult “in both a physical and mental way.”  “You couldn’t really say who was going to win that match
up to the last point,” Djokovic said.  Djokovic is playing his third-straight  U.S. Open  final.
With a win, he’d be the first to successfully defend the men’s
title since Federer in 2008.  A victory would make Murray the first man to win a gold
medal and U.S. Open in the same year since tennis returned to
the Olympics in 1988.  Free Day  Murray said he planned to take the free day to work on his
stroke after altering it to overcome the wind.  “I would be nice to get a rest and to be able to practice
and get your rhythm back,” he said after his semifinal match.
“Some the the shots I was playing out there today I certainly
won’t be playing.”  Fred Perry  was the most recent British man to win a Grand
Slam, claiming 10 between 1933-36, including three at the U.S.
Championships, the predecessor of the U.S. Open. This is
Murray’s 28th major tournament.  The winner will make $1.9 million and the runner-up
$950,000. Djokovic, who won the U.S. Open Series title, will get
a $1 million bonus if he wins and $500,000 if he loses.  Before their wind-swept matches two days ago, Murray and
Djokovic watched a Serbia-Scotland World Cup soccer qualifying
match together. While that game ended in a scoreless draw, a
rain-free weather forecast today means the match in New York
will yield a winner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  