-- Riksbank Economic Forecast May Be Optimistic, Jansson Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-09-10T12:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/riksbank-economic-forecast-may-be-optimistic-jansson-says-1-.html
Sweden ’s central bank Deputy
Governor Per Jansson signaled that the bank’s latest economic
forecasts may prove optimistic as  Europe ’s debt crisis continues
to dominate monetary policy in the largest Nordic economy.  “The downside risks are bigger than the upside risks,”
Jansson said in response to questions in Stockholm.  First Deputy Governor Kerstin af Jochnick today said that
the key concern is the  European debt crisis  and that policy
makers in Sweden have taken into account last week’s bond plan
announcement by the  European Central Bank  in their view the
region would muddle through the turmoil.  There are other issues such as deciding on a banking union
and a follow up on how far  Greece  has come, “so there are still
a lot of loose ends,” af Jochnick said in Stockholm. The
recovery in the krona at the end of last week wasn’t a surprise
since the “trend is that it will strengthen,” she said.  The Riksbank unexpectedly  lowered its benchmark repo rate  a
quarter of a percentage point last week to 1.25 percent, citing
a weaker-than-expected economy in the euro region and a strong
krona. The bank, which signaled it will keep rates unchanged
until the middle of next year when tightening will resume,
estimates gross domestic product will expand 1.5 percent this
year and 1.9 percent in 2013.  The bank had been under pressure to cut rates from unions
and businesses after the currency jumped to a 12-year high in
August. The currency weakened 0.4 percent today to 8.4881 per
euro as of 2:07 p.m. in  Stockholm .  According to Jansson, growth prospects for the economy play
a bigger role than productivity when setting rates, calling a
purchasing managers’ index released on Sept. 3 “pretty lousy.”
The report showed Sweden’s manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in
August at the fastest pace since May 2009 as the krona’s
appreciation sent export orders plunging.  It would take “miracles” for Swedish growth not to slow,
Jansson said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  