-- Ritz Camera Liquidation Approved After Second Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-09-10T17:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/ritz-camera-liquidation-approved-after-second-bankruptcy.html
Ritz Camera & Image LLC, once the
largest U.S. chain of specialty camera shops, won court
permission to liquidate after failing to find a buyer willing to
keep the business and its remaining 137 stores open.  “We were disappointed that we couldn’t find a bidder to
continue the business as a going concern,” Irving Walker, a
company attorney, told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross today
in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The founding family failed for the second time in three
years to turn around the 94-year-old retailer. Ritz was unable
to adjust as consumers abandoned film that had to be dropped off
at a store for processing, in favor of digital cameras that
allowed home printing and online photo-sharing.  On Sept. 6, Ritz held an auction that was designed to
either sell the company as a going concern, or sell the right to
liquidate the chain through going-out-of-business sales.  The auction was won by a partnership of two liquidation
companies that have helped to close down several U.S. retailers
-- Hilco Merchant Resources LLC and Gordon Brothers Retail
Partners LLC.  In 2009, David Ritz and other members of the founding
family bought the chain out of bankruptcy. The company tried to
restructure, partly by refinancing debt and raising new capital.  Transom RCI Holdings LLC last year provided Ritz with
$8 million in a deal that made the Ritz family a minority owner.  Ritz, based in Beltsville,  Maryland , had about 1,960
employees when it filed for bankruptcy in June.  The case is Ritz Camera & Image LLC, 12-11868,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  