-- Romney Anti-Obama Ads Undercut Virginia Governor Messages
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-09-11T04:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/romney-anti-obama-ads-undercut-virginia-governor-messages.html
A few months ago,  Virginia  Governor
Bob McDonnell appeared in an upbeat television ad to deliver a
reassuring message: “Jobs and opportunity are thriving again,”
he says, smiling. “Virginia is growing strong, and so is our
future.”  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  pours cold
water on McDonnell’s optimism in new ads his campaign just began
airing.  “Here in Virginia,” a female narrator says, as a black-
and-white photograph of  Barack Obama  is shown, “we’re not
better off under President Obama.”  The mixed messaging shows the challenge Romney could face
in battleground states such as Virginia and  Ohio , where
Republican governors want to highlight economic progress even as
the party’s presidential candidate tries to make the case that
Obama’s policies have stood in the way of growth.  McDonnell’s Opportunity Virginia political action committee
aired the 30-second “Growing Strong” ad 467 times on TV
stations across the state from April 25 to May 8, spending an
estimated $172,870, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, a firm that tracks advertising.  It begins with a woman saying, “Virginia is growing strong
again.” Other people identified as residents of the state
reiterate the message as positive economic statistics are
displayed on the screen.  ’Growing Strong’  McDonnell, who can’t run for another term, supplemented the
ad with a “Growing Strong” tour in May.  “While difficult economic times are not completely behind
us, and Virginia will continue to face challenges on the road to
recovery, the Commonwealth is showing significant signs that it
is growing strong again,” McDonnell said in a statement at the
time.  Romney’s downbeat ads include three Virginia spots that are
part of a state-specific buy that began over the weekend. Each
version opens with Romney addressing the  Republican National
Convention  on Aug. 30 in Tampa,  Florida . “This president cannot
tell us that you are better off today than we he took office,”
Romney says.  In each of the Virginia spots, a female narrator makes the
not-better-off comment. Then, in two of the ads, which are
focused on defense and families, she continues, “His defense
cuts will weaken national security and threaten over 130,000
jobs.”  In a third ad, on energy, the narrator says, Obama’s “war
on coal, gas and oil is crushing energy and manufacturing
jobs.”  Romney Plan  Each of the ads switch in the final 10 seconds to touting
Romney’s plan, which the ads say includes creating more than
340,000 jobs for Virginia. That number is derived from an
analysis of Romney’s economic plan conducted by  Glenn Hubbard ,
his economic adviser.  Calls and e-mails to the Opportunity Virginia PAC’s
political director weren’t immediately returned.  “Despite the positive economic progress Governor McDonnell
and Lieutenant Governor Bolling have made, there’s only so much
that can be done to offset the cascade of job-killing
regulations and hostility toward job creators emanating from
President Obama’s White House,” Curt Cashour, Romney’s Virginia
spokesman, said in a statement. “The fact is that President
Obama’s policies are inhibiting -- and in some cases blocking --
 job creation  in the Commonwealth.”  Bill Bolling is the Republican lieutenant governor of
Virginia.  Virginia’s employment increased 1.3 percent between the
2009 first quarter -- during which Obama took office -- and the
start of this year, the most recent data available in the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. Personal income has
risen 11 percent in the same period, BEES shows.  The economic health of Virginia -- like that of every state
except  North Dakota  and  Michigan  -- has worsened between the
first quarter of 2009 and the same period in 2012, according to
BEES.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  