-- Romney Says He Would Keep Parts of Obama Health Care Law
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/romney-says-he-would-keep-parts-of-obama-health-care-law.html
Republican Mitt Romney said he
would keep parts of President  Barack Obama ’s health care law,
shifting his focus to independent voters as polls showed the
president gained support after the Democratic convention.  Both candidates focused on health care yesterday as Obama
wrapped up a two-day bus tour across the swing state of  Florida 
by attacking Romney’s proposal to change Medicare.  Romney, speaking in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the
Press,” said he would replace Obama’s health care law with his
own plan while keeping some popular provisions including
coverage for people with pre-existing conditions. The Obama
administration contends that requiring insurers to cover those
people, without also mandating that almost everyone have
insurance, would cause prices to soar.  “I’m not getting rid of all health care reform,” said
Romney. “Of course there are a number of things that I like in
health care reform that I’m going to put in place.”  Obama’s post-convention Florida bus tour showed signs of a
gain in intensity at the rallies. His audience in heavily Puerto
Rican Kissimmee was so fired up that he said he was tempted to
just “say ‘thank you’ and leave the stage.”  An audience of 6,000 at his final stop in West Palm Beach
broke into a sing-along before he took the stage, as the
speakers played  Al Green ’s “Let’s Stay Together.” He told the
crowd that while he knew he was preaching to the choir, now he
needed them to go out and “preach to the unconverted.”  Central Theme  Romney, 65, has made opposition to the health care law a
central theme of his campaign, saying one of his first actions
in office would be to seek to repeal it.  On coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, Nobel-
prize winning economist and  New York  Times columnist  Paul Krugman  wrote yesterday that such a requirement, without an
insurance mandate, would lead healthy people to opt out of
insurance, leaving behind “a high risk, high cost pool.”  “It’s not as easy as keeping some of the pieces” without
a requirement that individuals obtain insurance, Obama campaign
spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  told reporters. Romney needs to explain
his proposal with details and math, she said.  Making his first appearance on “Meet the Press” in more
than three years, Romney said it was a “mistake” for
Republicans to back a budget deal with the White House that
would enact $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts in defense
and other areas. His running mate, Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , voted for the cuts and later tried to undo them.  Less Partisan  Romney’s less partisan tone marked a contrast from the
previous day, when he stood beside television evangelist  Pat Robertson  at a campaign rally in Virginia Beach, Virginia, and
suggested that Democrats wanted to take the word “God” off the
American currency. Psaki called the idea absurd, saying it was
as likely as the possibility that “aliens are going to attack
Florida.”  The narrow lead Obama gained over Romney during last week’s
Democratic National Convention in Charlotte,  North Carolina ,
widened in the latest Gallup Poll conducted Sept. 2-8, in which
49 percent of voters said they supported Obama compared with 44
percent for Romney.  The candidates had been tied or within 1 percentage point
of each other in the daily poll since mid-August until Obama
registered a 3 percentage-point lead over Romney in the poll
conducted Aug. 31-Sept. 6. The poll, updated daily, is based on
telephone interviews with 3,050 registered voters and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points.  No Bounce  The Republican candidate received no bounce from his
party’s convention, which concluded Aug. 30, according to
Gallup.  Romney took the day off from campaigning yesterday, went to
church with his family and prepared with staff for the
presidential debates. Today he plans to rally voters at a
manufacturing company in  Ohio  before heading to Reno,  Nevada , to
address a National Guard convention on Sept. 11.  Obama, in his two-day bus tour, sought to move the focus
from a weak jobs report that showed the share of the working-age
population in the  labor force  had slumped to 63.5 percent, the
lowest since 1981.  Campaigning in eastern Florida yesterday, the 51-year-old
president defended his commitment to space research and told
future retirees they will see Medicare costs rise and benefits
suffer if Republican  Mitt Romney  is elected.  Medicare ‘Voucher’  “I will never turn Medicare into a voucher,” Obama told a
crowd of 3,050 at a technology institute in Melbourne, along the
space coast.  Obama cited an analysis by Harvard professor David Cutler
that said changes in Medicare favored by Romney and Ryan would
translate to $16 billion to $26 billion in new profits for
insurers by the end of the next decade.  “Your costs would rise by thousands so that their profits
could rise by millions,” Obama said.  Romney’s campaign disputed the study. Campaign spokesman
 Ryan Williams  said Obama was relying on “discredited” analyses
and “outright falsehoods.”  Obama targeted voting blocs in eastern Florida tied to the
economy around the  Kennedy Space Center .  He told the audience in Melbourne, a region that suffered
job losses from the last year’s end of the manned space shuttle
program, that his administration has “begun an ambitious new
direction” for  NASA  that will create new jobs in the area. The
decision to end the shuttle program was made under President
 George W. Bush , a Republican, and completed under Democrat
Obama.  Deep Space  The president championed the NASA rover Curiosity’s landing
on Mars last month. He said Republicans want to cut federal
spending on research.  Outside the speech site, protesters carried signs that read
“Outsourced Manned Spaceflight” and “Obama Lied Space Coast
Died.”  Later in the afternoon, Obama stopped in a pizza store in
Ft. Pierce, Florida, to meet the owner. Obama said Scott Van
Duzer, owner of Big Apple Pizza & Pasta, was recognized by the
White House and the U.S. surgeon general for his work in
organizing community blood drives.  The 6-foot-three, 260-pound owner Van Duzer bear-hugged the
president and lifted him off the ground.  Obama said Van Duzer has done “unbelievable work” in his
community. “The guy’s just got a big heart along with big
pecs,” the president said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  