-- RTS Futures Drop as Mechel Leads Slump on Oil: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-09-11T03:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/rts-futures-drop-as-mechel-leads-slump-on-oil-russia-overnight.html
RTS stock-index futures  fell and
Russian companies’ U.S.-traded shares dropped the most this
month as oil ended a three-day rally and speculation grew that
governments plan more stimulus steps to shore up global growth.  Futures on Russian equities declined 0.7 percent to
146,595. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in New York lost 0.8 percent to 98.47
yesterday, the biggest retreat since Aug. 30.  OAO Mechel (MTL)  sank
3.1 percent to $6.77 in New York to trade at the biggest
discount versus the company’s Moscow shares this month.  Yandex
NV (YNDX) , owner of  Russia ’s most-used search engine, slid 1.4 percent
to $22.64.  Oil, which together with gas accounted for half of Russia’s
budget revenue in 2011, was little changed after slipping as
much as 1.1 percent in intraday trading on concern the  European
debt crisis  is spreading and as  China  reported  imports fell in
August and  industrial output  rose the least in three years.
Russia is the world’s biggest energy exporter and the European
Union is the country’s biggest trading partner. The Bloomberg
Russia-US gauge rose the most since June last week.  “The enthusiasm is gone,” Ilya Kravets, a portfolio
manager a ED Capital, said in a telephone interview yesterday
from New York. “It’s unclear when and how the decision on new
stimulus measures will be approved.  Europe  remains a concern. If
the EU is not doing well, investors won’t put money in riskier
Russian assets.”  Russia ETF Slides  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, fell 0.6 percent
to $28.77. The RTS Volatility Index retreated 0.6 percent to
27.83.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is set to meet tomorrow
and Sept. 13 to discuss monetary policy. Chinese imports fell
2.6 percent in August from a year earlier as exports rose 2.7
percent, the customs bureau said yesterday. China’s  industrial
output  rose the least in three years, the  National Bureau of
Statistics  said on Sept. 9. Macquarie Group Ltd. cut its
forecasts for China’s economic growth, according to a report
dated yesterday.  Greece ’s Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis, whose party
is one of the three in the coalition government, said that no
decision had been made on the cuts required to obtain further
aid for the country’s bailout, and that poorer citizens must be
protected from austerity measures.  Bank Rossii  Mechel (MTLR)  settled at a 2 percent discount to its Moscow-listed
 shares , the widest since Aug. 31. The stock rose 1.7 percent to
218.70 rubles, or $6.91, in Moscow yesterday, the highest price
since Aug. 14.  Russian assets also declined on prospects the nation’s
central bank may increase rates as soon as at its Sept. 13
meeting in Moscow, Kravets said.  Bank Rossii is to decide on its lending rates this week
after a Sept. 4 report showed inflation accelerated in August to
near the upper limit of the bank’s target. Russia is the last
major emerging economy to keep borrowing costs unchanged this
year. HSBC Holdings Plc and Goldman Sachs & Co. expect the bank
will raise its refinancing rate to 8.25 percent from 8 percent,
increase its  repurchase rate  to 5.50 percent from 5.25 percent
and the  overnight deposit rate  to 4.25 percent from 4 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys.  “Bank Rossii has to react to accelerating inflation,”
said  Alexander Morozov , chief economist for Russia at HSBC, said
by phone from Moscow yesterday. “It’s time for the bank to act.
An increase in lending rates will have a negative impact on
ruble-denominated bonds and the stock market.”  The central bank has held its refinancing rate at 8
percent, a quarter-point above the record low, since December.  Oil Steady  Oil for October delivery was little changed at $96.54 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Prices
have declined 2.3 percent this year. Brent oil for September
settlement advanced 0.5 percent to $114.81 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, also ended little
changed at $112.81 per barrel yesterday.  OAO Surgutneftegas (SGTPY) , Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer
after OAO Rosneft, OAO Lukoil and BP Plc’s Russian subsidiary
TNK-BP, fell 0.4 percent to $6.9 yesterday. In Moscow, the stock
retreated 0.8 percent to 21.682 rubles, or 68.5 U.S. cents. One
ADR equals 10 common shares.  Yandex declined the most since Aug. 30. Its share of
Russia’s Internet searches fell in the week to Sept. 9, while
the portion of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  rose and  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) ’s share
remained steady, according to Liveinternet.ru.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 2.2 percent to HK$4.09 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:21
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  