-- Ruble Extends Last Week’s Gain, Erasing Losses on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-09-10T15:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/ruble-falls-after-four-days-of-gains-on-weak-u-s-asia-data.html
The ruble climbed for a fifth day
against the dollar, erasing earlier losses as investors bet
central banks will boost stimulus.  The ruble rose almost 0.1 percent to 31.6701 per dollar at
7 p.m. in Moscow. The currency was up less than 0.1 percent
against the euro at 40.5100 and climbed by the same against the
central bank’s target euro-dollar basket.  The Russian currency extended last week’s advance after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s promise of
unlimited bond-purchases on Sept. 6. The ruble fell as much as
0.3 percent earlier today after  China ’s imports slid and
industrial output rose the least in three years, according to
the government.  “The ruble oscillates around closing level of the previous
trading day,” Ivan Sinelnikov, economist at OAO Gazprombank in
Moscow, said by e-mail. “Last week was favorable for ruble but
it seems euro-optimism is exhausting. The Russian currency as a
commodity-based and risky asset reflects every movement in
global sentiment.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve will hold its policy meeting Sept.
12-13 to discuss whether to expand asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug.
31 that weak hiring posed a “grave concern” and bond purchases
are an option.  Non-deliverable forwards showed the ruble at 32.1050 per
dollar in three months compared with 32.1275 on Sept. 7.  The extra yield investors demand to own  Russia ’s dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries decreased three basis points to 200,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. An index
of five-year government bond yields compiled by the Micex rose
eight basis points to 7.552 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  