-- Russia RTS in Bull Market on Stimulus Optimism, Rates Meeting
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-09-10T15:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/russia-stocks-fluctuate-on-stimulus-speculation-rates-meeting.html
Russia ’s  RTS Index (RTSI$)  gained, sending
the gauge up more than 20 percent from this year’s low on bets
central banks will boost economic growth and as investors
awaited the monetary policy committee’s meeting in Moscow.  The RTS Index jumped 0.3 percent to 1,476.44 by the close
in Moscow, the highest level since May 10. The gauge hit a low
on June 1. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.3 percent to 1,478.83, the
highest since April 20. OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  climbed 1.7 percent as the
coking-coal producer signed a supply agreement with OAO RAO ES
Vostok, a power holding company in Russia’s Far East. OAO
Novatek dropped 2.5 percent, the biggest decliner, after OAO
Gazprom halted natural-gas purchases from independent producers.  China ’s imports unexpectedly slid and industrial output
rose the least in three years, signaling more stimulus may be
needed. The  U.S. economy  added less workers than expected last
month, a report showed on Sept. 7. Russia’s central bank holds a
policy meeting Sept. 13.  “The Russian market is waiting for big stimulus actions
from China and the U.S.,”  Ovanes Oganisian , a strategist at
Troika Dialog in Moscow, said by phone. “If the Russian Central
Bank decides to hike rates, foreign investors could see it as a
move to curb inflation, which will be good.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve will hold its policy meeting Sept.
12-13 to discuss whether to expand asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug.
31 that weak hiring posed a “grave concern” and bond purchases
are an option.  Rates Meeting  Bank Rossii has sought to hold inflation at 5 percent to 6
percent this year. The Economy Ministry last month raised the
inflation forecast for this year to 7 percent from between 5
percent and 6 percent. The central bank has held its refinancing
rate at 8 percent, a quarter-point above the record low, since
December.  Breaching the 6 percent inflation target may force the hand
of policy makers in Russia, the last major emerging economy to
keep borrowing costs unchanged this year.  Consumer prices rose 5.9 percent from a year earlier in
August, the highest level since December, from 5.6 percent in
July.  “The central bank, having thought things over, will leave
rates unchanged this week, and the market realizes this,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas in Moscow, said by
phone. “However, the trend of unchanged rates will soon come to
an end. Inflation is starting to speed up and in September will
likely exceed the central bank’s target.”  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials gained 0.3
percent to 678.74.  Rosneft Climbs  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, climbed 0.6
percent to 202 rubles as the Russian government approved
increasing dividend payments to 25 percent of net income, Deputy
Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  said in a Twitter Inc. message
on Sept. 7.  The Micex trades at 5.6 times  estimated earnings  and has
rallied 5.5 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times and a 6 percent advance for the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  Global Woes  Crude fell less than 1 percent to $96.30 in  New York . Oil
and gas contribute about 50 percent to Russia’s state revenue.  Heads of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in
Vladivostok, including Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and Chilean
President Sebastian Pinera, spoke of the dangers the  European
debt crisis  poses to their economies.  Hu said in a Sept. 8 speech to the summit that China’s
economic growth faced “notable downward pressure” in part
because of slowing export growth and the sovereign debt crisis.
Pinera, who signed a free-trade agreement with Hu yesterday,
said in an interview that he is concerned about the impact the
European debt crisis and slow U.S. growth is having on the
Chilean economy.  “There is a certain worry about the development of the
global economy, especially given the big problems in the
European Union and the U.S.,” Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
told reporters at the close of the summit, held at a new
university campus on an island near Vladivostok. “The Asia-
Pacific region is the locomotive of the global economy.”  The Russian government spent more than $20 billion to
showcase Vladivostok, 4,000 miles east of Moscow, as leaders
gather for this week’s APEC summit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  