-- Seven Scientists Win Lasker Awards for Medical Advances
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-09-10T16:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/seven-scientists-win-lasker-awards-for-medical-advances.html
Seven scientists won Lasker Awards
for advances in medical science that include development of
 liver transplant , discoveries about proteins that aid muscle
function and promotion of novel techniques for studying genes.  The prizes, from the  Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation  and
worth $250,000 for three categories, will be presented Sept. 21
in New York.  Thomas Starzl, of the  University of Pittsburgh , and Roy Calne, of Cambridge University, won for clinical medical
research for work that led to the first liver transplants. Calne
in 1960 showed in dogs it was possible to prevent organ
rejection. In 1963, Starzl attempted the first transplant in
humans. Though the first patient died, the procedure they
developed led to today’s life-saving successes. In 1983, the
U.S. Surgeon General indicated liver transplants were no longer
considered experimental.  The award for basic research was shared by  Michael Sheetz 
of  Columbia University , James Spudich of  Stanford University  and
 Ronald Vale  of the  University of California , San Francisco. They
discovered how proteins make muscles contract and affect aspects
of movement within cells. Their achievements led to new
molecular targets for developing drugs and understanding
disease.  Donald Brown , of the Carnegie Institution for Science in
Baltimore and Tom Maniatis of Columbia University won for their
“exceptional leadership and citizenship.” They made crucial
discoveries in the field of genetics, and also nurtured the
careers of young scientists.  The Lasker prizes have been awarded since 1945 by the
Lasker Foundation, which was founded in 1942. Based in New York,
the Lasker Foundation’s awards recognize contributions of
scientists, physicians and others who have made major advances
in the understanding, diagnosis and treatment of disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  