-- Shekel Loss Is Steinitz Gain as Exports Climb: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-11T07:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/shekel-loss-is-steinitz-gain-as-exports-climb-israel-overnight.html
Israel’s weakening shekel, the
second-worst performing currency this year in  Europe ,  Middle
East  and  Africa  on concern the nation may be poised to attack
 Iran , will boost growth for the export-focused economy, Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz said.  The currency retreated to the lowest level in three years
against the dollar on July 26 on mounting concern that Israel’s
military may strike Iran before November elections in the U.S.
The shekel rose 0.2 percent against the dollar yesterday to 3.97
to pare its retreat this year to 3.9 percent, the biggest
decliner in the region after the Romanian Leu. The Israeli
currency was little changed today.  Israel’s  economic growth  unexpectedly accelerated for the
first time in more than a year in the second quarter, driven by
an increase in exports and  consumer spending . Overseas shipments
account for about 40 percent of gross domestic product. Bank of
Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  ended a program of buying
foreign currency after doubling the central bank’s  reserves  to
$75.6 billion since March 2008.  “We are quite happy with the current level of the
shekel,” Steinitz, 54, said in an interview in  New York 
yesterday. “I think that is also probably the position of
Governor Stanley Fischer because I see he is not interfering
anymore.”  The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli
companies traded in New York declined for a second day, falling
0.8 percent to 84.48 with Mellanox Technologies Ltd. leading the
losses.  Intel, Apple  Israel’s economy will grow at least 4 percent on average in
the next 10 years as global companies from  Intel Corp . to Apple
Inc. invest in the country, Steinitz said.  “This is significant for an already developed economy,”
he said. “ Job creation  is very good since the beginning of this
year and investment in the real economy is still growing.”  Apple acquired an Israeli company in January and Intel’s
investment unit said will expand its focus in the country in
July. Increasing participation of orthodox Jews and Israeli
Arabs in the labor market,  government investment  in education
and production of gas from the Mediterranean will also boost
economic growth in the coming years, Steinitz said.  The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit 5.5 percent
bonds due January 2022 was unchanged at 4.28 percent at 9:51
a.m. in Tel Aviv. The yield slipped yesterday after jumping 12
basis points in the previous five days to 4.31 percent, the most
in two months.  ‘A Lot Higher’  “The potential growth is a lot higher than 4 percent,”
Bank Hapoalim Ltd. Chairman Yair Seroussi said. “The question
is what will happen in the next year, next two years.”  The shekel will trade at about the same level if the
government keeps the budget in check, he said. The currency
weakened to 3.968 a dollar today.  The lender,  Israel ’s second-largest bank by assets, will
probably post a return on equity of 10 percent to 12 percent
this year, said Seroussi, who is in New York as part of a
business delegation to promote investment in Israel.  Hapoalim increased its middle market lending in the last
two years to 27 percent from 23 percent to diversify its
portfolio, Seroussi said.  Hapoalim’s net income in the second quarter fell to 607
million shekels ($151 million) from 712 million shekels a year
ago, according to an Aug. 30 statement. Provisions for bad debt
increased to 344 million shekels in the previous quarter from
327 million shekels during the same period in 2011.  Exports of merchandise and services rose 10.3 percent in
the second quarter, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in am e-mailed statement on Aug. 16. The economy
expanded an annualized 3.2 percent compared with a revised 2.8
percent in the first three months of the year, it said.  IDB’s Loss  Yields on IDB Holding Corp.’s 2020 bond increased to a
record and the shares fell on Sept. 5 after its  credit rating 
was cut and the holding company owned by Israeli billionaire
Nochi Dankner said its second-quarter loss widened.  A Tel Aviv district court has given the company 21 days to
reach an agreement with bondholders over payments, the company
said last week.  The inability of IDB, which controls Cellcom Israel Ltd.
and Shufersal Ltd., to repay creditors won’t have a “dramatic”
impact on the Israeli economy and the local labor market,
Steinitz said.  “The companies below are good companies and there is no
reason why they won’t continue to function,” he said.  Mellanox, Allot  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
stock market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Mellanox (MLNX) , the maker of technology used to transfer and
store data, slid 8.3 percent, the most in a year, to $101.65.
The shares in Tel Aviv fell 3.7 percent today to 404.3 shekels,
or the equivalent of $101.95.  The shares declined after Stifel Nicolaus & Co. cut its
recommendation on the stock last week and Intel reduced its
sales forecast.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  rose for a third day in New York,
climbing 0.7 percent to $27.69. The Tel Aviv shares added 1.8
percent to 110.5 shekels, or $27.86, today.  The Israeli maker of technology that manages traffic on
networks may benefit from more demand for its products as Apple
Inc. is expected to show a redesigned iPhone on Sept. 12,
Matthew Robison, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc. said
by phone from  San Francisco  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  