-- Siam Commercial Markets Dollar Debt as Asia Bond Risk Unchanged
-- B y   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-10T05:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/siam-commercial-markets-dollar-debt-as-asia-bond-risk-unchanged.html
Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB)  is seeking
to increase the size of its September 2017 dollar-denominated
notes while National Agricultural Cooperative Federation markets
new debt.  Asia  bond risk was little changed.  Siam Commercial is considering paying about 230 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries to boost the size
of its outstanding bond, a person familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be named because the details are private. National
Agricultural, a Korean lender known as Nonghyup, is offering
$500 million of five-year notes at a premium of about 180 basis
points, another person said.  Perceptions of corporate and sovereign creditworthiness in
Asia were little changed today after a benchmark credit-default
swap index tumbled 20 basis points last week to the lowest since
March. The U.S. Federal Reserve meets this week to discuss
whether to expand asset purchases, after employers added fewer
jobs than economists expected in August. Chinese President  Hu
Jintao  pledged to boost domestic demand to stimulate the world’s
second-biggest economy.  “We’ll continue to see markets supported by the central
banks,” as deteriorating economic data suggests more action is
needed, said Owen Gallimore, head of Asia credit strategy at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “It should be a very
big month,” for Asian bond issuance, he said.  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  was little changed at 133.5 basis points
as of 8:08 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. It had the biggest weekly drop since March last
week, price from data provider CMA show.  Issuance Forecast  Issuers in the Asia-Pacific region sold $8.4 billion of
bonds in the five days to Sept. 7, the most in eight weeks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dollar bond offerings from Asian borrowers excluding those
from Japan and Australia may exceed $100 billion this year,
Gallimore said.  Trade & Development Bank of Mongolia LLC plans to meet
investors in  Singapore  today, Hong Kong tomorrow, and London on
Sept. 12 for a possible dollar-denominated bond sale, a person
familiar with the matter said last week.  Moody’s Investors Service plans to give Trade & Development
Bank’s proposed bonds a B1 rating, four levels below investment
grade, it said in a Sept. 7 statement. Siam Commercial’s notes
will be rated BBB+,  Fitch Ratings  said today.  Australia, Japan  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index fell 1 basis point to 149
as of 10:39 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
The index dropped 21 basis points last week, its biggest weekly
decrease since the first week of December, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 1 basis point to
199 as of 9:24 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
benchmark fell 14 basis points last week, its biggest decline
since the five days ended June 15, according to CMA.  The indexes are benchmarks for protecting bonds against
default and traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . A
drop signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness, while an
increase suggests the opposite. The swap contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities if a
borrower fails to meet its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  