-- Singapore Sibor Check to Include Resilience to Market Change
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-09-10T09:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/singapore-sibor-check-to-include-resilience-to-market-change-1-.html
Singapore is reviewing its
interbank lending rate to determine how it can be strengthened
and whether proposed alterations will withstand changes in the
market structure, a government official said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore has directed banks that
set the  Singapore interbank offered rate  to verify the integrity
of their rate-submission process, Lawrence Wong, senior minister
of state for education who sits on the MAS board, said in
Parliament today in response to a question from a legislator.  The minister made his comments as  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  leads a meeting of global central bankers on the
collapse of confidence in Libor, the benchmark rate for more
than $500 trillion of securities. King began talks with
counterparts from the world’s largest economies yesterday in
Basel,  Switzerland .  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank, was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($464 million) in June for attempting
to rig Libor and Euribor, its equivalent in euros. That
triggered the resignations of its chairman, chief executive
officer and chief operating officer. At least 12 banks including
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are being
investigated for manipulating Libor.  The monetary authority on July 18 said in an e-mailed
response to questions that it’s reviewing the benchmark rate.
It’s working in conjunction with the Association of Banks in
Singapore, which sets Sibor, and the Singapore Foreign Exchange
Markets Committee. Similar studies were conducted in markets
from  Sweden  to  South Korea .  “The review will take into account what Sibor is used for,
how it can be strengthened, whether proposed changes are
resilient to future changes in the market structure, as well as
the impact on existing stock of contracts that are pegged to
Sibor,” said Wong. “I don’t want to speculate about what sort
of framework we will end up with,” he said.  The Association of Banks in Singapore sets Sibor based on
estimated borrowing-cost submissions by 12 lenders.  In April, RBS notified ABS that it wanted to withdraw from
the panel following the January announcement of changes to the
lender’s strategic priorities. Its last contribution to Sibor
was on May 31, according to the Edinburgh-based lender. It also
withdrew from the Tokyo and Hong Kong interbank offered rate-
setting panels this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  