-- SITC Hopes to Boost Sales Ninefold With Asian Trade Focus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-11T09:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/sitc-aims-to-boost-sales-ninefold-in-decade-on-asia-trade.html
SITC International Holdings Co. (1308) 
Chief Executive Officer Yang Xianxiang said he aspires to grow
the container-ship operator’s sales ninefold as rising consumer
spending and free-trade agreements spur regional cargoes.  Yang said in an interview in  Shanghai  that he admires
companies with $10 billion or more of annual revenue and that
SITC has “a chance” of reaching that level. Asked if it could
do so in five to 10 years, Yang said that “depends on if the
path we take is right or not.”  The company, which operates ships linking about 10 Asian
markets, along with trucks and warehouses, boosted sales 22
percent last year to $1.1 billion. At that pace, revenue would
grow to about $8 billion in a decade.  SITC’s focus on intra-Asian routes has allowed it to remain
profitable as other carriers including  China  Cosco Holdings Co.,
China Shipping Container Lines Co. and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.
posted losses as result of a slump in rates on European and
trans-Pacific routes. Yang said the company’s volumes may grow
as much as 20 percent annually.  “The intra- Asia  business is still very robust,” said
Geoffrey Cheng, a Hong Kong-based analyst at BOCOM International
Holdings Co., who rates SITC a buy. The company’s “management
has also done the right things.”  The shipping line  rose  3.7 percent in  Hong Kong , the most
in more than a month, to HK$1.95. China Cosco fell 1 percent to
HK$2.89 and China Shipping Container Lines slumped 3.9 percent
to HK$1.49. Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index rose 0.2
percent  Rising Asia Trade  Hong Kong-based SITC, which operates a network of about 50
shipping lanes, has gained from rising trade within Asia and
factories making more goods for local markets rather than the
U.S. and  Europe . It recently began a service linking  Indonesia 
and  Thailand  because of customer requests, Yang said. It may add
two more destinations to its network this year, he said,
declining to elaborate.  “The countries in Asia are growing faster than the rest of
the world,” Yang said. “Vietnam, Indonesia, the  Philippines 
and Thailand are all growing more prosperous, and they will all
buy more  consumer goods .”  The  company  only operates ships able to carry around 1,000
twenty-foot boxes, which lets it sail on some routes about three
times a day, Yang said. That frequency means SITC will be able
to compete with larger vessels being moved off crowded Asia-
Europe routes, he said.  Bigger Ships  “Bigger ships don’t mean the company is customer-
oriented,” he said. “Customers are more interested in speed,
frequency, convenience and savings.”  The company is due to take delivery of 11 new ships by the
end of the year, helping boost its fleet to 60. This will
include 26 owned vessels with the rest chartered in.  SITC has been able to offset a 54 percent jump in  fuel
prices  over the past two years through surcharges, Yang said. It
doesn’t hedge purchases.  The company is also planning to expand its logistics parks
network by adding a site in Dalian, China, Yang said. It already
has similar facilities in the Chinese cities of Qingdao and
Shanghai as well as in  Ho Chi Minh City , Vietnam.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  