-- Somalia’s Parliament Prepares to Elect President, End Transition
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-09-10T12:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/somalia-s-parliament-prepares-to-elect-president-end-transition.html
Somali lawmakers are casting their
ballots in a presidential vote, marking the key step in a
Western-backed process for authorities to restore order after 21
years of anarchy.  Twenty-two candidates are facing off in elections taking
place at the police academy in Mogadishu, the capital, Maryam
Arif Qasim, chairwoman of the electoral committee and a
lawmaker, told reporters today in the city.  Contenders for the presidency include top members of
 Somalia ’s previous 15 transitional governments, which failed to
stem clan-based fighting and an al-Qaeda-linked insurgency that
began when dictator Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted in 1991. Among
those vying for the position are the incumbent Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed and Prime Minister Abdiweli Mohamed Ali.  The absence of an effective central administration, police
and courts has let piracy off the country’s  Indian Ocean  coast,
kidnappings, and corruption to thrive, and stunted economic
development.  The new government will take power with the benefit of
recent security gains by  African Union , Somali and Ethiopian
soldiers who have seized pockets of territory in a campaign that
has weakened al-Shabaab rebels. The troops forced insurgents out
of Mogadishu a year ago and are closing in on Kismayo, a port
city that generates a large portion of al-Shabaab’s income,
mostly from contraband, sugar and charcoal trading.  Parliament Speaker  Somalia last month swore in a new parliament that elected
Mohamed Sheikh Osman Jawari as its new speaker. He is from the
Rahanweyn clan, one of Somalia’s four major lineages that are
bound by the constitution to share top political positions.  A so-called Fifth Clan, made up of smaller groups, is
treated as a single entity that doesn’t get the same power-
sharing arrangement. Since independence in 1960, the presidents
have all been from the Darod or Hawiye clans. Sheikh Sharif is a
Hawiye.  If no single candidate capture two-thirds of ballots cast,
the top four finishers go onto a second round. In the event of a
run-off, a third and final round will be held and the winner
must receive a simple majority, Qasim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu at 
 ohamsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  