-- South African AMCU Union to Join Lonmin Marikana Wage Talks
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-09-10T13:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/south-african-amcu-union-to-join-lonmin-marikana-wage-talks-2-.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-biggest
platinum producer, is due to start wage talks with labor groups
in South  Africa  today to end a month-long strike that halted
production and was marred by violence that left 44 people dead.  Lonmin agreed to go ahead with the talks, even as only 6.3
percent of the 28,000 workforce reported for duty, spokeswoman
Susan Vey said in an interview near the Marikana mine, which
accounts for most of the London-based company’s production.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union,
which didn’t sign a Sept. 7 agreement to end the strike and
start negotiating, will join the talks, President Joseph Mathunjwa, said today in a mobile phone interview.  Workers went on strike on Aug. 10, demanding their wages be
increased to 12,500 rand ($1,527) a month and complaining that
the  National Union of Mineworkers , the country’s largest, was
failing to take their demands to Lonmin managament. Police shot
dead 34 protestors on Aug. 16 following a week of violence in
which 10 others died.  Labor groups including the NUM, Solidarity, the United
Association of  South Africa  and AMCU will renegotiate a two-year
wage deal as part of last week’s agreement. The accord
stipulated that workers should return to work before talks
begin. The start of negotiations has been pushed back to 2:45
p.m. local time to assess whether representatives of non-union
workers are attending, Vey said in a later interview.  Worker delegate Molifi Phele said the group didn’t receive
an invitation to attend today’s discussions and was seeking to
have the talks held tomorrow.  Platinum Prices  The mine’s daily production loss of about 2,500 ounces of
platinum has pushed up prices for the metal. Platinum has gained
13.8 percent since the strike began, and was trading at $1,594
per ounce at 12:47 p.m. in London trading.  A “large group of people” marched inside Lonmin’s
property today, Vey said. “They gained access to a contractors’
hostel. There were instances of intimidation in the hostel.”
Vey said she didn’t have more detailed information on the
protest.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  today halted production at the west
section of its South African Kloof-Driefontein complex, Africa’s
largest gold operation, after 15,000 workers began an illegal
strike.  Managers are due to meet with workers today to help resolve
the dispute, Johannesburg-based Gold Fields said in an e-mailed
statement. The mine produces 1,400 ounces of gold a day.  Night Shift  The strike, which began at the night shift yesterday, comes
five days after 12,000 workers ended a weeklong stayaway on the
other side of the Kloof-Driefontein mines. The NUM will today
send a team of leaders to speak to the striking workers, who are
unhappy about funeral benefits and the leadership of the union
at the mine, NUM President Senzeni Zokwana said in a phone
interview.  Gold Fields, the world’s fourth-biggest producer of the
metal, fell for the first time in four days, dropping 2.3
percent to 105.95 rand by 1:48 p.m. in Johannesburg. Lonmin
gained for the third consecutive day, adding 2.8 percent to
trade at 612.50 pence in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  