-- Korea Plans $5 Billion of Growth Measures as Export Cool
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-09-10T05:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/south-korea-plans-5-billion-of-growth-measures-as-exports-cool.html
South Korea  will add 5.9 trillion
won ($5.2 billion) of economic support measures as Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis and a slowdown in  China  drive down the
nation’s exports.  The measures include extra spending and tax cuts intended
to boost the housing market and car sales, the Finance Ministry
said today in an e-mailed statement. Some 4.6 trillion won is
allocated for this year, without any expansion of the
government’s budget, and 1.3 trillion won for 2013.  South  Korea ’s government is holding off from larger fiscal
stimulus to preserve ammunition for any deeper global slowdown.
Asia’s fourth-largest economy may be set to get a boost this
week from a reduction in  interest rates . The  Bank of Korea  will
cut the benchmark by a quarter point to 2.75 percent on Sept.
13, according to  14 of 15 economists  in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The support measures will hardly beat waning consumer and
business sentiment,” said Kim Hyeon Wook, an economist at SK
Research Institute and a former adviser to the Bank of Korea’s
Monetary Policy Committee. “This package isn’t a big, direct
cash injection from the government.”  Today’s announcement adds to 8.5 trillion won of support
measures announced in June, including assistance for small
businesses and low-income earners. Together, the total measures
for this year amount to about 1 percent of gross domestic
product.  ‘Fiscal Power’  “We’re trying to preserve our fiscal power while
maximizing use of all funds available now,” Choi Sang Mok,
director-general at the  Finance Ministry , told reporters today.  While some of the plan unveiled today will take effect as
early as this month, benefits such as exemptions from capital
gains tax on home sales will require approval from parliament,
Choi said. The government also plans to reduce the  sales tax  on
new cars and home appliances including televisions and
refrigerators by 1.5 percentage points through the end of the
year.  South Korea’s won advanced 0.1 percent to 1,128.90 per
dollar at 2:46 p.m. in Seoul. The benchmark Kospi Index climbed
0.2 percent, while  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. (000720) , South
Korea’s biggest builder, rose to a three-month high after
today’s announcement.  GS Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360)  rose as much as 3.1
percent and the  35-stock Korea Construction Index (KOSPCONS)  jumped as much
as 2 percent, poised for the highest since July 6.  “The European crisis is lasting longer than expected and
economies both in advanced and developing countries show
sluggishness at the same time,” Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan
said at a ministerial meeting today in Seoul. “As such, our
economic recovery is being delayed and worries over possible
weakness in our economic resilience seem to be growing.”  South Korea’s economy expanded 2.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost three
years. Exports fell 6.2 percent in August from a year earlier
after an 8.8 percent decline in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  