-- Soybean Reserves Smallest in Four Decades After Drought
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-09-11T20:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/soybean-reserves-smallest-in-four-decades-after-drought.html
The smallest U.S. soybean harvest
in nine years will leave inventories in the world’s largest
exporting nation at the lowest in four decades.  U.S. farmers will reap 13 percent less than a year earlier
after the worst Midwest drought in 76 years, according to the
average of 34 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Reserves
will be the lowest since 1973 by March, estimates INTL FCStone
Inc., which handled $75 billion of physical commodities in 2011.
Futures will advance 18 percent to an all-time high of $20 a
bushel in three months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts.  Crop prices surged to records this year as drought parched
fields across the U.S.,  South America  and  Russia . The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  cut its forecasts the past two months
and the Bloomberg survey indicates the agency will do so again
tomorrow, leaving  Brazil  as the top soybean supplier for the
first time. Feed costs are rising for meat producers including
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest in the U.S., and three United
Nations agencies said Sept. 4 that swift action is needed to
avert a food crisis.  “The U.S. will simply run out of soybeans” for exports on
March 1, said Doug Jackson, an FCStone vice president in West
Des Moines, Iowa, who has been a grain-industry analyst since
1974. “The supply situation is unprecedented. The theoretical
maximum South American shipping capacity may fall short, leaving
world buyers wanting.”  Eight Commodities  Soybean futures have jumped 41 percent to $17.015 this year
on the Chicago Board of Trade, and soybean meal, used in
livestock feed, surged 65 percent to $515.90 per 2,000 pounds
(0.91 metric ton). The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agricultural Index
of eight commodities advanced 16 percent as corn rose 20 percent
and wheat 35 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities gained 10 percent, and a Bank of America Corp. index
shows Treasuries returned 2 percent.  The USDA forecast Aug. 10 that global soybean  production 
will increase 10 percent to 260.5 million tons in the year that
begins Oct. 1, compared with demand of 256.9 million tons. The
agency projected a 2.8 percent gain in stockpiles to 53.4
million tons. Prices advanced 4.5 percent since then and
research companies including Hamburg-based Oil World reduced
their predictions for supply as conditions worsened.  Only 32 percent of the U.S. soybean  crop  was deemed by the
USDA to be in good or excellent condition as of Sept. 9,
compared with a five-year average of 60 percent. Based on
temperature and rainfall in June and July, the Midwest drought
is the most severe since 1936, according to T-Storm Weather LLC,
a Chicago-based forecaster.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds  and other speculators have increased  bets  on
higher prices 10-fold this year, data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  The state of the U.S. crop is critical to global prices
because it accounted for an average of 45 percent of all
shipments over the past decade, USDA data show. That’s down from
63 percent in the previous 10 years as South American farmers
expanded production.  Brazil will send 38.5 million tons overseas next marketing
year, nine times more than in 1993, the USDA said last month.
Its output will jump 23 percent to 82 million tons, exceeding
the U.S. for the first time, according to Oil World. That
compares with U.S. output of 72.4 million tons predicted in the
Bloomberg survey.  Record Crop  The surge in prices is encouraging South American growers
to cultivate a record crop that may curb the rally. Combined
output in Brazil,  Argentina ,  Paraguay ,  Bolivia  and Uruguay may
increase 31 percent to 151.6 million tons when harvesting begins
in January, Oil World said in a report Aug. 28.  “South American farmers have plenty of land, soybeans cost
less to plant than corn and the record profit potential means
every available hectare will go into soybeans,” said  Dale Durchholz , the Bloomington, Illinois-based senior analyst for
AgriVisor LLC, an adviser to the industry. “The biggest risk to
a sustained rally from record prices is that demand may slow
more quickly than people expect.”  Futures have averaged $14.24 this year, heading for an
annual record. Demand contracted 3.7 percent in the 2008-2009
season, the most in a quarter century, after prices jumped 74
percent in 2007 and economies tumbled into the worst recession
since World War II. The economy in  China , which accounts for 29
percent of consumption, has slowed for six quarters, and the 27-
nation Europe Union, mired in a debt crisis, will consume the
fewest soybeans since at least 1999, the USDA estimates.  Meat Demand  Soybean consumption expanded at almost four times the pace
of the world population since 2000, according to USDA and U.S.
Census data. Rising incomes across developing nations increased
demand for meat, spurring livestock producers to buy more feed
as herds and flocks expanded. China will produce 690 million
pigs this year, 36 percent more than at the turn of the century,
and consume 36 percent more chicken per person, USDA data show.  Economic growth is also spurring more demand for vegetable
oils used in everything from fried and baked foods to candy and
breads. Global consumption of  soybean oil  will reach a record
42.98 million tons next marketing year, more than twice as much
as two decades ago, according to the USDA, which updates its
estimates at 8:30 a.m. in Washington tomorrow.  Cargill Outlook  Meat consumption in China will continue to expand even as
its economy slows, according to Cargill Inc., the biggest U.S.
agricultural company. The “mega-trend” of rising demand
applies across meat, milk and eggs, Christopher Langholz, the
president of Cargill Animal Protein China, said in an interview
in  Singapore  on Sept. 3. China’s gross domestic product rose 19-
fold in the past two decades, the World Bank estimates.  U.S. sales of soybeans for delivery after Sept. 1 reached a
record 18.08 million tons in the week ended Aug. 30, with China
accounting for 65 percent of the cargoes, USDA data show. The
U.S. may have to import 540,000 tons this year, the most ever,
the agency estimates. That might increase further unless demand
is choked off by higher prices, said  Bill Gary , the president of
Commodity Information Systems Inc. in Oklahoma City, which
provides analysis and information to traders.  While the USDA has already cut its forecast for domestic
consumption by 16 percent since June, FCStone expects stockpiles
to drop by about 50 percent to less than 600 million bushels
(16.3 million tons) by March 1 from a year earlier. The USDA
estimated last month that the cost of soybeans at the farm would
average a record $16 in the next 12 months, compared with $12.45
this season.  Soybean Meal  Sales of soybean meal for delivery after Oct. 1 rose 81
percent to 1.582 million tons on Aug. 30, compared with 699,684
a year earlier, USDA data show. U.S. processors in July crushed
137.4 million bushels of soybeans, the highest in five years,
data from the National Oilseed Processors Association show.  Meal prices above $550 are “untenable” because they make
feeding animals too expensive, Donald J. Smith, the president
and chief executive officer of  Tyson (TNS) , told analysts on a
conference call Aug. 6. The Springdale, Arkansas-based company
will report net income of $600 million this year, down from $750
million in 2011, according to the mean of seven analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Its shares have dropped 22
percent this year.  JBS Prices  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef producer, will raise
prices in response to higher feed costs, Chief Executive Officer
Wesley Batista told analysts on a conference call Aug. 15.
Shares of the Sao Paulo-based company, which has 120,000
employees worldwide, have declined 4.1 percent this year.  Feedlots lost about $316 a head in July fattening cattle
for slaughter, said  Ron Plain , a livestock economist at the
 University of Missouri . U.S. beef output will drop 3.9 percent
to 24.575 billion pounds next year, the lowest since 2004, the
USDA estimates. Retail prices will rise 5 percent, outpacing
other food groups, according to the agency.  “Nobody has seen this kind of global shortage before, and
yet there is little evidence that demand has slowed at current
prices,” said  Mark Schultz , the Minneapolis-based chief analyst
at Northstar Commodity Investments Inc., which advises the
grain, livestock and renewable fuel industries. “Soybean demand
may not slow until we reach $20.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  