-- Spain Won’t Delay Aid Request for Elections, Minister Says
-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-09-10T13:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/spain-won-t-delay-aid-request-for-elections-minister-says.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  won’t delay a possible request for aid from the  European
Central Bank  to boost his party’s chances in regional elections,
European Affairs Minister Inigo Mendez de Vigo said.  “We will take a decision taking into account the interests
of the Spanish people and the euro zone -- it has nothing to do
with the elections,” Mendez de Vigo said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “Those governments who play on
regional or national elections and take decisions just because
of them always lose, so we don’t care about it.”  Rajoy, who faces elections in the Basque Country and his
home region of Galicia next month, abandoned his 2012 budget-
deficit target earlier this year after he delayed setting
spending plans until after a vote in Andalusia.  Spanish bonds rallied last week after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank will buy unlimited quantities of
government debt to lower borrowing costs for peripheral
countries so long as they accept the conditions in return.  The 10-year yield fell to 5.552 percent today, the lowest
since April. It rose to 5.729 percent at 2:17 p.m. Madrid time.  Rajoy said last week he needed time to study the ECB
proposal, resisting pressure to say whether he would seek a
rescue. “When I have anything new to tell you, I will say so,”
he told reporters.  The voting in Rajoy’s home region of Galicia, where his
People’s Party governs, and in the Basque Country, comes on Oct.
21.  Mendez de Vigo said that euro states should help each other
out at times of stress as  Spain  has helped  Germany  in the past,
without specifying how that aid was delivered. He also said the
country’s banking system was not compromised by the problems at
some “specific” savings banks.  “The Spanish banks are in excellent health,” he said.
“Investors can really rely on the Spanish banking system and
the Spanish government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in London at   dtweed@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  