-- Spanish Banks Selling Bonds Give Buyers Alternatives to Germany
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-09-10T16:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/spanish-banks-selling-bonds-give-buyers-alternatives-to-germany.html
Banco Espanol de Credito SA , a unit
of  Spain ’s biggest lender, and Banco Sabadell SA are selling
their first benchmark covered bonds in seven months as investors
seek higher-yielding alternatives to German bank debt.  Banesto, as the  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  unit is known, offered
the secured notes due in 2017 at a yield of 395 basis points
above the swap rate, according to a banker familiar with the
deal. Sabadell, the second-biggest commercial bank in Spain’s
Catalonia region, will market two-year bonds at a spread of 375
basis points, or 3.75 percentage points, tomorrow.  Bond sales spiked after the  European Central Bank ’s pledge
last week to buy unlimited amounts of  government bonds  to cap
weaker euro members’ borrowing costs. Even with the ECB program,
some issuers are speculating that time is running out to raise
money because of concerns over  Greece ’s ability to cut spending
and a German court case about the euro bailout fund.  “Core covered bonds are at an all-time yield low, so
investors that believe that the ECB support will work are in a
search for yield,” said Bernd Volk, the head of covered bonds
and agency research at Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG. “On
the sell side, if Spanish issuers don’t try to issue now it
could be difficult later since the political situation can
derail easily,” adding that he doesn’t expect this scenario.  An official at Banesto in  Madrid  confirmed the bond sale,
which he said attracted 90 investors with about 80 percent of
the debt going to non-Spanish buyers. A Sabadell official
confirmed the plan to sell covered bonds.  Income Boost  Investors favor covered bonds because they’re backed by
relatively safe revenue streams, usually mortgage payments or
public-sector debt, and are rated higher than unsecured senior
bonds from the same issuer. The yields offered by the Spanish
banks are a welcome income boost for investors receiving an
average 11 basis points more than swaps to hold three- to five-
year German covered bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch EMU Pfandbriefe index.  The sales are part of a flood of issuance that saw U.S.
biotechnology company Amgen Inc. join Renault SA and five
Spanish borrowers to raise about 11 billion euros ($14 billion)
today. That’s the busiest day for  Europe ’s bond market in 2 1/2
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  