-- U.K. Stocks Halt Two-Day Rally After Data; AB Foods Drops
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-09-10T16:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-xstrata-climbs.html
U.K. stocks  halted a two-day rally
as reports showed that China’s imports slid and a gauge of
confidence among Britain’s executives fell to a record low.  Kazakhmys (KAZ)  Plc led metal producers higher as Chinese import
data fueled speculation the country will opt for further
economic stimulus.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  rose 1.2 percent as  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  said its revised takeover offer for the Swiss
mining company is final. Associated British Foods Plc slid 2
percent, leading so-called defensive companies lower.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index slid 1.6 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 5,793.2 at the close in  London , after retreating as
much as 0.3 percent and advancing as much as 0.2 percent. The
gauge climbed 1.5 percent last week after  European Central Bank 
policy makers approved an unlimited bond-purchase program. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index was also little changed, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 0.1 percent.  “A lot of those hopes for central-bank intervention are
going to help sentiment, but I think there will be a lot of
volatility near term,” Yogi Dewan, chief executive officer at
Hassium Asset Management LLP, said in a phone interview. “With
so much uncertainty, we are really quite guarded. We would still
sit on the sidelines.”  China’s imports  unexpectedly declined, signaling more
stimulus may be needed after the government last week said it
approved road and subway projects across the country.  China’s Imports  Inbound shipments to the world’s second-largest economy
slid 2.6 percent in August from a year earlier, while  exports 
rose 2.7 percent, the customs bureau said in Beijing today.
 Industrial production  increased 8.9 percent, the National Bureau
of Statistics said yesterday.  “We could be much closer to the tipping point for more
policy action as the slowdown in the external sector -- if it
were to persist -- may bring more pressure on employment,”
Morgan Stanley wrote in a report today.  Investors also await an announcement from the  Federal
Reserve  on Sept. 13, following a two-day meeting of the U.S.
central bank’s policy-setting committee, for any evidence of new
measures to stimulate the world’s largest economy.  Kazakhmys gained 4.4 percent to 686.5 pence as copper
climbed to its highest price in almost four months in London.
Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer was upgraded to buy from
sell at UBS AG today.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , which mines for copper in
 Chile , rose 1.9 percent to 1,249 pence and Rio Tinto Group added
1.6 percent to 3,069 pence.  Business Confidence  In the U.K., a report from BDO LLP showed that business
confidence fell to a record low last month and a gauge of output
indicated that the economy will remain weak.  The sentiment reading slipped to 89.1 from 93.1 in July,
the accountancy company said in a report today. That was the
lowest since the series began in 1992. The output measure
dropped to 90.8 from 93.9, further below the 95 mark that points
to  positive growth  one quarter ahead. BDO said the decline
suggests growth “is likely to remain elusive in the final
quarter.”  Xstrata gained 1.2 percent to 1,026.5 pence, extending its
four-day advance to 12 percent. Glencore said today that
Xstrata’s Mick Davis will leave six months after a takeover of
the Swiss mining company is completed under the sweetened and
final terms of its $36 billion offer.  Davis would run the combined group before handing over to
Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg. That scraps an earlier plan for
the Xstrata head to take the job. On Sept. 7, Glencore increased
its offer to 3.05 shares for every one in the target, up from
its February bid of 2.8 shares.  Marks & Spencer  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  added 2.7 percent to 371.1 pence,
following a report that bankers have studied debt packages for a
buyout of the  U.K.’s largest clothing retailer .  Several private-equity firms have approached Marks &
Spencer, Reuters reported on Sept. 7, without identifying the
bankers. Bloomberg reported on Aug. 24 that CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. has explored taking the retailer private, according to
people close to the matter.  ABF (ABF)  declined 2 percent to 1,280 pence, paring its rally
this year to 16 percent. The retailer said second-half earnings
will meet its forecast as sugar sales advance and growth
accelerates at its Primark discount-clothing chain.  “We do not expect changes to consensus estimates at this
stage,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts wrote in a report today
after ABF’s release. ABF “should deliver best-in-class earnings
growth.”  SABMiller Slips  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  led a selloff in companies whose earnings are
considered less tied to economic growth. The  world’s second-
largest brewer  lost 2.3 percent to 2,700 pence, Unilever, the
 world’s second-biggest consumer-goods maker , dropped 1.3 percent
to 2,245 pence and  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  slid 1.5 percent
to 3,124.5 pence.  “Blue chip defensive stocks” have been consistently weak
in the past few days after the European Central Bank approved a
plan to lower borrowing costs for euro-area governments,
Investec’s  Martin Deboo  wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg.  Punch Taverns Plc (PUB)  plunged 9.9 percent to 6.3 pence as
Citigroup Inc. lowered its recommendation for the U.K. pub
operator to neutral from buy, citing a 20 percent year-to-date
rally by pub and restaurant companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  