-- U.K. Antitrust Regulator Raises Floor for Fines After Court Woes
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-10T16:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/u-k-antitrust-regulator-raises-floor-for-fines-after-court-woes.html
Britain’s antitrust regulator won
approval for new rules to fine companies that join cartels or
violate other competition laws after suffering a series of court
defeats in which its penalties were slashed.  The maximum starting point for setting fines rose to 30
percent from 10 percent of the revenue generated by a violation,
bringing Britain in-line with the European Union’s antitrust
regulator in Brussels and other European competition watchdogs,
the  Office of Fair Trading  said in a statement today.  “This change gives the OFT the ability to set penalties
which better reflect the gravity of different types of
infringements, in particular for the most serious breaches of
competition law, such as hard-core cartel activity and serious
abuses of a dominant position,” the London-based OFT said.  The change comes about nine months after  Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc (IMT)  won an appeal overturning 112.3 million pounds ($179.8
million) in fines over an alleged price-fixing cartel for
cigarettes with Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda unit and nine other
retailers.  John Fingleton , the OFT’s chief executive officer for
seven years, was replaced by Clive Maxwell in June.  The tobacco appeal opened eight months after a court cut
OFT penalties in separate probes of price fixing in the U.K.
construction and recruitment industries, and more than a year
after the OFT’s first criminal antitrust trial against four
current and former British Airways Plc executives collapsed due
to problems with e-mail evidence.  Under the new rules, the OFT will seek to avoid
“excessive” penalties by considering for the first time
whether a fine is proportionate compared with the actual
violation, according to the statement. The OFT guidance
clarified that it will base fines on revenue generated during
the last business year before the infringement ended.  The maximum fine of 10 percent of a company’s global
revenue remains unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  