-- U.S. Yield Gap Widens on Fed, BofA Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-09-10T18:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/u-s-yield-gap-widens-on-fed-bofa-says-technical-analysis.html
The extra yield Treasuries investors
demand to hold 30-year bonds notes over five-year securities is
poised to climb from a four-month high if the spread closes
above moving averages, according to Bank of America Corp.  The  difference  between five- and 30-year yields, which has
risen 30 basis points to 2.18 percentage points, from the yearly
low of 1.88 percent in June, will increase further if the spread
closes above 2.3 in the near term and finishes the month above
the 21-month moving average of 2.28, said  MacNeil Curry , chief
rates and currencies technical strategist in  New York  at the
firm’s Bank of America Merrill Lynch unit, said in a telephone
interview.  The difference has widened amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will undertake efforts to spur the economy that may send
prices higher, after data last week showed employers added fewer
jobs than forecast. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24
commodities is up more than 20 percent since reaching this
year’s low on June 22. The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets
on Sept. 12-13 and may consider addition bond buying, known as
quantitative easing, or QE.  “The widening in the spread and commodity prices rising
reflect rising inflation fears as QE3 speculation is rampant,”
Curry said. “We are nearing territory that suggests these fears
may be here to stay for a while, and should see more
steepening.”  The yield difference between 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which
represents traders’ outlook for the rate of inflation over the
life of the securities, touched 2.40 percentage points today,
the widest since March 22, before slipping to 2.38 percentage
points. The average during the past decade is 2.16.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  