-- U.S. Sept. NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-09-10T14:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/u-s-sept-nahb-first-american-improving-markets-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Housing Opportunity Index from the  National Association of Home
Builders .  The number of improving housing markets across the country rose
to 99 in September, according to the National Association of
Home Builders/First American Improving Markets Index (IMI),
released today. This is up from 80 metros that were listed as
improving in August and includes representatives from 33 states
as well as the  District of Columbia .  The index identifies metropolitan areas that have shown
improvement from their respective troughs in housing permits,
employment and  house prices  for at least six consecutive months.
Markets added to the list in September include such
geographically diverse locations as Tucson, Ariz.; Jacksonville,
Fla.; Springfield, Ill.; Greenville, N.C.; and Bend, Ore.  “The number of improving housing markets grew by 19 in September
as 68 metros retained their spots, 31 new metros were added and
just 12 dropped off the list,” noted Barry Rutenberg, chairman
of the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) and a home
builder from Gainesville, Fla. “This solid growth is an
encouraging sign that housing continues on a slow but steady
recovery path that is gradually advancing from one local market
to the next.”  “More metros across the country are experiencing a sustained
uptick in house prices, employment and new building activity as
rising  consumer confidence  in local market conditions pushes
more people to consider a new-home purchase,” observed NAHB
Chief Economist  David Crowe . “That said, overly tight lending
conditions for builders and buyers continue to slow this process
considerably.”  “Combined with recent positive reports on builder confidence,
housing starts and new-home sales, the September IMI adds to the
growing consensus that housing is finally moving in the right
direction, which in turn is spurring more potential buyers to
get off the fence,” added  Kurt Pfotenhauer , vice chairman at
First American Title Insurance Company.  The IMI is designed to track housing markets throughout the
country that are showing signs of improving economic health. The
index measures three sets of independent monthly data to get a
mark on the top improving Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The
three indicators that are analyzed are employment growth from
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, house price appreciation from
 Freddie Mac  and single-family housing permit growth from the
U.S. Census Bureau. NAHB uses the latest available data from
these sources to generate a list of improving markets. A
metropolitan area must see improvement in all three measures for
at least six months following those measures’ respective troughs
before being included on the improving markets list.  A complete list of all 99 metropolitan areas currently on the
IMI, and separate breakouts of metros newly added to or dropped
from the list in September, is available at www.nahb.org/imi.  Editor’s Note: The NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index
(IMI) is released on the fourth business day of each month at
10:00 a.m., ET, unless that day falls on a Friday - in which
case, the index is released on the following Monday. A full
calendar of future release dates can be found at
www.nahb.org/imi.  Source: National Association of Home Builders
 http://www.nahb.com/facts/economics/housingopindex.html 
