-- U.S. Corn Harvest Advances, USDA Says; Soybean Ratings Gain
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-09-10T20:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/u-s-corn-harvest-advances-usda-says-soybean-ratings-gain-1-.html
U.S. farmers accelerated harvesting
of the corn crop last week as warmer, drier weather firmed muddy
fields for heavy machinery. Soybean  conditions  improved.  About 15 percent of the corn was harvested as of yesterday,
compared with 10 percent a week earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today in a  report . About 58 percent of the crop
was rated mature, up from 41 percent a week earlier and the
prior five-year average of 27 percent. Approximately 52 percent
of the corn was in poor or very poor condition, unchanged from a
week earlier, the USDA said.  “Harvesting is moving ahead,”  Tim Hannagan , a grain
specialist at Alpari U.S. LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “Corn yields vary widely across the Midwest and they
are mostly on the low side of expectations,” after plants were
damaged by the worst drought in more than 50 years, he said.  Through Sept. 7, corn futures surged 44 percent since the
end of May because of the Midwest drought, prompting the  United
Nations  last month to predict higher global food costs.  About 32 percent of the nation’s soybeans were rated good
or excellent as of yesterday, up from 30 percent a week earlier,
the USDA said. Approximately 4 percent of the crop was
harvested. Soybeans mature later than corn.  “Late-season rains have really helped to boost soybean
yield potential,” Hannagan said. “Farmers will wait to harvest
soybeans until they finish collecting the corn crop.”  Crop ratings are the worst for this time of year since
1988, when corn production plunged 31 percent from a year
earlier and soybeans declined 20 percent. This year, output of
the grain will fall 13 percent to 10.779 billion bushels, the
smallest since 2006, the USDA said Aug. 10. The soybean harvest
may be 12 percent smaller at 2.692 billion bushels. The
government will update its forecasts on Sept. 12.  About 45 percent of the nine-state  Midwest  region was in
severe to exceptional drought as of Sept. 4, compared with 55
percent on Aug. 7 and 4.8 percent a year earlier, according to
the U.S. Drought Monitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 