-- UN Questions Neutral Force `Concept' in Congo Conflict
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-09-10T20:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/un-questions-neutral-force-concept-in-congo-conflict.html
The  United Nations  can’t support
creation of a proposed “neutral force” to fight rebels in
eastern  Democratic Republic  of Congo until the idea is developed
further, according to the head of UN peacekeeping operations,
Herve Ladsous.  On Sept. 8, the International Conference on the Great Lakes
Region agreed to deploy the force to eastern Congo within three
months under the auspices of the UN and African Union. More than
500,000 people have been displaced by fighting in the region
between Congo’s army and rebels, who Congo claims are supported
by neighboring  Rwanda . Rwanda denies the allegations.  “The concept needs to be fleshed out,” Ladsous told
reporters in Congo’s capital, Kinshasa, today. “I would not
think the  Security Council  would be in a position to make a
determination just on an idea.”  The UN already has more than 19,000 peace-keepers in Congo.
Ninety-four percent of its troops are based in the east, where
conflict has persisted since a 2003 peace agreement that brought
an end to almost a decade of war, said Ladsous, the UN’s Under-
Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations.  The proposed neutral force will be made up of 4,000 troops
from countries not implicated in conflict in Congo,  Uganda ’s New
Vision newspaper reported today.  The current fighting began when former rebels defected from
the army in April. In June, the UN Group of Experts on Congo
published details of Rwandan support for the rebels.  Countries including the U.S., Germany, the U.K., and the
Netherlands, have withheld some funding from Rwanda because of
the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  