-- Turkey Economic Growth Slowed to 2.9% in Second Quarter
-- B y   A y d a n   E k s i n   a n d   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-09-10T11:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/turkey-economic-growth-slowed-to-2-9-in-second-quarter.html
Turkey ’s economy expanded at the
 slowest pace  since 2009 in the second quarter, reinforcing
expectations of a rate cut from the central bank.  Gross domestic product grew 2.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, slower than the median estimate of
3.1 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists, the state
statistics office in Ankara said on its website today. First-
quarter growth was revised to 3.3 percent from 3.2 percent.  Turkey expanded 8.5 percent in 2011, making it the world’s
third-fastest-growing Group of 20 economy behind China and
 Argentina , and prompting the central bank to tighten policy to
rein in bank lending. This year’s slowdown, partly driven by the
slump in Turkey’s main European export markets, may lead
Governor Erdem Basci to reverse course and cut rates in order to
bolster the economy.  “We anticipate that the central bank will reduce the upper
end of the interest-rate corridor by at least 50 basis points at
the next meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee in order to
support slowing economic activity,” Ali Cakiroglu, a strategist
at HSBC Asset Management in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note.  Yields on  two-year benchmark debt  retreated two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.33 percent at 2 p.m. in
Istanbul, declining for a fifth day to the lowest level since
January, 2011. The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.8007, its
first decline in four days.  Falling Short  Growth may fall short of this year’s 4 percent target due
to the crisis in  Europe , Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said
on Aug. 9.  Basci introduced a dual interest-rate policy in October
last year that allows him to vary rates on a daily basis between
a benchmark rate of 5.75 percent and a higher rate of 11.5
percent. He says the system gives the central bank flexibility
to manage the goals of bolstering growth, bringing down
inflation and stabilizing the currency.  The economy grew 1.8 percent on a quarterly basis when
adjusted for seasonality and the number of working days, the
statistics office said today. That compares with a quarter-on-
quarter contraction of 0.1 percent in the first quarter.  In a separate data release, the agency said that  industrial
production  expanded 1.7 percent in July from the previous month,
the fastest pace this year, and 3.4 percent from year earlier,
almost double the  median forecast in Bloomberg’s survey .  ‘Still Having Difficulties’  That figure probably won’t alter the central bank’s plans
to ease policy, said Sengul Dagdeviren, chief economist at ING
Bank AS in Istanbul.  Details of the output figures show that “some of the key
sectors are still having difficulties,” she said in a phone
interview. As long as the central bank remains “comfortable
about the inflation outlook, they will continue to ease.”  Turkey’s  inflation rate  dropped to 8.9 percent last month
from 9.1 percent in July, and the central bank said last week
that it expects a bigger decline in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net ;
David Neylan in  London  at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  