-- Vale Seen Cutting Budget as Iron Ore Collapses: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-09-10T20:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/vale-seen-cutting-budget-as-iron-ore-collapses-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE) , the worst performer among
 major mining  companies this quarter, is poised to reduce
investments to the lowest in three years as prices for iron ore
slump on slowing Chinese demand.  The biggest producer of the steel-making ingredient will
approve a 2013 budget of $16.8 billion, 22 percent less than
this year’s $21.4 billion, according to the average estimate
from six analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Analysts cut
estimates for Rio de Janeiro-based Vale’s 2013 adjusted profit
by 19 percent in the past four weeks, more than  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira is selling coal,
manganese and logistics assets and considering suspending
projects as iron ore, which accounts for 90 percent of earnings
before items, trades near three-year lows. Vale must respond to
reduced Chinese demand by reining in expansions, said Rafael
Weber, who helps manage $3 billion at Geracao Futuro Corretora.  “Not having a reduction at a time of trouble in commodity
prices would send a message of uncertainty to investors,” Weber
said by telephone from  Porto Alegre , Brazil. “Vale has
mobilized a lot of resources to some projects that aren’t giving
returns.”  Ferreira, who took over from  Roger Agnelli  in May 2011,
said Aug. 16 that he will postpone a $3 billion potash project
in  Canada  and may delay other investments to focus on expanding
the company’s biggest mine. Vale has announced about $1.2
billion of divestments this year.  “The new economic scenario will be reflected in our
investment plan when we announce it in December,” Vale said in
an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. “Projects that
were on a conceptual stage of development will be postponed.”  Worst Performer  Vale, whose profit missed analysts’ estimates in four of
the past five quarters,  lost  10 percent for investors this
quarter. That’s the worst performance among the world’s top five
mining companies by market value. Melbourne-based BHP, the
biggest,  returned  5 percent, Rio Tinto gained 3.2 percent,
Xstrata Plc gained 30 percent and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)   lost  3.2
percent in the same period.  Vale  advanced  3 percent to close at 35.10 reais in Sao
Paulo, the highest since Aug. 22, on speculation Chinese
 government spending  and European Central Bank bond purchases
will benefit commodities producers.  The company’s underperformance may see it overtaken by Rio
Tinto as the world’s second most valuable miner. The gap between
the two companies’ market value shrank to a four-year low of
$531 million on Aug. 23, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investment Program  An investment program of $16.8 billion next year, as
forecast by the analysts, would be the lowest for Vale since
2010, when it spent $12.7 billion excluding acquisitions. Vale,
which is set to release its 2013 capital expenditure figure in
December, invested $7.96 billion in the first half of the year,
or about 37 percent of the plan budgeted for 2012.  Vale’s profit excluding some items will drop to $12.5
billion this year and to $12.8 billion next year from $22.9
billion in 2011, according to the average estimate  compiled  by
Bloomberg. Analysts reduced their 2012 profit estimates by $1.83
billion and $3.08 billion for 2013 in the past four weeks.  Vale agreed to sell 10 vessels for $600 million and lease
them back from South Korea’s Polaris Shipping Co. as part of its
strategy of “improving capital allocation and further
strengthening” its balance sheet, according to an Aug. 31
statement. The announcement followed the sale of a thermal-coal
 project  in  Colombia  for $407 million, ferromanganese alloy
 operations  in  Europe  for $160 million and kaolin mineral
 business  in Brazil for $30.1 million.  Sales Continue  The Brazilian company will continue selling assets,
including its oil and gas business and a stake in aluminum
producer Norsk Hydro ASA, said Marcos Assumpcao, an equity
analyst at Banco Itau BBA SA.  “They may obtain about $9 billion with these divestments,
which combined with lower investments and delays at some
projects would be enough to stand this market slowdown,” he
said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “We expect iron-ore prices to
recover next year, and that will give Vale stronger revenues.”  BHP last month delayed about $68 billion of projects,
including an iron-ore port expansion, amid sluggish global
growth. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s third-biggest
iron-ore producer, cut its full-year spending forecast by 26
percent to $4.6 billion. Rio said Sept. 4 that it plans to cut
some jobs at the Argyle diamond mine in  Western Australia  to
reduce costs and improve efficiency amid a plan to sell its
diamond businesses.  Chinese Slowdown  Mounting evidence of an economic slowdown in  China , the
biggest iron-ore consumer, has seen prices of the steel-making
ingredient slump 51 percent over the past year through Sept. 7.
 Iron ore  for  immediate delivery  to the Chinese port of Tianjin,
a benchmark for  Asia , rose 6.7 percent to $95 per ton today
after falling to the lowest since October 2009 last week,
according to a  price index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.
Brazil exported 27.5 million tons of iron ore in August, down 15
percent from a year ago, the Trade Ministry  said  Sept. 3.  “When iron-ore is in a turmoil, as it has been in the last
three or four weeks, that impacts Vale faster and much more than
BHP,” Eric Conrads, who helps manage $1 billion in stocks at
ING Groep NV in  New York , said in a telephone interview Sept. 4.
“BHP has enough different projects in different commodities to
compensate for it. For Vale, it’s more complex. You have to see
where the price of iron ore stabilizes.”  Rating  Vale, whose A- rating from  Standard & Poor’s  is the highest
among Brazilian companies, on Sept. 4 sold $1.5 billion of
dollar bonds due in 2042. The 5.68 percent yield on the bonds,
Vale’s first 30-year offering since 2009, is the lowest the
company has paid on similar-maturity debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Vale has less room than other iron-ore producers to reduce
investments because it increased output the least since 2008,
Geracao Futuro’s Weber said. The company probably will focus on
delaying less profitable nickel and copper projects, he said.  “Not to do these iron-ore projects means that it may have
difficulties in supplying the market in any potential
recovery,” he said. “Vale will take advantage of that to
remove from its pipeline some unprofitable projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  