-- Vietnam’s Stocks Drop Most in Two Weeks Amid Reports of Arrests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-10T05:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/vietnam-s-stocks-drop-most-in-two-weeks-amid-reports-of-arrests.html
Vietnam ’s  stocks  dropped, dragging
the benchmark index down the most in two weeks, amid media
reports of more arrests in the finance industry.  The benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  fell 2.3 percent at the 11:30 a.m.
break in  Ho Chi Minh City , heading for the biggest decline since
Aug. 27. Police had arrested Nguyen Duy Hung, head of Saigon
Invest Group’s representative office in Hanoi, alleging he
appropriated secret government documents, the state-run Tuoi Tre
newspaper said on its website on Sept. 8. Police also arrested
Nguyen Thi Bich Trang, an employee of  Tan Tao Investment
Industry Joint-Stock Co. (ITA) , according to the report.  The VN Index has tumbled 11 percent since Aug. 20, when
Nguyen Duc Kien, a founder of Asia Commercial Bank, was detained
for what the central bank called conducting “business
illegally.” The lender’s former Chief Executive Officer Ly Xuan Hai was subsequently arrested for alleged economic
mismanagement.  “Investors now are very sensitive to any arrests, no
matter who and from which companies,” said Nguyen Duy Phong, a
Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst at Viet Capital Securities.
“Some investors sold shares today as they are worried that
there may be more arrests.”  Tan Tao slumped 3.5 percent to 5,500 dong, heading for the
lowest close since Jan. 31. Nguyen Tuan Minh, deputy general
director of Tan Tao, confirmed Trang’s arrest when reached by
 Bloomberg News , saying the company’s board will meet “soon” to
discuss the incident and to consider whether to assign her a
lawyer.  Dang Thanh Tam, chairman of Saigon Invest, was not
reachable on his mobile phone. Nguyen Tien Luc, deputy head of
the Police Bureau for Crime Prevention, did not answer calls to
his mobile phone.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  