-- Walker Says Major Debt-Cutting Deal Up to a Year Away
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-09-10T21:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/walker-says-major-debt-cutting-deal-up-to-a-year-away.html
Former U.S. Comptroller General
 David Walker  said the White House and Congress are likely to
agree to delay across-the-board spending cuts and tax increases
set for January, putting off a major budget accord by as much as
a year.  Congressional committees haven’t “done their work” on
realistic plans to overhaul taxes and entitlement programs such
as Medicare, and President  Barack Obama ’s administration has
done little to prepare the public for spending cuts and tax
increases, Walker said at a luncheon today in New York sponsored
by the  Economic Club of New York  and  Bloomberg News .  “Realistically, the tough decisions are not going to be
made until 2013,” he said. “The American people haven’t been
engaged adequately.”  Congressional leaders have said they probably will wait
until after the Nov. 6 election to address the George W. Bush-
era tax cuts set to expire Dec. 31 and $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending cuts set to begin taking effect in January.  There is no sign of an agreement to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff. The  Congressional Budget Office  has said the
economy will probably tip into recession if Congress doesn’t
resolve the impasse by early next year.  Walker said he’s skeptical there will be movement toward a
resolution at the end of this year when Congress meets after the
election.  Lame Duck  “There’s a reason it’s called a lame-duck session,”
Walker said. Congress and the president are instead likely to
put the spending cuts and tax increases on hold, he said.
“They’re going to delay the implementation of that from nine
months to a year with a plan to do a grand bargain” including
budget controls and a tax overhaul, he said.  Walker also called on Republican lawmakers to give up their
pledge not to increase taxes, and Democrats to be willing to
revise  Social Security  and Medicare.  Grover Norquist , president
of Americans for  Tax Reform , is the architect of an anti-tax-
increase pledge that all but six House Republicans and seven
Senate Republicans have signed.  “Those that take pledges that say ‘I won’t raise taxes’ or
‘I won’t renegotiate the Social Security or Medicare promises,’
I’m here to tell you, they’re part of the problem, they’re not
part of the solution,” said Walker. “People who are of means
and of influence need to start putting pressure on these people
to rescind these pledges, rescind them.”  Comptroller General  Walker served as U.S. comptroller general from 1998 to 2008
under Democratic President  Bill Clinton  and Republican President
 George W. Bush . Now he leads the Comeback America Initiative, an
independent, non-profit fiscal policy organization.  The Obama administration plans this week to send Congress a
report spelling out how it would carry out billions of dollars
in automatic spending cuts starting in January.  Congress agreed to the spending cuts as part of last year’s
Budget Control Act in an attempt to require lawmakers to work
out an agreement this year to replace it.  The cuts would amount to $109 billion next year, coming
equally out of defense and non-defense spending. Democrats are
insisting that Republicans accept some tax increases in exchange
for altering the defense cuts, while Republicans have refused.  The nation may face a  debt  crisis if lawmakers don’t make
meaningful progress in 2013 on a major accord that includes
spending cuts and revenue increases, Walker said. “Nobody is
going to be able to hide,” he said.  Australia ,  New Zealand , Canada and Sweden had serious debt
challenges in the 1990s, he said.  “They rose up to meet those challenges and now they’re in
much better shape than we are,” he said. “If they did it, we
can do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  