-- Sharpe to Lead Wallabies Against Argentina, Beale Benched
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-11T05:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/wallabies-name-sharpe-as-captain-for-match-against-argentina.html
Nathan Sharpe  was named as
Australia’s third on-field captain of 2012 and will lead a team
featuring four starting changes for this weekend’s Rugby
Championship match against Argentina on the Gold Coast.  Sharpe, 34, takes over from the injured Will Genia and will
be partnered by Test newcomer Kane Douglas in the second row.
 Nick Phipps  replaces Genia at scrum-half, while Pat McCabe’s
recall at inside center sent Berrick Barnes to full-back and
dropped Kurtley Beale to the reserves bench.  Sharpe becomes Australia’s fifth captain in 13 months
following Rocky Elsom,  James Horwill ,  David Pocock  and Genia.
Pocock and Genia suffered knee injuries that ruled them out for
at least the rest of the championship, while regular skipper
Horwill ruptured his hamstring in May.  The Wallabies beat  South Africa  26-19 three days ago to
secure their first victory in the expanded tournament. World
champion New Zealand tops the standings with 12 points after
three of six rounds, a lead of five over South Africa, with
Australia on four points and Argentina on two.  “It’s important we keep our focus as a team, build on what
we achieved last weekend in Perth, and add to that momentum,”
Sharpe said in a team statement.  Beale will sit on the bench for the second time in three
matches after also being dropped following last month’s opener
against the All Blacks.  Goal-Kicking  Barnes’s goal-kicking success rate of 86 percent this year
was a key factor in his retention in the team ahead of Beale,
Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans  said. Barnes, who booted four
penalties and two conversions against the Springboks for a
perfect record from his six shots at goal, starts at full-back
for the first time.  “Berrick has good grounding at the back while his ability
to take just about every point-scoring opportunity on offer was
highlighted once again last weekend,” Deans said.  The 6-foot-6, 269-pound Douglas, 23, was chosen ahead of
Rob Simmons to replace the injured Sitaleki Timani in the second
row alongside Sharpe, who is the only member of the 22-man squad
to have faced the Pumas before.  That match at the 2003 World Cup in Sydney was Argentina’s
last appearance in Australia. The Wallabies won 12 of their 17
previous matches.  Their latest meeting will be the first elite Test match to
be played on the Gold Coast.  “No one else in the squad has played Argentina before but
I have and they will be tough, incredibly passionate and
uncompromising,” added Sharpe, who has said he’ll retire at the
end of the championship.  Pumas coach Santiago Phelan later announced two changes to
the team that started last week’s 21-5 defeat in New Zealand,
bringing in Martin Landajo and Lucas Gonzalez Amorosino to
replace Nicolas Vergallo and Martin Rodriguez at scrum-half and
full-back, respectively.  AUSTRALIA:  Berrick Barnes , Dominic Shipperley, Adam Ashley-
Cooper, Pat McCabe,  Digby Ioane ,  Quade Cooper , Nick Phipps,
Radike Samo, Michael Hooper,  Dave Dennis , Nathan Sharpe
(captain), Kane Douglas, Ben Alexander, Tatafu Polota Nau,  Benn
Robinson .  Reserves: Stephen Moore/Saia Fainga’a, James Slipper,  Scott
Higginbotham , Liam Gill, Brett Sheehan, Anthony Fainga’a,
Kurtley Beale.  ARGENTINA: Lucas Gonzalez Amorosino, Gonzalo Camacho,
Marcelo Bosch, Santiago Fernandez, Horacio Agulla, Juan Martin
Hernandez, Martin Landajo, Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe
(captain), Juan Manuel Leguizamon, Julio Farias Cabello,
Patricio Albacete, Manuel Carizza, Juan Figallo, Eusebio
Guinazu, Rodrigo Roncero.  Reserves: Agustin Creevy, Juan Pablo Orlandi, Leonardo
Senatore, Tomas Leonardi, Nicolas Vergallo, Martin Rodriguez,
Juan Imhoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  