-- Wells Fargo Wins $30 Million, Receivership in MDI Lawsuit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-09-10T17:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/wells-fargo-wins-30-million-receivership-in-mdi-lawsuit.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-
largest U.S. bank by assets, won a $30 million judgment and the
appointment of a permanent receiver in its lawsuit against
prison-service provider Medical Development International Ltd.
over the repayment of loans.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , sued Ponte Vedra,
Florida-based MDI in March in  Delaware  Chancery Court, alleging
it defaulted on loans used for executive borrowing, a working
farm, a biographical screenplay about Chief Executive Officer
Richard Willich and payments for a  Tesla Roadster .  The receiver,  Ronald Winters  of Alvarez & Marsal Healthcare
Industry Group LLC, is authorized “to do any and all acts
necessary for the proper and lawful conduct” of company
affairs, lawyers for both sides said in a stipulation approved
Sept. 7 by Judge Samuel Glasscock III.  MDI was in a deteriorated financial condition and wasn’t
being operated in the best interests of stakeholders, the bank
contended in the complaint.  MDI officials sued in state court in St. Johns County,
 Florida , saying Wells Fargo “abandoned its traditional role as
lender and took up the role of corporate raider” to divert
company assets.  Temporary Consultant  The parties agreed to pay Willich about $33,000 as a
September salary, and $15,000 a month through Dec. 31, as a
temporary consultant, court papers show.  Winters will also have the right to make any decisions for
the company, including “the authority to file for bankruptcy,”
according to court papers.  “You don’t necessarily have to file for bankruptcy to go
out of business,” Willich said today in a phone interview.
“More than likely this will cause MDI, a company that has been
in business for 20 years,” to fold, he said.  “Wells Fargo did quite well,” he said. “The amazing part
of this is that 250 employees you have to lay off and go down to
25 because of these actions that had nothing to do with them,”
he said.  Wells Fargo is “pleased to have some resolution of this
matter and will be working to determine an appropriate course of
action,” Alan Elias, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed message.  Contract Risk  In its complaint, Wells Fargo lawyers said MDI was at risk
of not obtaining renewal of “a key contract with a federal
prison,” which accounted for 35 percent of its revenue, because
of “MDI’s failure to pay approximately $8.3 million” to a
service provider.  Attached to court papers is an article from the Florida
Times-Union newspaper of Jacksonville that identifies the prison
as Butner Federal Correctional Complex near Durham,  North
Carolina  and the provider as Durham Regional Hospital,
affiliated with  Duke University .  The case file includes a Feb. 17 letter to Charles E. Samuels Jr., director of the  Federal Bureau of Prisons , from
U.S. Representatives  David Price , Howard Coble and Melvin Watt,
all of North Carolina, asking about MDI’s debt to the Duke
medical system and questioning the bureau’s management practices
at Butner.  The Delaware case is Wells Fargo Bank v. Medical
Development International Ltd., CA7352, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington). The Florida case is MDI v. Wells Fargo Bank, CA12-
0570, Florida Circuit Court, Seventh Judicial Circuit (St. Johns
County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 