-- WellPoint Is Committed to Keeping Management, CFO Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-09-10T20:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/wellpoint-is-committed-to-keeping-management-cfo-says.html
Two weeks after Angela Braly was
forced out as  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  chief executive officer, the
management team she put in place has been told by the board it
will stay, said Chief Financial Officer Wayne Deveydt. The
company’s shares fell.  The insurer’s executives are committed to remaining,
Deveydt said today at a conference in  New York . WellPoint, the
second-biggest U.S. health insurer, declined 1.4 percent to
$59.45 at 4 p.m. New York time. The drop erased an earlier gain,
after Deveydt also said the company wasn’t ready yet to predict
its earnings for next year.  Braly resigned as head of the Indianapolis-based company on
Aug. 28 after shareholders expressed discontent with her
leadership. John Cannon, WellPoint’s general counsel, will serve
as interim CEO during the search for a replacement, the insurer
said at the time.  “The stockholders want to see dramatic changes in
Wellpoint’s performance,”  Erik Gordon , a professor at the
 University of Michigan ’s Steven M. Ross School of Business in
 Ann Arbor , said in an e-mail. “The changes start at the top,
but they don’t end there.”  Cannon isn’t interested in taking the job on a permanent
basis, Deveydt said. The board will conduct a search and no
timeline has been set to choose a replacement.  “Our board very proactively wants to maintain the
management team and they’ve reached out to us in that manner,”
Deveydt said at the Morgan Stanley Global Healthcare Conference.  High-Profile Foe  Braly, 51, took over the CEO job in June 2007. During her
tenure, she became a high-profile foe of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul and, more recently, sparked the ire
of investors after WellPoint missed earnings estimates and cut
its forecast twice in four months.  Braly’s successor will have to right the company’s
financial performance and oversee WellPoint’s integration of
insurer  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  and vision company 1-800-Contacts Inc.  In June, WellPoint agreed to buy eye-wear provider 1-800-
Contacts Inc. for about $900 million. In July, the company
announced the $4.9 billion acquisition of Amerigroup to become
the biggest private provider of plans for Medicaid, the federal-
state program for the poor.  Setting the Bar  When the company gives its 2013  forecast , “we would expect
a very conservative guide,” Thomas Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. analyst in Baltimore, said in an e-mail. WellPoint faces a
“challenging operational environment as well as the traditional
’set the bar low for a new CEO’ strategy.”  The Amerigroup deal may close in the fourth quarter,
Deveydt said today. The company had predicted the  acquisition 
would be finished in next year’s first quarter.  The CFO said WellPoint still expects a profit of $7.30 to
$7.40 a share this year.  While the early close of the Amerigroup deal may help
profit, pressure on commercial insurance prices may push
earnings in the other direction, Deveydt said. And the company
will also have to spend money as it prepares for an expansion of
insurance coverage under Obama’s health-care law, he said.  “The build-up that will occur between now and 2014 to make
that happen will be substantial,” he said.  WellPoint shares have fallen 3.8 percent in the past 12
months.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota ,
is the largest U.S. health insurer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  