-- Western Digital’s Milligan Will Succeed Coyne as CEO
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-09-10T20:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/western-digital-s-milligan-will-succeed-coyne-as-ceo.html
Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , the largest
maker of hard-disk drives, said President Steve Milligan will
take the role of chief executive officer after the retirement of
John Coyne on Jan. 2.  Milligan, 49, will retain the job of president and join
 Western Digital ’s board after Coyne steps down, the  Irvine ,
California-based company said today in a statement. Coyne, 63,
spent almost 30 years with the company, the last five as CEO.  Milligan rejoined Western Digital earlier this year as part
of the company’s acquisition of Hitachi Global Storage
Technologies for more than $4 billion. He had served as CEO of
the division since December 2009, and he was Western Digital’s
chief financial officer before leaving for Hitachi in 2007.  “Anyone who didn’t see this coming was living under a
rock,” said Richard Kugele, an analyst at Needham & Co., in an
interview. He credited Milligan for improving Hitachi’s
performance before the acquisition, and said he is “totally up
to the task of running Western Digital, and then some.”  The Hitachi deal helped Western Digital retake the market-
share lead in the disk-drive industry this year, according to
research firm  IHS Inc. (IHS)  Western Digital  accounted  for 45 percent
of the market last quarter, followed by  Seagate Technology Plc (STX) 
at 42 percent.  Flat Demand  “We are fortunate to have another accomplished and
experienced leader in Steve Milligan, ready to lead the company
at this exciting time,” Chairman Tom Pardun said in the
statement.  Western Digital declined 1.6 percent to $41.18 at the close
in  New York . The stock has gained 33 percent this year.  Milligan’s challenge will be navigating Western Digital
through a predicted slump in demand for drives, Kugele said.
Both Western Digital and Seagate had predicted flat demand for
drives in the current quarter, when sales are usually brisk as
technology companies gear up for the holiday quarter.  Now, Kugele expects industrywide sales to decline 8 percent
in the quarter, largely due to reduced spending by technology
companies in Europe and China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  