-- Zac Efron Races Cars, Gangsters Wear Bikinis: Film Review
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-09-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-10/zac-efron-races-cars-gangsters-wear-bikinis-film-review.html
Director Brian De Palma gave cinema
one of its most memorable male characters when he cast  Al Pacino 
as “Scarface” in 1983.  De Palma’s “Passion” -- which premiered at the  Venice 
Festival -- is unlikely to make the same lasting mark.  It’s admittedly a fine-looking tribute to  Alfred Hitchcock ,
with impeccable costumes and sets. The two calculating women at
its core are competently played by  Rachel McAdams  and Noomi
Rapace (“The Girl With the  Dragon Tattoo ”).  Yet the movie, a Franco-German production shot in Berlin,
is an awkward Europeanized version of Hitchcock.  “This is basically a sexy murder mystery,” De Palma told
reporters, hours after his movie was booed by a few at the press
screening. Seated beside him was Rapace, her softly waved hair a
change from her jet-black bangs on screen.  “Passion” opens with two women at a laptop watching
pilots for a smartphone commercial. Blond Christine (McAdams),
looking like Kim Novak in her tweed tailleurs and pulled-up
hair, tells underling Isabelle (Rapace) that the demos stink.  By the next scene, they’re at Christine’s, a vast apartment
with  oil paintings  and a baignoire divan. As the two get
acquainted, a shifty-looking Englishman named Dirk drops by.
Christine invites him to stay -- he’s one of the men she has
over to amuse her with sex toys -- and bids Isabelle farewell.  Tight Jeans  The workaholic Isabelle, who sleeps with an open laptop on
her knees, comes up with a great concept for the commercial: a
girl in tight jeans flaunting a smartphone in her back pocket.
Christine promptly passes it off as her idea.  “You have talent: I made the best use of it,” Christine
icily explains. Relations between them sour, and Christine turns
into a manipulative minx, victimizing the weepy Isabelle --until
the tables get turned.  There’s no faulting the movie’s aesthetic. De Palma makes
“Passion” the expensive way, with traveling shots, dollies and
expert lighting. Occasional screeches from a string section,
shadows falling over faces, and an overhead shower scene have
homage-to-Hitchcock written all over them.  The problem is the clunky underlying plot -- which De Palma
adapted from a 2010 Alain Corneau movie -- and the wooden
performances by a mainly German cast. You come away yearning for
the De Palma of yore, and wondering what happened. Rating: **.  ‘Spring Breakers’  “Scarface” heads for the beach.  Harmony Korine’s “Spring Breakers” is a trashy girls-and-
gangsters movie that’s well on its way to achieving cult status.
Instead of the girls being pretty accessories, they’re the
actual gangsters.  There was a huge Venice buzz around “Spring Breakers”
because of its cast: actors Selena Gomez, Vanessa Hudgens, and
 James Franco .  It all starts with four college girls deciding to head to
 Florida  on spring break. Short on cash, they pull on balaclavas
to hold up a Chicken Shack restaurant, escaping with its
takings.  Florida is heaven. At endless booze-and-bong parties, they
get beer poured down their cleavages, and wear only bikinis --
even when hauled into court for partying too hard.  Along comes a silver-toothed Scarface wannabe in dreadlocks
(Franco). He bails them out of jail, and invites them into his
world: a world of drugs, fast cars, big guns and big money. The
girls soon become his remorseless sidekicks, sporting shocking-
pink bikinis and matching balaclavas as they go on the rampage.  Parts of “Spring Breakers” are jaw-dropping. Other parts
drone on. The dialogue is (deliberately?) lame and repetitive,
and Franco, though a good actor, sometimes seems a clown.  Still, Korine’s movie is disturbing enough to get you
thinking. It’s bound to turn heads, and not just among college
graduates, or drooling middle-aged men. Rating: **.  ‘At Any Price’  Zac Efron and  Dennis Quaid  make a fiery father-son duo in
the agriculturally themed drama “At Any Price,” by Iranian-
American director Ramin Bahrani.  Lushly filmed on Iowa corn farms overrun by genetically
modified seeds, the film is the story of a married, middle-aged
seed salesman (Quaid) who fights to preserve the family
business. He cuts corners, strikes petty deals, and expects his
sons to follow suit.  Only one son has quit town to climb a high Argentinian
mountain, and the other, a hot-headed rebel (Efron), prefers
Figure 8 car racing, at which he excels.  Bahrani is a name on the festival circuit for small-budget
movies like “Man Push Cart” (2005). With this one, he goes
large-scale, both budget-wise and cast-wise.  The result somehow misses the mark. The story feels
predictable, despite its dramatic denouement and Bahrani’s
blurring of the line between good and bad. Maybe smaller-budget
projects are more his thing. Rating: **.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on arts and  Jeremy 
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Venice at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 