-- ‘Apprentice’ Star Sugar Urges Londoners Not to Back Livingstone
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-19T14:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/-apprentice-star-sugar-urges-londoners-not-to-back-livingstone.html
Alan Sugar, one of the U.K. Labour
Party’s best-known supporters, urged voters not to support its
candidate for London Mayor,  Ken Livingstone , at next month’s
election.  Sugar, who stars in the British version of “The
Apprentice” reality television series and was given a seat in
the House of Lords by former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , made
the comments today on his verified Twitter Inc. account. His
spokesman, Andrew Bloch, confirmed they were genuine.  The Amshold Group Ltd. chairman, who made his fortune
selling consumer electronics, gave more than 69,000 pounds
($111,000) to Labour last year, including donating directly to
leader  Ed Miliband ’s office, according to the  Electoral
Commission . That made him one of the party’s most generous
individual supporters.  “Livingstone must NOT get in,” Sugar, 65, wrote. “I
don’t care if Ed Miliband is backing Livingstone. I seriously
suggest NO ONE votes for Livingstone in the mayoral elections.”  While Sugar did not explicitly endorse incumbent Mayor
 Boris Johnson , his comments will help the Conservative, who is
seeking re-election on May 3.  Johnson had 53 percent support compared with 47 percent for
Livingstone in a choice between the two, according to a ComRes
Ltd. poll published in the Evening Standard newspaper April 10.  Livingstone was the first person to win election as mayor
when the post was established in 2000 and had the job for two
terms before losing to Johnson in 2008.  The race has been dominated recently by a dispute in a
broadcast debate on April 3 in which Johnson accused Livingstone
of being a liar as they argued over whether either had avoided
tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 