-- Lafite, Grandmaster Flash, Beethoven: Hong Kong Weekend
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-04-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/lafite-grandmaster-flash-beethoven-hong-kong-weekend.html
Joseph Saddler, better known as
 Grandmaster Flash , is to deejaying and rapping what J.S. Bach
was to classical music.  The turntable virtuoso, who has been scratching, sampling
and backspinning for more than three decades, is now in  Hong
Kong . The star -- whose lyrics date from before rap turned nasty
-- was the first hip-hop inductee into the Rock & Roll Hall of
Fame, with his band the Furious Five.  Catch this Wheels of Steel star at Hyde in the Lyndhurst
Tower, 1 Lyndhurst Terrace, Central, starting tonight and
running through 4 a.m. Sunday. Information:
 http://www.hyde.hk/events.php  or +852 2850 6283.  Edo de Waart is laying down his baton after eight years as
the Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra’s artistic director and
chief conductor.  His farewell concerts are at the Hong Kong Cultural Centre
Concert Hall. The events include Berlioz’s La Mort de Cleopatre
and Beethoven’s 9th Symphony featuring the Shanghai Opera House
Chorus.  Today at 8 p.m. Information:  http://bit.ly/iyb1jQ   Saturday Morning  More than 700 separate lots of wine go under the hammer at
the Christie’s International auction room starting at 11 a.m.
today. Hong Kong has become the world’s biggest rare and fine
wine auction market, with major sales happening every month.  Bordeaux highlights include two magnums of 1900 Chateau
Lafite and a jeroboam (five liters) of 1900 Chateau Latour worth
as much as HK$300,000 ($38,660).  Burgundy lovers are being offered six bottles of  Romanee
Conti  spanning the years 2002-2007 selling for as much as
HK$700,000.  For a really early start on swilling and spitting, head
over to Domani Restaurant to taste Italian Grand Crus wines and
lunch at the  Gelardini & Romani  wine auction. Starts at 10 a.m.
Advance registration is required. RSVP to
 info@grwineauction.com .  Saturday Evening  If you’ve had your fill of Hollywood fare, give a thought
to the Hong Kong Turkish Film Festival running through April 22.
“ Once Upon a Time in Anatolia ,” directed by Nuri Bilge Ceylan
and co-winner of the 2011 Grand Prix at Cannes, spans a 12-hour
search for a corpse in the middle of the Turkish steppes. It’s
both unforgettable and gritty. The 150 minute film ends with an
autopsy.  Grand Cinema, Elements Mall at 7:30 p.m. Information:
 http://www.hktff.org/program.html .  Sunday  Stamp collecting is still going strong, even as the
epistolary age has given way to Twitter and Facebook.  London-based auction house  Spink  is offering more than
1,000 lots of rare stamps, coins and bond and share certificates
with an upper estimate of HK$15 million at its Hong Kong auction
room, 9th Floor, 50 Gloucester Road starting at 10 a.m.  Information:  http://www.spink.com  or +852 2530 0100.  “Transforming Minds: Buddhism in Art” is the inaugural
exhibition of the newly opened  Asia Society  Hong Kong
headquarters.  The show combines 13 artifacts drawn from the collection of
Mr. and Mrs.  John D. Rockefeller  including an exquisite 8th
century Thai bronze bodhisattva with six contemporary works
including a Buddha head made of ash by  Zhang Huan .  The museum, housed in a refurbished former explosives
compound, is itself worth a visit. Information:
 http://asiasociety.org/hong-kong   Cafe Gray , on the top floor of the Upper House hotel, just
a five minute walk from the Asia Society, offers an a la carte
Sunday brunch with harbor views.  Information:  http://www.cafegrayhk.com/cghk_en.html  or +852
3968 1106.  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter at large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Today's Muse highlights include: Farah Nayeri’s  London 
Weekend ;  Lewis Lapham  on  history .  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 