-- Thai State Pension Fund to Acquire U.S., Europe Properties
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-04-19T04:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/thai-state-pension-fund-to-acquire-u-s-europe-properties.html
Thailand ’s  Government Pension Fund ,
which manages about $17.5 billion of assets, is planning its
first investments in U.S. and European commercial properties for
higher returns than those generated from domestic bonds.  The country’s third-biggest money manager will spend about
$250 million this year buying the properties, Sopawadee Lertmanaschai, the agency’s secretary general, said in an
interview at her office in Bangkok yesterday. The fund is
selecting companies for advice on these investments, she said.  The Thai state pension fund shifted its investments into
overseas equities, commodities and debt this year from domestic
bonds, its biggest holding, to boost the return amid
accelerating inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest
economy. It also hired Pacific Investment Management Co.,  MFS
Investment Management  and seven other companies to manage the
agency’s $1.5 billion investments in global bonds and equities.  “The stagnate economic environment in the U.S. and  Europe 
offers a great opportunity for property investments because of
attractive prices,” Sopawadee said. “Global property
investment is our strategy to become more aggressive and dynamic
in boosting returns for our pensioners.”  The initial purchases will raise the holdings of global
properties to about 1 percent of its total assets from none at
the present, she said. The pension fund has cut its investments
in domestic bonds to 65 percent of total assets in 2012 from 69
percent last year, she said.  Commercial Property Investments  Commercial property investments globally rose 14 percent in
2011 to $727 billion, or $808 billion including multifamily
properties,  Cushman & Wakefield  said in February, with volumes
up 83 percent from 2009.  Thai inflation rate this month climbed to 3.45 percent, a
three-month high, on rising oil prices, the commerce ministry
said on April 3.  The pension fund, which manages retirement savings for
about 1.2 million state employees, aims to earn a return of 1.5
percentage point more than the domestic inflation rate,
Sopawadee said.  The fund will also invest more in bonds of  emerging
markets , whose faster economic growth than developed nations
will offer better returns, she said. The agency, which has about
10 percent of its assets in global debt securities, this year
bought Malaysian and South Korean bonds for the first time, she
said.  “Over the next few years, we will increase our investments
abroad to diversify the risk,” she said. “Commodities,
properties and infrastructure investment will give a stable
return in line with inflation rate.”  Thai equities may drop between April and May as overseas
investors are expected to sell after the recent rally. The
pension fund invests about 10 percent of assets into the
domestic shares, she said.  The  SET Index (SET)  gained 16 percent in the first three months
this year, the biggest quarterly advance in 1 ½ years as
overseas investors  bought  a net $2.7 billion baht of Thai
equities, according to the Stock Exchange of Thailand’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  