-- AIA Group First-Quarter Value of New Business Increases 27%
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-04-20T08:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/aia-group-first-quarter-value-of-new-business-increases-27-.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer by market capitalization, said its value of
new business rose 27 percent in the first quarter as a growing
number of active agents sold more profitable policies.  The gauge of projected future profitability of new policies
increased to $232 million in the three months to Feb. 29, from
$182 million a year earlier, the Hong Kong-based insurer said in
a statement to the city’s stock exchange today. The stock closed
unchanged at HK$28.00.  The value of new business at AIA has grown for seven
straight quarters since  Mark Tucker  was  named  chief executive
officer in July 2010. Tucker, 54, has been trying to revive the
largest Asia-wide insurer by the 15 markets it operates in after
troubles at its one-time parent  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
and uncertainties during an attempted takeover by  Prudential Plc (PRU) 
in 2010.  Analysts including Morgan Stanley’s Ben Lin, Credit Suisse
Group AG’s Arjan van Veen and Mark Kellock at Barclays Capital
Inc. had estimated AIA’s new business value to grow as much as
mid-20 percent in the quarter before the announcement.  “AIA’s 27 percent year on year growth in new business
value in the first quarter of 2012 is slightly ahead of our 25
percent growth estimate for the year,” Kellock and colleague
Thomas Wang said in a research note today. “We see potential
upside to our financial year 2012 forecast, especially if sales
volumes can recover.”  Business Margin  Morgan Stanley analysts led by Lin estimated AIA’s value of
new business to jump 24 percent in the quarter, helped by the
more profitable protection-type policies accounting for a larger
share of its product mix, they said in an April 12 note.  AIA’s new business margin expanded 6.9 percentage points to
42.1 percent in the three months with increasing sales and
widening margin of more profitable protection-type products,
such as long-term savings, accident and health policies, it said
in the statement.  “Two consecutive quarters of new business value margin in
excess of 40 percent suggests that we are likely to see similar
year on year comparisons for the rest of 2012,” the Barclays
analysts wrote today.  Annualized new premium, a measure of new business sales,
rose 6 percent to $543 million in the quarter from a year
earlier, AIA said in the statement.  Thai Floods  Growth was held back by slower sales in  South Korea  and
 Thailand , which accounted for about 30 percent of its annualized
new premium last year, the Barclays’ analysts said. AIA is
repositioning its Korea business and the Thai floods have
affected sales in the country, they added.  AIA’s Hong Kong-traded shares have gained 15 percent this
year,  outpacing  the benchmark  Hang Seng Index ’s 14 percent
advance.  Total weighted premium income, a better indication of AIA’s
long-term business volume as it includes renewal premiums, rose
9 percent to $3.6 billion.  AIA’s  profit  fell 41 percent to $1.6 billion last year
after stock investment losses overshadowed a higher-than-
expected 40 percent surge in the value of new business.  AIG  sold  $6 billion worth of AIA shares in March to help
repay a government bailout in 2008 that swelled to $182.3
billion. The sale cut its stake in the Asian insurer to 18.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  