-- Taiwan Yields Slip From Five-Month High on Spain; Currency Gains
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-04-19T08:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/taiwan-yields-slip-from-five-month-high-on-spain-currency-gains.html
Taiwan’s  five-year  bond yields
dropped from a five-month high as investors sought the perceived
safety of government debt on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
slow the global recovery. The local dollar strengthened.  Most Asian  stock indexes  dropped after Spanish banks
reported a record amount of non-performing loans as a proportion
of total lending in February. Export orders dropped 3.9 percent
in March from a year earlier, following a 17.6 percent gain the
previous month, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before data due tomorrow.  “Concern over Europe’s debt crisis is back,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei.
“Investors are still worried about Taiwan’s economic outlook.”  The yield on the government’s 1 percent securities due
January 2017 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
1.04 percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. Benchmark
 five-year  rates touched 1.052 percent on April 17, the highest
level since Nov. 4, and slipped to 1.051 percent yesterday.  Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to NT$29.532
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The
central bank may allow faster rises in the overnight rate and
the local dollar to tame inflation, the Commercial Times
reported on April 17, citing an unidentified monetary authority
official.  One-month implied volatility in the local dollar, a measure
of exchange-rate swings traders use to price options, was steady
at 3.70 percent. The overnight  money-market  was little changed
at 0.487 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by
the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  