-- Akzo New Chief Has ‘Significant’ Fight to Meet U.S. Paint Goal
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-04-19T11:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/akzo-new-chief-has-significant-fight-to-meet-u-s-paint-goal.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s largest
paintmaker, said restoring its U.S. decorative paint unit to
break-even this year will be a “significant challenge” as
incoming Chief Executive Officer Ton Buechner takes the reins.  The maker of the Glidden paint brand is relying on cost
cutting amid a sluggish U.S. construction market, Chief
Financial Officer Keith Nichols said on a call today. The
Amsterdam-based company reported first-quarter earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates.  Akzo, the U.S.’s No. 2 paintmaker after  Sherwin-Williams
Co. (SHW) , revamped Glidden’s image and landed an exclusive agreement
to supply  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  a year ago. North American
household paint volumes fell in the first quarter, though
Nichols said Akzo didn’t lose market share to rivals. Akzo
should consider pulling out of the U.S. paint market after a
prolonged attempt to improve the fortunes of the business, said
Mark van der Geest, an analyst at  ABN Amro .  “I think Akzo should exit Deco in the U.S.: They are loss
making for four years now and haven’t been able to turn it
around,” said van der Geest, who doesn’t expect any decision
until the market stabilizes.  Analysts including Laurent Favre of  Bank of America  Merrill
Lynch have highlighted the looming decision over what to do with
the under-performing U.S. decorative paint unit as one of the
chief challenges Buechner will face when he takes over next
week. Akzo has already eliminated hundreds of jobs.  U.S. Challenge  “We’re maintaining hopes we will be break even in the U.S
going into 2013,” said Nichols. “We’re going to get this
business contributing rather than being a drag. It’s still
remains a significant challenge but the ambition is there.”  Sherwin-Williams said April 9 that first-quarter earnings
exceeded both its guidance and analysts’ estimates amid rising
demand and prices. A mild spring and improved pricing helped
bolster demand. Paint-store revenue increased about 20 percent
because of improved sales volumes for architectural paint and
higher prices, the U.S. company said.  For Akzo, trading levels in  North America  remained stagnant
through March, with demand remaining soft until the housing
market recovers, Nichols said.  High Note  The U.S. and  Europe  are bearing the brunt of a company
revamp initiated by outgoing CEO Hans Wijers, who has outlined
annual savings of 450 million euros ($590 million) to help
mitigate the effects of higher raw-material costs like titanium
dioxide, used as a whitener in paint. The maker of Dulux-paints
has set a target to boost earnings by 500 million euros for 2014
as it improves manufacturing as well as adding plants in India
and  Brazil .  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization before one-time items declined to 423 million euros
in the first quarter from 437 million euros a year earlier.
Analysts predicted 413 million euros.  The earnings beat means Wijers exits his nine-year stint at
the helm on a high. The  company’s shares  advanced as much as 4
percent higher. They were down 0.3 percent to 43 euros as of
1:50 p.m. Prior to today, Akzo had climbed 16 percent this year,
raising its value to 10.2 billion euros.  ‘Nice Ride’ Ahead  “These are fine results, with better than expected price
increases, particularly in Decorative Paints,” ING analyst
Fabian Smeets said by phone. “With the impact from
restructuring measures going forward and Buechner taking the
helm next week I think we can have a nice ride with the share
price in the rest of the year.”  Sales in the quarter increased 6 percent to 3.97 billion
euros as cost cutting helped counter weaker volumes in markets
like Europe and North America.  Asia  and  Latin America  have
become key drivers of household paint sales.  Wijers was planning to review the options for the U.S.
operations once they have been restored to health. The final
decision on the business will fall to Buechner, the former chief
of Swiss pump maker  Sulzer AG. (SUN)   “Looking at Sherwin-Williams comments, you can conclude
Akzo has been losing market share in the U.S.,” ABN Amro’s van
der Geest said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  