-- Alfa Nears Return to U.S. With 4C Sports Car Registration
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-04-19T16:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/alfa-nears-return-to-u-s-with-4c-sports-car-registration.html
Fiat SpA (F) ’s  Alfa Romeo  division took
a step closer to its return to the U.S. after registering the
brand of its 4C compact sports car, the unit’s first model
targeted for sale in the country in almost 20 years.  The 4C is part of a revamp of Alfa Romeo that will include
the new Giulia sedan, which will be based on the Dodge Dart
platform of Fiat-controlled Chrysler Group LLC for a lineup
developed and made in the U.S. starting in 2014, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The production version of the two-seat 4C may be displayed
at the 2013 Geneva car show, said the person, who declined to be
named as the plan is private.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  plans to
remake Alfa into a luxury brand to compete with industry leader
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)  Developing a full range of models
for Alfa and focusing on North America’s car-market growth are
crucial to his strategy of boosting combined revenue at Turin,
Italy-based Fiat and Chrysler to more than 100 billion euros
($131 billion) by 2014.  “The return of Alfa in the U.S. is critical for the group
as a global player needs to have an upscale brand in a major
market as North America,”  Jeff Schuster , LMC’s senior vice
president of forecasting in Troy,  Michigan , said in a phone
interview. “This is a real sign Alfa will come back to U.S.”  Trademark  Marchionne, 59, said April 4 that that the 4C will go on
sale in  North America  by the end of 2013. The Alfa Romeo 4C
trademark, covering accessories such as clothing and toys as
well as the vehicle and parts, was issued by  U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office  on April 10, according to a release posted late
yesterday on the U.S. Federal News Service.  The 4C, which will be built starting in May 2013 at a  plant 
run by Fiat’s Maserati division in Modena,  Italy , will begin
deliveries in  Europe  in the second half of next year, the person
said. Fiat, which plans to make 2,500 4Cs a year, showed a
concept version of the car last year at the Geneva show.  Fiat’s growth strategy is centered on Alfa and  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler tightening cooperation. Fiat has
a target of more than doubling Alfa sales to about 400,000
vehicles in 2014 from 150,000 in 2011 with six new models,
including sedans and sport-utility vehicles, according to a
September presentation.  Net income  at Fiat in 2011 came entirely from Chrysler,
which was helped by U.S. car-market expansion. Fiat’s volume
models lost about 500 million euros in Europe last year, and led
an industrywide sales decline in the region, as the sovereign-
debt crisis caused consumers to hold back on purchases.
Marchionne is among carmaking executives forecasting another
European contraction this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  