-- AMD Sales Forecast Beats Estimates as Supply Chain Recovers
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-04-19T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/amd-sales-forecast-beats-estimates-as-supply-improves-correct-.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers,
forecast sales growth that beat estimates as supply constraints
eased and demand increased for PC chips.  Second-quarter sales will grow about 3 percent from the
first three months, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said
today in a statement. That indicates revenue of about $1.63
billion, compared with the $1.59 billion average analyst
 estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  AMD’s forecast may indicate that PC makers are recovering
from disk-drive shortages caused by last year’s floods in
 Thailand . The company also may be rebounding from scarcity of
its new chips, called APUs, as its supplier, Globalfoundries
Inc., ramps up production.  “Demand is relatively healthy and the hard-disk makers are
allowing shipments to fully meet that demand,” said  Cody Acree ,
a Dallas-Based analyst for Williams Financial. He recommends
buying AMD’s stock.  AMD  shares  advanced as much as 2.9 percent in extended
trading, after closing at $7.97 in  New York . AMD has gained 48
percent this year.  Better Than Seasonal  AMD said its second-quarter sales growth may vary plus or
minus 3 percent. The company’s revenue typically declines about
4 percent in the second quarter from the first, according to
Chief Financial Officer Thomas Seifert.  AMD is now receiving a “steady supply” of chips made on
the latest production technology, which allowed it “to meet our
customer commitments in the quarter,” Chief Executive Officer
Rory Read said in a statement. The problem of hard-drive
shortages is now behind the industry, he said.  The company reported a first-quarter net loss of $590
million, or 80 cents a share, compared with a profit of $510
million, or 68 cents, a year earlier. Excluding one-time items,
profit was 12 cents a share, compared with an average  analyst
estimate  of 9 cents.  AMD had a one-time charge of about $700 million triggered
by a change to its supply agreement with Globalfoundries, the
company’s former manufacturing facility now owned by the
government of  Abu Dhabi .  Sales fell 1.7 percent to $1.59 billion in the period.
 Analysts (SNDK)  had predicted sales of $1.56 billion.  SanDisk Results  Separately, SanDisk Corp., which makes memory chips used in
mobile devices, declined as much as 16 percent in extended
trading after giving a second-quarter sales forecast that fell
short of some analysts’ estimates.  The Milpitas, California-based company said revenue will
decline to about $1 billion, plus or minus $50 million. Analysts
on average had estimated sales of $1.28 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  SanDisk shares, which had fallen less than 1 percent to
$40.47 at the close in New York, slipped as low as $33.90 in
late trading.  Other  semiconductor companies  reported their first-quarter
performance and gave second-quarter predictions today.  Freescale
Semiconductor Holdings I Ltd. (FSL) , which said Chief Executive
Officer Rich Beyer is retiring, reported a loss of $9 million,
or 4 cents a share, on revenue of $950 million. It predicted
second-quarter sales of $975 million to $1.025 billion. That
compared with an average analyst estimate of $1.017 billion.  Altera Corp (ALTR) , which makes programmable chips used in mobile-
phone base stations, predicted second-quarter sales will range
from $437.5 million to $452.8 million, compared with an average
analyst estimate of $451 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 