-- AMR Unions Said Prepared to Back US Airways Takeover Bid
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-19T20:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/amr-unions-said-prepared-to-support-us-airways-takeover-offer.html
American Airlines ’ three largest
unions have agreed to support a possible takeover offer from  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  rather than remain independent, three people
familiar with the matter said.  The groups plan to say that they believe they can reach
better terms with US Airways than what they expect if American
parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  exits bankruptcy by itself, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private.  The labor consensus is taking shape as  Fort Worth , Texas-
based American prepares to ask a federal  bankruptcy court  on
April 23 for permission to void existing union contracts and
impose new terms in its quest to cut 13,000 union jobs. A ruling
on the request may not occur until early June.  “To emerge successfully, American’s management and unions
have to be on the same page,” said George Hamlin, president of
Hamlin Transportation Consulting in Fairfax, Virginia. “It’s
possible the unions have concluded there is safety in numbers
and their members would be better off as part of a larger
combined carrier.”  US Airways  rose 16 percent to $9.51 at the close in New
York, the most since Jan. 25. That pushed this year’s gain to 88
percent.  Advisers Hired  Support from the unions would be a boost for US Airways,
which has confirmed hiring advisers to assess a bid for
American, the third-largest U.S. airline. Executives at Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways have discussed a takeover plan with
some AMR creditors and their advisers, people familiar with the
matter said in March.  Collectively, the  Allied Pilots Association ,  Association of
Professional Flight Attendants  and Transport Workers Union
represent about 48,000 employees at American, and they each hold
a seat on the nine-member committee representing unsecured
creditors in the airline’s bankruptcy.  “We’re keeping all our options open and moving on multiple
fronts,” TWU International President  Jim Little  said today in
an e-mailed statement that didn’t explain whether the union was
backing US Airways.  Tom Hoban, a spokesman for the APA, declined to comment,
and calls to the flight attendants weren’t immediately returned.  ‘Misleading Information’  Todd Lehmacher, a US Airways spokesman, declined to
comment. American’s  Bruce Hicks  said the company wasn’t
elaborating on a letter to employees earlier today in which
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said “misleading
information” may be circulating about the airline’s future.  “There continues to be much takeover speculation in the
press fueled by those who seek to serve their own agendas,”
Horton said. “I expect this to continue and to escalate.
Naturally, there are many who do not want American to succeed.”  While American holds the exclusive right to file a plan of
reorganization through Sept. 29, the creditors committee can ask
the court to end that privilege if the panel concludes there is
another viable option. Unsecured creditors at  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL)  flexed their muscle during that carrier’s bankruptcy in
2007 when they helped foil a hostile takeover bid by US Airways.  Group action by American’s unions would create “a greater
sense of urgency,” said  Robert Mann , president of aviation
consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in  Port Washington , New York. “It
could conceivably result in a loss of exclusivity. That in and
of itself would create immediate urgency.”  Union Leverage?  The unions may be trying to gain leverage in negotiations
with American, and also may believe they’ll win better contract
terms with US Airways, Mann and Hamlin said.  American’s workforce numbered about 73,800 when the carrier
disclosed plans in February for the job cuts that would chop
$1.25 billion in labor spending. That push aggravated labor
tensions predating its Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing, after talks
that began in September 2006 failed to produce the cost-saving
accords that American said it needed to avert Chapter 11.  Discussions continue with the TWU to reach a consensual
agreement on bankruptcy concessions even as American seeks court
approval to reject existing contracts. American also has been
meeting with the APA, while discussions with the flight
attendants have been suspended.  The three unions said in an April 13 statement that they
“must exercise due diligence and examine every possibility” to
protect the jobs and retirement plans of members.  The groups urged elected officials who spoke out against a
possible merger bid to “withhold judgment about any industry
consolidation that could involve our airline until all of the
facts become known.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  