-- Manchester United’s Value Rises to $2.2 Billion on Forbes’s List
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-19T10:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/manchester-united-s-value-rises-to-2-2-billion-on-forbes-s-list.html
Manchester United  topped Forbes
magazine’s annual list of the world’s most valuable  soccer club 
with an estimated value of $2.24 billion, a 20 percent increase
on last year.  David Beckham  was again ranked the richest player.  United, owned by U.S. billionaire  Malcolm Glazer  and his
family, was followed by record nine-time European Cup winner
Real  Madrid , which is valued at $1.87 billion, Forbes said on
its website. European champion Barcelona was third at $1.30
billion, a 34 percent rise.  Forbes determined its valuations by combining its own
review of financial documents and interviews with sports bankers
with Deloitte LLP’s annual “Football Money League” report,
which in February ranked Real Madrid as the richest club by
sales ahead of Barcelona and United.  United, which has a five-point lead atop the Premier League
as it seeks a record-extending 20th English league title, has
headed up the list every year since Forbes began calculating
valuations for soccer teams in 2004.  The club’s worldwide fan base of about 330 million also
helps make the Red Devils the most valuable team in any
professional sport, worth $385 million more than  Major League
Baseball ’s  New York Yankees  and the  Dallas Cowboys  of the
 National Football League , Forbes added.  The average value of the 20 teams on the list increased by
20 percent to $770 million, while operating income rose 13
percent to an average of $45 million, according to Forbes.  London-based Arsenal, at $1.29 billion, and  Germany ’s
 Bayern Munich  are the only other clubs to have a valuation of at
least $1 billion.  Beckham, a former United and Real Madrid midfielder now
playing with Major League Soccer’s Los Angeles Galaxy, retained
his spot atop the best-paid players’ list with $46 million in
2011 from salary, bonuses and endorsements, Forbes said.  Real’s  Cristiano Ronaldo  is second at $42 million, ahead of
Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi , who was named as soccer’s best player
for the third straight year in January, on $39 million. United
striker  Wayne Rooney  is fourth on the list with $24 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  