-- Anglo’s Platinum Output Falls 24%, Iron Ore Gains 17%
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-04-19T16:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/anglo-s-platinum-output-falls-24-iron-ore-gains-17-1-.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the biggest
platinum producer, said output of the metal fell 24 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier after it shut a plant for
maintenance, with fewer safety stoppages stemming the drop.  Refined platinum production retreated to 402,800 ounces
because of planned annual maintenance at a converting plant in
Rustenburg, which was completed last month, Johannesburg-based
Anglo American Platinum Ltd., in which Anglo has a 79.9 percent
stake, said in a statement today. Safety stops fell to 13 in the
quarter from 21 a year earlier and 32 in the prior three months.  “Amplats delivered a decent operational first quarter,”
Dominic O’Kane and  Richard Knights , London-based analysts at
Liberum Capital Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note. Output was 35
percent lower than BMO Capital Markets Ltd.’s estimate of
621,000 ounces, analyst Edward Sterck said in a note.  Anglo American, which also reported a 17 percent increase
in  iron-ore  production and a 21 percent advance in copper output
for the quarter, is reviewing the platinum unit as it isn’t
delivering the returns the company expects, Anglo Chief
Executive Officer Cynthia Carroll said Feb. 17.  Anglo American Platinum maintained its target of refining
and selling 2.5 million ounces to 2.6 million ounces of the
metal this year. It plans to stem cash-cost increases to between
14,000 rand ($1,788) and 14,500 rand per ounce produced, the
company said.  Safety Stops  Government-imposed safety stops increased at Anglo and
other South African platinum mines in the fourth quarter of last
year, also cutting output by  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and
Lonmin Plc. Production from the three account for more than two-
thirds of global output of the metal used in devices that cut
car emissions and in jewelry.  “A lower number of safety-related stoppages is not
necessarily representative for the rest of the industry and we
are reluctant to jump to the conclusion that Lonmin and Aquarius
Platinum will also benefit,” Liberum’s O’Kane and Knights said.  Anglo’s metallurgical coal output rose 73 percent after
recovering from floods in  Australia  a year earlier. Nickel
production doubled as the new Barro Alto operation gradually
increases production. Diamond output fell 16 percent “mainly
reflecting De Beers’ continued scheduled maintenance and waste
stripping activities,” Anglo said in a statement.  Industry Output  Anglo on Nov. 4 agreed to buy an additional 40 percent of
 De Beers , the biggest producer of diamonds, from the Oppenheimer
family for $5.1 billion.  The company said in February it might spend $98 billion on
more than 85 projects to double output, betting demand for iron
ore, copper, coal and other commodities would grow. The  LMEX
London Metals Index (LMEX)  sank 21 percent in the past year.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
reported a 14 percent increase in iron ore during the quarter
yesterday, while Rio Tinto Group’s 9 percent increase in
production of the steel-making ingredient missed estimates.
Anglo’s iron-ore output rose to 11.7 million tons as it
gradually starts up its new Kolomela mine in  South Africa .  Anglo and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  will struggle to achieve output
targets this year at the Collahuasi copper mine, the world’s
third-largest mine for the metal, after heavy rain in  Chile 
slowed work, the company said April 16.  Anglo fell 0.2 percent to close at 2,307 pence in  London .
It has dropped 23 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  