-- Tango Raises $40 Million to Vie With Skype in Video
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c m i l l a n
-- 2012-04-19T21:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/tango-raises-40-million-to-vie-with-skype-in-video-correct-.html
(Corrects amount and timing of last fundraising in third
paragraph.)  Tango, a startup that offers
mobile-video calling, raised $40 million from investors
including Qualcomm Ventures and Access Industries Inc. to help
it compete with Microsoft Corp.’s Skype service.  The service, which lets users make video calls across  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  phones as well as devices that run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Android
and Microsoft’s Windows Mobile software, has grown to 45 million
users since it began in 2010, Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech
Deals blog.  While the company hasn’t yet spent all of the $42 million
it raised in July, Tango opted to raise more now because new
investors offered funding at an attractive valuation, Chief
Technology Officer Eric Setton said in an interview.  “There’s a lot of interest right now around mobile
companies that do well,” said Setton, who co-founded the
company with fellow video-technology veteran Uri Raz. “Unlike
most companies in our space, we actually generate revenue.”  Setton said Facebook’s $1 billion purchase of Instagram,
announced last week, helped raise investor interest in mobile
applications.  Tango would not disclose its valuation, which was at $160
million when it took funding last year, two people said at the
time. Setton also would not specify how much the startup has
made by selling extra storage for video calls and animations
that play on the screen during calls.  When Tango began offering its app for  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s Windows
Mobile phones last year, it became the first video-calling
service to span all three major mobile platforms. It’s still the
only mobile video service to do so.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , paid $8.5 billion
last year for Skype, gaining a service that provides mobile-
video calling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  