-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Area Falls for Third Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-07-19T15:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/manufacturing-in-the-philadelphia-fed-region-cooled-in-april.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region shrank for the third consecutive month as new orders and
employment declined.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  rose to minus 12.9 in July from minus 16.6 the month
before. Economists forecast the gauge would improve to minus 8,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Readings of less than zero signal contraction in the area, which
covers eastern Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  The  European debt crisis  and slowing growth in China and
Brazil are limiting demand for U.S. exports. In the U.S.,
elevated unemployment is restraining  consumer spending , while a
drought in the Midwest threatens sales of  farm equipment  made by
companies such as Deere & Co. The report showed manufacturers’
outlook for future orders declined.  “You saw not only a continued contraction of activity, but
a lessening of optimism,” said Steven Blitz, chief economist at
ITG Investment Research Inc. in  New York . “There’s nothing in
their order books that’s getting them excited. For the economy,
it means more of the same low-level growth.”  Other data today showed that sales of existing homes
unexpectedly dropped in June to an eight-month low, claims for
 unemployment benefits  rose last week and an index of U.S.
leading economic indicators fell more than forecast.  Stocks pared gains after the reports. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,375.45 at 10:54 a.m. in New
York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was little changed
at 1.49 percent.  Economists’ Estimates  Estimates for the Philadelphia manufacturing index from 57
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged from 3 to minus 15.  The index showed the third straight month of contraction in
new orders, to minus 6.9 from minus 18.8. Manufacturers were
also less optimistic about the prospects for future business,
with the six-month outlook for orders falling to 26.1 from 38.2.  A gauge of  employment  declined to minus 8.4 this month from
1.8 in June. The six-month outlook for future hiring also
worsened by 7.4 points to 11.3.  Economists monitor the Philadelphia factory report and
other regional indexes for clues to the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s national figures on manufacturing. The ISM will
release its next report on August 1. Its last report showed
manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in June for the first time in
three years.  “While the broader economic backdrop still remains
favorable, the broader indicators we follow are mixed,”
Clarence Gooden, executive vice president of  CSX Corp. (CSX)  in
Jacksonville,  Florida , said in a July 18 earnings call.
“Although these indicators generally still point to continued
growth, it is expected to be at a more modest pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  