-- Apple IPhone 5 May Debut in October, Analyst Munster Says
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-04-19T21:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/apple-iphone-5-release-may-come-in-october-piper-jaffray-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s next iPhone is likely
to be introduced in October and will feature a new body design
and work with faster wireless networks, according to  Gene Munster , an analyst at  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC)  who had expected an
August release for the top-selling smartphone.  In a note today, Munster wrote that October is more
probable after chipmaker  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  announced it is having
trouble meeting demand for components that the analyst expects
to be included in a new iPhone. The supply constraints, along
with Verizon Wireless reporting a drop in iPhone sales,
contributed to a 3.4 percent decline in Apple shares today.  The  iPhone  is Apple’s top-selling product, accounting for
53 percent of its sales in the quarter that ended last December.
Apple hasn’t discussed plans for the next version’s release.
Munster, who has correctly predicted the release of previous
Apple products, said in the note that Qualcomm’s radio chips
that allow for faster connection to the Internet will be
included in the next-generation iPhone.  Apple released the iPhone 4S, the current version, in
October of last year. Munster said the release of the new model
should lead investors to raise their projections for financial
results in the quarter ending in December 2012. The analyst
wrote that he had previously modeled for the iPhone to be
unveiled in August.  LTE Wireless  By working with new so-called long-term evolution, or LTE,
wireless networks being built by carriers such as AT&T Inc. and
 Verizon Wireless , iPhone users would have a faster connection
for data-heavy tasks such as browsing the Web, watching videos
and downloading files.  Cupertino, California-based Apple, the world’s most
valuable company, fell to $587.44 at the close in  New York . The
 shares  have risen 45 percent this year. Qualcomm, after
disclosing its supply shortages late yesterday, fell 6.6 percent
to $62.57 today.  Verizon Wireless, the second-biggest U.S. phone network,
said iPhone sales fell to 3.2 million from 4.3 million in the
previous quarter, when the 4S model was released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  