-- Argentina Will Be Shunned at IMF Meetings Over YPF Grab
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-20T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/argentina-will-be-shunned-at-imf-meetings-over-ypf-grab.html
Argentina ’s seizure of oil company
 YPF SA (YPFD)  is making the country an outcast at the International
Monetary Fund meetings in Washington, where the Obama
administration is increasingly punishing President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government for abusing foreign investors.  Outgoing World Bank President Robert Zoellick yesterday
called the seizure of Argentina’s largest energy company a
“mistake” and the “wrong thing to do,” while an IMF official
earlier in the week said policy making in  South America ’s
second-biggest economy runs the risk of becoming “more
unpredictable.”  Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino arrived in Washington
yesterday vowing to defend Fernandez’s decision three days ago
to expropriate 51 percent of YPF from Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , a
move the government says will reverse a trend of declining oil
and gas output since 1998. He’s unlikely to find many friends,
as such “renegade” policies further isolate Argentina from the
rest of the Group of 20, said  Walter Molano , an emerging markets
analyst with BCP Securities in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “A full pariah, it is no longer a member of the emerging
markets club,” Molano, a frequent visitor to Argentina since
the 1990s, said in a report yesterday. “It is a frontier market,
with little regard for the rule of law, property rights and
prudent macroeconomic policies.”  U.S. Pressure  Zoellick, in an interview with Bloomberg Television, said
Argentina is an “outlier” in  Latin America  though cautioned
that the same “populist” pressures that led the government to
take control of YPF and close off the economy are prevalent
around the world.  “What investor in his right mind would put money into a
country that nationalizes industries?” Zoellick asked, echoing
comments earlier in the week from Mexican President Felipe Calderon.  The U.S. has been stepping up pressure on Argentina. Last
month, President  Barack Obama  suspended trade preferences for
the country in retaliation for the government’s failure to pay
damages owed U.S. investors including Houston-based water
utility Azurix Corp.  Trouble With IMF  Under the new rules, goods worth $477 million, about 11
percent of total U.S. imports from Argentina last year, will no
longer be eligible for tariff reductions under the Generalized
System of Preferences, a program to assist trade from developing
nations.  Since September, the U.S. has also repeatedly voted against
financing development projects for Argentina at the  World Bank 
and  Inter-American Development Bank  to pressure Fernandez to
settle with holders of bonds the government stopped payment on
in 2001 as part of its $95 billion default.  Argentina has also run afoul of the IMF. The country is the
only member of the G-20 that has refused to comply with an
annual assessment of its economy by IMF staff. The IMF in its
World Economic Outlook released this week noted that the
nation’s benchmark consumer price index doesn’t accurately
reflect inflation that some private economists estimate to be
around 25 percent.  “There has been some deterioration in the investment
climate in Argentina over the past few years,” Thomas Helbling,
an IMF economist, said at an April 17 news conference in
 Washington  to present the lender’s latest global forecasts.
“Discretionary government interventions that worsen the
investment climate make it also more unpredictable, which is not
helpful for investment and long-term growth.”  Anti-Argentina ‘Bias’  Finance Minister Hernan Lorenzino accused the IMF of a
“systematic bias” against his country. In a statement before
traveling to Washington, he said the lender has repeatedly
failed to recognize the government’s success growing the economy
and reducing poverty. He said that he’d use his meetings with
policy makers to defend the seizure of YPF, which is vital to
ensuring the country’s “energy sovereignty.”  “The G-20 is a discussion forum, not an arbitrator,”
Lorenzino told reporters following a panel yesterday at the
World Bank.  While it’s unclear how  Spain  will respond to Argentina’s
action, it’s possible that they could try to censure the country
at the G-20, IMF or the World Bank. Spanish Foreign Minister
Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo said yesterday that his government
would coordinate any action with the U.S., Deutsche Presse-
Agentur reported, citing comments by the diplomat following a
meeting in Brussels with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  G-20 ‘Outlier’  By several measures, Argentina already stands out as an
anomaly within the G-20, the elite group of major economies.  Its $448 billion economy is the world’s 27th biggest,
smaller than those of non G-20 states like Spain, Sweden and
 Poland . It’s also the only G-20 member and major Latin America
market classified as “frontier” by MSCI Inc., which removed it
from its benchmark emerging-market index in 2009 following the
government’s seizure of $24 billion in pension funds.  Argentina’s bonds are the riskiest among major  emerging
markets  tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co., with investors
demanding an extra 1,023 basis points in yield to hold Argentine
 government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries.  “Argentina has failed to honor its commitments as a member
of the Group of 20 and its obligations to the IMF,” Treasury
spokeswoman Kara Alaimo said in September. “We have
consistently told the Argentine authorities that they must
rectify these policies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  