-- Argentine Shortages Range From Drugs to Salmon on Import Cuts
-- B y   K a r i n a   M a r t i n e z - C a r t e r
-- 2012-04-19T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/argentine-shortages-range-from-drugs-to-salmon-on-import-cuts.html
Since February, consumers and
businesses in  Argentina  have found it increasingly hard to find
various imported items -- electrical equipment, certain
 prescription drugs , machinery parts, bananas, and salmon.  The government of President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
wants to reduce dependence on imports and encourage local
industry and agriculture to fill the gap. The country recorded a
$356 million current account deficit in the fourth quarter,
Bloomberg BusinessWeek reports in its April 23-29 issue.  Since a healthy  trade surplus  is a pillar of Argentina’s
economic model, policy makers want to get back in the black as
fast as possible. Trade considerations were behind the
government’s move on April 16 to wrest control of YPF SA, a
local oil producer, from the hands of  Spain ’s Repsol  YPF SA. (YPF) 
Fernandez figures the Argentines can coax more oil from the
fields than the Spanish, thus cutting the bill for imported oil.  This cut-imports-at-all-costs campaign has triggered a
backlash. The government announced in late March that all
foreign publications entering Argentina would be held at Ezeiza
International Airport outside Buenos Aires. The Twitter hashtag
#LiberenLosLibros (Spanish for “free the books”) was widely
used.  Blocked Periodicals  The government said the new policy, which would stop home
delivery of all overseas print publications and force
subscribers to pick up their periodicals at the airport for a
sizable additional fee, was needed because inspectors had to
check ink lead levels. The move didn’t go down well in a country
that prides itself on its literary tradition and where one of
the iconic buildings in the capital,  Palacio Barolo , is a
physical tribute to Dante’s “Divine Comedy.”  A few days of vehement backlash later, the government
reversed the measure.  Stringent rules on many other imports, however, remain in
place. Importers are now required to fill out the Anticipated
Sworn Declaration of Imports, which must be approved by the
government. For foreign manufacturers to bring goods or services
into the country, they must enter into partnerships with local
manufacturers for production.  The new measures have created a tangle of red tape and
brought denunciations from 14 member states of the  World Trade
Organization , including the U.S. and the European Union. The
statement accuses Argentina of restrictive trade measures and a
lack of transparency. “It appears that this new system is
operating as a de facto import-restricting scheme on all
products,” said the document.  Home Appliances  The official WTO statement additionally listed laptops,
home appliances, cars and car parts, toys, and textiles among
the affected products. Argentina rejected the criticism and
defended the restrictions as “sovereign trade policies.”  Marcela Cristini, a senior economist at the Foundation for
Latin American Economic Investigations, said the import
restrictions risk freezing Argentina out of international
markets and making it more of an economic outlier than it
already is. She said boosting exports is a more effective way to
achieve a  trade surplus  and improve competitiveness.  Walter Molano , a Latin American specialist at BCP
Securities, also criticized the crackdown on imports. “The
Argentine economy is doing well,” he said. “But they’re
missing the big Latin America boom. They should be doing much
better.” Instead, President Fernandez has pursued ever-more-
insular economic policies, he added.  Vice President  Amado Boudou  took to Twitter on March 30 to
explain the policy. “We are not against imports, we are looking
after your jobs, we are looking after Argentine industry,” he
wrote. Readers noticed that Twitter had registered the vice
president as posting from an iPhone. Yet the government blocks
the import of the Apple Inc. smartphone. The screen shot of the
ironic tweet went viral. Should Argentines want an iPhone, as
Boudou told reporters earlier, they’ll have to buy it in Miami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karina Martinez-Carter in  Buenos Aires  at  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  