-- Larrain Vows Spending Restraint to Contain Chile Prices
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-04-19T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/larrain-vows-spending-restraint-to-contain-chile-prices.html
Chile’s Finance Minister Felipe Larrain pledged to limit spending growth to contain price
increases and borrowing costs after inflation expectations
reached a 10-month high earlier this month.  Larrain said he wants government expenditure to grow at a
slower pace than gross domestic product, which the government
targets to expand an annual 6 percent over its four years in
office ending 2014.  “With a more moderate expansion of public spending, I am
going to control inflation and will contribute to a more
competitive  exchange rate  and lower  interest rates ,” he said in
an interview in New York City yesterday.  The minister said inflation will be within the central
bank’s target band of 2 percent to 4 percent this year after it
breached the upper limit in three of the past four months. That
up-tick in inflation will prompt policy makers to raise
 borrowing costs  this year for the first time since June 2011,
according to traders polled April 10 by the central bank.  Chile’s two-year breakeven rate, a measure of average
future inflation priced into the swaps market, retreated to 3.1
percent yesterday after surging to 3.56 percent on April 2, the
highest since June. One-year break-even inflation dropped 12
basis points yesterday to 2.88 percent.  “Larrain’s comments are a clear signal that the government
will try to control inflation,” Sebastian Ide, head of rates
trading at Banco de  Chile  in Santiago, said yesterday.  Spending Growth  Fiscal spending grew 3.2 percent last year, while gross
domestic product expanded 6 percent. This year, the government
estimates economic growth will slow to between 4 percent and 5
percent, while public expenditure is budgeted to increase 5.3
percent.  Even with limited spending growth last year,  inflation 
reached 4.4 percent in December, its highest level since April
2009. It slowed to 3.8 percent in March.  The central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 5 percent at its last three meetings following a
surprise reduction in January.  The government announced this week a transportation fare
subsidy in Santiago that may help control inflation and is
studying tax changes that may include a cut on stamp duty, or
tax on loans. Power bills for Santiago customers are set to fall
in April as distributor Chilectra SA applies lower node prices.  The price in pesos of a barrel of Brent crude oil has
declined 6.1 percent since March 23, when it reached the highest
since 2008.  Swaps Fall  Interest-rate swaps  dropped to the lowest in a month
yesterday after the central bank held borrowing costs steady
this week and as European fiscal concern weighed on the price of
copper, the nation’s biggest export.  “The international environment hasn’t been pro-growth or
pro-inflation,” said Ide. “A few weeks ago the chance of a
rate cut was zero and while it is small today, it’s not zero.”  The two-year swap rate fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 5.19 percent, the lowest level since March
13. The one-year rate fell six basis points to 5.17 percent.  Larrain, 54, has an undergraduate degree from Santiago-
based Universidad Catolica de Chile and a doctorate in economics
from  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  