-- Artificial DNA Can Replicate in Lab, Researchers Find
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-04-19T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/artificial-dna-can-replicate-in-lab-researchers-find.html
Scientists moved a step closer to
synthesizing new life forms in the laboratory after researchers
showed that artificial genetic material called XNA can be
replicated in the test tube much like real  DNA .  Researchers at the  Medical Research Council Laboratory of
Molecular Biology  in the U.K. demonstrated for the first time a
way to extract information from the artificial genetic molecules
and mass produce copies of them. The finding, published today in
the journal  Science , shows that DNA and its sister molecule RNA
may not be the only chemical structures upon which a living unit
can be based.  “Life is based on this amazing ability of DNA and RNA to
store and propagate information,” said  Philipp Holliger , a
 Medical Research  Council molecular biologist and senior author
on the study. “We have shown that the basic functions of DNA
and RNA can be recapitulated” with new artificial molecules.  The scientists invented a lab method for making copies of
synthetic DNA. They also developed a way to make XNA fragments
that evolve with desired properties. In particular, they created
XNA fragments that could bind with great specificity to a
molecular target in the HIV virus. The discovery could create a
new platform for devising targeted drugs to treat a variety of
diseases, researchers said.  “This brings us one big step closer to artificial life,”
said  Gerald Joyce , a biochemist at Scripps Research Institute in
 San Diego , in a telephone interview. “The heart of what life
is, is the replication of genetic information,” he said. Joyce
wrote a commentary accompanying the study.  Hereditary Molecule  DNA , deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary molecule at
the center of our cells. It contains code, in the form of
chemical letters A, T, C and G, that tells the body how to make
proteins that perform numerous bodily functions such as
regulating blood sugar or fighting infections.  XNAs, or xeno-nucleic acids, maintain the same four-letter
chemical code while altering the backbone of the DNA “double
helix” molecule to add properties such as acid resistance.  While XNAs aren’t new, chemists have always had to make
them one at a time, limiting their utility, Joyce said. With the
new work, “if I give you a few XNAs in the morning, I can come
back in the afternoon and you can give me trillions of copies.”  The work may give scientists a  new method  for creating
designer drugs and diagnostic tools. “There are a whole host of
opportunities in biotechnology which now become possible,”
Holliger said.  While researchers have been working for years on therapies
based on DNA and RNA, a limitation is that the nucleic acids
break down easily in the body, and need to be modified to make
them more stable, said Joyce.  “If you put a sample of RNA on a sterile dish and just
breathe on it, it is a goner,” said Joyce.  DNA Still Needed  One limitation of the new method is that it isn’t entirely
artificial, and natural DNA is still required as an intermediate
step in the XNA copying process.  The XNA work provides a new way of developing designer
nucleic acid drugs that could resist breakdown, or have other
desirable properties, such as the ability to slip from the
bloodstream into diseased cells, said Holliger.  XNA-based drugs “might have a future to rival
antibodies,” he said. Antibody drugs, such as  Roche Holding
AG (ROG) ’s Avastin for cancer and  Abbott Laboratories’ (ABT)  Humira for
autoimmune diseases, have become some of the biggest selling
therapies in recent years.  The research “is a tour-de-force” that could have
“direct therapeutic impact,” said  Andrew Ellington , the Fraser
Professor of Biochemistry at the Center for Systems and
Synthetic Biology at the  University of Texas  in Austin, in an e-
mail.  Interfering RNAs  It also could help drug researchers working on so-called
small interfering RNAs, he said. Companies working on such drugs
include  Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY)  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . RNA is a similar molecule to DNA that transports
genetic information from the cell nucleus to the molecular
factories where proteins are made.  Still, “the ultimate impact of the work won’t really be
known until folks have had a chance to try out the cornucopia of
diversity” the researchers have provided, Ellington said.  The Medical Research Council has applied for patents on the
new XNA method, Holliger said. Researchers from  Arizona State
University , University of Southern Denmark, and the Rega
Institute for Medical Research in  Belgium  were also involved in
the study.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  