-- Stocks Fall on Economic Data as French, Spain Bonds Drop
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-04-19T20:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/asian-stocks-drop-before-spain-s-debt-sale-aussie-gains.html
U.S. stocks fell for a second day
as data on manufacturing, home sales and jobless claims tempered
optimism in the economy, overshadowing improving earnings.
Spanish and French bonds slid; Treasuries and commodities rose.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.6 percent to
close at 1,376.92 at 4 p.m. in New York after rising as much as
0.4 percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.5 percent,
erasing an earlier 1 percent rally. The S&P GSCI gauge of
commodities rose 0.2 percent as crops led gains. Ten-year
Treasury yields lost one basis point to 1.97 percent as rates on
French and Spanish 10-year bonds climbed at least eight basis
points, reviving concern about Europe’s debt crisis.  U.S. reports today showed existing-home sales unexpectedly
fell 2.6 percent, the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia’s
manufacturing index trailed estimates and jobless claims
exceeded projections.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Bank of America Corp.
reported earnings were boosted by higher trading revenue, while
Ebay Inc. surged as its PayPal payments service fueled profit
growth.  “You’ve got a lot of counter-balancing points,”  Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which oversees about $370 billion, said in a
phone interview. “The jobless claims number was disappointing,
while corporate earnings have been coming in stronger than
expected,” he said. “Investors are looking at each incremental
data point trying to draw conclusions.”  Market Leaders  Technology, industrial and consumer-discretionary stocks
helped led losses in the 10 main  S&P 500   industry groups , while
telephone companies posted the biggest gains. DuPont Co.  lost
1.2 percent to help lead declines in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  after the chemical company said quarterly sales volumes
fell 2 percent, led by declines in the electronics unit and in
the Asia-Pacific region.  Financial  shares  in the S&P 500 slipped 0.4 percent as a
group. Wall Street banks will have two years to implement the
so-called Volcker rule so long as they make a “good faith”
effort to comply with the ban on proprietary trading, U.S.
regulators said. Banks will have the “full two-year period”
provided by the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law to “fully
conform” their activities and investments, the Federal Reserve
and four other U.S. agencies said in a statement today.  The Philadelphia Fed’s  general economic index  decreased to
8.5 in April, the lowest level since January and less than the
median forecast of economists for a reading of 12. The Labor
Department reported initial jobless claims of 386,000 last week,
topping the median estimate of 370,000.  Verizon, Apple  Verizon Communications Inc. climbed 1.3 percent as
smartphone demand boosted subscriber count, while Apple Inc.
lost 3.4 percent and was the biggest drag on the S&P 500 after
Verizon said iPhone sales slowed.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest
maker of mobile-phone semiconductors, declined 6.6 percent as
its third-quarter forecasts fell short of some projections on
increased spending to bolster chip output.  Ebay surged 13 percent, the biggest gain in almost seven
years. Travelers Cos. jumped 3.8 percent as the insurer’s profit
beat estimates and the company boosted its dividend by 12
percent.  Profits for S&P 500 companies probably rose 1.7 percent in
the first quarter and 2 percent in the following period,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Commodities Gain  Corn rallied 3 percent on signs of rising demand for
supplies from the U.S. and wheat climbed more than 2 percent to
lead gains in 17 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
Index, which climbed 0.2 percent. Oil slipped 0.4 percent to
$102.27 a barrel.  Among European stocks, Publicis Groupe SA dropped 4.1
percent as  France ’s largest advertising company said growth will
slow this quarter. SKF AB, the world’s biggest maker of ball
bearings, rose 4.9 percent after forecasting higher sales in the
U.S. and  Asia .  Spain’s 10-year bond yield increased 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 5.93 percent and France’s yield added
eight basis points to 3.10 percent. The French rate increased to
141 basis points above yields on benchmark German bunds, the
highest level since January.  Spain sold 2.54 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of two-year
and 10-year debt today, compared with a maximum target of 2.5
billion euros, and France auctioned 8 billion euros.  Spain sold the 10-year benchmark bonds at an average yield
of 5.743 percent, compared with 5.789 percent on the secondary
market before the auction, and 5.403 percent when it last sold
the debt in January. It auctioned two-year securities at 3.463
percent. France issued 2.7 billion euros of benchmark five-year
securities at an average yield of 1.83 percent, up from 1.78
percent on March 15.  French Credit Risk  French credit risk climbed to the highest in three months
on concern anti-business policies will be adopted after the
presidential election as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens. The cost
of insuring the nation’s sovereign debt rose one basis point to
201 basis points, according to CMA .  Credit-rating companies will probably downgrade France over
the next two to three years regardless of whether President
Nicolas Sarkozy or his Socialist challenger,  Francois Hollande ,
wins the election, Citigroup Inc. economist  Michael Saunders 
wrote in a client note today. The nation may be cut one level by
both S&P and Moody’s Investors Service, he wrote.  Italy , Spain,
Ireland and Portugal also face potential downgrades, he wrote.  IMF Resources  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund , says she hopes to raise more than $320 billion in
additional lending resources. That figure is not the “final
ask,” she said in a Bloomberg Television interview today,
adding that she expects countries to announce additional
contributions.  In Asia,  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced 1 percent.
China will boost liquidity by cutting reserve requirement ratios
if necessary, Xinhua News Agency said, citing an unidentified
central bank official. The nation may also increase open market
operations including reverse repurchase agreements and
redemption of central bank bills, the report said.  The yen weakened against all 16 major peers as  Bank of
Japan  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  pledged to continue monetary
easing. Growth in developed economies remains “anemic,”
Shirakawa said yesterday in New York. The dollar climbed against
nine of 16 major peers.  The MSCI Emerging Markets was little changed. Russia’s
Micex Index gained 1.9 percent as steelmaker OAO Severstal
jumped 5.7 percent after fourth-quarter profit beat estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  