-- Audi to Make Q5 SUV in Mexico in Global Challenge to BMW
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-04-19T08:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/audi-to-make-q5-suv-in-mexico-in-global-challenge-to-bmw.html
Audi AG, the world’s second-biggest
luxury-car manufacturer, will build the Q5 sport-utility vehicle
in Mexico for the global market in a bid to challenge  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  as industry leader.  The Mexican factory, which will begin operating in 2016,
will initially have capacity for 150,000 Q5s a year and will
cost considerably less than 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) to
build, Audi Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler said at a
briefing today in Hamburg.  Audi, owned by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , will join German competitors
BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz unit in making SUVs in  North
America  for delivery worldwide. Audi sells about half as many
cars in the U.S. as BMW and Mercedes-Benz, and has a target of
increasing sales in the country by 59 percent from last year to
200,000 vehicles by 2018. VW’s namesake brand already has a car
plant and engine factory in  Mexico .  The Q5 is “a product that would sell very well in the
U.S.,”  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based analyst at Credit
Suisse analyst with an outperform recommendation on VW, said by
telephone. “Volkswagen has all the components for that platform
already in Mexico in their Puebla plant, so I would be surprised
if it’s not somewhere around the Puebla region.”  Audi will choose a location for the Mexican plant later
this year, the Ingolstadt, Germany-based brand said yesterday in
a statement. The VW and Audi supervisory boards approved
building the plant, the luxury-car division’s first in North
America, at meetings yesterday.  ‘Excellent Economic Basis’  “As an established carmaking location, Mexico offers an
excellent economic basis for Audi production operations,”
Stadler said in yesterday’s statement. “Good infrastructure,
competitive cost structures and existing free trade agreements
played a significant role in the choice.”  The decision comes about a year after Volkswagen opened a
factory in  Tennessee , the group’s only U.S. plant, to boost
efforts to overtake  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s biggest
carmaker. BMW makes vehicles in South Carolina, while Mercedes
assembles cars in Alabama.  Volkswagen also said it will build a new assembly plant in
western China, to fuel the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker’s
expansion in the world’s largest auto market. VW’s supervisory
board approved the new factory in Urumqi, China, yesterday,
spokesman Michael Brendel said. The automaker will release
details later, he said.  The VW plant would be the first set up by a western
carmaker plant in that region of China, and is part of the
manufacturer’s 10.6 billion-euro investment plan for the country
through 2015. U.S. competitor  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said today that it
plans to build a $760 million assembly plant in Hangzhou in
eastern China that will double is production in the country to
1.2 million vehicles annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Hamburg via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net 
Alex Webb in Munich via 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  