-- Austrian Air Forces Lower-Cost Tyrolean Contracts on Pilots
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-04-19T14:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/austrian-air-forces-lower-cost-tyrolean-contracts-on-pilots-1-.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Austrian
Airlines unit said it will implement plans to transfer air-crew
contracts to regional operator Tyrolean Airways in order to
deliver a 220 million-euro ($289 million) cost-savings program.  Austrian Air’s supervisory board, chaired by Lufthansa’s
Stefan Lauer, voted to shift 600 pilots and 1,500 cabin crew to
less-lucrative contracts from July 1 after no agreement could be
reached with their union, the Vienna-based company said today.  “We’ve taken a decision today which frees Austrian Airlines
from inherited structural burdens,” Chief Executive Officer Jaan Albrecht said at a briefing, adding that crew wages are now
frozen, putting the company “on a more competitive footing.”  The Vida union, which represents flight crew, withdrew from
a labor agreement in March as it sought to hinder a transfer of
contracts, which are 25 percent less costly at Innsbruck-based
Tyrolean. Austrian Airlines has been seeking to improve
profitability after posting a 62 million-euro loss in 2011.  The Tyrolean contracts will not immediately result in lower
wages for air crew, with the savings to be achieved through
limited future salary increases, according to a statement.  Training Costs  Karl Minhard, Austrian Air’s works council head, said
yesterday that talks had failed to make progress and that the
airline plan will fail to deliver the savings sought because of
extra spending in areas such as pilot training as the fleet
shifts toward Airbus SAS A320 planes from Boeing Co. 737s.  Austrian Air is relaxed about any legal challenge from its
unions, Chief Operating Officer Peter Malanik said in Vienna,
with the company targeting a 223 million-euro saving this year.  Even then, tax and fuel-price burdens will weigh on
earnings through 2012, CEO Albrecht said. Some 40 pilots have
left Austrian so far during the dispute and the company is
“prepared” should more seek to leave, he added.  “This measure is essential for the long-term survival of
Austrian Airlines,” he said.  Cost reductions through the transfer of staff to Tyrolean
parallel developments at the former Swissair, where workers
moved to local regional carrier Crossair following the flag
carrier’s collapse in 2002. The business was renamed Swiss
International Air Lines and acquired by Lufthansa in 2005, and
posted a 259 million-euro operating profit in 2011.  Belgium ’s Brussels Airlines was similarly founded after
assets of failed national carrier Sabena were used to form SN
Brussels in 2002. The current name was coined following a merger
with discount operator Virgin Express, with Lufthansa adding the
company to its portfolio in 2009 by taking a 45 percent stake.  Tyrolean, an operator of Fokker jets and Bombardier Inc.
Q400 turboprops acquired by Austrian in 1998, will be integrated
into its parent’s flight operations by the end of the year to
eliminate route duplication, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  