-- Austrian Nationalists Protest Anti-Semite’s Removal From Street
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-04-19T13:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/austrian-nationalists-protest-anti-semite-s-removal-from-street.html
Austria’s anti-immigrant
nationalist party, running second in nationwide popularity
polls, attacked the capital’s decision to strip an anti-Semitic
mayor’s name from one of Vienna’s busiest roads.  Freedom Party leader Heinz-Christian Strache  accused 
Vienna’s ruling  Social Democrats  of perpetuating an “outrage”
and forcing “political re-education”  on its citizens. The
city of 1.7 million people changed the name of part of the road
circling the capital to University Ring from Karl-Lueger-Ring.  Lueger was Vienna’s Christian-Social Party mayor from 1897
until his death in 1910. While Lueger is credited with creating
some of Vienna’s key infrastructure, his legacy is tarnished by
anti-Semitism. He  demonized  Vienna’s Jewish minority to build
political support among the city’s disparate immigrant
community.  “Anti-Semitic verbal incitement by politicians like Karl
Lueger paved the way for the racial anti-Semitism of the
Nazis,” Oskar Deutsch, president of Jewish Community of Vienna,
said today in a statement. “This should also be a warning to
politicians of our day” who speak in “reckless and
reprehensible ways with anti-Semitic, racist and xenophobic
slogans.”  Strache’s  Freedom Party  is in second place in Austrian
opinion  polls . He complained in January that his party has
become the “new Jews” because of the protests that it
confronts, Vienna’s Der Standard newspaper reported.  Lueger’s name will remain on one Vienna square, four
monuments, three commemorative plaques, one palace and a church,
Social Democratic spokesman Ernst Woller said today in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  