-- Aviva Europe, North America and Investment CEOs to Step Down
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-04-19T15:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/aviva-europe-north-america-and-investment-ceos-to-step-down-1-.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest insurer by market value, said its heads of  Europe ,  North
America  and investment management will step down as it creates
two divisions for developed and higher-growth markets.  Igal Mayer, chief executive officer of Europe, Richard
Hoskins, CEO of North America, and Alain Dromer, CEO of Aviva
Investors, will leave, London-based Aviva said today in a
statement. U.K. head Trevor Matthews will be promoted to
executive director of developed markets and  Asia  CEO Simon Machell will lead its higher-growth markets unit.  Aviva may be reversing its strategy announced in 2009 to
build a hub in Europe, described at the time as the fastest-
growing retirement and savings market, according to Kevin Ryan,
a London-based analyst at  Investec Plc. (INVP)  The insurer, which gets
about a third of revenue in continental Europe, has trailed U.K.
competitors in the  FTSE ASX Life Insurance Index (FALIFE)  amid Europe’s
debt crisis.  “It’s a reversal from a lot of things they’ve said in the
past,” said  Peter Eliot , a London-based analyst at Berenberg
Bank with a hold rating on the stock. “The overall strategy is
certainly less clear.”  The stock  declined  2.6 percent to 299.6 pence in London
trading, valuing the insurer at 8.7 billion pounds ($14
billion). The firm has fallen 28 percent in the past year,
compared with a 4 percent drop in the FTSE 350 Life Insurance
Index.  Cash Generation  Like U.K. competitors  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  and
 Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , Aviva has been focusing on running its U.K.
life insurance operations to generate more cash by writing
policies that require less capital backing and offer lower
guarantees.  Grouping France, Spain, Italy, the U.S. and  Canada  with the
U.K. may allow the company to replicate this strategy more
broadly, Eliot said. “Putting all the developed markets
together may focus them on cash generation,” Eliot said. Asia,
Poland, Turkey and  Russia  will provide the company with growth,
he said.  The changes will create a “simpler and more efficient
organization which will deliver further operational benefits,
accelerate delivery of our strategy and provide opportunities
for profitable growth,” Aviva CEO Andrew Moss, 54, said in the
statement.  Second Departure  Mayer, 50, is Aviva’s second European CEO to announce he’s
departing in the past 18 months, following Andrea Moneta, who
left the company in February last year. Moneta championed a
“quantum leap” strategy in 2009, which planned to create a
pan-European insurer with a single headquarters to serve its 18
million customers on the continent.  Mayer previously worked to turn around and lead Aviva’s
U.K. general insurance unit, its North American division and
most recently the company’s European operations. He had been
with the company for 23 years.  “We regret the departure of Igal Mayer, arguably the most
respected of the group’s operational managers,” Oliver Steel, a
London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG with a hold rating on
the stock, said.  Matthews, who joined Aviva from Friends Life last year,
will take over Mayer’s responsibility for Italy and  Spain  as
well as Canada in addition to his position as CEO of the U.K.
and Ireland. Matthews replaced Mark Hodges, who left to join
Towergate Insurance Ltd. last year after two decades with the
company  Chief Financial Officer Pat Regan, who joined Aviva in
2010, takes on the additional job as head of Aviva Investors,
replacing Dromer. The move is “not a surprise in practice given
the recent reorganization of this operation,” Steel wrote in
the note.  David Barral, head of U.K. life insurance, David McMillan,
head of U.K. general insurance and Philippe Maso, head of the
insurer’s French division, will join the group executive
committee, which reports to directly to Moss, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 