-- Avoid Hong Kong Builders as Home Prices Set to Stall, CLSA Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-04-19T02:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/avoid-hong-kong-builders-as-home-prices-set-to-stall-clsa-says.html
Hong Kong property  stocks should be
avoided as growth in the city’s  home prices  may slow after its
new leader vowed to increase housing supply upon taking over in
July, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  “We see little reason to own the stocks in the next five
years,” CLSA’s Hong Kong-based analysts led by  Nicole Wong 
wrote in a report yesterday. The election of the city’s new
leader “should mark the end of an unusual period for the Hong
Kong  property market .”  Leung Chun-ying, a former property surveyor, last month won
the election to be Hong Kong’s next chief executive, having
pledged to bridge the  income gap  and bring down property prices
by accelerating housing supply. Hong Kong’s  home prices  have
gained more than 70 percent since early 2009 on record low
market rates and an under-supply of new units.  Home prices may rise 8 percent in the next 12 months, while
office rent may drop 15 percent and retail rent may gain 10
percent, according to CLSA.  The analysts predict property stocks such as  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16) , the city’s biggest builder, Henderson Land
Development Co., and Sino Land Co. to perform worse than the
market. They also advised investors to sell  Midland Holdings
Ltd. (1200) , the city’s biggest publicly-traded realtor, and New World
Development Co.  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s seven
biggest builders, has tripled in the past 10 years. It was
little-changed at 10:16 a.m. in Hong Kong today.  The analysts have singled out  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) ,
 Wharf Holdings Ltd. (4)  and Singapore-listed  Hongkong Land Holdings
Ltd. (HKL)  as developers which may outperform the market.  Chief executive-elect Leung said last month he doesn’t see
signs of overheating in the property market, reassuring
investors concerned that he would introduce polices hurting
developers.  “I’m not going to bring down prices, rents artificially
through government actions,” Leung told reporters at a briefing
in the city on March 28. “Affordability will not catch up with
prices quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  