-- Avon Facing Downgrade Regardless of Coty Bid: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-19T16:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/avon-facing-downgrade-regardless-of-coty-bid-corporate-finance.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  is probably due
for a ratings cut whether or not it’s bought by Coty Inc.,
complicating efforts by the world’s largest door-to-door
cosmetics seller to restore profitability and stay independent.  Even before Avon turned down a $10 billion bid from Coty,
the maker of perfumes by Heidi Klum and Beyoncé Knowles, credit-
default swap traders were treating the company as junk,
according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research group.
Swaps linked to the target’s debt jumped more than 10 percent
after the Coty offer was made public on April 2. Moody’s
Investors Service  rates  Avon A3, while  Standard & Poor’s  has it
two levels lower at BBB. Both maintain “negative” outlooks.  A downgrade would raise New York-based Avon’s borrowing
costs, limiting its ability to fund a turnaround after three
years of declining profit. The company hired a new chief
executive and is investigating potentially improper overseas
practices. Coty plans to finance part of the purchase with debt,
putting pressure on Avon’s ratings if the deal goes through.  “Every single piece of the business is uncertain,” said
Jody Lurie, a corporate-credit analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “The  bond market  sees this increased
level of risk based on this uncertainty with the Coty
transaction and with the investigation and the new CEO.”  Avon has $2.26 billion of  bonds  outstanding, $875 million
of which will mature in the next two years. Coty Chairman Bart Becht said in an April 16 letter to  Andrea Jung , Avon’s
chairwoman, that his company had equity commitments for its
offer of more than $5 billion. He said Coty was working with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to raise debt financing.  ‘Pretty Chronic’  Jennifer Vargas, an Avon spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
voicemail seeking comment.  Avon’s problems are “pretty chronic,” according to Bonnie Baha, head of the global developed credit group at DoubleLine
Capital LP in  Los Angeles , where she helps oversee $32 billion.  “Any way you slice it, the credit metrics for Avon are
deteriorating,” Baha said in a telephone interview. “So many
things have conspired against them: shifting demographics,
Internet retailing. The direct sales model is a thing of the
past. The fact they do have a majority of their sales in
developing markets is good and it’s sort of kept things afloat
for a while, but the strong dollar worked against them.”  Narrowing Margin  Avon was started in 1886 as the California Perfume Co. when
salesman David McConnell hired women to sell his products house-
to-house after discovering that his free “door opener”
fragrance samples were more popular than the books he peddled.
Over the years, U.S. sellers transitioned from home visits, to
workplaces, to online.  The company’s net income margin narrowed to 4.55 percent in
2011, from 5.58 the year before and 6.13 in 2009, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Avon, which had $1.25 billion of
 cash and equivalents  at the end of last year, down from $1.3
billion on Dec. 31, 2009, lacks the capital needed to mount a
takeover defense, so it would have to issue debt, Baha said.  Credit-default swaps tied to Avon, which typically rise as
investor confidence deteriorates, have surged to 264 basis
points from less than 100 in October, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt. The swaps
fell to 258.5 as of 12:27 p.m. in  New York , CMA data show.  ‘Paying Attention’  The contracts have climbed to levels implying the debt
should be rated Ba1, the highest step of speculative grade,
according to Moody’s data. The swaps last signaled the company
should be rated investment grade on March 26. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Investment-grade bonds are rated above Baa3 by Moody’s and
BBB- by S&P. Yields on bonds at the bottom of that category
average 4.04 percent, while the highest-rated speculative-grade
debt pays 7.64 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  “The fact that Moody’s still has it at A3 tells me no one
is really paying attention to this,” Baha said.  Moody’s analysts Janice Hofferber and Peter Abdill wrote in
a note dated April 3 that the Coty offer “is a credit
negative” although they didn’t change the rating. “Credit and
event risk has increased at a time when Avon’s operating and
financial profile is under pressure,” they wrote.  Avon’s “turnaround could be delayed” by management
distraction, an inability to recruit new representatives or a
postponement of its restructuring resulting from the Coty offer,
they wrote.  Equity, Debt Financing  BDT Capital Partners LLC, an investment firm run by former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive  Byron Trott , and Coty’s
majority owner, Joh A. Benckiser SE, have committed equity
financing totaling more than $5 billion, and the perfume company
has a “highly confident” letter from JPMorgan for debt
financing, Becht said in the April 16 letter. Coty intends to
structure financing in a way that preserves Avon’s investment-
grade rating, according to the letter.  “The numbers don’t tell that story to us, not even with $5
billion in equity financing,” Carol Levenson of Chicago-based
Gimme Credit LLC, wrote in a report the same day. Even if Coty
coaxes ratings companies to give it the benefit of the doubt,
“this would still be a major downgrade for Avon, by the way,
which currently carries ratings well above the minimal
investment grade level,” she wrote.  Founded in Paris  Coty, founded in 1904 in Paris by Corsican-born Francois
Coty, helped develop perfume into a mass product, with 36
million consumers two decades later. The New York-based
company’s bid of $23.25 a share “reflects what we know about
Avon based on public information as well as our concerns with
what we do not know,” Becht said in the letter.  There are “significant items materially impacting the
value of Avon,” Becht wrote. Coty can’t determine the best
price because it hasn’t been invited to perform due diligence,
and doesn’t know the extent of Avon’s legal issues concerning an
investigation related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, he
said. Avon began a probe into its Chinese operations in 2008,
centering on the bribery of foreign officials that led to the
firing of executives.  Avon responded to say that Coty’s offer is “opportunistic
and does not reflect the fundamental value of the company and
its global beauty care and direct selling franchise.” The
shares ended at $19.36 on March 30, the day before the offer,
and closed yesterday at $21.85, down 23 percent from a high of
$46.14 on June 30, 2004.  ‘Challenging Business Model’  Sherilyn McCoy was appointed as Avon’s chief executive
officer on April 9. McCoy previously served as vice chairman of
the pharmaceutical, consumer corporate office of science and
technology and information technology divisions at Johnson &
Johnson. Coty and Avon had discussed McCoy running a combined
company, and Becht said in an April 2 interview that it “would
not be helpful” for Avon to hire a new CEO in light of the bid.  Avon has a “challenging business model, certainly relative
to the 50s,” according to Jason Brady, who manages bonds at
Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , which
oversees $73 billion.  “The market probably has this one a little more right,”
Brady said in an interview. “The rating is lagging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  