-- Law Firms Paying Price
-- B y   P a u l   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-04-19T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/law-firms-paying-price.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP can’t win. In
late March an embarrassing exodus of partners prompted the
global law firm to announce a management shake-up. In explaining
the reshuffle, the head of Dewey’s corporate department, Richard Shutran, mentioned the firm earned about $250 million last year.  Whoops. That was a lot less than what Dewey had reported a
few weeks earlier to the legal trade publication American
Lawyer, which is now revising its financial database to reflect
reduced results for Dewey in both 2011 and 2010.  John Altorelli, one of more than 60  Dewey partners  taking
their practices elsewhere, told the Am Law Daily blog that he
sees two potential futures for his former colleagues: a
significant downsizing or “a firm busted up into a bunch of
little pieces.”  The turmoil at Dewey isn’t an isolated event, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its April 23 issue. Elite corporate law
firms -- Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz; Cravath, Swaine & Moore
LLP; Sullivan & Cromwell LLP -- and a few others thrive on their
scrupulous maintenance of quality and reputation.  Beneath that exalted caste, though, a dozen large and
prominent partnerships have called it quits in the past decade.
They include Howrey & Simon; Thacher, Proffitt & Wood LLP;
Heller Ehrman LLP; Thelen Reid; Jenkens & Gilchrist; Coudert
Brothers LLP; Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison LLP; and Arter &
Hadden LLP.  Existential Challenges  Many more, like Dewey & LeBoeuf, confront existential
challenges that were unimaginable just a few years ago. J.
Stephen Poor, chairman of Seyfarth Shaw LLP, an 800-attorney
firm in  Chicago , sums up the predicament of corporate law firms
he refers to as “the 99 percent”: “We have to improve or
die.”  There’s more at work here than the Great Recession. Inept
management and the weakness of the partnership model have also
played crucial, if lesser known, roles. And as unsettling as
this shakeout will be for employees of many large law firms,
it’s one that is overdue.  The legal profession wasn’t always seen as a path to
wealth. From 1940 to 1960, inflation-adjusted income for lawyers
in the U.S. eroded significantly, while that of physicians rose,
according to Declining Prospects, a forthcoming book on law firm
economics by  Michael Trotter , a practicing corporate attorney in
Atlanta.  Choice Destination  In the 1960s and 1970s, increased regulatory complexity and
corporate consolidation spurred growth in the size of corporate
law firms and the fees they charged. By the early 1980s, law
school had become a choice destination for top college
graduates. American Lawyer began gathering and publishing
revenue and profit statistics for top-grossing firms, ratifying
the J.D. as a ticket to the upper class.  The high-tech revolution, globalization and Wall Street’s
dubious expansion have generated still more demand for
sophisticated legal services. In 1985 the 50 top-grossing firms
had a combined revenue of $3.4 billion. If their collective top
line had increased at the rate of inflation, it would have been
the equivalent of $6.9 billion in 2010, Trotter notes. Instead,
the figure rose to $48.4 billion.  “Hourly rates just went up and up,” Trotter says. Fancy
lawyers charged whatever the market would bear.  Defections  Attorneys began defecting like mad to rival firms willing
to promise them million-dollar paydays. Head counts at large
firms swelled, with 1,000-attorney behemoths becoming
commonplace. Trotter, a former partner at the predecessor to
Atlanta-based Alston & Bird LLP, with about 800 attorneys,
observes tartly that corporate clients didn’t applaud the
development.  In his book, Trotter quotes Robin Sangston, now the general
counsel of Cox Communications Inc., on what happened when one
specialty partnership merged into a mega-firm: “Their rates
went up, their hourly requirements went up, and I started
getting marketed” to buy unwanted additional services.  As firm size increased, so did leverage -- the ratio of
salaried attorneys to partners, who share in the profit. Yet as
Trotter’s research shows, size and leverage don’t correlate with
profitability. Baker & McKenzie LLP , the largest U.S.-based
firm with almost 4,000 lawyers and a leverage ratio of 4.48
associates to each partner, ranks 79th in average per-partner
profitability. Wachtell Lipton, with 231 attorneys and leverage
of 1.69 to 1, ranks first in average per-partner profit, with
$4.3 million.  More Vulnerable  By bulking up so aggressively, law firms made themselves
more vulnerable to economic downturns. Partners at many firms
failed to appreciate that all those salaried employees needed to
be paid every month, whether or not new business is coming in
the door.  Part of the problem is that the partnership structure -- in
which the owners jointly make all the major decisions, including
how to divide the profits -- works better in smaller, more
stable firms with simpler finances and more modest levels of
acquisitiveness.  Partnership doesn’t nurture broad-minded managers skilled
in running sizable operations. In a business increasingly
characterized by fierce bidding for talent and high-level
defections, many successful attorneys jealously hoard clients
and keep an eye on the American Lawyer numbers to see whether
they ought to take their “book of business” elsewhere. Under
these circumstances, client loyalty at many firms has
deteriorated.  ‘Old Ways’  The recent economic downturn accelerated a trend already
under way, said Seyfarth Shaw’s Poor: “Law firms whose business
model remains what it has been for more than 30 years -- namely,
every year we just raise our rates and expect clients to pay up
-- well, those law firms will find the old ways aren’t
sustainable.”  Dewey & LeBoeuf is learning that lesson now. The firm is
the offspring of the 2007 marriage of Dewey Ballantine, whose
founders was Thomas E. Dewey, and LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae
LLP. Before this year’s exodus began, it had more than 1,000
lawyers and leverage of almost five associates per partner,
according to Trotter’s book. American Lawyer is now revising the
firm’s 2011 per-partner profits to $1.04 million from $1.8
million.  Dewey’s costs had risen sharply in part because of over-
the-top multiyear guarantees it made to rainmakers lured from
rivals. Hope replaced hard-nosed strategy.  ‘Doesn’t Get Better’  “We kept thinking it’ll get better tomorrow, then it
doesn’t get better,” said Altorelli, the former Dewey partner.
“The next thing you know, it’s been four years.”  The firm said it will trim overhead and replace its sole
chairman with a five-person committee made up of the heads of
its most profitable practice groups. The new approach responds
to “internal requests for more hands-on management,” Shutran
said. Perhaps 10 hands will steer the firm more effectively than
a single pair.  Another option would be to jettison partnership altogether
and give management responsibilities to a chief executive
officer steeped in leadership rather than litigation. But that’s
unlikely to happen at many high-end firms.  Lawyers capable of generating top fees simply don’t want to
become conventional employees, says Trotter. Partnership is a
cherished status, blending the roles of director, major
shareholder and big man on campus.  Alternatives do exist, however. At Seyfarth Shaw, project
managers -- mostly non-lawyers -- help guide big transactions.
Computer-generated flow charts determine the course and pace of
litigation.  Back to the Future  “Last year was our best ever in financial terms,” Poor
said. The firm saw revenue rise 7 percent, to $484 million, and
profit per equity partner increased by 11.2 percent, to
$816,000. Meanwhile, the Atlanta firm where Trotter now
practices,  Taylor English Duma LLP , represents a back-to-the-
future model. It hires mostly experienced attorneys, keeps
leverage and overhead low, and undercuts competitors on rates.
Since 2006 it has grown from six attorneys to more than 100.  Yet even these approaches can’t fix the fundamental
challenge facing the legal profession: At all levels, the
industry suffers from excess labor.  The number of people with law licenses grew from 212,600 in
1950 to 1,225,000 in 2011 -- a sharp change from a ratio of one
attorney for every 709 Americans to one for every 257. Forty-
five thousand newly minted attorneys become available every year
in a field with only 25,000  job openings . Law firms of all sizes
laid off attorneys during the lean years of 2008 and 2009, and
hiring has not fully rebounded.  Caveat Emptor  During the past year, unemployed young attorneys across the
U.S. have banded together to sue their alma maters -- generally
schools of modest repute -- for fraudulently exaggerating
graduates’ job prospects. One such suit filed against  New York
Law School  was dismissed in March by a judge who said aspiring
attorneys should know the concept of caveat emptor.  Despite the disgruntlement of recent law school graduates,
the decline of some white-shoe law firms has an upside. The
number of people taking the Law School Admission Test has fallen
by almost 25 percent in the past two years.  We have a lot of decrepit bridges in this country,
factories that could use modernization, and clean-energy
technologies that need inventing. It’s a moment for more
engineers and entrepreneurs, not more lawyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul M. Barrett in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock   epollock@bloomberg.net  