-- Azeri Police Probe Alleged Attack on Journalist by Socar Guards
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-04-19T18:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/azeri-police-probe-alleged-attack-on-journalist-by-socar-guards.html
Azeri police began investigating an
incident between security guards from Socar, or  State Oil Co. (ATPG)  of
 Azerbaijan , and journalists that left a reporter seriously
injured and drew condemnation from human rights groups including
Amnesty International.  Idrak Abbasov, a correspondent from the Zerkalo newspaper,
said he was attacked by about 10 Socar security personnel while
covering the demolition of houses the company says were built
illegally in a suburb of Baku, the capital. A reporter with
opposition newspaper Yeni Musavat was also attacked, he said.  “They took away my phone and threw me to the ground,
kicking and beating me with batons although I was wearing a
press jacket,” Abbasov said in an interview in hospital. He had
bruises on his right eye and parts of his body.  Eight other people, including seven Socar employees, were
also injured, Ehsan Zahidov, head of the  Interior Ministry ’s
press service, said by phone.  Amnesty International  called the attack part of a
government clampdown on media in Azerbaijan, which hosts the
Eurovision Song Contest next month.  “One would have thought that with the Eurovision just
around the corner and images from Baku about to be beamed around
the world, the authorities would be on their best behavior,”
John Dalhuisen, Amnesty’s  Europe  and Central Asia director, said
in a statement. “Instead, journalists in the process of
exposing human rights abuses are themselves coming under attack
by state officials bent on preventing them from reporting the
truth.”  Socar President Rovnaq Abdullayev ordered an investigation
of the incident, the company said today on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  