-- Bank of America Leads Lenders in U.S. Home Short Sales
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-04-25T16:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bank-of-america-leads-lenders-in-short-sale-approvals.html
(Corrects date of short-sale increase in sixth paragraph
of story published April 19.)  Bank of America Corp. , the U.S.
lender with the most housing-related writedowns, is allowing the
highest number of properties to be sold at a loss as short sales
become an increasingly common foreclosure alternative.  The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank approved 5,276
short sales in January, topping  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , with
2,976, and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest home-loan originator,
with 2,788, according to a report today by RealtyTrac Inc. The
total number of U.S. short sales, in which properties are bought
for less than what’s owed on them, rose 33 percent from a year
earlier in January, the latest month for which figures are
available, and is expected to set a record this year, the
Irvine, California-based data provider said.  “Bank of America has done almost as many as numbers two
and three combined,” Charlie Engel, a RealtyTrac vice
president, said in an online presentation today. “Combine the
top three and you’re looking at the vast majority of short sales
right now.”  Lenders are trying to cut mortgage losses as  home values 
are down by a third from their July 2006  peak  and almost 12
percent of borrowers are  delinquent  or in  foreclosure , according
to the  Mortgage Bankers Association . Short sales may reach a
record this year, with about 12.5 million homeowners owing at
least 25 percent more than their properties are worth,
RealtyTrac said.  “Even if these homeowners aren’t struggling to make
mortgage payments and therefore are at low risk for foreclosure,
if they need to sell sometime in the next five years it’s likely
they’ll need to sell via short sale,” the firm said.  Rising Short Sales  The growing number of short sales, which don’t entail a
lengthy foreclosure process, is a sign that the U.S. is working
through its inventory of distressed properties, according to
 Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  The number of short sales
surpassed foreclosure deals for the first time in November, a
trend that continued in December and January, according to data
from the Jacksonville, Florida-based company.  RealtyTrac, which counted only short sales that occurred
after a notice of default, reported that foreclosure sales
outnumbered short sales by about 2,600 in January. While lenders
usually require short sellers to demonstrate hardship, such as
inability to pay or the need to relocate for work, they don’t
always file default notices.  Bank of America  Bank of America, which reports all short sales including
those without a default, completed 10,447 in January -- almost
double the number reported by RealtyTrac -- 10,051 in February,
and 10,600 in March, said  Rick Simon , a spokesman for the
company. In the first quarter, Bank of America also had 3,100
deeds in lieu of foreclosure, in which borrowers surrender their
properties prior to seizure, he said.  “Bank of America is placing some emphasis on short sales
and deeds-in-lieu as a preferred alternative to foreclosure,”
Simon said in an e-mail today. “We have been testing a short
sale incentive payment program in  Florida  for several months.”  The company, which cut back on originating mortgages after
its 2008 takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp. saddled it with
more than $40 billion in costs, today reported a first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , surpassed Bank of
America in the fourth quarter of last year to become the largest
U.S. mortgage servicer. It became the biggest originator of home
loans in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Below Industry Averages’  “Our short-sale activity is consistent with our
delinquency and foreclosure rates, which have been below
industry averages,” Tom Goyda, a Wells Fargo spokesman, said in
an e-mail today.  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan
Chase, declined to comment.  It took an average of 403 days after a notice of default
for Bank of America to complete a short sale, according to
RealtyTrac. That’s more than twice as long as the 193-day
average for mortgages controlled by government-sponsored
enterprises  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  and the  Federal Housing
Administration .  As part of an effort to expedite short sales, loan
servicers will be required to respond to offers on homes that
have government-sponsored mortgages within 30 days and approve
or deny them within 60 days, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
announced on April 17.  Average Sale Price  The average U.S. short sale price was $174,120 in January,
a 21 percent discount compared with non-distressed sales,
according to RealtyTrac. Discounts averaged 17 percent a year
earlier, when a third fewer short sales occurred. After a
foreclosure, homes sold for an average of $145,597, 34 percent
less than non-distressed properties.  The number of U.S. short sales peaked at 128,000 in the
first quarter of 2009 then plunged after President  Barack Obama 
promoted loan-modification programs to help reduce foreclosures,
according to RealtyTrac. Short sales probably exceeded 105,000
in the first quarter, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  