-- Bank Owing U.S. $935 Million Has CEO Family Bad Debts: Mortgages
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-19T14:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bank-owing-u-s-935-million-has-ceo-family-bad-debts-mortgages.html
Popular Inc. (BPOP) , the Puerto Rican bank
that owes $935 million to the U.S. government, has surged 30
percent this year as more customers pay their debts on time. Its
board members and their relatives aren’t always among them.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard Carrion’s
sister and two of his nephews, one of whom is also a Popular
director, have delinquent property loans to the San Juan-based
lender, according to a regulatory filing. The bank has also
restructured the loans of another director, the board’s head of
corporate governance, and classifies his debts as “troubled,”
the filing shows.  “The disclosures are seriously problematic,” said  Orin Kramer , whose Boston Provident Partners LP hedge fund owns about
2 million Popular shares. “The role of the board is to protect
against credit losses, not create them.”  Carrion, who’s been Popular’s CEO for almost two decades
and sits on the board of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York ,
is seeking to help the bank recover from losses on soured home
loans and repay the U.S. after the 2008 bailout. Directors with
distressed debts won’t help Popular reduce costs from the bank’s
loan portfolio, said Kramer, former chairman of the $70 billion
New Jersey State pension fund.  “All related party transactions are subject to internal
procedures and banking laws and regulations that require they be
made on market terms and conditions,” Teruca Rullan, a
spokeswoman for Popular, said in an e-mailed statement.  Any transaction involving directors and their “related
business interests must be approved in advance by the board of
directors, which is overwhelmingly comprised of independent
directors,” she said, declining to comment further on behalf of
Carrion’s family members and the directors.  Hedge Fund Investors  Popular has attracted hedge funds wagering on a rebound,
including Valinor Management LLC and Paulson & Co., its two
largest shareholders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The stock, little changed in today’s New York trading, has risen
62 percent to $1.81 from a two-year low on Dec. 19, as the bank
grapples with a Puerto Rican recession that began in 2006.  Losses on the bank’s subprime mortgages and commercial and
construction loans surged during the financial crisis and
regulators had to inject bailout funds from the Troubled Asset
Relief Program in November 2008.  The bank has since returned to profitability, posting
profits of $289 million for 2011 and 2010 combined, compared
with a $1.8 billion loss for the two prior years. The board
approved compensation to Carrion worth about $2.55 million in
2011, more than double what he received in 2009.  TARP Funds  Popular,  Puerto Rico ’s largest lender, has yet to repay
$935 million to U.S. taxpayers and has the second-highest level
of debt outstanding under TARP. Columbus, Georgia-based  Synovus
Financial Corp. (SNV)  owes $968 million.  The bank is succeeding in improving the credit quality of
its loans, Popular’s toughest challenge, Carrion said in the
lender’s annual report. Net charge-offs in 2011 tumbled to $534
million, less than half of the year-ago total, he said.  Manuel Morales Jr., Popular director and chairman of the
board’s corporate governance committee, owes the bank about $1.5
million through different lines of credit, according to a
filing. The board agreed to restructure his debts in December,
changing most of them to three-year term loans.  While Morales is “current” on his obligations, the loans
“would be classified as troubled debt restructurings,”
according to the bank.  Morales, who runs real-estate companies, has been a Popular
director since 1990 and the board considers him an independent
member, the bank said in the filing. He was reelected to the
panel in 2010 with about 64 percent of votes cast, another
filing shows. Morales didn’t respond to requests for comment on
why Popular restructured his loans.  Restructuring Approved  “Management felt it was prudent to reduce the amount of
the outstanding lines to reflect Mr. Morales’ business needs and
convert the remaining portions to term loans with required
principal amortization,” Rullan said in a separate e-mail.
“The restructuring was approved in the ordinary course of
business and made on market terms and conditions.”  A company controlled by Carrion’s nephew, Jose Vizcarrondo,
a director since 2004, bought a residential construction project
from the bank for $13.5 million in August 2009. The purchase by
Vizcarrondo’s TP Two LLC was financed by Popular, which also
provided a line of credit, according to a filing. Vizcarrondo’s
bid was the highest of three Popular received, the bank said.  Loan Losses  The deal hasn’t worked out and Popular has recognized an
$8.6 million loss on the loans, the filing shows. The debts were
secured against the property and Vizcarrondo isn’t personally
liable, the bank said in the filing. He didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Vizcarrondo replaced his father as a Popular director in
2004. The bank has extended at least $33 million to property
companies linked to him since, regulatory filings show. One of
his firms, Desarrollos Metropolitanos LLC, has “necessary lines
of credit” from Popular, according to its  website . He was
reelected in 2010 with 63 percent of votes cast.  “You don’t want directors that have those kinds of
conflicts,”  Charles Elson , director of the University of
Delaware’s John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance ,
said in a telephone interview. “Today, those kinds of
directors, those kinds of conflicts, aren’t helpful. Directors
who have independence issues have become problematic.”  Foreclosure Proceedings  Other relatives have also provided headaches for the bank.
Another of Carrion’s nephews -- and a brother of Vizcarrondo --
owns 50 percent of a company that got a $3.9 million loan from
Popular in 2007 to build a residential project in  San Juan , a
city of about 400,000. The nephew personally guaranteed the
loan, the bank said. His company failed to build the project
after legal challenges and Popular began “foreclosure and
collection proceedings” in 2010. The loan is now worth $2
million and is “held for sale,” the bank said.  Popular has also recorded a $500,000 loss on a $1.35
million mortgage provided to Carrion’s sister and brother-in-
law. They fell behind on their payments in 2009 and Popular
began foreclosure proceedings last October. There was $1.58
million outstanding at the end of 2011, including interest, the
filing shows.  The bank didn’t name Carrion’s second nephew or his sister
in the filing and Popular spokeswoman Rullan declined to provide
contact details.  ‘Comfortable Enough’  Some investors and analysts dismiss corporate governance
concerns. The bank made the loans at market rates and they were
approved by the board, Joe Gladue, an analyst with B. Riley &
Co. said in a telephone interview.  “While not perfect, we were comfortable enough with their
corporate governance to make our investment,” said John Loesch,
an analyst and assistant portfolio manager with  Diamond Hill
Investment Group Inc. (DHIL)  in Columbus,  Ohio , which more than doubled
its stake in Popular last year and now owns about 8.5 million
shares. “We increased our investment in Popular when we
believed the shares were unusually cheap.”  Diamond Hill, which oversees about $9 billion, is among
investment firms that bought up  Popular stakes  after shares
plummeted  almost 90 percent  during the four years between 2006
and 2009.  John Paulson , who became a billionaire in 2007 by
betting against the U.S. subprime mortgage market, spent about
$217 million on more than 6 percent of Popular in the second
quarter of 2010, based on an average price of $3.25.  David Gallo’s Valinor, named for the place in J.R.R.
Tolkien’s Lord of the Rings where only immortal beings live,
leapfrogged Paulson as the biggest shareholder last year at a
cost of about $128 million, based on an average price of $2.43.
The New York-based fund now holds close to 8 percent.  Shares Tumbled  Global Thematic Partners LLC, founded by Deutsche Bank AG
executive Oliver Kratz, owns about 2.5 percent while Empyrean
Capital Partners LP spent about $94 million buying up almost 4
percent last year, Bloomberg data show. Former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  partners Amos Meron and  Michael Price  run the fund,
which shares its name with the highest point in heaven in
Dante’s ‘The Divine Comedy.’  Shares tumbled 56 percent last year, the second-worst
performance on the 201-member  Russell 1000 Financial Services
Index. (RGUSFL)  The stock traded for $28.87 a share at the end of 2004,
and for $18.94 in February, 2007 before the U.S. housing market
crashed.  Carrion has taken steps to reduce some of the firm’s
exposure to troubled debtors. He sold a portfolio of distressed
property loans in September to a joint venture controlled by
firms including Popular and Goldman Sachs.  Puerto Rican Recession  Still, Moody’s Investors Service said March 8 that the bank
was facing “elevated” credit costs from commercial and
residential loans as the Puerto Rican recession that started in
2006 continues.  “The outlook on Popular and its subsidiaries is negative,
reflecting the risk that a longer, deeper recession in Puerto
Rico would put additional pressure on the company’s financial
fundamentals,” Moody’s said.  Carrion is also under pressure from the same regulator that
he helps to oversee as a director. The New York Fed filed an
enforcement action against Popular last year, ordering the bank
to improve its credit risk management and asset quality.  Carrion is one of the New York Fed’s three “Class A”
directors, who are elected by other banks to represent their
interests.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon and  Solvay Bank (SOBS) 
CEO Paul Mello are also Class A directors on the board, which
oversees the regulator.  Alleged Violations  His previous tenures on the board also coincided with
Popular attracting scrutiny from the regulators, records show.
He was first elected in 1999, the same year in which the Federal
Reserve  fined  the bank $10,000 because of alleged violations of
rules about implementing the National Flood Insurance Act.  Carrion left the New York Fed board at the end of 1999.
About three months later, Popular  signed  an agreement with the
regulator, a formal enforcement action that required Carrion to
improve the bank’s anti-money laundering procedures.  Bankers elected Carrion again in January 2008, less than a
year before taxpayers rescued the bank. He was reelected to
another three-year term last December.  Jack Gutt , a New York Fed spokesman, declined to comment on
the loans.  Carrion isn’t the only New York Fed board member whose bank
has faced enforcement actions. JPMorgan, whose CEO Dimon has
been a director since 2007,  signed  a “written agreement” in
July pledging to boost compliance procedures after regulators
said it rigged the bidding on investment contracts sold to state
and local governments. The bank paid $228 million to settle the
charges.  Fed Fines  The Fed also  issued  “cease-and-desist” orders against
JPMorgan and other firms last year after a nationwide
investigation into mortgage-servicing and foreclosure practices.  Carrion’s lender is the biggest in Puerto Rico, an island
of less than four million people, close to the populations of
countries such as  Croatia  and  New Zealand . Its dominant position
on the island means that conflicted loans are inevitable, said
Gladue, the B. Riley & Co. analyst.  “It stands to reason that they’re going to have
relationships with insiders and relatives of insiders,” said
Gladue. “I don’t see anything improper about these that
indicates there’s a lack of control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  