-- Bank of America Beats Analyst Estimates as Trading Jumps
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-04-19T21:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bank-of-america-posts-higher-profit-as-trading-results-rebound.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender, posted a first-quarter profit that was more
than most analysts predicted amid a rebound in trading and
better  credit quality .  Profit excluding certain one-time items increased about 40
percent to $3.7 billion, or 31 cents a diluted share, from $2.6
billion, or 23 cents, a year earlier, based on data released in
a statement today. That beat the average per-share estimate of
27 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg of 12 cents. Net income, which
includes accounting charges, fell to $653 million, or 3 cents a
share, from $2.05 billion, or 17 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has said he’s
counting on trading units run by Thomas K. Montag to revive
income and had warned he would cut costs more deeply if results
didn’t improve. The business responded with its first profit in
three quarters and positive trading revenue every day amid the
best start for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 14 years and a
lull in  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “You had very favorable tailwinds in the fixed-income
markets and so trading revenues are very strong for this
universe right now,” Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC in New York, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview.
“There’s no question the earnings that are being reported are
very good -- the question is the sustainability.”  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
slipped 15 cents, or 1.7 percent, at 4:15 p.m. in New York after
gaining as much as 2.8 percent earlier during the session.  Trading Results  Global markets, the bank’s trading operations, posted a
$798 million profit, compared to a $768 million loss in the
fourth quarter and a $1.39 billion profit a year earlier. The
division’s latest results include a $1.4 billion charge related
to its debt, more than three times bigger than a similar
accounting charge a year earlier.  Sales and trading revenue excluding accounting adjustments
more than doubled to $5.2 billion in the first quarter from $2
billion in the fourth quarter, and advanced from $5 billion a
year earlier, the bank said. The tally for the most recent three
months was the third-highest since the takeover of Merrill Lynch
in 2009, according to the company.  Fixed Income  Revenue from fixed income, currency and commodities
excluding adjustments rose to $4.1 billion in the first quarter
from $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter and $3.7 billion a year
earlier, according to the statement.  “We saw improved profitability in all of our businesses
this quarter compared to the fourth quarter of last year,”
Moynihan said in the statement.  The $2.42 billion provision for credit losses was the
smallest since the third quarter of 2007, according to the bank.
The real estate unit’s loss narrowed to $1.15 billion from $2.4
billion a year earlier as the firm set aside less for mortgage
repurchases.  The provision for loan repurchase demands dropped to $282
million from $1 billion, with revenue increasing to $2.7 billion
from $2.1 billion a year earlier. The bank reclassified $1.85
billion of  home equity loans  as non-performers, responding to
new regulatory guidance on how to treat junior liens when first
mortgages are overdue. The bank said the sum was already covered
by reserves.  Companywide revenue narrowed 17 percent to $22.3 billion
from $26.9 billion, the bank said. Total loans and leases
slipped to $913.7 billion from $932.9 billion in the fourth
quarter.  Behind the Numbers  Fair value and debt valuation adjustments totaled about
$4.8 billion before taxes, according to the bank. Comparisons
with last year were also skewed by one-time pretax gains of $1.2
billion on buying back debt and trust preferred securities and
$800 million each from equity investment income and sales of
debt securities. Pretax litigation expenses subtracted $800
million and one-time retirement-related costs were about $900
million.  The adjusted profit excludes the $4.8 billion negative
valuation adjustments in the first quarter and a charge of $943
million a year earlier, and is based on a 37 percent tax rate
provided by the lender. With one-time items removed, earnings
per share may have been closer to 17 cents a share,  Paul Miller ,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said during an interview on
Bloomberg Television with  Erik Schatzker .  “So, still a good number, but nowhere near as good as that
31 cents, and that’s what people are going to start to focus
on,” Miller said.  Moynihan, 52, had told investors to expect the second phase
of his efficiency plan, dubbed Project New BAC, to be in place
this month. The firm most recently was scrutinizing  investment
banking , trading and  wealth management . The first part, which
examined retail banking, targeted 30,000  job reductions .  New Structure  Bank of America reorganized its reporting lines this month,
combining deposit, credit-card and small business units into a
new consumer-and-business banking  division  led by co-Chief
Operating Officer David Darnell, 59. He also oversees real
estate and wealth-management units.  Operations run by Montag, 55, the former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. trading head promoted to co-chief operating officer
in September, were split into global markets and banking units.
The banking unit incorporates parts of a former stand-alone
business that catered to larger corporations with more than $50
million in annual revenue.  The lender has surged 58 percent this year in  New York 
 trading  through yesterday, the best in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , as capital improved and the firm passed the  Federal
Reserve ’s stress test. Moynihan sold more than $50 billion in
assets to boost capital and simplify the firm since taking over
in 2010.  Divestments Ahead  Moynihan has said that he will focus on selling home loans
to customers of the firm’s domestic retail bank and wealth-
management division. At the same time, he’s seeking to divest
wealth-management units  outside the U.S. , a person with direct
knowledge of the process said this week. The businesses operate
in Europe,  Asia , the  Middle East  and  Latin America .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co., (WFC)  the No. 1 and
No. 4 biggest banks by assets, reported first-quarter earnings
last week that exceeded analysts’ estimates on a rise in
mortgage fees. The firms may have benefited as Bank of America
retreated from selling mortgages after its 2008 takeover of
Countrywide Financial Corp. saddled it with more than $40
billion in costs.  The lender saw its share of originations drop to 5.6
percent in the fourth quarter from 10 percent in 2011’s third
quarter and 24.7 percent in 2007, according to a February note
from FBR Capital Markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  