-- Bank Funding at Risk From Rules Considered by EU Lawmakers
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-04-19T09:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bank-funding-sources-at-risk-from-rules-weighed-by-eu-lawmakers.html
European Union  lawmakers  are
considering rules to protect bank depositors that may stymie two
of the main funding sources for the region’s lenders.  The proposals risk limiting how much banks can raise from
covered bond sales and European Central Bank loans by placing
curbs on the assets they can use for security. The aim is to
boost protection for account holders and other creditors.  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the European Parliament’s
Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, said she’s among
legislators pushing for banks to increase disclosure of the
assets earmarked for collateral in covered bonds and  repurchase
agreements . Banks may also have to set aside reserves when
secured funding exceeds a set limit.  “I’d like to see a standard definition of covered bonds
with clear information to identify if there’s a level of over-
collateralization, and the consequences for stakeholders such as
depositors,” Bowles, the Liberal Democrat parliament  member  for
the South East England constituency, said in an e-mail.  Tying up assets in collateralized fundraisings is known as
encumbrance and pushes unsecured creditors further back in the
queue for payment in a default. Any move to limit secured debt
issuance risks hurting banks that have relied on record covered
bond sales and the 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of loans
that the ECB has pumped into the system since December.  ‘Harder for Banks’  “The risk is that banks relying on secured debt could face
funding pressures as unsecured funding may be too expensive or
not even accessible,” said Bernd Volk, head of covered bond
research at Deutsche Bank AG. “It will also make it harder for
banks, especially in peripheral countries, to increase new
lending.”  Bowles was among EU lawmakers to propose the amendments to
the EU’s Capital Requirements Directive last month. The CRD IV
adopts bank capital and liquidity rules set out by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  to prevent future crises.  The amendments are under debate by EU lawmakers before a
vote on the text April 25. Finance ministers from the region’s
27 nations will then seek to reach agreement on the draft at a
May 2 meeting. The draft law must be approved by parliament and
national governments before it can come into effect.  Record Issuance  Issuance of covered bonds, backed by mortgages or public-
sector loans and guaranteed by the borrower, soared to an all-
time high of 374 billion euros last year as the region’s debt
crisis prompted investors to shun banks’ unsecured debt. Sales
slowed 25 percent in 2012 from the same period last year as
lenders took advantage of the flood of ECB cash, Bloomberg data
show.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  of the U.K. and  France ’s Groupe
BPCE are the biggest issuers of the notes this year, raising
11.8 billion euros and 8.1 billion euros respectively, Bloomberg
data show. Spanish lenders including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  have the most covered bonds
outstanding.  Covered bonds typically get higher credit ratings than
unsecured debt by requiring borrowers to set aside assets that
can be sold to pay investors if the issuer defaults. In
repurchase agreements, or repos, securities such as  government
bonds  are loaned for a fee.  Central Repository  Under Bowles’s proposal, regulators should know of banks’
repos,  securities lending  and all forms of transactions where
creditors have a claim on assets. She’s suggesting that
information be reported to a central trade or securities
repository.  In another amendment to CRD IV,  Philippe Lamberts  and  Sven
Giegold , European Parliament members from Belgium and  Germany ,
are jointly calling for rules that require deposit-taking banks
to put money into a  reserve fund  when covered bond issuance
exceeds 4 percent of total assets.  Vicky Ford, a European lawmaker from the U.K., is meanwhile
seeking a European Commission study into whether limits on the
level of financial firms’ encumbered assets are needed.  The $3 trillion market for covered bonds is dominated by
European banks, for which the securities have been a source of
funding since 1769 when King Frederick the Great of Prussia
needed to rebuild the country after the Seven Years War.  The  European Covered Bond Council  lobby group is opposed to
new restrictions on sales of the debt.  “We believe that the question of asset encumbrance needs
to be addressed through a holistic and gradual approach,” said
Luca Bertalot, head of the ECBC in Brussels. “Setting
limitations on covered bond issuance without a prior and
thorough impact assessment could hamper the funding capacity of
mortgage lenders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  