-- Bank of America Beats Analyst Estimates as Trading Jumps
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-04-20T13:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bank-of-america-beats-analyst-estimates-as-trading-jumps.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s backlog of
pending demands for refunds on soured loans reached a record
$16.1 billion as a dispute deepened between the second-largest
U.S. lender and  Fannie Mae .  Outstanding claims rose 28 percent in the first quarter
from $12.6 billion in the last three months of 2011, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank told investors yesterday.
At the same time, the company set aside less than $300 million
to cover repurchases for a third straight quarter, helping the
mortgage unit post a narrower  first-quarter loss .  “You’ll see those numbers pile up, and they won’t reserve
for them,” said  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets
with a “hold”  rating  on Bank of America. “Ultimately, my
guess is that Fannie Mae takes Bank of America to court. If they
lose that lawsuit, where does that leave them on reserves?”  At stake for Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is
the ability to limit further losses after the firm booked more
than $42 billion in costs tied to defective loans. Buyers and
insurers of mortgage securities have demanded that the lender
compensate them for shoddy loans created by Countrywide
Financial Corp., acquired by Bank of America in 2008.  The dispute revolves around mortgages created by the bank
and Countrywide and sold to investors with a promise to buy them
back if data on borrowers, their income or the property later
turned out to be false. The increase in demands for buybacks was
driven by Fannie Mae and private investors who refused to
participate in an $8.5 billion  settlement  last year.  Fannie Mae  Fannie Mae, seeking to defray its U.S. bailout, stepped up
pressure last year by saying that Bank of America must
repurchase loans if a mortgage insurer drops coverage included
in the original sale. Bank of America refused, and in January
Fannie Mae cut the company off for funding new loans.  Almost 90 percent of the $4.7 billion in fresh claims were
for loans from 2007 or earlier, before the worst of the housing
crunch and  economic slump . Bank of America Chief Financial
Officer Bruce R. Thompson has said this shows outside factors
such as the recession were to blame, not bad underwriting,
because borrowers kept up with payments for years before
defaulting.  “We obviously continue to have a disagreement with them
about whose responsibility those are,” Thompson said during
conference calls yesterday. “The sustainability of what we are
accruing is appropriate given what we think we owe.”  Miller, a former examiner for the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia , said he hadn’t heard another large bank use that
argument as a reason to reject repurchase demands.  What’s Excluded  The $16.1 billion in claims doesn’t include $3.1 billion in
demands from investors who Bank of America says don’t have
standing to force loan investigations, the firm said. That’s an
increase of more than 80 percent from the previous quarter.  Separately, the bank reclassified $1.85 billion of home-
equity loans as non-performers, even if the borrowers were still
paying on time, in response to new regulatory guidance on how to
treat junior liens when first mortgages are  overdue . Bank of
America, with the largest home-equity portfolio among U.S.
lenders, said the sum was already covered by reserves.  Regulators have been concerned that banks were overvaluing
such loans because the delinquent first mortgages often signal
an impending default on the second lien. The result is typically
a total loss for the bank holding the junior loan.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
collectively reclassified $4.1 billion of junior liens as
nonperforming in their first-quarter reports.  Cutting Originations  Bank of America’s real estate unit posted a $1.15 billion
first-quarter loss, narrowing from $2.4 billion a year earlier
as the company allowed its reserve for repurchases to dwindle.
The provision to cover buyback demands dropped to $282 million
from $1 billion a year earlier.  Moynihan, 52, has slashed  mortgage-lending  operations to
reduce assets considered risky by regulators, while shifting
resources to service overdue loans. Bank of America saw its
share of originations drop to 5.6 percent in the fourth quarter
from 10 percent in 2011’s third quarter and 25 percent in 2007,
according to a February note from FBR Capital Markets.  The CEO told analysts he will focus on selling home loans
to customers of the bank while cutting purchases of loans from
outside correspondent providers to zero. Among the targeted
customers, “we underperformed, but we’re doing exactly what we
wanted, which is to focus on direct-to-retail,” Moynihan said.
“You’ll see us improve there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  