-- Banorte Focused on Consumer Credit and Gaining Share, Ortiz Says
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-04-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/banorte-focused-on-consumer-credit-and-gaining-share-ortiz-says.html
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB (GFNORTEO) ,
Mexico’s third-largest bank by outstanding loans, is focusing on
expanding  consumer credit , Chairman  Guillermo Ortiz  said.  “Where the bank needs to boost its share is in the
consumer market,” he said yesterday in an interview in Puerto
Vallarta, Mexico. “In credit cards, we have a 6 percent market
share, more or less, while the bank has a 13 or 14 percent share
of the total credit market.”  Banorte’s credit portfolio totaled 340 billion pesos ($25.7
billion) at the end of February and rose 19 percent from the
same month a year earlier, according to  data  on the website of
the National Securities and Banking Commission, or CNBV. The
Monterrey, Mexico-based bank trails local units of Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA and Citigroup Inc. in outstanding loans.  Banorte,  Mexico ’s largest locally owned bank, is increasing
market share, Ortiz said after participating in the  World
Economic Forum  on  Latin America  in this resort city. The
nation’s banks are lending “carefully,” he said. Ortiz was
finance minister from 1994 to 1998, during the administration of
President  Ernesto Zedillo , and governor of Mexico’s central bank
from 1998 until December 2009.  Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by  Marcelo Telles 
raised Banorte to the equivalent of buy on April 13 and forecast
the shares will rise 38 percent this year to 84 pesos on the
potential for earnings growth.  Credit ’Boom’  “We believe no other stocks offer as much upside risk to
earnings as Banorte does in the medium to long-term if rates
begin to rise,” the analysts wrote in a research note. Mexican
banking is “on the verge of a boom” and sector profits “are set
to expand massively,” they wrote.  Ortiz said Mexico’s bank lending is not growing too quickly
and cited a low rate of delinquent loans.  “I don’t like to talk about credit booms and bubbles,” he
said. “Banks are extending credit carefully.”  The nation’s delinquent credit rate was less than 2.5
percent at the end of February, according to the CNBV.  Banorte has increased 44 percent this year, the biggest
 gain  on Mexico’s benchmark IPC stock index. The company fell 4
percent yesterday after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its
recommendation to the equivalent of hold from buy, citing the
stock’s valuation.  “We no longer find the valuation sufficiently compelling to
recommend the shares,” JPMorgan analysts led by  Saul Martinez 
wrote in the report. “We continue to believe Banorte is well
positioned to generate healthy bottom-line growth and
profitability” in the coming years, Martinez said.  ’No Pressure Points’  Mexico’s public finances are healthy and have “no pressure
points,” Ortiz said.  “Mexico’s doing well even as the  U.S. economy  is growing
at lower rates than it was before the crisis,” he said.  Latin America’s second-biggest economy, which sends 80
percent of its exports to the U.S., may grow 3.6 percent this
year and 3.7 percent in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund 
said yesterday in its World Economic Outlook report. The
expected expansion will represent “a slight slowdown but still
above potential,” the multilateral lender said.  Mexico’s inflation may end 2012 at 3.9 percent from 3.4
percent last year, while unemployment may decline to 4.8 percent
this year from 5.2 percent in 2011, the IMF report shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  