-- Barclays CEO Will Forgo Part of Bonus to Appease Shareholders
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-04-19T15:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/barclays-ceo-will-forgo-part-of-bonus-to-placate-investors-3-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  will forgo about 11 percent of his total
compensation until the bank improves profitability in a bid to
placate investors opposed to his pay package.  Diamond and Finance Director Chris Lucas will lose 50
percent of their deferred bonuses for 2011 if the company’s
return on equity fails to exceed the cost of equity within three
years, London-based Barclays said in a statement today. Lucas
received a 1.8 million-pound ($2.9 million) deferred bonus in
stock and Diamond 2.7 million pounds, part of his 12 million-
pound total compensation for the year.  Barclays is trying to assuage opposition from shareholders
who will vote on the bank’s pay plans on April 27. Diamond, 60,
described the lender’s profitability as “unacceptable” in
February and pledged to improve it.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  investors
this week rejected the New York-based bank’s executive pay plan.  “This move will hopefully get shareholders off their
back,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore  Capital Group
in (JNS)  Liverpool. “Their remuneration is high when you compare it
with other domestic U.K. banks.”  Barclays said in February it may fail to hit its 13 percent
target for ROE by 2013 after it fell to 6.6 percent in 2011. The
bank’s cost of equity was 11.5 percent for 2011.  Pensions Investment Research Consultants Ltd. this month
urged investors to vote down Diamond’s pay and reiterated its
advice today.  “The announcement does not address the fundamental issue
of rewards for failure,” said PIRC in a statement. “The
proposed change acknowledges a problem with the bonus scheme,
but still keeps it in place.’  Under Scrutiny  The  Association of British Insurers , whose members own
between 15 percent and 20 percent of all Britain’s publicly
traded companies, said Barclays’s pay plans should be
scrutinized before shareholders vote on the awards.  The bank made the changes ‘‘recognizing the strength of
opinion expressed by some shareholders,” Barclays said in
today’s statement. “Barclays is fully committed to ensuring
that a greater proportion of income and profits flow to
shareholders.”  Standard Life Plc (SL/) ’s Guy Jubb, global head of governance and
stewardship, said the shareholder would vote to support the
bank’s pay report.  “Our key concerns over last year’s executive bonuses have
been addressed,” Jubb said, in an e-mailed statement. “The
result is a much better alignment with pay for performance than
was initially proposed.  Fiscal Squeeze  Prime Minister  David Cameron  urged banks in January to show
‘‘proper regard’’ in limiting bonuses and demonstrate how pay is
related to performance as the government executes the tightest
fiscal squeeze since World War II.  Barclays’s deferred share bonuses awarded for 2011 are paid
in three equal parts in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Today’s
announcement won’t affect Diamond’s separate 2.25 million-pound
long term incentive bonus, the bank said. In all, he got as much
as 6.3 million pounds in salary, bonuses and stock awards for
2011 as well as a 5.75 million-pound contribution toward his
personal tax bill.  Lloyds (LLOY) , Britain’s largest mortgage lender, paid CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio a total of 1.97 million pounds in 2011.  Royal Bank
of Scotland (RBS)  CEO  Stephen Hester ’s salary was frozen at 1.2
million pounds, while he received a long-term stock award the
lender expects to be valued at about 1.6 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  