-- Barclays Said to Negotiate Equity Agreement With Brazil’s Plural
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-04-19T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/barclays-said-to-negotiate-equity-agreement-with-brazil-s-plural.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Brazil  subsidiary is
negotiating with Plural Capital Ltda., the asset manager and
financial-advisory firm founded by former Banco BTG Pactual SA
partners, to work together on underwriting and selling equity
transactions, two people familiar with the talks said.  Under the agreement, Banco Barclays SA would sell Plural’s
Brazil deals outside the country, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the matter is private. Plural, based in
Sao Paulo, would sell to its Brazil customers equity originated
by Barclays.  A surge in deals and growing demand for corporate financing
is boosting the investment-banking sector in Brazil, the second-
largest developing economy after  China . Plural will own a
broker-dealer in the country with its planned acquisition of
Flow Corretora de Mercadorias Ltda, people familiar with the
takeover talks said in September. It will have a banking license
when the central bank approves the purchase of Banco Equity, an
inactive financial institution owned by Banco Prosper SA.  Plural had also considered opening a broker-dealer in  New
York  to reach U.S. investors, though an agreement with Barclays
may make that plan unnecessary.  Flow ranks ninth this year through April 17 by volume
traded on the Brazilian stock exchange,  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Barclays ranks ninth
among global equity underwriters this year. In the U.S., it’s
seventh for 2012.  Investment Banking  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, posted a
16 percent drop in profit for 2011 as investment-banking revenue
shrank. Net income fell to 3 billion pounds ($4.8 billion) from
3.56 billion pounds a year earlier. Its broker-dealer in Brazil
ranks 18th on the Bovespa this year.  Rodolfo Riechert and Andre Schwartz created Plural in 2009
after leaving BTG, the Brazilian investment bank led by
billionaire  Andre Esteves . Plural’s plan to become an investment
bank emerged at the same time a non-competition agreement
between BTG and its partners ended in July.  Jorge Felipe “Pipo” Lemann, a partner at Flow, will stay
with Plural, according to the people. Both firms are located in
the same building in  Sao Paulo .  A Plural official denied that talks are under way,
according to a press officer who declined to be named because of
company policy.  Kerrie Cohen , a spokeswoman for Barclays,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  