-- Barney Frank Makes a Misdiagnosis on Obamacare
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-04-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/barney-frank-makes-a-misdiagnosis-on-obamacare.html
Representative  Barney Frank , who is
not seeking re-election, gave a memorable exit  interview  this
week to New York magazine suggesting that President  Barack Obama 
“underestimated, as did Clinton, the sensitivity of people to
what they see as an effort to make them share the health care
with poor people.”  The  Democratic Party  “paid a terrible price for health
care,” Frank said. “I would not have pushed it as hard.”  Frank’s take is self-serving. He argued that Obama should
have proposed financial reform first, which is convenient
considering that he was chairman of the  House Financial Services
Committee  at the time and would have loved all eyes on his bill.  But the question remains: Is Frank right? We know what
Republicans unanimously think. What’s surprising is how many
Democrats, with the benefit of hindsight and speaking sotto
voce, agree with Frank. Although they support the substance of
the law, they are appalled by its political fallout and wish
they had a do-over. Their thinking was  summarized  this week in
the National Journal by Michael Hirsh, who wrote that by
embracing health care reform amid the economic crisis, Obama
confused his priorities and took his eye off the ball, much as
President  George W. Bush  did when he invaded  Iraq  instead of
worrying more about al-Qaeda.  High Political Price  This analysis has new resonance because of the recent
Supreme Court oral arguments over Obamacare (a term, by the way,
that the Obama campaign now embraces). Democrats are wondering
if it was worth it to lose the House in 2010 and perhaps the
White House in 2012 over a bill that may be declared
unconstitutional, anyway.  The answer is yes. To understand why, we need to be clear
about the purpose of politics.  It’s not to win elections -- hard as that may be to believe
in the middle of a campaign. Public approval as expressed in
elections is the means to change the country, not the end in
itself.  Insuring  30 million Americans  and ending the shameful era
when an illness in the family meant selling the house or
declaring personal bankruptcy? Nothing to sneeze at, whatever
the cost to one’s political career.  Frank is mistaken that the White House underestimated the
political price. At various points, Vice President  Joe Biden ,
senior advisor David Axelrod and Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel 
advised the president to focus entirely on the economy and leave
comprehensive health care for another day. “I begged him not to
do this,” Emanuel  told  me when I was researching my book about
Obama’s first year in office.  I asked the president in late 2009 why he overruled his
team. He answered: “I remember telling  Nancy Pelosi  that moving
forward on this could end up being so costly for me politically
that it would affect my chances” in 2012. But he and Pelosi
agreed that if they didn’t move at the outset of the Obama
presidency “it was not going to get done.”  Obama was right that his political capital would diminish
over time. Even if the Democrats had delayed health care and
held the House in 2010, their numbers would almost certainly
have been reduced. Can you imagine trying to bring it up now or
in a second term?  A Quicker Pivot  Hirsh argues that Obama should have stayed focused on the
economy not for appearances’ sake but because it was worse off
than he and his closest advisers recognized. This wrongly
assumes that he could have done substantively more to spur a
rebound or keep the benefits of recovery from skewing toward the
top 1 percent.  Liberal critics rightly say that Obama should have had a
broader circle that included liberal economists. But their
remedy -- restructuring of the banks -- turned out to be
unnecessary for reviving the economy and would have cost, by
some estimates, several hundred billion dollars on top of the
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  It’s important to remember that Obama began his presidency
with economic recovery, not health care. In his first month in
office, he pushed through a mammoth stimulus package that,
contrary to the analysis of  Drew Westen  and others, was as big
as Congress would allow. There was no political appetite for a
second stimulus before the first had even kicked in -- the
period when health care was on the table. In other words, the
opportunity costs of health-care reform were zero.  As for other priorities, passing the Dodd-Frank financial
reform in 2009 would have accomplished nothing except to further
slow momentum for health care. In the New York magazine
interview, Frank says his bill, which passed in July of 2010,
ended up with almost all he wanted anyway.  The other possible legislative achievement -- pushing a
cap-and-trade energy bill before health care -- was a
nonstarter. Even after that bill cleared the House in mid-2009,
 Max Baucus , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, made clear
that it would never become law.  The “eye off the ball” critics have a point, but it relates
to the second year of Obama’s presidency, not the first.  Just as Nixon had his “18.5-minute gap” on the Watergate
tapes, so Obama had his 18-month gap, from the signing of the
Affordable Care Act in March 2010 until the introduction of his
jobs bill in September 2011.  If the president had pivoted more quickly from health care
to a jobs agenda and signed a bill before the midterms, he would
be better off politically and might even have helped the economy
a bit.  But let’s not pretend health-care reform was a fatal Iraq-
style distraction from the main event. Instead of costing
thousands of lives, it will potentially save many more with its
incentives for preventive care, among other historic provisions.  The public might not appreciate it yet, but Obamacare took
leadership and guts from the president whose name it bears.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on elections in  France,
Germany and Greece ; Virginia Postrel on the end of  vertical
integration ;  Michael Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s success ;  Jonathan
Weil  on the  government’s sketchy accounting ; Yukon Huang on
 China’s trade surplus ; Andrew Exum on  disturbing combat
photographs .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 