-- BAT, Burberry, Valeant, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-19T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bat-burberry-valeant-google-intellectual-property-1-.html
Trademark use by companies in
 Australia  is a privilege that the government can curtail,
Queensland state’s solicitor-general said in defending the
country’s plain-packaging legislation for cigarettes.  “Privilege is not property,” Walter Sofronoff,
Queensland’s solicitor-general, told the seven-judge panel of
Australia’s High Court yesterday during the second day of a
hearing on the legality of the plain-packaging law. “It’s a
liberty to act unless regulated by law.”  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe ’s biggest cigarette
maker, and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  were joined by  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM) , the largest publicly traded tobacco
manufacturer, and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  in a  challenge  to
the Australian law requiring cigarettes to be sold in uniform
packages. The tobacco companies are seeking a ruling deeming the
Australian law unconstitutional for seizing their intellectual
property without adequate compensation.  Australia’s trademark law is in place to ensure companies’
logos are protected from misuse by competitors or individuals,
Sofronoff said.  The government crossed a line with the new rules that
prohibit the use of logos and trademarks, moving from regulating
tobacco sales by requiring warning messages to “commandeering
people’s property,” Bret Walker, a lawyer for Imperial Tobacco,
told the court yesterday.  “It is wrong to hypothesize the extreme use of the
power,” Stephen Gageler, the federal solicitor-general, told
the court.  A more realistic example would be the requirement that all
cars sold in Australia are required to be fitted with seatbelts,
Gageler said.  Australia’s government is confident the law will be upheld,
Attorney-General Nicola Roxon told reporters before the start of
the hearings.  “Tobacco is the only legal product sold in Australia which
if used as intended will kill you,” Roxon said. “No other
product is in that category.”  Lawyers representing the tobacco companies were repeatedly
challenged on their positions by six of the seven justices, with
Chief Justice Robert French echoing Roxon’s concerns.  “You’re putting into the market a substance that causes
serious disease or is fatal,” French said, adding that puts
tobacco in a different category from cars or soft drinks.  Under the plain-packaging law, cigarettes will be sold with
no company logos and the same font for all brands on a dark
brown background. Graphic health warnings will cover 90 percent
of the back of the package and 70 percent of the front. The law
was approved by the Australian Senate on Nov. 10.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v the
Commonwealth of Australia. S389/2011. High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  Appeals Court Upholds Burberry Plaid Counterfeiter’s Conviction  The conviction of an importer of counterfeit items for
infringing  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) ’s trademarks was upheld by a
federal appeals court.  The appeals court rejected the defendant’s argument that
the term “substantially indistinguishable” to refer to the
plaid design and knight image used on fake goods and legitimate
Burberry products was constitutionally vague.  The fake goods had a plaid pattern and a knight image that
the defendants called the “Marco plaid.” The government argued
that they were virtually identical to marks used by the London-
based luxury-goods company.  The court said that in its proper context, “the meaning of
the term is plain.”  The appeals court case is U.S. v. Chong Lam, 11-4056, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The lower court case
is U.S. v. Lam,  3:07-cr-00374-JRS, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Virginia  (Richmond).  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Valeant, Depomed Sue Watson Over Patents for Diabetes Drug  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  and  Depomed Inc. (DEPO) 
sued  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  over patents for a diabetes
drug.  Watson, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, has filed an
application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to market
generic copies of the diabetes medicine Glumetza before their
patents expire, Valeant and Depomed contend in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “Plaintiffs will be substantially and irreparably harmed”
if Watson isn’t stopped from using the protected technology, and
Watson should pay damages and legal fees, lawyers for Valeant’s
Barbados unit and Menlo Park, California-based Depomed said in
court papers. In dispute are patents 6,488,962 and 7,780,987.  Watson faces similar allegations in a patent-infringement
lawsuit filed a month ago in the same court by  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  over generic copies of the Niaspan cholesterol
drug.  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Watson, didn’t immediately
return voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
allegations.  The case is Depomed v. Watson, 12-CV-492, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  RIM, Samsung Case Brought by Pragmatus to Be Investigated at ITC  The U.S. International Trade Commission has formally
instituted an investigation filed by patent licenser Pragmatus
AC LLC, of Alexandria, Virginia, according to a notice on the
Washington-based trade group’s website.  Companies whose products are the target of the
investigation are HTC Corp., AsusTek Computer Inc, LG
Electronics Inc., Pantech Co., Samsung Electronics Co. and
Research In Motion Ltd. All but Waterloo, Ontario’s Research in
Motion are based in Korea.  Pragmatus claims mobile telephones and tablet devices made
by these companies infringe the patents, and seeks an order from
the ITC barring their importation.  According to data compiled by Bloomberg, Pragmatus units
have filed at least 33 patent-infringement cases in U.S. federal
courts since November 2010.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Google ‘Did Nothing Wrong,’ CEO Page Tells Jury in Java Case  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chief Executive Officer Larry Page, disputing
claims that the leading search engine operator stole Java
software technology from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , told a jury his company
“did nothing wrong.”  Page, the first witness to be called by Oracle attorney
David Boies yesterday at a trial in federal court in  San
Francisco , said Google negotiated hard over a partnership with
Oracle, the largest maker of database software, over the Java
programming language.  “We really wanted to use Java’s technology,” Page
testified. “When we weren’t able to come to terms on a business
partnership, we went down our own path.”  Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , claims in a
lawsuit filed in 2010 that Google infringed copyrights and
patents for Java in creating the Android operating system for
mobile devices.  Google acknowledges using Java to develop Android and says
its use was fair and legal and Google engineers wrote original
code for Android. Google rejected a proposal by Java creator Sun
Microsystems Inc. in 2006, before it was acquired by Oracle,
that the search engine company pay $100 million for a three-year
technology partnership to build Android jointly, Google’s
lawyers disclosed in the case last year.  Google was careful with the technology to ensure that
Android and the company “respect intellectual property,” Page
said during his testimony.  He said he didn’t recall or couldn’t speculate about
several issues Boies questioned him about, including who Google
engineer Tim Lindholm is.  Lindholm wrote a 2010 e-mail saying he was asked by Page
and Google co-founder Sergey Brin to find an alternative to Java
and determined that Google should take a license for the
language. Shown the e-mail, and other documents featuring
Lindholm, Page said he couldn’t recall Lindholm, giving him any
directions concerning Java or whether Lindholm had recommended
that Google take a license for Java.  Oracle is seeking $1 billion in damages and a court order
blocking distribution of Android unless Mountain View,
California-based Google pays for a license.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Two Chinese Nationals Charged by U.S. Over Software Piracy  Two Chinese nationals were charged by the U.S. for
illegally exporting technology to their home country and
pirating software from U.S. companies including  Agilent
Technologies Inc. (A) , federal officials said.  Xiang Li, 35, and Chun Yan Li, 33, a married couple from
Chengdu,  China , were indicted by a federal grand jury in
Wilmington, Delaware, according to a statement yesterday by the
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.  “Counterfeiting and intellectual-property theft are
seriously undermining U.S. business and innovation -- more than
$100 million in lost revenue in this one case alone,” John
Morton, the agency’s director, said in the statement.  The couple are accused of running a website called “Crack
99” that sold copies of software where the “access-control
mechanisms” had been circumvented, Morton said. The pair is
charged in the indictment with distributing more than 500
pirated copyrighted works to more than 300 purchasers in the
U.S. and overseas from April 2008 to June 2011.  Xiang Li was arrested by federal agents in June 2011 on an
earlier indictment in the case. Chun Yan Li “remains an at-
large fugitive in Chengdu,” according to the statement.  An Agilent software product, which retails for $45,000, was
among the programs illegally copied by the couple, according to
the indictment.  Stuart Matlow, a spokesman for Santa Clara, California-
based Agilent, wasn’t immediately available to respond to a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment on the indictment.  A Maryland resident who was a customer of the Crack99
pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit criminal copyright
infringement, the government said in a  statement . Cosburn
Wedderburn, of Windsor Mill, Maryland, bought more than $1
million worth of pirated software, according to the government
statement.  He faces a potential prison sentence of as long as five
years and a fine of as much as $250,000, or twice the loss the
makers of the legitimated pirated software suffered as a result
of his actions, the government said.  The case against the Lis is U.S. v. Xiang Li and Chun Yan
Li, Criminal Action No. 10-112-LPS, U.S. District Court;
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Orrick Expands IP Practice with Two Hires From DLA Piper  Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP hired Robert J. Benson
and Christopher Broderick for its IP group, the San Francisco-
based firm said in a  statement .  Both lawyers, who joined from DLA Piper LLP of  Chicago , had
previously practiced at  Washington ’s Hogan Lovells US LLP.  Benson , a litigator, has represented clients in federal
trial and appeal courts and before the U.S. International Trade
Commission. His clients’ technologies have included mobile
devices, computer hardware and software, telecommunications,
semiconductors, LCDs, printers, cameras and other consumer
electronics.  He has an undergraduate degree in engineering from San Jose
State University and a law degree from the University of
California, Berkeley School of Law.  Broderick  has represented clients in patent, trademark,
unfair-competition and trade-secret disputes involving wireless
communications, handsets, cameras and camcorders, printers,
displays, satellite television, semiconductors, software,
Internet business patents, manufacturing techniques and consumer
products.  Before he was a lawyer, Broderick worked as an engineer
developing satellite systems for Hughes Aircraft and Northrop
Grumman.  He has an undergraduate degree in engineering from the
University of Cincinnati and a law degree from Loyola Marymount
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 