-- Best Buy Interim CEO Says He'll Work on Long-Term Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-04-19T21:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/best-buy-interim-ceo-says-he-ll-work-on-long-term-plan.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  Interim Chief
Executive Officer Mike Mikan told employees today that his first
priority is to execute the changes the company announced last
month and then he will plan a new direction for the retailer.  Mikan made the statement in a video for employees. He said
the company first needs to implement the cuts announced by
former CEO  Brian Dunn  in March, which included eliminating 400
corporate jobs and closing 50 big-box stores. After that, Mikan
said he wants to work on a new vision for Best Buy.  Mikan is working to galvanize employees after the
Richfield, Minnesota-based company posted a quarterly net loss
of $1.7 billion and Dunn’s resignation amid a board probe into
“personal conduct.” Best Buy is struggling to compete with
online rivals such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “In the days and weeks ahead, I’ll be working with our
leadership team on a long-term vision, a path toward the future
that will connect Best Buy with customers across multiple
channels while improving performance,” Mikan told employees in
a video that was released by the company.  Best Buy  fell  0.3 percent to $22 at the close in  New York .
The shares have declined 5.9 percent this year.  Dunn left the company on April 10. The board was
investigating whether he may have misused company resources
while having an inappropriate relationship with a 29-year-old
female subordinate, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  Mikan, in the video, talked about creating multiple
channels for sales and improving the company’s online presence.  Future of Retail  “We need to ask ourselves what Best Buy will be in the
years ahead,” he said. “We need to create a dynamic
relationship that transcends the store experience.”  Finding its role in the future of retail is the company’s
top challenge right now, said Ken Harris, a consultant with
London-based Kantar Retail. The company is under pressure from
Internet retailers in some of its main product lines, especially
electronics. Best Buy needs to branch out and sell more products
and services, he said.  “The name itself tells you that it doesn’t have to be
limited to electronics,” Harris said in a phone interview. “It
could be accessories, it could be  service , it could be many
things. This isn’t about waning financial performance. It’s
about getting back momentum.”  Mikan didn’t specify what direction the retailer will take.
He did indicate that he will play a key role in its formation.  “You can count on me to bring passion and commitment to
this effort,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  