-- Billionaire Eskenazis Risk Default as Argentina Takes YPF
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-04-19T16:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/billionaire-eskenazis-risk-default-as-argentina-takes-ypf.html
Argentina’s billionaire Eskenazi
family is in talks on funding alternatives for more than $2
billion of loans used to acquire a stake in  YPF SA (YPFD)  after the
government decided to nationalize the oil producer.  The family’s Petersen Group is negotiating with several
banks on financing options after the seizure, according to a
company official, who asked not to be named because the talks
aren’t public. Credit Suisse Group AG and BNP Paribas SA are
among banks which have loaned money to Petersen for the
acquisition of the company’s 25 percent stake in YPF.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  ousted Sebastian Eskenazi as the head of Buenos Aires-based YPF on April 16,
appointing Planning Minister Julio de Vido to run the company
and announcing plans to seize a 51 percent stake in YPF from
 Spain ’s  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)  The expropriation follows the takeovers
of airline Aerolineas Argentinas SA and a $24 billion pension
fund by Fernandez since she took office in 2007.  Petersen owes Repsol 1.45 billion euros ($1.9 billion)
after it bought a stake in YPF, the Madrid-based company said
April 16. The Eskenazis counted on YPF dividend payments of as
much as 90 percent of profit to repay Repsol and about $680
million of loans with the group of banks.  ‘On the Hook’  “Repsol is effectively on the hook for a 1.45 billion euro
loan to the Petersen Group which was used to purchase a 25
percent stake in YPF,”  Richard Segal , a credit strategist for
 emerging markets  at Jefferies Group Inc., said in a credit note
to clients dated today. “An irony is that this purchase (which
occurred in stages) is believed to have taken place with the
tacit approval of the Kirchner administration.”  Credit Suisse spokesman  David Walker  declined to comment.
BNP Paribas didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Repsol had its ratings downgraded to BBB- from BBB,
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service said today in a statement,
citing how the YPF takeover will “materially” worsen its
credit metrics.  Argentine Senate committees yesterday approved the YPF
takeover plan with some opposition support. The legislation will
head for a full vote on April 25.  YPF’s 2011 profit will not be used to pay dividends this
year and will probably be re-invested, Deputy Economy Minister
Axel Kicillof said in a congressional hearing.  “Those that aren’t expropriated are more nailed than those
who were,”  Antonio Brufau , chief executive officer of Repsol,
said April 17 at a news conference in  Madrid , referring to
Fernandez’s decision not to target the Petersen group’s 25
percent stake. “We’re all in the same boat. The Eskenazis are
enormously worried.”  Collateral  The family, which made its fortune in banking and
construction, bought 15 percent of YPF from Repsol in 2008 in a
deal backed by then-president  Nestor Kirchner , the late husband
of Fernandez. The acquisition was financed with a syndicated
 bank loan  and a seller’s note from Repsol. The Eskenazis bought
an additional 10 percent of YPF in 2011 with two similar loans.  The four loans covered the full value of the acquisitions.  Petersen’s 25 percent stake in YPF is pledged as collateral
to the loans, Exane’s Marie and Riou said in their note. The
stake would be divided between the debt holders if Petersen
defaults, leaving 22 percent of YPF to the lending banks and 3
percent to Repsol, according to the report.  “Should the Argentine government cut the dividend at YPF
(which is the most likely scenario), the Petersen Group would
default on its loans,” Exane BNP Paribas analysts Alexandre Marie and Charles Riou said in a note to clients April 17. “A
dividend payout of less than 90 percent triggers a default.”  Bank of America  Petersen’s main stakeholders are Enrique Eskenazi and his
sons Sebastian and Matias, who all helped manage YPF. The Group
also owns four closely held banks in  Argentina .  YPF’s market value more than halved to $5.2 billion from a
high this year of about $16.2 billion on Jan. 23, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its 52-week target price
for YPF’s American depositary receipts to $7.15 from $33 and
reduced its rating to under perform from neutral after news of
the takeover.  Spain vowed to retaliate against Argentine exporters and
energy supplies as Repsol demanded $10.5 billion in compensation
and vowed to use all legal means to win full payment.  Repsol declined 4.8 percent to 14.67 euros in Madrid
yesterday, after dropping as much as 6.7 percent yesterday.  Kristian Rix, a spokesman for Repsol, declined to comment.  Cash for Exploration  The seizure of the stake comes after more than two months
of government pressure on YPF because of slumping production.
The country could double output within a decade after the
discovery of shale  oil fields  in the south that will cost $25
billion a year to develop and that will require YPF to find
partners to help share costs.  The government’s requests for YPF to increase investments
included asking in March that the company use its cash to invest
in exploration and production instead of paying semi-annual
dividends.  The government’s representative on the board, Roberto Baratta, voted against paying dividends in 2011 and this year.
Instead of paying dividends, YPF’s board proposed issuing new
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  