-- Bo Ouster Undermines Model to Bridge China’s Wealth Gap
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-20T05:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bo-ouster-undermines-model-crafted-to-bridge-china-s-wealth-gap.html
Sitting on a stool polishing shoes
for 2 yuan (32 cents) a pair in front of her apartment block in
Chongqing, central China, Wang Yunqing says she has reason to
thank Bo Xilai, the disgraced former leader of the city.  “Life definitely improved” under Bo, said the 41-year-old
mother and former farmer. She lives in one of Bo’s public
housing projects and has a benefits plan from her second job
cleaning the city’s light-rail trains. “Now I have my own nest
and don’t need to worry about having to move out when the
landlord gets unhappy.”  Wang is a beneficiary of an economic model championed by Bo
in a municipality whose population of 29 million is larger than
that of any U.S. state except  California . Bo sought to balance
the fastest municipal growth rate in the country with measures
to stop millions of rural migrants being left behind by China’s
industrial boom.  Combining multibillion-dollar government projects with a
welcome mat for foreign investors and public morale programs,
the so-called Chongqing model may be overshadowed by the
downfall of Bo, whose wife is under investigation for murder.  “Because Bo Xilai is in political trouble people are
starting to demonize the Chongqing model,” said Bo Zhiyue,
senior research fellow at the National University of  Singapore ’s
East Asia Institute, who is no relation. “They are ignoring the
genius of this. Bo’s fall is a major loss for the city and also
in a sense for the nation because the model has implications for
how to manage the nation as a whole.”  Reining In  With the architect of the plan ousted from his Chongqing
Communist Party chief and Politburo positions, the city’s new
leaders are reining in projects financed by as much as 1
trillion yuan ($159 billion) in borrowing.  Bo, 62, championed the creation of low-rent public housing,
attacked crime, planted hundreds of thousands of trees and
revived songs and slogans from Mao Zedong’s era to try to make
ordinary people feel part of the nation’s economic success.  China ’s 10.2 percent average annual economic  growth  for the
past three decades drew millions of migrants from farms to
industrial cities, causing the income gap between rich and poor
as measured by the Gini coefficient to exceed the danger level
for civil unrest, according to Bo.  His economic measures gave Chongqing a different feel from
other Chinese cities, said Zhang Tingting, managing director of
London-based information provider  Yangtze Business Services Ltd. ,
who has been doing work in the city since 2005. “People in the
street feel good, they are happy, they say good things about
their leaders,” she said.  ‘Important Lessons’  “At a time when the wealth gap is increasing and the
population at large is resenting that, Bo was able to win
popular support,” said Zhang. “What he has done in Chongqing
has provided important lessons to the central government in
terms of managing the country, and how you win popular support
at a time of rising discord.”  Buying that approval was expensive, both financially and
politically. As in most of China’s high-growth cities, Bo funded
spending on construction and public works largely through debt.
Chongqing’s local government finance vehicles owe more than 157
billion yuan, backed by land, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Including other state-owned debt, total borrowing may
exceed 1 trillion yuan, said Victor Shih, author of the book
“Factions and Finance in China: Elite Conflict and Inflation.”  “Bo’s political connections accelerated the pace of growth
in Chongqing but the amount of debt that will have to be repaid
in the future also built up,” said Shih, a professor at
 Northwestern University  in Evanston,  Illinois , in a phone
interview. “The future leadership will have to think of ways of
dealing with this substantial amount of debt that is owed to the
banks.”  Rapid Growth  Gross domestic product  in Chongqing, China’s most populous
municipality, rose 16.4 percent last year and 17.1 percent in
2010. The city government predicted another 15 percent expansion
this year.  Bo’s autocratic style brought allegations of corruption and
abuse of power, especially in the police crackdown on organized
crime. His downfall began with news that his former police chief,
Wang Lijun, had spent a night in the U.S. consulate in Chengdu
on Feb. 6. Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, was arrested last week on
suspicion of murdering British businessman Neil Heywood.  Raised Concerns  “By all accounts, he ran the city as a personal fiefdom --
people were arrested often on no more than the say-so of an
official,” Pauline Loong, a political analyst at CIMB
Securities (HK) Ltd., wrote in a note to clients this month.
“The police tactics he sanctioned raised concerns in a party
that does not normally wring its hands over the lack of due
process but which is increasingly concerned about public
approval and acceptance.”  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the government could lose
its grip on power unless it imposes stronger measures to fight
corruption, according to an article he wrote in the party
magazine Qiushi, or Seeking Truth, after Bo’s ouster.  “There have been concerns that he was promoting a Cultural
Revolution-style approach to our social tensions,”  Li Daokui , a
former adviser to China’s central bank, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview April 18. Instead of “mass mobilization,”
national policy focus ought to center on deeper deregulation of
markets, Li said.  The party on April 10 suspended Bo from the ruling
Politburo, saying he was suspected of committing “serious
discipline violations,” China’s official Xinhua News Agency
reported.  Investigation Ordered  Bo’s replacement in Chongqing,  Zhang Dejiang , and mayor
Huang Qifan ordered an investigation of infrastructure projects
initiated by the city government, China Business Journal
reported.  The pullback may affect many of the hundreds of companies
that flocked to the city in the past decade to take advantage of
lower wages and record expansion.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
chemical makers  BASF SE (BASFY)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  and Taiwan computer maker
 Acer Inc. (2353)  all have plants in the city.  Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank Co. (3618)  shares fell 14 percent
in two days after the China Business Journal reported on April
14 that the local government had begun investigating some city
construction projects.  The loss of Bo Xilai, a former commerce minister and a so-
called princeling who was the son of a Communist Party
revolutionary, will probably slow Chongqing’s growth, said East
Asia Institute’s Bo.  Bo’s Successor  “He was able to do more with Chongqing than someone who is
not a princeling,” said Shih. “He was able to garner more
resources, attract more investment.”  The appointment of Zhang, a vice premier for industrial and
energy policy, probably will be an interim one, Shih said.  Officials at multinational companies in Chongqing said the
political change in the city hasn’t affected investment plans.  “We continue to look at other opportunities there, given
the size of the city and the focus on growth in the internal
markets in China,” said Frits Van Paasschen, chief executive
officer of  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , which has
three hotels in Chongqing. “We take a long-term view on the
growth and the opportunity in China.”  Ford’s China unit announced on April 5 it will spend about
$600 million to raise capacity almost 60 percent by 2014 at its
local passenger-car factory with partner Changan Automobile
Group Co. with construction to begin immediately.  “Being in Chongqing has helped ship vehicles more easily
to the increasingly important northern and western cities,”
said Ford’s Shanghai-based spokesman, Trevor Hale.  New Apartments  Hewlett-Packard Co. Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman met
new party chief Zhang this week, according to the Chongqing
Daily and Xinhua. Whitman said the city is a main focus of the
company’s business in China, according to a  report  in the
Communist Party-run local newspaper on April 18.  Hong Kong-listed  Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  launched its Chongqing
Tiandi cluster project in  Shanghai  this week, the company’s
biggest by floor area.  “We will continue to accelerate our construction in
Chongqing,” said CEO Freddy Lee in a phone interview. “A lot
of people around the region would love to move there. That’s why
the economy has outperformed other cities.”  Chongqing spent 141.8 billion yuan last year to improve
people’s livelihoods, or 55 percent of government expenditure,
according to the local government.  Social Equity  A plan to build 800,000 apartments over three years would
rely on debt to finance 70 percent of the 100 billion yuan cost,
while construction would be handled by state-owned developers
led by Chongqing City Construction, according to data compiled
by Standard Chartered last year.  “Chongqing’s experience, perhaps, shows more than anything
else the possibilities of using the market not for private gain
but for public benefit,” Philip Huang, Professor Emeritus at
the Center for Chinese Studies at the  University of California 
in  Los Angeles , wrote in a paper last November. “It places
social equity front and center.”  So-called mass incidents in China -- strikes, riots and
other disturbances -- doubled from 2006 to 2010 as China’s
wealth gap rose, according to Sun Liping, a professor at
Beijing’s  Tsinghua University .  Some of the city’s older inhabitants liked Bo’s tendency to
quote Mao’s texts.  Political Change  “I listened to speeches of all the Chongqing party
secretaries and he was the best,” said Mu Gerong, 78, raising
his hand to forestall interruptions from others sitting with him
on a downtown street bench. “He could cite  Mao Zedong ’s works
one paragraph after another.”  Premier Wen said in a press conference last month that
without political change China risked a return to the 1966-1976
Cultural Revolution. During that time, Red Guards persecuted
millions while chanting Mao slogans.  Even the city’s younger citizens pointed to Bo’s social
achievements.  “We’re not interested in politics but Bo really did some
good things here and it’s much safer now,” said Wang Ping, 25,
waiting for her friends before going into No. 88, one of the
city’s most popular bars. “The traffic patrol police are deep
in people’s hearts now and we won’t accept it if they suddenly
disappear.”  -- Kevin Hamlin  and Dingmin Zhang. With assistance from Yidi Zhao
and Tian Ying in Beijing and Bonnie Cao,  Michael Wei , Alex Kim,
Parker Leung and Susan Li in Shanghai. Editors: Adam Majendie,
Anne Swardson  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  