-- BOE’s Posen Says U.K. Economy Will Be Stronger Than Data Show
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-19T20:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/boe-s-posen-says-u-k-economy-will-be-stronger-than-data-show.html
Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said the U.K. economy will be “stronger” than official
data will show in the first half of the year.  “I think the economy is stronger than what that data is
going to show,” he told reporters in Edinburgh today. Referring
to the minutes of this month’s monetary policy meeting, he said
that “it’s not so much that there a wide range of views about
’is there going to be a recession,’ but a number of people on
the committee are worried about confidence shocks.”  Posen this month dropped his push for an additional 25
billion pounds ($40 billion) of bond purchases to side with the
majority of the Monetary Policy Committee, who voted for no
change in the plan.  Bank of England  officials said that the U.K.
may face a recession in the first half of this year, while
inflation may turn out faster than forecast.  “I was genuinely on the fence in February and March,”
Posen said. “In my reading of the data there’s been a little
bit of movement back from some very positive stuff compared with
a month or two ago but it’s still much more positive than it’s
been.”  On whether the committee will have a difficult job
convincing people that the outlook for the economy isn’t as bad
as the data may reflect, he said that “we just have to be
honest and try to do the right thing.”  Bond Purchases  On his decision to keep the amount of bond purchases
unchanged, he said “we’re not turning off the QE taps, we’re
keeping the same amount of QE going but we’re not adding to that
flow.”  Posen also said the recent construction data published by
the  Office for National Statistics  were “just odd.”  “We didn’t have a terrible winter and we didn’t have
falling house prices,” he said. “Somehow we had a far worse
decline in construction this year than the same month last year.
It’s just odd.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  