-- Boehringer Ingelheim Hepatitis C Drugs Cured 82% in Trial
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-04-19T15:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/boehringer-ingelheim-hepatitis-c-drugs-cured-82-in-trial.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH said its
experimental hepatitis C oral treatment cleared the virus in as
many as 82 percent of patients in a study.  The mid-stage  Sound-C2  trial followed 362 patients who
hadn’t received other treatments before taking the Ingelheim,
Germany-based drugmaker’s BI 201335 protease inhibitor and BI
207127 polymerase inhibitor, either as a two-drug combination or
along with a third drug, ribavirin.  Researchers reported an 82 percent cure rate among patients
with the most common type of hepatitis C after 28 weeks of
treatment, Boehringer said today at the  European Association for
the Study of the Liver  annual meeting in Barcelona. Among all
patients studied, 68 percent were cured. The study contrasts
with other studies being presented at the conference with much
smaller patient groups.  The trial didn’t include interferon, an injected drug which
is combined with ribavirin and a protease inhibitor as the
current standard of care. Protease inhibitors block the action
of the protease enzyme that the hepatitis virus needs to
replicate, stopping it from spreading. Drugmakers including
 Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  are also
seeking to remove interferon from the treatment regimen because
of flu-like side effects.  “Eliminating interferon from HCV treatment is an urgent
need,” Stefan Zeuzem, chief of the department of medicine at
Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Hospital in  Frankfurt  and lead
investigator of the study, said in a statement. “Releasing
patients from the side effects and the lengthy treatment
commitment seen with interferon would be a huge advance.”  The cure rate among patients with late-stage hepatitis C
and liver cirrhosis who took BI 201335 and BI 207127 with
ribavirin was as much as 71 percent after 28 weeks of treatment,
Boehringer said in a separate statement. The study is the first
to demonstrate a cure in cirrhotic patients using an interferon-
free therapy, it said.  Hepatitis C affects as many as 170 million people globally,
putting them at risk of developing  liver cancer , according to
the  World Health Organization . The growing population of
patients infected with the virus spurred Gilead’s decision in
November to buy experimental hepatitis C-treatment maker
Pharmasset Inc. for $10.8 billion and Bristol-Myers’s
acquisition in February of Inhibitex Inc. for $2.5 billion.  The disease is most commonly transmitted through
contaminated blood transfusions, organ transplants, contaminated
syringes and needle-injected drug use, according to the WHO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  