-- Bond Rout Odds May Rise as Fund Inflows Ebb From Record
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-04-19T16:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bond-rout-odds-may-rise-as-fund-inflows-ebb-from-record.html
Individual investors, who hold more
sway over the corporate  bond market  than ever, are allocating
the least amount of cash this year to U.S. high-yield mutual
funds in a signal that sentiment may be shifting.  Speculative-grade bond funds reported net inflows of $75
million through April 16, the lowest since a monthly outflow of
$9.1 million in December, according to EPFR Global data. U.S.
mutual funds reported an unprecedented $698.3 billion of
corporate bond assets at the end of February, from $327.9
billion in 2008, data compiled by the Investment Company
Institute show.  Consumers have seized unprecedented control of the market
for company debt as Federal Reserve data show ownership falling
to almost a 10-year low and as trading as a portion of total
bonds outstanding declines worldwide. Concern is mounting that a
reversal of the stampede into the securities would undermine a
market that’s gained 54 percent since the end of 2008, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “You just have to pray the funds’ investors never want to
sell all at once,” said  Matt King , global head of credit
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London. “You’ve got the classic
combination of promised instant liquidity and illiquid
underlying assets.”  The volume of junk-bond inflows is falling from a peak of
$5.5 billion in February, with investors funneling less than
half of that into funds the following month, EPFR data show.
Speculative-grade bonds have gained 0.08 percent this month
after advancing 5.1 percent this year through March 31,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Heightened Nervousness  “In the last week or so I’ve sensed a higher degree of
nervousness in the market,” said Bonnie Baha, head of the
global developed credit group at DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los
Angeles , where she helps oversee $32 billion.  While global debt issuance has soared since the 2008
financial crisis as companies reacted to the withdrawal of bank
credit by rushing to issue bonds, proportional trading volumes
have dwindled. Bond sales peaked at $3.9 trillion globally in
2009, an increase of $1.1 trillion from the previous year, and
have held at about $3.2 trillion annually since then, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Securities equivalent to about 96 percent of the
outstanding market are traded in the U.S. every 12 months, down
from about 180 percent at the peak in 2005, Citigroup data show.  Default Swaps Rise  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk increased for a second day, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 100.6 basis points
as of 12:18 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, rose 0.69 basis point to 29.88 basis points
as of 12:19 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Chesapeake Energy Corp. are the most actively
traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers today, with 153
trades of $1 million or more as of 12:19 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Dealers Reduce Holdings  Bond trading has become more difficult because investment
banks won’t commit so much capital to hold the securities on
their books as regulations on risk-taking loom and financial
companies remain concerned that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
may escalate.  Dealers that are authorized to buy Treasuries directly from
the government have  reduced  corporate debt holdings to $45.6
billion from the $235 billion they held at the peak in October
2007, according to  Fed data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The quickest way to create liquidity when you have these
outflows is to sell what you can,” not necessarily what you
want to, Baha said. “If everyone heads for the exits at the
same time, given the poor liquidity that we’re already seeing in
the market, you’re going to see some incredibly volatile pricing
moves.”  Holdings dropped to $40.4 billion on Feb. 22, the lowest
since June 2002, according to the data.  Liquidity Drops  “Each and every investment bank has significantly reduced
the capital it’s prepared to commit to taking risk in recent
years,” said Constantinos Antoniades, the founder of Vega-Chi
Ltd. in  London , which operates an electronic trading system for
high-yield and convertible bonds.  Credit markets can freeze and prices plunge, as happened in
2008. From the end of August to Dec. 15, the Barclays Capital
 High Yield Market Value index  plunged 44 percent, before
starting to rally at the end of that year.  “Liquidity, even for the biggest clients, has dropped
dramatically,” said Peter Tchir, founder of TF Market Advisors
in New York.  The trend of volume ebbing is global. In euro- and pound-
denominated debt, 12-monthly turnover has slipped to about 40
percent of the market from as much as 120 percent in 2004,
according to New York-based Citigroup.  Replacing Market Makers  As trading volumes decline, there are few signs that
buyside firms and brokerages can swiftly replace the volume that
large Wall Street banks have withdrawn from the market.  “One way to ensure there is liquidity in the market and
there is no risk of a shut-down at times of market stress, is to
reduce reliance on investment bank dealer desks,” Antoniades
said.  Agency brokers, dealers that seek to match buyers and
sellers of securities without holding them on their own books,
as well as independent electronic platforms that allow clients
to enter buy and sell orders without going through an
intermediary are trying to gain ground.  Over time, electronic trading systems, combined with
clearinghouses for  credit derivatives  and new instruments such
as  exchange-traded funds  that track bond indexes, will help
replace the market makers, according to Tchir.  Bypass Banks  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, said
April 12 it plans to start a bond-trading system that will help
investors to bypass investment banks. The firm, which hopes to
attract institutional investors including sovereign wealth funds
and insurers to the platform.  For now, fund managers are taking preemptive measures to
address shrinking secondary market volumes.  Because it is hard to trade, managers hold on to cash to
meet redemptions to avoid having to sell into a rout, said
 Ashish Shah , who helps oversee about $420 billion as head of
global credit investments at AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  The possibility that the market might seize is “a
legitimate concern but portfolio managers have that concern and
manage with that in mind,” he said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  