-- Bowing Out of Presidential Campaign Puts Debt Burden on Santorum
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-04-19T12:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bowing-out-of-presidential-campaign-puts-debt-burden-on-santorum.html
Hours after dropping out of the
presidential race this month,  Rick Santorum  fired off an e-mail
to supporters asking for “one more” contribution: “I am planning
to do everything in my power to bring a change about in the
White House,” he wrote. “But our campaign has debt, and I
cannot be free to focus on helping defeat” President  Barack Obama  “with this burden.”  Santorum maintains his campaign is less than $1 million in
debt, and his adviser  John Brabender  says, “We feel good that in
short order we’ll be able to wrap things up.” Still, if history
is any indication, the former Pennsylvania senator may be living
with the financial legacy of his failed candidacy for a long
time, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 23 issue.  Running for president is exhausting and all-consuming.
Putting an end to a presidential campaign can be a nightmare
that lasts years.  There are employees, consultants, lawyers, and advertising
makers clamoring to be paid, ad buys to cancel, contracts and
legal disputes to settle,  office space , computers, phones, and
furniture around the country to unload, and a pile of disclosure
forms and other paperwork to complete before the  Federal
Election Commission  will certify that a campaign is officially
over.  Short-Lived Business  “I would often say to people: Imagine starting a
$100 million business from zero, building it up, running it, and
then bringing it back down to zero all within nine months or a
year’s time,” says Joe Stoltz, the FEC’s former director of
auditing. “You don’t see many businesses come and go that
quickly. It’s not easy.”  Four years after running for president,  Hillary Clinton  has
yet to close out her campaign; the secretary of state, a
Democrat, owes $245,000 to a consultant, FEC records show.  Same for Senator  John McCain , the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee, whose campaign has leftover funds he still
has to disburse. Former New York Mayor and Republican
presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani owes various people a total
of $2.6 million. And former Democratic presidential hopeful  John Edwards , a onetime North Carolina senator, has unpaid bills of
$333,586.  Former President Bill Clinton won re-election in 1996. The
FEC hasn’t closed the book on his campaign either -- he’s
disputing $319,630 in debts.  38 Candidacies  It’s hard even to remember that Republicans Bob Barr and
Alan Keyes and Democrats Al Sharpton and Christopher Dodd ever
ran for president. The FEC hasn’t forgotten; each of their
campaigns is officially alive. In all, 38 past presidential
contenders going back 16 years are still candidates, if only in
the eyes of the federal government.  Santorum and several of his Republican rivals have joined
the ranks of former contenders in limbo. Georgia businessman
 Herman Cain  says contributions started drying up late last year
as allegations swirled about his extramarital affairs. He
dropped out in part to avoid spending years putting his debts
behind him.  “As a businessman, I knew if I continued on as
contributions started to drop off, I’d end up with significant
debt,” he says in an e-mail. His campaign owes $450,000 -- the
amount Cain lent to his presidential bid. The FEC still counts
that as money owed, and to settle up, Cain can raise money to
pay himself back or choose to forgive the debt.  ‘Roller-Coaster Ride’  Being rich definitely helps ease the burden of retiring
debt. Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. lent his campaign a
total of $4.1 million. Abby Huntsman, a spokeswoman for her
father, says he’s paying invoices “aggressively,” adding in an
e-mail: “The roller coaster ride does not stop with the end of
the campaign.”  If former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  concedes the
nomination to  Mitt Romney , he’ll be staring down about $4.5
million in debt, according to his campaign’s estimates. As of
the end of February, his unpaid bills included private jets,
tour buses, and security guards. He also had outstanding bills
from an array of consultants.  Candidates seeking to wring cash out of supporters often
find that most of them already have given the maximum they can
under election laws. And few people want to give money to a
candidate after he’s lost.  Hard to Raise  “Debt-retirement money is the hardest kind of money in
politics to raise,” says Michael Toner, a campaign finance
attorney whose clients included former President  George W. Bush 
and former Kansas Senator Bob Dole, the 1996 Republican
presidential nominee.  Officeholders may have an easier time raising money after
they exit the race because at least they have a claim on donors’
attention.  Michele Bachmann , the Minnesota congresswoman, dropped out
of the Republican presidential race in January with roughly $1.1
million in unpaid bills for everything from golf carts to
photographers. Chase Kroll, a campaign spokesman, says in an e-
mail that his boss recently raised half a million dollars for
her re-election to Congress and that he’s “highly confident” she
will also pay off her presidential debts.  One time-proven way to help dispatch campaign bills
quickly: Broker a truce with the winner.  Tim Pawlenty , the former Minnesota governor, racked up
$435,542 in debts in his four-month-long campaign last year for
the Republican presidential nomination. Soon after he quit, he
endorsed Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, and the money
started pouring in.  Debt-Free  According to  USA Today , more than half the funds Pawlenty
raised came from Romney’s family, staff and supporters; he’s now
debt-free.  Likewise, Hillary Clinton abandoned her 2008 presidential
run with debt of $25 million. Obama intervened, asking his
supporters to send her donations. She sold a $50 DVD of her
speeches, raffled off a day with  Bill Clinton , and offered to
rent out her e-mail list -- the Clinton Foundation took her up
on that. She also wrote off $13.2 million she’d lent to the
campaign.  While failure to pay off debt is an option, it can take
decades before the FEC will let a candidate off the hook. John Glenn, the first U.S. astronaut to orbit the Earth, took 22
years to escape the gravitational pull of his failed 1984
Democratic presidential bid. He used a $2 million  bank loan  to
help finance his campaign, then withdrew from the race with the
debt still on his books. He chipped away at it over the years,
never raising enough to settle up. In 2006, the FEC closed out
his campaign with the debt unpaid.  Corporate Jets  Four years after running for the Oval Office, Giuliani
still has $2.6 million in unpaid bills for corporate jets,
security details, and $1.1 million in loans to his campaign.  If a former candidate can’t zero it out, a campaign may ask
vendors for a settlement, “sometimes pennies on the dollar,”
says Stoltz, and get the FEC to approve the plan. Candidates
themselves aren’t personally liable.  A few will leave their campaign coffers open on purpose.
Former Republican Representative Bob Dornan of  California , who
ran for president in 1996, owes himself $150,000 -- money he
says he’s never tried to raise and will write off when he
finally closes the campaign one day. That is, if he doesn’t run
again.  ‘Flags Flying’  “Hope springs eternal,” says the 79-year-old. The account’s
a point of pride, he adds: People “can see that I left with all
of my flags flying and owing no money to anybody but myself.”  The luckiest candidates -- Democrat Howard Dean, Republican
 Rick Perry  -- still have money left in their coffers when they
call it quits. They can give it away to approved charities,
party committees, and super-political action committees, under
FEC rules.  Even that can take years. McCain has given $8.6 million to
charity and has $1.8 million more to dispense. Four years after
he ended his 2000 campaign, former Vice President  Al Gore  was
still giving money away, including $6.5 million to various
Democratic Party committees. He had enough left over to give his
own charity, Climate Project, $100,000.  Before Gore could close the book on his campaign, he had to
undergo an exhaustive government audit required of all
candidates who take public financing. Gore staffer Keri Adams
spent 18 months arranging contribution checks in numerical
order, organizing invoices, and making spreadsheets of phone
bills to help the audit go smoothly.  She and a half-dozen other employees huddled among boxes
and reams of paperwork in a Washington office with FEC auditors,
never socializing with them for fear of being accused of
developing improper relationships.  “People say, ‘Oh my God, that sounds like torture.’ And it
was,” Adams says. “The amount of bureaucracy was truly amazing.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Julie Bykowicz in
Washington at 
jbykowicz @bloomberg.net.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  