-- Brazil Signals Rate May Fall to Record on Global Fragility
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-04-19T13:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/brazil-signals-key-rate-may-fall-to-record-on-global-fragility.html
Brazil  signaled it may cut its
benchmark interest rate to a record low as a still “fragile”
global economy eases inflationary pressures in the world’s
sixth-biggest economy.  The bank, in a statement accompanying its decision last
night to lower the Selic  rate  by 75 basis points to 9 percent,
said risks of missing its 4.5 percent inflation target are
“limited” as the global outlook remains “disinflationary.”
In the minutes to its meeting last month, the bank said
borrowing costs would probably stabilize “slightly above” the
record low 8.75 percent.  “The guidance they so explicitly gave in the minutes was
very clear, and now they are disavowing it,” said  Alberto Ramos , chief Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs & Co.
“It’s a very dovish statement -- there’s no signal whatsoever
that this is the end of the cycle.”  While yesterday’s move, the second-straight 75 basis point
cut, was anticipated by 67 of 69 analysts in a Bloomberg survey,
economists had been forecasting that it would be the bank’s last
this year. That’s because inflation, even after slowing to a 17-
month low of 5.24 percent in March, is expected to stay above
the target this year and in 2013.  Yields on the  interest rate  futures contract due in January
2014, the most traded today, fell 22 basis points to 8.88
percent at 9:44 a.m. Brasilia time, as traders bet on further
rate cuts. The real slid 0.52 percent to 1.8885 per  U.S. dollar .  Stimulus Measures  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has stepped up
its efforts to revive growth in recent weeks, as manufacturers
already hard hit by a 23 percent rally in the currency since the
end of 2008 must now contend with sluggish global growth. In
addition to slashing borrowing costs more than any other member
of the Group of 20 since last August, the government has also
cut taxes on  consumer goods  and boosted public investment to
ensure  economic growth  of 4.5 percent this year.  Gross domestic product expanded 2.7 percent in 2011, less
than that of Brazil’s neighbors and below the 3 percent growth
by  Germany  amid the euro debt crisis. Economists forecast growth
this year of 3.2 percent and 4.3 percent in 2013, according to
an April 13 central bank survey of about 100 analysts.  The same survey showed policy makers would keep the Selic
rate at 9 percent until March and raise it to 10 percent by July
2013.  ‘Laid a Trap’  Ramos said he expects investors to increase bets on another
25 or 50 basis-point cut when the bank’s board next convenes on
May 29-30. Since Brazil began targeting inflation in 1999, the
Selic has only once before fallen below 10 percent, in the wake
of the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Some economists expect the bank will leave rates unchanged
at its next meeting after Tombini in an April 9 interview
reiterated the guidance provided in the minutes about the limits
to its easing strategy.  “They laid a trap for themselves,”  Andre Perfeito , chief
economist for Gradual Investimentos, said in a phone interview
from  Sao Paulo . “The Selic rate has been neutralized, and
they’ll have to rely on other monetary policy instruments going
forward.”  Rousseff has already instructed state-run banks to lower
rates in a bid to pressures its private competitors to do the
same. Even as Tombini cut the benchmark rate, banks raised
average consumer interest rates to 45.4 percent in February from
45.1 percent in January as default rates rise.  ‘Outstanding’ Result  Consumer prices rose 0.21 percent in March, less than all
50 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. While inflation expectations
show economists’ views moving into line with those of the bank,
they still forecast Tombini won’t meet his pledge to bring
inflation back to the 4.5 percent target by year’s end.  The yield gap between inflation-linked bonds and interest-
rate futures, a gauge of investors’ expectations for annual
consumer price increases by 2015, fell to 5.6 percentage points
yesterday, from 6.1 percentage points a month earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the “outstanding”
inflation result in March creates room for the government to
step up measures to revive growth.  The  economy  contracted for a second straight month in
February, according to the central bank’s seasonally-adjusted
economic activity index, while industrial output shrank 3.9
percent from a year earlier.  Carmakers  Carmakers including Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz and General
Motors Co are among companies that have ordered mandatory worker
furloughs in Brazil this year as a result of the currency gains
that have helped turn a manufacturing trade surplus of $8.7
billion in 2005 into a deficit of $93 billion last year.  Shares in MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA, Brazil’s
third-biggest homebuilder by revenue, fell 5.1 percent
yesterday, the most in two months, after first-quarter sales
decreased 2 percent from a year earlier and new projects fell 38
percent.  “There was an expectation that the recovery could be
happening faster in the second quarter than it actually is,”
Marcelo Salomon, co-head of Latin America economics at Barclays
Plc, said in a phone interview from  New York . “If they feel
they have space, they could test new levels, they could go below
8.75 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Ray Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 