-- Breivik Considered Three Bombs Before Oslo Shooting Spree
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-04-19T11:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/breivik-considered-three-bombs-before-oslo-shooting-spree-1-.html
Anders Behring Breivik, the
confessed killer of 77 people in  Norway ’s July 22 twin terror
attacks, said he had planned to detonate three bombs before
killing as many as possible in a shooting rampage across Oslo.  The 33-year-old had considered targets such as the
Aftenposten newspaper,  City Hall  and the Royal Castle, he told
the Oslo court today. If he had survived the bomb attacks, he
planned to attack Blitz, a left-wing group, newspapers and
political parties in Oslo to kill as many people as possible, he
said in his third day of testimony.  The plan failed because it was “more difficult than I
thought to build a bomb,” he said.  Breivik in July killed 69 people at a Labor Party youth
camp on the island of Utoeya and detonated a car bomb by the
prime minister’s office, taking eight lives. He has confessed to
the murders, saying he acted out of necessity to protect Norway
against multiculturalism and the spread of Islam.  One of the “primary motives” behind the attacks was to
gain publicity for a manifesto he published the day of the
attacks, he said. The compendium “is an attempt to make a
foundation for the extreme right in  Europe ,” he told
prosecutors.  He has been indicted on two terror charges as well as
murder and if deemed sane may be sentenced to 21 years in prison
with the possibility of five-year extensions as long as he’s
deemed a danger to society.  Pure Fiction  An initial psychiatric evaluation last year found Breivik
was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia, meaning he would face
compulsory treatment rather than prison. The decision was
criticized by victims and caused the Oslo court to order a new
assessment in January. A second report found him not to be
clinically psychotic and therefore accountable for his actions.
Neither evaluation is binding for the court.  Breivik today called the first psychiatric report “pure
fiction,” as he seeks to convince the judges he’s sane in order
to further his ideology. He either wants the death penalty or to
be acquitted, he said yesterday.  He was questioned by prosecutors on the planning of the
killings, which he said started in about 2006, a year that he
was also living with his mother and playing World of Warcraft,
an online fantasy game, for 16 hours a day.  “I deserved to take one year off to do whatever I wanted,
especially with the so-called suicide action in mind,” he said.
“I wanted to grant it as a gift of martyrdom.”  At the opening of the 10-week trial on April 16, Breivik
refused to admit guilt and declined to accept the authority of
the court even as he confessed to the murders. The trial is
being broadcast to 17 court houses nationwide to allow about
2,000 aggrieved relatives and friends of the victims to follow
the proceedings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo on  at
 kmyers16@bloomberg.net 
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  