-- Brookfield Makes A$410 Million Takeover Offer for Thakral
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-04-19T07:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/brookfield-asset-makes-a-410-million-takeover-offer-for-thakral.html
Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) 
offered to buy  Thakral Holdings Group (THG) , an Australian property
developer and manager, in a bid valuing the company at about
A$410 million ($425 million).  Brookfield made an off-market cash bid to buy all the
outstanding stock for 70 Australian cents a share, a 31 percent
premium to yesterday’s closing price, according to a statement
from Sydney-based Thakral to the Australian stock exchange.  Thakral  shares  jumped 8.4 percent to 58 cents at the close
of trading in Sydney, the most since Jan. 18.  Brookfield, a Toronto-based asset manager overseeing about
$150 billion of assets, in 2010 split its property subsidiary
into separate residential and commercial companies, with
 Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO)  buying 16 Australian buildings
from its parent for $1.4 billion. Brookfield Multiplex, the
company’s Australian subsidiary, last year sought to buy
Thakral’s Wynyard Center in central Sydney, valued at A$220
million, the Australian Financial Review reported in May 2011.  Thakral, which tried to sell the Wynyard property last year,
said it hadn’t received any expressions of interest that it
deemed acceptable. Its proposal to develop the site into a new
 office tower  and retail space was referred to the New South
Wales state Planning Assessment Commission, it said in February.  Brookfield’s offer is conditional, and has been made before
detailed negotiations with the independent directors of Thakral,
Brookfield said. The offer price excludes any dividend paid or
declared by Thakral after the announcement, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  