-- Pitt to Compete With Kidman, Willis at Cannes Festival
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-19T13:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/bruce-willis-film-moonrise-kingdom-to-compete-at-cannes.html
Brad Pitt ,  Bruce Willis  and  Nicole Kidman  will have movies competing in this year’s  Cannes Film
Festival , which starts May 16.  Pitt plays a gun-wielding enforcer in Andrew Dominik’s
“Killing Them Softly.” Bruce Willis stars in the festival
opener -- Wes Anderson’s “Moonrise Kingdom” -- about an
eloping New England couple that the town residents go looking 
for; Edward Norton, Bill Murray and Tilda Swinton co-star.  Nicole Kidman is in “The Paperboy” by Lee Daniels
(director of the 2009 “Precious”). Also starring  Zac Efron  and
John Cusack, it’s the story of a journalist who heads back to
his hometown in Florida to probe a case involving a prisoner.  Another of the 22 contenders for the coveted Palme d’Or is
“Cosmopolis” by David Cronenberg (adapted from the Don DeLillo
novel), which plots a 28-year-old billionaire asset manager’s
drive around  Manhattan  in a stretch limo.  “There were 1,779 full-length films submitted for the
Cannes selection this year,” said the festival’s artistic
director Thierry Fremaux, “of which between 50 and 60 were
selected.”  “The principle is that anyone who makes a movie can
present it for selection,” Fremaux said at a Paris news
conference.  Welles, Bergman  This year’s festival is the 65th of its kind. The first
took place in 1946, a year after World War II ended. Among the
event’s earliest award winners were directors Orson Welles,  Luis Bunuel , Ingmar Bergman and Satyajit Ray.  Kidman also plays Ernest Hemingway’s war-reporter wife
Martha Gellhorn in a production screening out of the Cannes
competition: Philip Kaufman’s “Hemingway & Gellhorn,” with
Clive Owen in the role of the Nobel-prizewinning novelist.  This year’s selection is full of previous Cannes winners.
Austria’s Michael Haneke (whose “The White Ribbon” clinched
the Palme d’Or in 2009) is back with “Amour” (“Love”)
starring Isabelle Huppert. Ken Loach (the 2006 Palme d’Or winner
with “The Wind That Shakes the Barley”) brings “The Angels’
Share.”  France ’s Jacques Audiard (director of the 2009 “A
Prophet”) presents “Rust & Bone” starring Marion Cotillard.  Italy’s Matteo Garrone, who in 2008 stunned Cannes with the
organized-crime movie “Gomorrah,” is back with “Reality.”  Iran’s Abbas Kiarostami, whose “Certified Copy” earned
Juliette Binoche a best-actress trophy in Cannes two years ago,
is in the race with “Like Someone in Love,” shot in Japan.  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Jason Harper  on  Lexus
Sport ; Rich Jaroslovsky on Connect  technology ; Zinta Lundborg
interviews  Maya Lin .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 