-- Buffett Embraced by Millionaire Group Happy to Pay Taxes
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-04-19T21:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/buffett-embraced-by-millionaire-group-happy-to-pay-taxes.html
On April 11, President  Barack Obama 
gave a speech in  Washington  urging Congress to pass the Buffett
rule.  “We can settle for an economy where a shrinking number of
people do very, very well and everybody else is struggling to
get by,” he said, or the U.S. can build an economy where
“everybody’s playing by the same set of rules.”  To illustrate his point, he motioned to four smiling people
behind him, all millionaires who say they welcome the proposed
law, which would require high earners to pay a minimum federal
income- tax rate  of 30 percent. Republicans joked that Obama had
managed to find the only four millionaires in the U.S. who want
to pay more taxes, Bloomberg Businessweek  reports  in its April
23 issue.  As it turns out, there are at least 200 more like them, all
members of Patriotic Millionaires for Fiscal Strength, a loose
gathering of mostly liberal-leaning executives who say they’d
happily write bigger checks to the  Internal Revenue Service .  Its ranks include Ben & Jerry’s co-founder  Ben Cohen ;
retired Google engineer Frank Jernigan, one of about a dozen
members who made their fortunes at the company; actress  Edie Falco , and T2 Partners fund manager  Whitney Tilson .  Though Obama left the impression that they’re part of a
spontaneous national uprising of millionaires demanding higher
tax rates, the group is an offshoot of the Agenda Project, an
advocacy group in  New York  that specializes in attention-
grabbing publicity campaigns.  ‘Garden-Variety Millionaires’  Erica Payne , Agenda’s founder and a former Democratic Party
fundraiser, says the point of Patriotic Millionaires is to
create “a stir.” Payne, a Wharton School graduate, says she
hopes to recruit “garden-variety millionaires” from all 50
states to help ensure taxes remain a big election issue,
especially since Republicans have made it clear the Buffett rule
-- named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who says he
pays a lower tax rate than his secretary -- is dead this year.  “Politicians are the least important part of politics,”
Payne says. “We felt political pressure was forcing a decision
by politicians that was not the right decision for the country.”  Patriotic Millionaires got its start in late 2010 when
Payne, former Google engineer David desJardins and Guy
Saperstein, a California venture capitalist, enlisted wealthy
friends to protest extending Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy.
When the Buffett rule started getting attention last year, the
group rallied behind it.  Investors Over Workers  Payne says Patriotic Millionaires didn’t join forces with
Obama until the White House asked if some of its members would
be willing to stand behind the president while he delivered his
Buffett rule speech.  Saperstein says he may not pay any taxes because of carried
over losses, even though he made more than $7 million last year
in investment income.  “Why should we favor investors over working people?” he
says.  Tilson, the  fund manager  who was one of the four
millionaires on stage with Obama, agrees. Everyone knows the
government has to raise revenue to reduce the deficit, he says.
“Most of it has to come from spending cuts, but a meaningful
chunk has to come from tax increases.”  He concedes he’s in the minority among his friends and
clients. The investors he manages “are all millionaires,” he
says. “I can imagine some of them might take a dim view of me
advocating for this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  