-- Butamax Taps Fagen for First Ethanol-to-Butanol Conversion Plant
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-19T17:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/butamax-taps-fagen-for-first-ethanol-to-butanol-conversion-plant.html
Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC, a
joint venture of  BP Plc (BP/)  and DuPont Co., is working with the
construction company Fagen Inc. to convert an ethanol plant in
 Minnesota  to one that produces a more efficient renewable fuel.  The plant will be the first commercial facility to use
Butamax’s technology to make butanol, the Wilmington, Delaware-
based company’s Chief Executive Officer Paul Beckwith said.  Butanol and ethanol are both produced from corn or other
plants and blended with standard gasoline. Beckwith said his
product displaces as much as 16 percent of the volume of
gasoline sold at the pump, higher than the 10 percent allowed
for ethanol under U.S. regulations.  “Butanol enables refiners to get more fuel out of a barrel
of oil and more high-value products,” Beckwith said today in an
interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York . “This is
the next generation of biofuels that we’ll be taking to the
market in 2014.”  Butanol has 30 percent more energy content than ethanol,
and will improve fuel economy if used as the primary
blendstock with gasoline, according to the Environmental
Protection Agency. Butanol is also less water-soluble
than ethanol, so blends with gasoline may be transported
through existing pipelines, a convenience that would reduce
blending and distribution costs, according to the EPA.  The conversion project will begin next year at a plant that
currently produces 55 million gallons (208 million liters) of
ethanol. Beckwith didn’t name the owner of the plant.  Butamax signed an  agreement  in December with Highwater
Ethanol LLC, a Lamberton, Minnesota-based company that said it
would consider converting a corn-ethanol plant to butanol
production. Highwater has a plant that produces 55 million
gallons of ethanol a year, according to its website.  Butamax is fighting  Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , a U.S. biotechnology company
backed by oil refiner Total SA and specialty chemicals maker
 Lanxess AG (LXS) , over patents to produce butanol from plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 