-- HTC Tells U.K. Court Its Touchscreens Don’t Breach Apple Patents
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-19T12:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/htc-tells-u-k-court-its-touchscreens-don-t-breach-apple-patents.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  told a London court that
the use in its smartphones of touchscreen technology, including
the “slide-to-unlock” icon, doesn’t infringe Apple Inc.
patents.  HTC is disputing four Apple patents on zooming in and
scrolling between photos, multiple touches on the same screen,
unlocking phones, and the use of various alphabets in sending
 text messages .  “We are dealing with extremely simple implementations of
commonly known techniques,” lawyers for Taiwan-based HTC said
in written arguments describing the case.  Apple and HTC are suing over patents in British, German and
Dutch courts as they battle for a share of the international
smart-phone market. Mobile-phone shipments are estimated to
reach 1.7 billion in 2012 with smart-phone shipments increasing
33.5 percent, according to market researcher IDC.  If HTC wins the  London  case and invalidates Apple’s
patents, it could use the U.K. judgment to help prove during the
German trial that it isn’t infringing Apple’s European patents.
The German injunctions would “have a serious impact on HTC’s
business in  Europe ,” its lawyers said in written arguments for
the London trial.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is also involved in
global patent fights with Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. over smart-phones and tablet computers.  HTC is “attacking the validity of four patents,” Apple’s
lawyer Simon Thorley told the London court this morning. “We
say it is clear the inventions make the requisite
contributions,” to the field.  The trial is scheduled to last until May 4.  HTC reported first-quarter net income on April 6 that
plunged 70 percent from a year earlier to NT$4.46 billion ($150
million) amid competition with Apple and Samsung.  The case is: HTC Europe Co. Ltd. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  High Court 
of Justice, London, HC11C02703.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  