-- CaixaBank Says ECB Loans Helped Add 22 Million Euros to Revenue
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-04-19T11:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/caixabank-says-ecb-loans-helped-add-22-million-euros-to-revenue.html
CaixaBank SA (CABK) , Spain’s fourth-
biggest lender, said three-year  loans  from the  European Central
Bank  helped add 22 million euros ($29 million) to first-quarter
 revenue .  The increase accounted for a quarter of the boost to
CaixaBank’s net interest income in the quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Gonzalo Gortazar said on a webcast today. The company
took a combined 18.5 billion euros in three-year loans from the
ECB in December and February.  “With extra liquidity, we get an additional push,” said
Gortazar, adding that the contribution from the ECB loans
amounted to about 2.5 percent of the bank’s net interest income
in the period. “The trend is positive and we expect our net
interest income to continue giving us good news.”  The ECB lent more than 1 trillion euros to banks in
December and February, underpinning demand for  government bonds 
as it channeled cash to lenders and giving them an opportunity
to boost revenue. Spanish bank holdings of local debt surged to
220 billion euros in January from 178 billion euros in November,
Treasury data show.  Spain is the country that will make the best use of the
European Central Bank’s three-year loans among countries in the
euro region in channeling credit to the economy, CaixaBank Chief
Executive Officer Juan Maria Nin said at a news conference in
Barcelona.  “I’m not a macro-economist, but I read reports and I have
information and I believe the country where the ECB money has
most and best reached the real economy and will do so is
 Spain ,” Nin said. The ECB’s money has helped “normalize”
liquidity and therefore sovereign debt prices, he said.  A significant part of the money remains deposited at the
ECB as Spanish banks seek to cover their debt maturities over
the next three years, Nin says. The decision to provide the
loans was a “benign and intelligent” step by the ECB as it
sought to tackle an “asphyxia” in the flow of financing in the
region’s economies, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  