-- Canada Pension to Pay C$1.14 Billion for Chile Toll Roads
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-04-19T20:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/canada-pension-to-pay-c-1-14-billion-for-chile-toll-roads.html
Canada  Pension Plan Investment
Board, the country’s second-biggest retirement fund, agreed to
spend C$1.14 billion ($1.15 billion) on Chilean toll roads to
expand its infrastructure holdings in  emerging markets .  Canada Pension agreed to buy a 49.99 percent stake in Grupo
Costanera, Chile’s largest urban toll road operator, from
Italian parent  Atlantia SpA (ATL) , the Toronto-based fund said today
in a statement. Atlantia,  Italy ’s biggest toll-road operator,
will retain 50.01 percent of Costanera.  Costanera owns five toll roads that span a 188-kilometer
(116-mile) network, including four around Santiago, according to
the statement. The Chilean transaction adds to Canada Pension’s
investments in toll roads in  Australia  and Canada, where it owns
part of the 407 Express Toll Route near Toronto.  “This really fits squarely in our definition of
infrastructure,” Andre Bourbonnais, Canada Pension’s senior
vice president of private investments, said today in an
interview. “It’s a good hedge against inflation.”  Canada Pension has been investing in infrastructure during
the past decade, buying stakes in toll roads, pipelines and
utilities to diversify beyond stocks and bonds. Infrastructure
represents 5.6 percent of the  fund manager ’s assets, valued at
about C$8.6 billion as of Dec. 31, the company said.  Canada Pension was part of a group that spent C$3.18
billion in February to buy a 24 percent stake the Norwegian gas
pipeline network, Gassled. Bourbonnais said Canada Pension is
considering other infrastructure opportunities, including
electricity transmission assets, gas facilities, utilities,
ports and airports.  ‘Significant Activity’  “We’ve seen significant activity on all those fronts since
the beginning of the year and we think there’s potential for
other transactions before the end of our fiscal year,”
Bourbonnais said.  Canada Pension is monitoring Australia and the U.K. for
other such investments, he said, and Europe is “of particular
interest” to the fund manager.  “Given the financial constraints of some of the
governments there, we believe there may be attractive assets
coming up for sale in  Europe ,” Bourbonnais said.  Canada Pension, which oversees retirement funds for 18
million Canadians in every province except  Quebec , may consider
more deals with Atlantia, Bourbonnais said.  “They’ve been a fantastic partner throughout this process
and we see potentially other transactions with them in the
future,” he said.  Atlantia was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG in the transaction, the company said in a
separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  