-- Capital One Profit Climbs as Card Rewards Fuel Spending
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-19T21:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/capital-one-profit-climbs-as-credit-card-rewards-drive-spending.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
lender that acquired ING Groep NV’s online U.S. bank this year,
posted a higher first-quarter profit as credit-card rewards
programs fueled customer spending.  Net income  rose 37 percent to $1.4 billion, or $2.72 a
share, from $1.02 billion, or $2.21, a year earlier and included
an accounting gain of $594 million tied to the purchase of ING
Direct USA, Capital One said today in a statement. Adjusted
profit of $1.56 a share beat the $1.39 average estimate of 24
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “As consumers get a little more confident and the
 unemployment rate  comes down, they are using their cards more,”
 Scott Valentin , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said in an
interview before results were announced. “They have been
emphasizing cash-back and travel rewards and that tends to be a
high-quality, high-spending customer.”  Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank, 61, has spent
more than $28 billion on acquisitions since 2005 to expand
beyond the firm’s core credit-card business. The deals have
 transformed  the McLean, Virginia-based company into the sixth-
biggest U.S. commercial bank by deposits, capped by this year’s
purchase of ING Direct.  The lender is focused on integrating its acquisitions and
“distributing capital to shareholders through a meaningful
 dividend  and share buybacks, consistent with our long-standing
commitment to maintaining a strong and resilient capital base,”
Fairbank said in the statement. The company has distributed a 5-
cent quarterly payout since February 2009.  Shares Climb  Capital One advanced 1.5 percent to $54.76 at 4:37 p.m. in
extended trading in New York after announcing the results. The
shares had advanced 28 percent this year, compared with a 21
percent gain for the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   First quarter revenue rose 21 percent to $4.94 billion,
including the accounting gain and $160 million from the sale of
Visa Inc. stock and reserve adjustments, the company said.
Noninterest expense climbed 16 percent to $2.5 billion from the
first quarter of 2011 and fell 4.4 percent from the fourth
quarter, according to the statement. Salaries and benefits rose
20 percent to $891 million and marketing costs increased 16
percent to $321 million.  Fairbank is seeking to control costs after fourth-quarter
profit missed analysts’ estimates as noninterest expense rose 25
percent. Those results, announced Jan. 19, surprised investors
and prompted at least six analysts to ask for clarity on the
company’s expenses during a conference call.  Venture Card  The lender gave away 1 billion reward miles in 31 days
after introducing a promotion in March for its Venture Card,
which offered customers double miles for every dollar spent, up
to 100,000, according to a statement. Credit-card rewards miles
or points typically are worth about 1 cent.  The purchase of ING Direct in February added $84.4 billion
in deposits, Capital One said today in a slide presentation. The
company has said it expects to complete the acquisition of HSBC
Holdings Plc’s U.S. credit-card portfolio this quarter after
selling $1.26 billion in stock last month to help pay for it.  Julie Rakes , a Capital One spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement earlier this week that the lender has started cutting
500 assistant tellers and reorganized its retail bank,
consolidating 14 regions into eight.  “As you can imagine, in this challenging economic
environment, the bank requires a leaner and more efficient
operating model,” Rakes said.  Capital One said in a regulatory filing last month that
first-quarter profit from continuing operations would be at
least $2.50 a share, including an accounting gain of $1.15 from
the ING purchase. Valentin said that he and other analysts took
that to mean they should expect $1.35 of core earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  