-- Chilean Peso Beats Counterparts as Mining Companies Sell Dollars
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-04-19T20:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/chilean-peso-weakens-as-china-europe-concerns-push-down-copper.html
Chile’s peso outperformed all other
major Latin American currencies as mining companies sold dollars
to make payments, overshadowing a drop in the price of copper.  The peso appreciated 0.1 percent to 488.29 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 488.66 yesterday. The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American
Currency Index fell 0.2 percent as the Brazilian real dropped
0.2 percent and the Mexican peso slid 0.4 percent.  The Chilean currency performs better on average on
Thursdays than other days of the week as mining companies sell
dollars to meet Friday payroll commitments. Over the past four
years through today, the peso has on average gained 0.13 percent
on Thursdays and depreciated every other trading day of the
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Mining companies sold dollars as they typically do on
Thursday, which offset the negative sentiment in global
markets,” said Katia Diaz, an economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New
York . “It opened a little bit lower this morning, but there
tends to be supply of dollars on Super Thursday, and it rode
that out.”  Local investors in the Chilean peso forwards market cut
their long peso position to $14.8 billion, the lowest since
January. Offshore investors had a $7 billion short peso position
as of April 15, up from $6.7 billion a day earlier, the central
bank said today.  The peso earlier today traded weaker than 490 per dollar
for the first time this month as copper dropped on concern that
demand is easing in China and the U.S.  The price of the metal fell as much as 0.9 percent before
slipping 0.1 percent in New York after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said that imports into  China  may decline because of high
inventories. Chile is the biggest copper producer, and China is
the biggest buyer of Chilean copper.  Global stocks fell as disappointing economic reports and
concern Europe’s debt crisis is getting worse, overshadowed
better-than-forecast results from Morgan Stanley and EBay Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  