-- China Swaps Decline as PBOC Seen Relaxing Reserve Requirements
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-19T08:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/china-swaps-steady-as-pboc-seen-relaxing-reserve-requirements.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps fell
after a Xinhua News Agency report added to signs the central
bank will ease monetary policy to support the economy.  The People’s Bank of China will lower lenders’ reserve
requirements and inject cash into the financial system using
reverse repurchase agreements and bill redemptions, Xinhua cited
an unidentified central bank official as saying. The monetary
authority last reduced the proportion of cash lenders must set
aside in February, lowering the reserve ratio for major lenders
by half a percentage point to 20.50 percent.  “Rates markets will watch for any signals on further
monetary easing, especially in China, and we believe that a
reserve-ratio cut will come soon, most likely still this
month,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a note to clients today. The
interest-rate swaps “should fall after such a move and may be
impacted by the growing speculation,” he said.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.21 percent in  Shanghai , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the financial system, rose five basis points to 3.81 percent in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  China’s State Council, or Cabinet, pledged to prepare
policy tools to cope with economic challenges, according to a
government statement last week that summarized a meeting chaired
by Premier  Wen Jiabao . Demand for funds is increasing in the
money market as companies make annual tax payments due this
month and in May, according to  Ju Wang , a Barclays Capital
strategist in  Singapore .  The People’s Bank of China sold 20 billion yuan of 91-day
 repurchase agreements  at a yield of 3.14 percent today,
according to a statement posted on the central bank’s website.  The yield on 3.51 percent government bonds due February
2022 was little changed at 3.53 percent, according to the
National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  