-- China’s Central Bank to Ensure Liquidity, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-19T04:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/china-s-central-bank-to-ensure-liquidity-xinhua-says.html
China’s central bank pledged to
ensure adequate availability of cash in the financial system by
using tools including reductions in the reserve-requirement
 ratio , state media reported.  Authorities will “appropriately take targeted liquidity
management actions” based on circumstances including foreign-
capital inflows and funding demand, the official Xinhua News
Agency said in a  report  late yesterday on an interview with an
unidentified person at the People’s Bank of China. Options
include adding cash through reverse-repurchase operations and
cutting required reserves, Xinhua said.  The report reinforced economists’ forecasts for the
government to take steps in coming months to keep credit flowing
after economic  growth  slowed last quarter to the least in almost
three years. Liquidity in the banking system remains adequate
and the central bank will keep implementing “prudent” monetary
policy, Xinhua said.  “This is a clear ‘open mouth operation’ through which the
PBOC sent the market a signal that further loosening measures
will be rolled out,” Zhang Zhiwei, chief  China  economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a research note today. Authorities
may lower the reserve-requirement ratio twice more this year,
including next month, Zhang said.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.1 percent at
the 11:30 a.m. local-time break.  Lending Surge  The central bank reduced the required-reserves ratio in
February for the second time in three months to spur lending.
Regulators also eased credit restrictions at three of the
nation’s biggest banks, people with knowledge of the matter said
last month. The actions helped send new yuan loans last month to
the highest level in a year while money supply growth
accelerated.  The monetary authority will preemptively adjust and fine-
tune policies in a timely and appropriate manner to guide steady
and appropriate credit growth and maintain reasonable liquidity
in the banking system, Xinhua said, citing the PBOC official.  Joy Yang, chief economist for  Greater China  at Mirae Asset
Securities (HK) Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said the Xinhua report is
consistent with her forecast for two or three more cuts in the
reserve-requirement ratio this year. Tools such as the ratio
“are needed to manage a stable liquidity level” relative to
economic growth, Yang said.  The central bank will also guide banks to “reasonably”
set the pace of lending and will maintain a lower required-
reserve ratio for some financial institutions, the report said.  The levels for rural credit cooperatives and rural
cooperative banks will continue to be kept 6 percentage points
and 5.5 percentage points lower, respectively, than the ratio at
larger banks, Xinhua cited the official as saying. The current
ratio for the biggest banks is 20.5 percent.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  