-- China to Give Stimulus for Development of Electric Vehicles
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-19T02:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/china-to-give-stimulus-for-development-of-electric-vehicles-1-.html
China, the world’s biggest emitter
of  greenhouse gases , said it will provide financial support and
individual subsidies to promote the use and development of
electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles.  The government will broaden pilot programs, build
recharging facilities and develop a plan to recycle batteries,
as part of a drive to have 500,000 such vehicles by 2015, rising
to 5 million by 2020, the State Council, or cabinet, said in a
 statement  posted on its website yesterday.  “This clarifies the direction for all participants,
carmakers, consumers, regulators,” said Thomas McGuckin,
Shanghai-based partner who oversees the Asia Pacific automotive
practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “The price point,
infrastructure and consumer usage patterns will ultimately
determine adoption.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  have announced plans
to introduce so-called new-energy vehicles in China, which is
seeking to cut smog and its reliance on imported oil.  BYD Co. (1211) ,
the Chinese carmaker partly owned by Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , will show next week the first electric vehicle
model developed through its venture with  Daimler AG. (DAI)   The State Council said in the statement that development
should be built on existing production capacity and that the
industry should guard against “blind, low-quality investment
and wasteful construction.” The government will target to lower
the average fuel consumption of passenger cars to 5 liters per
100 kilometers by 2020, according to the statement.  Government Subsidies  Currently, buyers of energy-efficient cars in Shanghai,
Shenzhen and four other Chinese cities qualify for a 60,000 yuan
($9,520) subsidy.  Electric-car sales in  China  are forecast to exceed those in
the U.S. by 2020, Boston Consulting Group Inc. said in a June 14
report. Such cars may account for as much as 7 percent of total
auto sales in China, the world’s largest vehicle market, by
2020, Boston Consulting said in the report.  China imports more than half of its crude oil consumption,
and is the world’s second-largest importer of oil after the
U.S., giving it incentive to encourage use of more fuel-
efficient vehicles.  The country is also trying to reduce smog.  Air quality  in
all of the 32 Chinese cities that track pollution falls short of
World Health Organization guidelines, with Beijing among the
world’s most polluted cities.  GM, the largest foreign carmaker in China, introduced its
Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid car in the country on Nov. 21. The
Volt will complement an all-electric car that GM is developing
with its Chinese partner,  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , the automaker said.  Volkswagen plans to mass produce electric vehicles in China
in 2018, the German carmaker’s China Chief Executive Karl-Thomas
Neumann said in Beijing on Feb. 14.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which
leads Japanese carmakers in China deliveries, plans to export
its all-electric Leaf car to the country for fleet sales, the
Yokohama, Japan-based company said in September.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  