-- Chinese, Southeast Asians Purchase Half of New London Homes
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-04-20T09:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/chinese-southeast-asians-buy-half-of-new-central-london-homes.html
Investors from  China  and Southeast
 Asia  bought one in every two new homes in central London last
year as the number of wealthy individuals in the region swells,
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said.  Buyers from China, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore
accounted for 51 percent of new-property purchases in central
London neighborhoods that the broker handled, up from 47 percent
in 2010, Jones Lang said in a report today. Hong Kong buyers led
Asia with 17 percent of the purchases, the Chicago-based broker
said.  “The number of high-net-worth individuals is growing and
growing, especially in the Asia-Pacific countries where you’ve
got developing economies,” Neil Chegwidden, a residential
research director at Jones Lang, said by phone. “They need to
invest their money somewhere.”  Overseas investors are buying luxury homes in the U.K.
capital to preserve wealth in one of the world’s most resilient
property markets amid political and economic volatility in their
home markets. Luxury-home prices in central  London  rose the most
in 10 months in March, according to London-based broker Knight
Frank LLP.  The number of billionaires in Asia rose to 351 last year
from 245 in 2010, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG’s Global
Wealth report.  Europe  had 251 billionaires while  North America 
accounted for 332 last year, the Zurich-based bank said.  British Buyer Drop  The proportion of British buyers fell to 19 percent from 22
percent in 2010, Jones Lang said in the report.  Around three quarters of London-home purchases were made
because the investor plans to rent out the property, and 28
percent of buyers used cash to buy the real estate, according to
 Jones Lang . The neighborhoods used to compile the report were
Kensington and Chelsea, City of Westminster, City of London, St.
John’s Wood and the Canary Wharf financial district in east
London.  Investors and developers plan to build 9,000 prime
apartments and houses by the end of the decade that they’re
aiming to sell for more than 1,000 pounds a square foot,
according to a study released in July by London-based consulting
firm EC Harris LLP. About 4,000 units are scheduled to open in
2014 and 2015, EC Harris estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  