-- Chris Christie Denies Falling Asleep at Springsteen Show
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-04-19T17:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/chris-christie-denies-falling-asleep-at-bruce-springsteen-show.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
denied newspaper reports that he fell asleep during a recent
Bruce Springsteen concert, saying he closed his eyes while
having a “spiritual” moment during the song “Rocky Ground.”  Christie, who has attended more than 100 Springsteen shows,
said he didn’t nod off at any point in the three-hour
performance on April 9 at Madison Square Garden in  New York . He
called the reports that he was sleeping “scurrilous.”  “What happened was during ‘Rocky Ground,’ which is kind of
a really spiritual song, people sat, so I sat on the seat, put
my head back, closed my eyes and listened to the song,”
Christie, 49,  told reporters  in Trenton today. “I have never
fallen asleep at a Bruce Springsteen show and I will never fall
asleep at a Bruce Springsteen show.”  A concert-goer with differing ideological views pleaded
with Christie to “wake up” politically during an introduction
to the song “Death to My Hometown,” the governor said. Another
fan then snapped a  picture  of Christie with his eyes closed, and
a  report  in the New York Post’s Page Six section must have
conflated the two episodes, Christie said.  “This shows you the level of intrusiveness now into my
life -- there’s some joker taking pictures of me at Madison
Square Garden,” Christie said.  Signed Guitar  Christie attended the Madison Square Garden show a day
after returning from a week-long trip to  Israel . The governor,
who has a blue-and-white Fender guitar signed by Springsteen
hanging on his office wall, has found himself at odds
politically with the musician, who has championed President
 Barack Obama .  Springsteen’s latest album, “ Wrecking Ball ,” deals with
the plight of the working class during the U.S. economic crunch.
“The banker man grows fat, working man grows thin, it’s all
happened before and it’ll happen again,” he sings on “Jack of
All Trades.”  Christie, since taking office in 2010, has twice vetoed tax
increases on those earning more than $1 million. The governor
has urged Springsteen publicly and through Twitter to play at
 Atlantic City ’s new Revel casino over Labor Day weekend.  The politician blushed during the news conference after he
left out wife Mary Pat when naming fellow concert attendees
including his brother Todd Christie, two oldest children and an
aide. Mary Pat Christie reminded him from the front row that she
skipped a recent Springsteen concert in Philadelphia, not the
New York one, and quipped he was “in trouble.”  “When I was like fist-pumping during ‘Badlands,’ I’m glad
no one took pictures of that,” Christie said. “When I was
singing to ‘Out in the Street,’ thankfully no one took pictures
of that. When I was contorting myself to ‘Because the Night,’ no
one took pictures of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  