-- Clemens Case Reaches Final Pool of 36 Potential Jurors
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-19T19:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/clemens-case-reaches-final-pool-of-36-potential-jurors-1-.html
Opening statements in the retrial
of ex-New York Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens , accused of lying
to Congress about using steroids, were scheduled for April 23 as
the judge in the case picked a panel of 36 potential jurors.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in  Washington  today
recessed the case after wrapping up almost four days of vetting
70 Washington residents for possible service on Clemens’s jury.
The three dozen people in the final pool will be cut to 12
jurors and four alternates after the defense gets to eliminate
12 potential members of the panel and the government eight.  Clemens is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of ballplayers’ alleged use of performance-
enhancing drugs. If convicted on all counts, he may face as long
as 30 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  Walton declared a mistrial in July after finding that
prosecutors improperly showed the jury a video clip of a 2008
congressional hearing in which the wife of government witness
 Andy Pettitte  was discussed. Walton had ruled earlier that the
government could make no references to Laura Pettitte, or an
affidavit she gave Congress.  Cybersecurity Expert  Among the eight added to the jury pool today is a
cybersecurity expert at the U.S. Treasury Department who has
testified before Congress, an administrative assistant at the
Canadian embassy, a special police officer for the Washington
Metropolitan Transit Authority and a program analyst at the
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission .  A bioengineer who made the cut told Walton that he thought
that Congress’s decision to hold hearings on drug use in
baseball “seemed excessive.”  Two of those who were selected today admitted to recently
reading about the case and the mistrial. One, a manager at a
Washington-based nonprofit that raises money for police
programs, said she read a Washington Post article about the case
the day after jury selection began on April 16.  Walton had told potential jurors that they must avoid all
news articles or programs about the Clemens case.  Walton said that before returning to the final selection of
the jury on the afternoon of April 23 he will hear arguments in
the morning on whether Pettitte may testify that he obtained HGH
from Clemens’s trainer,  Brian McNamee .  ‘Guilt by Association’  Clemens’s lawyers, in a filing yesterday, decried what they
called an attempt by prosecutors to prove “guilt by
association” by having Pettitte testify he obtained the HGH
from McNamee, without having to show Clemens played any role in
the decision to do so.  Prosecutors in an April 16 filing said testimony that
Pettitte used human growth hormone injected by McNamee is
relevant to their case.  “You cannot strip out half of the narrative and have it
make any sense,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham told
Walton during a pause in jury selection yesterday.  Clemens, 49, made his Major League Baseball debut in 1984
and played for four different teams over 23 years. Clemens and
Pettitte were teammates with the Yankees and the  Houston Astros .  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  