-- Clinton Sees NATO Role in Pressuring Syria’s Assad Regime
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-04-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/clinton-raises-possible-nato-syria-role-as-un-increases-monitors.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Turkey may seek NATO’s support in dealing with
 Syria  as the UN  Security Council  made clear the Assad regime’s
truce violations won’t prevent the deployment of as many as 300
cease-fire observers.  Turkey may invoke the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
charter provision triggering consultations if a member’s
security is threatened, Clinton said yesterday in Paris
following a meeting of the alliance in Brussels. While there is
little sentiment for military intervention to oust Syria’s
President Bashar al-Assad, involving NATO would add a new lever
of pressure on the Damascus government.  “We have to keep Assad off-balance by leaving options on
the table,” Clinton said at the “Friends of Syria” meeting in
Paris. Turkey has already discussed with NATO “the burden of
Syrian refugees on Turkey, the outrageous shelling across the
border from Syria into Turkey a week ago, and that Turkey is
considering formally invoking Article 4” of the NATO charter.  United Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon and his
special envoy to Syria,  Kofi Annan , asked the UN Security
Council yesterday to authorize an expanded mission of unarmed
military observers, even as both acknowledged Assad has failed
to abide by the terms of the April 12 cease-fire.  “The past few days, in particular, have brought reports of
renewed and escalating violence, including the shelling of
civilian areas, grave abuses by Government forces and attacks by
armed groups,” Ban told reporters in  New York .  Few Options  Security Council members have broadly agreed on the need to
deploy the force to Syria and are unlikely to be deterred by
continuing violence, according to two UN diplomats. For the
world body, it provides a means to maintain diplomatic pressure
given the opposition by Russia and  China  to further UN
sanctions.  “It ticks a box at a time there are few other options,”
Richard Gowan, associate director for crisis diplomacy and peace
operations at the New York University Center on International
Cooperation, said in a telephone interview. “Sometimes a
diplomatic initiative can gain a momentum of its own and having
a mission there has become a goal in itself.”  Violence in Syria has raged for 13 months, killed more than
9,000 people.  “We’re in a dilemma,” Clinton said in Paris. “We think
it’s important to get independent sources of observation and
reporting on the ground, but we do not want to create a
situation where those who are sent in to do this mission
themselves are subjected to violence.”  Russia Supports Monitors  Tools such as an international arms embargo or sanctions
have been blocked by  Russia , Syria’s closest ally on the
Security Council. Russia will support the Syria monitoring
mission, Russian ambassador to the UN Vitaly Churkin said
yesterday in New York.  Western powers have said they don’t intend to repeat last
year’s Libya campaign, where the UN authorized a NATO-enforced
no-fly zone. In  Washington , Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told
the House Armed Services Committee yesterday that the U.S. would
need “a clear legal basis” and broad regional and
international support to act militarily.  Clinton called for tougher Security Council measures,
including travel restrictions on regime members, further
financial sanctions, and an arms embargo, even as she
acknowledged probable Russian opposition.  “I’m well aware at this point such an effort is still
likely to be vetoed, but we need to look for a way to keep
pressing forward,” Clinton said.  ‘Last Chance’  The next international meeting to plan further sanctions
will take place in Washington, probably in mid-May, Clinton
said.  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe , who headed the Syria
meeting yesterday, said the Annan plan is the “last chance” to
avoid civil war. If it fails, the Security Council will have to
“consider other options,” he said.  Clinton said she met with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  earlier in the day in Brussels. “He was, as usual, very
intent upon laying responsibility on all sides and in particular
on the opposition, but he also has recognized that we are not in
a static situation, but a deteriorating one,” Clinton said.  Clinton called on those gathered in Paris to increase
support to the opposition. The U.S., she said, is considering
whether to create with  Turkey  an “assistance hub” on its
border with Syria to help “coordinate the collection and
distribution of assistance to opposition groups inside Syria.”  Regional ‘Spillover’  At the UN, the Security Council was briefed yesterday by
two deputies to Annan, the architect of a six-point peace plan
agreed to by Assad. The officials were Jean-Marie Guehenno,
former UN undersecretary-general for peacekeeping, and Edmond
Mulet, UN assistant secretary-general for peacekeeping.  They urged the 15-member body to agree to the deployment of
more observers because that could alter the political dynamics
on the ground, according to the two diplomats, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the briefing wasn’t public.  Syria and the UN agreed yesterday on a set of rules for the
unarmed monitors, although use of aircraft was left to be taken
up “at a later date.” The government agreed to allow
unhindered access for UN personnel and to guarantee their
safety, according to the memorandum of understanding.  Inspired by revolts that toppled leaders in Egypt and
 Libya , the Syrian conflict has embroiled neighboring Lebanon and
Turkey, both struggling to cope with an influx of refugees.  “Spillover into neighboring countries is an increasing
concern,” Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the U.S.
Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a testimony at the House
committee hearing yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  