-- Company Turnaround Lawyer Shimokobe to Run Tokyo Electric
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-04-20T08:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/company-turnaround-lawyer-shimokobe-accepts-job-to-run-tepco.html
Corporate turnaround lawyer
Kazuhiko Shimokobe said he accepted an offer from Japan’s Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to take the job of chairman of  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501)  and start restructuring the company at the
heart of the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Shimokobe, 64, heads the state-backed fund set up to handle
the bailout of the utility known as Tepco.  “Prime Minister Noda said it’s going to be a tough job but
he would like me to become chairman of the new Tepco,”
Shimokobe told reporters after the meeting last night in Tokyo.
“I told him that I will make my utmost efforts so the new Tepco
can take the first step and I will accept the request.”  Shimokobe is a former adviser at the Industrial
Revitalization Corporation of  Japan , which handled the
restructuring of Kanebo Ltd. and the sale of its Kanebo
Cosmetics Inc. unit for $2.4 billion to  Kao Corp. (4452) , then Japan’s
largest household goods maker. Known as IRCJ, the bailout agency
also handled the December 2004 rescue of  Daiei Inc. (8263) , at the time
the nation’s third-biggest retailer.  The IRCJ was set up to turnaround companies laden with debt
after the burst of the so-called bubble economy in the 1990s.
Shimokobe worked at the agency from 2003 until it was dissolved
in 2007 after restructuring the finances and finding buyers for
41 companies.  Livedoor Investigation  Shimokobe was born in 1947 in Sapporo City on Japan’s
northernmost island of Hokkaido. He graduated from the law
department of  Kyoto University  in 1972, according to a biography
on Renaiss Law Office’s website, where Shimokobe is a visiting
lawyer.  Beside his time at the IRCJ, in 2006 Shimokobe was a member
of an independent investigation into Livedoor Co., which was
delisted for fabricating earnings statements.  Former Livedoor President Takafumi Horie -- who waged a
hostile takeover battle with Fuji Television Network Inc.,
Japan’s biggest media group -- was imprisoned for fraud for
falsely inflating profit at the Internet service company.  Shimokobe’s latest appointment clears the way for delivery
of the business restructuring plan for Tepco under new
management. It’s being compiled by the utility and the group
Shimokobe now heads, the Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation
Fund. The fund has said it aimed to deliver the plan to the
government this month.  Government Funds  The government has set aside 9 trillion yen ($110 billion)
as part of the bailout of Tepco and to pay compensation and
cleanup costs related to radiation leaks from its Fukushima
nuclear plant, wrecked by last year’s March 11 earthquake and
tsunami. The government has also said it wants “sufficient”
 voting rights  in Tepco in exchange for the bailout funds.  Shares in the company have plunged 90 percent since the
disaster, which also cost former president Masataka Shimizu his
job. He was replaced in May last year by 36-year company man
Toshio Nishizawa.  The stock today was little-changed in the first day of
trading after the announcement. The shares traded 1 yen lower at
202 yen at the midday break on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Shimokobe will replace current Tepco chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata , 72. President Nishizawa, 60, will also be replaced by
another Tepco official, Shimokobe said. He didn’t give a date
for when he’ll start his new job.  “No matter who becomes the new chairman, there is no magic
wand,” said Hirofumi Kawachi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co. “Tepco can’t keep running without
either restarting reactors or raising electricity rates.”  ‘No Obsession’  Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano , who oversees the
nuclear power industry, said Shimokobe was always one of his
three top candidates for the job at Tepco, declining to name the
other two.  “I had no obsession on a business leader” for the job,
Edano told reporters today. “Tepco’s priorities are paying
compensation, safely decommissioning reactors and providing a
stable electricity supply,” he said.  To achieve the first two goals, Tepco’s corporate culture
must be changed and Shimokobe’s experience in corporate
revitalization and compliance is essential to do that, Edano
said.  “Mr. Shimokobe knows our business and financial conditions
well and he will be committed to restructuring,” Tepco said in
a statement last night. “The company will discuss the new
administrative organization with the new chairman.”  Shimokobe won’t have a free hand in running the utility, so
he’ll need management skills along with the ability to get along
with lawmakers, Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at
Mizuho Asset Management Co., said by phone today.  “He’ll need to consult with the government before deciding
anything.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  