-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Rises to Match Four-Year High
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-04-19T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-rises-to-match-four-year-high.html
Household confidence improved last
week to match the highest level in four years as more Americans
said their finances were in better shape.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 31.4 in the
period ended April 15, compared with minus 32.8 over the
previous seven days. The reading equaled that from two weeks
earlier as the best since March 2008. Nonetheless, the monthly
expectations measure fell from a one-year high, showing concern
remains that too many Americans are still unemployed.  “The uneven nature of the recovery will likely continue to
restrain the type of improvement in consumer sentiment that one
would traditionally observe at this point in the expansionary
cycle,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg
LP in New York.  A strengthening job market and leveling off in gasoline
prices may keep underpinning confidence, raising the odds that
 consumer spending  will continue to grow and benefit companies
like Bed,  Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  and Toyota Corp. At the same time,
 5 million  more Americans are unemployed now than when the
recession began in December 2007, showing why cheerier outlooks
will be difficult to sustain.  In a sign labor-market gains may be cooling, more Americans
than forecast filed  claims  for  unemployment benefits  last week.  Jobless applications fell by 2,000 to 386,000 in the week
ended April 14 from a revised 388,000 the prior period that was
higher than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. The median forecast of 47 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a drop to 370,000.  Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,383.54 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .  The weekly measure of Americans’ views on their  personal
finances  climbed to 6.8, the highest reading since April 2008,
from 4.8 the prior week. The gauge on the current state of the
 economy  rose to minus 64.3 from minus 66.  For the sixth consecutive week, 30 percent or more of those
polled rated the buying climate positively, the best showing
since 2008. Nonetheless, the index of whether consumers consider
it a good time to purchase needed goods or services eased to
minus 36.8 from minus 37.3.  The monthly expectations gauge dropped to minus 3 from 1 in
March, the highest level since January 2011.  ‘Tenuous Nature’  The setback “underscores the still-tenuous nature of
consumer’s climb out of the deepest downturn in more than 70
years,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
LLC in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in
a statement.  Men, college graduates, homeowners and households earning
more than $50,000 a year were among the groups for which
confidence climbed last week to the highest level in four years.
For those making from $50,000 to $74,999, the index jumped to
the highest level since January 2008.  There was also a political element as sentiment for
registered Democrats rose last week to the best level since
August 2007, and that for independents climbed to the highest
since December 2007. The index for Republicans last week was 38
points lower than its average dating back to 1990.  The decline in the monthly expectations index showed a
similar divide. The number of Republicans that said the economy
was improving dropped by 13 points, and that for independents
decreased by 10 points. Just over half, 51 percent, of Democrats
responded positively, up 8 percentage points.  President  Barack Obama  and probable Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  may focus on luring independents in this year’s
election.  Regional Bias  Today’s report also showed a regional bias as the advance
in confidence last week was paced by those living in the South
and Midwest.  A strengthening job market is probably helping buoy
sentiment. Employers in the world’s largest economy have boosted
payrolls by 1.13 million workers over the past six months, and
the jobless rate dropped to 8.2 percent in March from 9 percent
in September.  The improvement is visible in spending too.  Retail sales 
rose more than forecast in March as Americans snapped up
everything from cars and furniture to clothes and electronics.
The 0.8 percent gain was almost three times as large as
projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg and followed a 1 percent advance in February, Commerce
Department figures showed this week.  Toyota this month raised its forecast for 2012 industrywide
U.S.  sales of cars  and light trucks, citing rising sentiment.  ‘Starting to Move’  “We’re starting to see improvement in  consumer confidence 
and, combined with rising fuel prices and aging vehicles, the
market is starting to move,”  Bob Carter , Toyota’s group vice
president for U.S. sales, told reporters on April 5 at the New
York auto show. “It’s happening quicker than anyone thought.”  Rising gasoline prices are bringing buyers into showrooms
looking to replace their older cars with more fuel-efficient
models, Carter said.  The recent leveling off in  fuel costs  may be helping to
underpin consumer attitudes. The average price of a gallon of
regular gasoline at the pump was $3.90 on April 17, down from a
10-month high of $3.94 reached April 5.  “Stalling gas prices are a potentially positive element,”
said Langer. “A break in the run-up of gas prices could
encourage gain in consumer sentiment.”  Bed Bath & Beyond, a home decor and housewares retailer,
reported this month an increase in earnings for the quarter
ended Feb. 25 that topped analysts’ estimates. The Union, New
Jersey-based company, along with other retailers, may have
benefited from favorable weather during the holiday season.  Telephone Interviews  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in  Washington  at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  