-- Copper Traders Turn Bullish for First Time in Six Weeks
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-04-20T17:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/copper-traders-turn-bullish-for-first-time-in-six-weeks.html
Copper traders are bullish for the
first time in six weeks on mounting confidence that demand will
accelerate in line with economies at a time when mining
companies are already failing to keep up with consumption.  Eleven of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
metal to climb next week and 10 were neutral.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ,
based in London, said April 17 that its first-quarter copper
output slid 18 percent because the ore mined contained less
metal. Codelco, the largest copper producer, said the following
day that it sees no weakening in Chinese buying.  Barclays
Capital  is predicting a third consecutive year of shortages.  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its global growth
forecast for the first time in more than a year on April 17.
Industrial production in China, the biggest copper consumer,
expanded 11.9 percent in March, exceeding economists’ forecasts,
the government said April 13. The Bank of  Japan  is “committed”
to monetary easing to shore up the economy, Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa said April 18.  “You’re beginning to see an improvement in global
growth,” said Nic Brown, the head of research at Natixis
Commodity Markets Ltd. in  London . “China has a slightly slower
growth rate, but the economy itself is growing so rapidly that
it represents a very substantial increase in demand. You’re
going to have a very substantial copper deficit this year.”  Copper rose 7.8 percent to $8,192.50 a metric ton this year
on the London Metal Exchange, rebounding from a 21 percent
decline in 2011. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities climbed 5 percent and the MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities advanced 9 percent. Treasuries gained less
than 0.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  More Stimulus  Central banks are keeping open options for further stimulus
to sustain growth that spurred investors to add about $4.65
trillion to the value of global equities this year. Federal
Reserve policy makers  Janet Yellen  and William C. Dudley
endorsed the view last week that the Fed should hold its target
rate for overnight loans between banks near zero through 2014.
 North America  uses about 11 percent of the world’s copper, China
40 percent and Japan 5 percent, according to Barclays.  The bank predicts a shortage of 278,000 tons this year,
almost enough to supply Europe for a month. Stockpiles monitored
by the LME dropped 30 percent since the start of January while
those tracked by the Comex exchange in  New York  declined 8.7
percent, data from the bourses show.  Investor confidence in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy,
unexpectedly rose to a two-year high in April, the ZEW Center
for European Economic Research said April 17. U.S. consumer
confidence matched a four-year high in the week ended April 15,
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index (MXWD)  shows. The IMF raised its
global growth outlook to 3.5 percent from 3.3 percent.  Near-Term Supply  Copper for immediate delivery costs $47.50 a ton more than
the benchmark three-month contract on the LME and the  premium 
reached $114 on April 17, the most since 2008. While that might
indicate mounting concern about near-term supply, it also may be
a result of the ownership of inventories. One unidentified party
held at least 90 percent of reserves and open positions for the
next three days as of April 18, bourse data show.  The premium will probably decline in the next two months as
China taps stockpiles and imports decline, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said in a report yesterday. The nation’s inventories in
bonded warehouses that are exempt from a value-added tax and
import duties have surged to more than 600,000 tons, from less
than 100,000 tons in 2008, the bank estimates.  China ’s copper imports were 462,182 tons in March, 4.6
percent less than in February, customs data show. The nation’s
economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the slowest
pace in almost three years, according to government data.  Europe Crisis  Copper prices fell to a three-month low earlier this week
on concern that Europe’s debt crisis will derail the region’s
recovery. The IMF anticipates the 17-nation euro region will
contract 0.3 percent this year. Europe uses about 18 percent of
the world’s copper and regional demand will slip 2 percent this
year, Barclays estimates.  Hedge funds  and other speculators cut their wagers on
higher prices by 84 percent in the week ended April 10 to 2,955
U.S. futures and options,  data  from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  Copper will average $9,000 a ton in the third quarter, the
highest quarterly average in a year, according to the median
estimate of the top five industrial metals analysts in Bloomberg
Rankings in the past two years. Prices reached an all-time high
of $10,190 in February 2011.  ‘Quite Tight’  “Supply and demand continue to look quite tight for this
year,”  Diego Hernandez , chief executive officer of Codelco,
said in an interview in Santiago on April 18. “The industry is
optimistic we will have a very good year again.”  In other commodities, 15 of 31 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg said gold would gain next week and six
were neutral. Futures on Comex increased 4.9 percent to $1,643
an ounce this year. Prices gained the previous 11 years and
holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded products are about 0.7
percent below the record 2,410.2 tons set March 13, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Six of 13 people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to
decline next week and four were neutral. The commodity slipped
7.5 percent to 21.55 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York this year.  Fourteen of 27 people surveyed anticipate lower corn prices
next week, while 16 of 28 said soybeans will retreat. Corn
dropped 7 percent to $6.01 a bushel this year as soybeans
advanced 19 percent to $14.4275 a bushel.  “It’s going to be a bit rocky for the next month or two,”
said  Dan Smith , an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc in London.
“The situation around  Europe  has deteriorated. The view on
liquidity is really important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  