-- Corn Climbs Most in Two Weeks on Speculation Over Demand
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-04-19T12:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/corn-climbs-most-in-more-than-two-weeks-on-acre-switch.html
Corn rose the most in more than two
weeks on speculation demand for U.S. supplies may increase after
futures slumped to a four-month low yesterday.  Corn for delivery in July advanced as much as 2.8 percent
to $6.1075 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, the biggest
intraday gain for the most-active contract since March 30, and
traded at $6.0625 by 2:34 p.m. Paris time. Futures fell to
$5.9175 yesterday, the lowest level since Dec. 19.  The  Korea  Corn Processing Industry Association issued a
tender to buy as much as 55,000 metric tons of corn for food.
Private buyers in China may seek permits to buy more corn after
the price drop, according to  Shanghai  JC Intelligence Co.  “Corn has fallen a lot recently, and the $6 must look
pretty attractive to physical buyers as well as some
investors,” Park Jong Beom, a senior trader at Tong Yang
Securities Inc., said today by phone from  Seoul . “The import
tenders by Korea today are the evidence and today’s price gain
can be explained in that sense.”  The Korean industry group is seeking corn for delivery by
Aug. 25, according to a notice to suppliers, a copy of which was
e-mailed to Bloomberg News today.  “The falling corn price is capturing demand,” said
Clement Gautier, an analyst at Noisy le Grand, France-based
researcher Horizon Soft Commodities. “On the May contract we
touched $6 which is very low, that justifies a rebound. You’ll
see the importing countries come to the market.”  Private feed mills and other corn users may be seeking
government permits for more imports, said  Li Qiang , chairman of
Shanghai JC Intelligence.  “There are talks that private companies are asking for
import permits for another 1-2 million tons, but nothing is
confirmed at this point,” Li said by phone from Shanghai.  Soybeans Climb  Soybeans for July delivery climbed 1.1 percent to $14.2875
a bushel in Chicago, while wheat for delivery in the same month
gained 1.5 percent to $6.25 a bushel.  Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris added 0.9 percent to 202.25 euros ($264.56) a metric ton.
The contract’s spread over December-delivery wheat in Chicago
slipped to $21.28 a ton from $22.65 yesterday.  “We have a phenomenon of disconnect between Matif and
CBOT,” Gautier said, referring to the Paris and Chicago
markets. “Conditions remain rather good for the U.S., while on
the European side production is affected by freezing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  