-- Corporations Donate to Groups on Both Sides of Voter-ID
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-04-19T16:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/corporations-donate-to-groups-on-both-sides-of-voter-id.html
Companies giving at least $2
million to the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation -- nearly
half of its reported 2010 donations -- also backed an
organization championing voter identification laws that caucus
members say “suppress” minorities’ right to vote.  The group, the American Legislative Exchange Council, lists
22 corporate and trade association members on its private
enterprise board. Thirteen of those firms also contributed to
the black caucus foundation in 2010, according to Internal
Revenue Service records and the latest available data on the
websites of both organizations.  The dual support puts companies, including  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Johnson & Johnson, in the position of
financing both sides in a political dispute over state laws that
the U.S.  Justice Department  said in some cases are biased
against minority voters.  “Corporations should be conscious of how their advocacy
money is being spent by organizations that they contribute to,”
said U.S. Representative Hank Johnson, a Georgia Democrat and a
member of the black caucus. “This is a wakeup call for
corporate interests to be more responsible for how they spend
their money.”  A spokeswoman for the black caucus foundation, Traci
Hughes, didn’t respond to phone calls and e-mails seeking
comment.  ALEC Drops Voter-ID  Following the withdrawal of support from such companies as
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Pepsico Inc. (PEP) , ALEC announced April 17 that
it would disband its task force that drafted the voter-ID
measures and focus exclusively on economic issues. ALEC also
will remove the draft of the voter-ID legislation and other non-
economic measures from its online library of sample bills, which
state lawmakers use to craft proposals, said Kaitlyn Buss, a
spokeswoman.  Corporations have been under pressure to drop their
financial support of ALEC after the killing of Trayvon Martin in
Sanford,  Florida . The shooter, George Zimmerman, claimed self-
defense under the state’s “Stand Your Ground” law, which
allows individuals to use deadly force if they feel threatened.
Similar laws have been enacted in other states with ALEC’s
support. The  task force  that drafted the self-defense
legislation also wrote the voter-ID bill.  Voter-ID Issue Spreads  “Voter-ID bills have been kicking around for years,” said
Lisa Graves, executive director of the Center for Media and
Democracy, a Madison, Wisconsin-based group that drew attention
to the ALEC model bills. “A member of ALEC dusted off one of
those bills and brought it to ALEC as a priority.  Republicans
took over states. Suddenly those bills were flying through
statehouses.”  Eight states enacted voter-ID laws since the 2010
elections, in which Republicans made significant gains in state
legislatures. The U.S. Justice Department blocked legislation in
 South Carolina  and  Texas  under the Voting Rights Act, saying the
measures unfairly burdened minority voters. A state judge
stopped enforcement of similar legislation in  Wisconsin .  Republican backers of the measures say they are needed to
prevent voter fraud.  “You can’t check into a hotel, you can’t cash a check, you
can’t live in this country without ID,” said  Eddie Mahe , a
Republican consultant and supporter of such legislation. “If
you need an ID to cash a check, which is less important than
casting a vote, I submit you should be able to provide ID. If
people didn’t have in mind preserving the opportunity to cheat,
they wouldn’t be fighting it.”  Scant Fraud  Opponents of the measures point to a study by the Brennan
Center for Justice at  New York  University Law School that found
such fraud occurred 0.00004 percent of the time in  Ohio  during
the 2004 presidential election.  They also argue such laws disenfranchise minorities and the
poor, constituencies that are more likely to support Democrats.
For instance, the Brennan Center said 25 percent of voting-age
blacks, 16 percent of voting-age Hispanics and 15 percent of
voting-age Americans in households earning less than $35,000
lack the sort of approved IDs required by the laws.  “You start to paint a picture of people of color, poor
people, being cut out and not allowed to get their votes
counted,” said Larry Norden, deputy director of the Brennan
Center’s democracy program.  Black Caucus Condemnation  Congressional Black Caucus  Chairman Emanuel Cleaver II of
 Missouri , a Democratic U.S. House representative, and 42 other
members of the caucus introduced a resolution in February that
“condemns the passage of legislation that would unduly burden
an American citizen’s ability to vote.” The lawmakers likened
such measures to “Jim Crow-era poll taxes and literacy tests
that disenfranchised thousands of African-Americans.”  Cleaver said he intends to raise with caucus members the
issue of corporate supporters that also give money to ALEC.  “If we became involved, it would be because we want to
make sure the companies realize that here is an entity that
seems to be trying to suppress votes,” Cleaver said. “The
companies may not have known all of the things ALEC was involved
in.”  Kraft, which contributed at least $50,000 to the
foundation, is the only black caucus supporter and ALEC
corporate board member to leave the council so far.  ‘Limited Resources’  The Northfield, Illinois-based company said in a statement
that it decided not to renew its ALEC membership “for a number
of reasons, including limited resources.” Kraft said that its
involvement in ALEC “has been strictly limited to discussions
about economic growth and development, transportation and  tax
policy .”  Two other companies that have left ALEC, Atlanta-based
Coca-Cola Co. and Purchase, New York-based Pepsico, are also
financial supporters of the black caucus foundation. Coca-Cola
gave at least $250,000 and Pepsico donated at least $100,000.  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart and Bloomington,
Illinois-based State Farm Insurance Co. each gave at least
$450,000 to the caucus foundation while serving on the ALEC
board. Neither company responded to several requests for
comment.  ‘Both Sides’  “It’s interesting the way corporations try to play both
sides,” said Rashad Robinson, executive director of
ColorofChange.org, a black civil rights organization based in
New York. “Their sponsorship of the Congressional Black Caucus
is much more public than their sponsorship of ALEC, which works
behind the scenes.”  ColorofChange is part of a coalition of advocacy groups,
including Common Cause and People for the American Way, urging
companies to drop their ALEC membership because of its support
of voter-ID laws.  Among their targets:  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which gave at least
$250,000 to the black caucus foundation.  A Johnson & Johnson spokesman,  Bill Price , said the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based company works with many
organizations on issues of concern. “We may not align with or
support every public position each of these broad-based groups
takes,” he said.  Another member of ALEC’s private enterprise board, Dallas-
based AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, gave at least
$100,000 to the caucus foundation. Michael Balmoris, a
spokesman, didn’t return telephone calls and e-mails seeking
comment.  Other ALEC board members include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , based
in Irving, Texas, which gave at least $250,000 to the caucus
foundation; and Atlanta-based  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , which
donated at least $50,000. Both companies declined to comment on
supporting both the black caucus foundation and ALEC.  Commenting on corporations that give to political groups,
Representative William Lacy Clay Jr., a Missouri Democrat and a
member of the black caucus, said “from a public policy
standpoint, they need to reassess how they want to be known.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  