-- Corporate Treasurers Object to SEC Money Fund Plans
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-04-19T16:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/corporate-treasurers-object-to-sec-money-fund-plans.html
A majority of U.S. corporate
treasurers would decrease or discontinue their use of money-
market mutual funds if the Securities and Exchange Commission
follows through with plans to reform rules governing the $2.6
trillion industry.  Seventy-nine percent of treasurers said they would pull at
least some money from the funds if the SEC forces them to
abandon their traditional $1 share price, according to a survey
conducted by consulting group Treasury Strategies and paid for
by the  Investment Company Institute , a fund industry trade group
in  Washington .  Should the SEC restrict redemptions, 90 percent would
withdraw money, while 36 percent would pull out money if the SEC
institutes capital buffers that would force firms to hold a
certain amount of cash as reserves against losses.  “The large cross section of treasurers surveyed gives this
report the ‘voice of the treasurer’ -- a voice that spoke out
with an overwhelmingly negative response to each reform
concept,” Cathy Gregg, a partner at Treasury Strategies, said
in a statement today.  Regulators and asset managers have been debating steps to
make money funds safer since the September 2008 collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its closing triggered a run
on prime money funds that helped freeze global credit markets.
The run was halted only after the Treasury Department guaranteed
fund investors against losses for a year, a step that no longer
exists.  In 2010 the SEC introduced liquidity minimums, average
maturity limits and new disclosure requirements. SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  has since said additional steps are necessary to
strengthen the funds.  SEC Proposals  The SEC is working on two proposals. The first would strip
money funds of their traditional fixed $1 share price,
substituting a floating value. The second would impose  capital
requirements  and restrict redemptions.  Four of the agency’s five commissioners, a majority of whom
must approve any new rule, are evenly split over the plans,
while Democrat Luis A. Aguilar is uncommitted.  Fund executives and the ICI have argued that the SEC’s
plans would destroy the appeal of money funds for investors and
have been lobbying Aguilar to reject the reforms.  Treasury Strategies, which also opposes the proposed
changes, surveyed 203 corporate treasurers who control
approximately $176.5 billion in short-term investment assets and
$58.5 billion in money-market fund assets, according to the
statement.  Editors:  Rick Levinson , Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  