-- CPI Conspiracy Theories Persist Even With Broad Checks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/cpi-conspiracy-theories-persist-even-with-broad-checks.html
Maggie Humphrey, a price collector
for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, visits the same grocery
store every month in the Chicago suburbs to punch the cost of a
pound of bananas into her Lenovo tablet computer.  “That price has not fluctuated since I’ve been here,”
says Humphrey, who started gathering prices for the BLS in 2006
and has checked bananas at this particular establishment for
about a year. She records it as 69 cents a pound and includes
their country of origin, whether they’re on sale and any
applicable  sales tax .  Humphrey is among 400 price collectors who visit 23,000
locations in 87 cities every month to determine the cost of
80,000 products and services, from breakfast cereal to haircuts.
She and her colleagues feed a database in Washington, where
statisticians compile the monthly inflation report, used as
benchmark for everything from Social Security payments to the
value of Treasury’s inflation-indexed bonds.  The bureau’s price-gathering and statistical methods are
standard practice from  Japan  to  Switzerland . That hasn’t averted
a lashing from critics who say the government is engaged in a
campaign to hide inflation of 10 percent a year or more.
Assurances by  Federal Reserve  policy makers that inflation
remains “subdued” also haven’t deterred the skeptics.  “I’m as hawkish and worried about inflation as anybody,”
said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut  and one of the top forecasters of CPI
over the last two years in Bloomberg News surveys. “But the
idea that inflation is 10 percent is not a proper reading of the
data.”  One Critic  One such critic is  John Williams , the author of Shadow
Government Statistics, a newsletter that he has run since 2004.
Williams says the federal government understates the level of
inflation to keep increases in Social Security payments and
other costs down.  “The reporting system increasingly succumbed to pressures
from miscreant politicians, who were and are intent upon
stealing income from Social Security recipients, without ever
taking the issue of reduced entitlement payments before the
public or Congress for approval,” Williams says on his  website ,
shadowstats.com.  Williams’s alternate measure of inflation was 10.3 percent
for the 12 months through March, compared with 2.7 percent for
the  Consumer Price Index . He calculates unemployment at more
than 20 percent rather than the official 8.2 percent in March.
His assessment of gross domestic product has clocked negative
economic performance in every quarter since 2005. The Department
of Commerce’s measure turned negative in 2008 and 2009,
recording the worst recession since the Great Depression. The
economy is nearing “hyperinflationary Great Depression,” he
says on his web site.  Taking Issue  Williams takes issue with  statistical methodology  adopted
by BLS since the early 1980s.  The first is “substitutability,” which accounts for
people buying cheaper goods as prices increase. If the cost of
two types of chicken breast rises, the BLS assumes consumers buy
more of the less expensive one, giving it somewhat greater
weight in the index.  The second is “quality adjustment,” which seeks to
measure how goods change over time. For example, as ever-more-
powerful computers are available for the same price, the BLS
records this as a type of deflation. As the amount of fabric in
clothing shrinks (think skinny jeans) that is noted as a type of
inflation.  The third is “owner’s equivalent rent” which replaces the
cost of owning a home with what it would cost to  rent  it.  Price Level  Had the BLS not altered its statistical practices over the
years, Williams says, inflation would be reported about 7
percentage points higher each year, enough that the price level
will quadruple in a little over a decade.  Williams sells subscriptions to his website for $175 a
year. He declined to give the number of subscribers. “My
business has been picking up over the years,” he said in a
phone interview. “I don’t know I can attribute it to any one
thing other than to say that most people do think that inflation
is higher than the government is reporting and economic growth
is weaker.”  Williams graduated from  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New
Hampshire  in 1971 with a bachelor’s degree in economics and
subsequently earned a master’s in business administration from
Dartmouth. The background on his website says he worked as a
consulting economist.  Alternative Measure  Some economists favor alternative inflation measures. The
 Federal Reserve  aims for a 2 percent annual rate of inflation
based on the Commerce Department’s personal consumption
expenditures index, which averages about 0.5 percentage point a
year less than the CPI. The  Social Security Administration  uses
an index known as CPI-W, which rose 2.9 percent in March from a
year earlier, compared with the main CPI’s 2.9 percent increase.  “These various measures, the CPI and others, PCE index and
others, move very closely together,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a Jan. 25 press conference in  Washington . “And
you are not going to have a situation where the CPI is 10
percent and the PCE is 2 percent. There may be a few tenths
difference, but generally speaking they move very closely
together.”  The BLS has responded to Williams’s claims in papers over
the years. One such report in 2008 noted the degree of
international acceptance of BLS methods, with 13 of the then-30
members of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and
Development using rental equivalence and 12 using the quality
adjustment known as hedonics. Eurostat reports that 20 use the
CPI’s method of substitution.  ‘Could Quibble’  “There are places where you could quibble with what
they’ve done to change the CPI,” said Pierpont’s Stanley. “But
to say that everything that’s been done over the last 30 years
to the CPI is illegitimate and what we should really do is look
at the methodology from 30 years ago? Would we want to use the
state of the art from 30 years ago for computers?”  The BLS provided details on its methodology because the
“myths” about the CPI construction methods “continue to
circulate,” BLS economists John Greenlees and Robert McClelland
said in an August 2008  rebuttal .  The index has its roots in a World War I-era effort to
adjust wages to rising prices. The first cost-of-living
measures, published in 1919, concluded that not everyone could
afford “all the necessaries, many of the comforts, and a goodly
supply of the luxuries of life.”  Boskin Commission  In 1995, Congress created a commission to study the index,
headed by Michael Boskin, a Stanford University economics
professor and former head of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers. Its  review  concluded that the index was overstating
the inflation rate by 1.1 percentage points a year.  Congress authorized the commission during a period when
members looked to cut  government spending . The panel made 16
recommendations for changes to the index, estimating that they
would shave $691 billion off the debt over the next 10 years.  Robert Gordon, an economist at  Northwestern University  and
one of the Boskin commission members, estimated in a  2006 paper 
that the BLS changes removed only some of the bias, and the
index remained about 0.8 percentage points too high per year, a
sharp contrast to Williams’s claim that the level is 7
percentage points too low.  The CPI’s methodology drew attention again last summer when
a group of senators looking to reach a deal to cut the deficit
considered switching government indexing to a CPI measure that,
because of a methodology change, would lower reported inflation
by 0.3 percentage point per year. Ultimately it wasn’t adopted.  No Opinion  “At BLS, we’re just dealing with the data, not the
policies behind the data,” said Gary Steinberg, a press officer
and more than 20-year veteran of the bureau. “We don’t have an
opinion one way or the other on how the data are used.”  Williams’s criticism of the CPI focuses on the effect of
substitution and hedonics.  “I believe Williams is right directionally,” said James Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago . “The
measures as they were constructed 30 years ago would show higher
inflation if we were using them today.”  Bianco said that the U.S. government does have an incentive
to favor lower reported inflation because then it saves money on
cost of living adjustments, union contracts and inflation-
adjusted bonds that are benchmarked to the index.  “The current measures might only be a few percentage
points different but even a few percentage points is still
pretty significant,” Bianco said. “Lots of money rides on
these numbers.”  Substitution Adjustment  The BLS doesn’t dispute that its adjustment for
substitution tends to lower the index. Yet the size of the BLS
changes is nowhere near the 7 percentage point difference that
Williams claims, BLS officials said.  On average, the hedonic quality adjustment has increased,
not decreased, the reported rate of inflation, the BLS says.  Ken Stewart, a BLS economist, compared the old and new
methodologies over a 21-year period and has said the current
procedure produces an annual rate of inflation about 0.45
percentage points lower.  “Hedonic adjustment makes sense to me,” said Michael Pond, an expert in inflation-indexed bonds at Barclays Plc in
 New York . “If I’m paying the same price for a good that is
better, then I’m getting a better deal, getting more value for
my money.”  Old Methods  From 1977 to 1998, the CPI showed a 141 percent increase in
the level of prices. A product or service costing $10 in 1977
ought to have cost $14.10 more in 1998. The old methods would
have produced a 163.9 percent increase, according to a  paper  
Stewart co-wrote with BLS economist Stephen B. Reed.  Williams draws his estimate of a 7 percentage-point bias
per year in part from this paper, he said in a phone interview.  “It’s a simple approach to it,” he said. A complete
reconstruction would be “the type of thing that takes
extraordinary time and computing ability, which I don’t have the
resources to support.”  Independently of Williams, two economists at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  developed their own
methodology.  Roberto Rigobon and Alberto Cavallo launched the Billion
Prices Project in 2010, which builds on analysis that found
 Argentina  understated its inflation rate. In the U.S. alone the
 project  tracks over 5 million prices, Rigobon said, on pace for
a global goal of 1 billion.  Basket of Goods  Rigobon said the project includes about 60 percent of the
goods used in the CPI. The study reported inflation about 1
percentage point higher than CPI for much of 2010 and slightly
more than 3 percent inflation in 2011, in line with the CPI.  “In a three-to-four month window, the inflation rate we
report is almost identical to the CPI,” Rigobon said. That
suggests that the CPI measure is accurate, he said.  For her part, price collector Humphrey in Chicago says she
never can guess what the total CPI will end up being even after
logging hundreds of prices month after month.  “It’s hard to have an intuition for the overall number,”
she said. “You see a lot of prices, but it’s such a small part
of the nation as a whole.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  