-- Deripaska’s Russian Machines to Seek $3 Billion in IPO
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-19T02:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/deripaska-s-russian-machines-to-seek-3-billion-in-ipo.html
OAO Russian Machines, a Moscow-
based manufacturer controlled by billionaire Oleg Deripaska,
will seek as much as $3 billion by selling a minority stake in
overseas markets, said Chairman Siegfried Wolf.  The company plans to sell as much as 25 percent in an
initial public offering outside of  Russia , Wolf said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  yesterday.
Russian Machines will probably sell stakes in its individual
units, rather than the whole company, he said.  “We’re absolutely in shape to do it this year or next,”
Wolf said. “We would look for international investors and roll
out a stake which is not a big one but which demonstrates what
we are capable of doing. I’m quite sure we will start with a
small spinoff and move bigger if the market honors what I am
expecting.”  Wolf, who was appointed as head of  Russian Machines  by
Deripaska in 2010, presides over a company made up of 26 units
including vehicle building plants, construction firms and
aircraft and military machinery producers. The IPO would follow
the $2.1 billion Hong Kong share sale in January 2010 by  United
Co. Rusal Ltd. (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer. Deripaska
is chief executive officer of Rusal and his En+ Group Ltd. is
the  biggest shareholder .  Russian Machines will probably wait until a legal dispute
involving its Dutch unit is resolved before going forward with
any IPO, Wolf, 55, said. The unit failed to honor an $87 million
guarantee on a $878 million loan used by Deripaska to buy a
stake in Magna International Inc. in 2007, lawyers for French
bank BNP Paribas SA said in a  London  court on Nov. 7.  Legal Dispute  “We are willing to go in a very public way through the
court system,” he said yesterday. “I have no pressure to speed
up the process” of a share offering, he said.  The first unit to conduct an IPO will probably be Russian
Machines’ railway company RCTM Group, said Wolf, who left the
co-CEO position at  Magna (MG) , an Aurora, Ontario-based car-parts
maker, to take up the helm of Russian Machines.  “We are absolutely looking outside of Russia” to do the
listing, said Wolf, adding that London, Hong Kong, the U.S. or
Canada are all possible locations. “You sometimes can lose
money, but you can never lose your reputation.”  Deripaska, 44, has a fortune Forbes estimated at $16.8
billion in 2011. The native of Dzerzhinsk, a small town in
Russia’s Nizhny Novogorod region, owns EuroSibEnergo Plc, the
country’s largest non-government power producer, according to
En+ Group’s  website . Rusal also holds 25 percent of OAO Norilsk
Nickel, the world’s biggest nickel and palladium producer.  Investor Interest  Units of Russian Machines, which include the Nizhny
Novogorod-based automaker OAO Gaz, employ more than 75,000
people in 14 regions throughout Russia, according to the Russian
Machines website.  “Investor interest is going to be huge” in a Russian
Machines IPO,  Luis Saenz , chief executive officer of the U.S.
unit of Moscow-based brokerage Otkritie Financial Corp., said by
phone yesterday. “This will be positive for the overall
market.”  Moscow’s 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  has lost 16 percent in the
past 12 months, compared with a 12 percent drop for the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  The Micex trades for 5.4 times estimated
earnings for member companies, compared with 10 times for both
 Brazil ’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  and  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index.  RusPetro IPO  The 30-day average value traded in shares of 10 of Russia’s
biggest companies in London was $1.2 billion on April 16, 60
percent higher than for Russia’s Micex-RTS Exchange, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The only IPO conducted by a Russia-
based company this year -- the $250 million offering by oil and
gas producer  RusPetro Plc (RPO)  -- was undertaken in the British
capital.  Moscow-based Rusal, which used the proceeds of its share
sale to pay down debt, fell 0.2 percent to HK$5.68 as of 10:13
a.m. in  Hong Kong  today. Rusal is trading 47 percent below its
listing price of HK$10.80.  En+ Group, which holds 47 percent of Rusal, is considering
seeking an Asian IPO within three years, Chief Executive Officer
Artem Volynets said in an interview in  St. Petersburg  in June
last year. Rusal was the first Russian company to list in Hong
Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  