-- Sidley, Milbank, Kirkland, Littler: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-04-25T16:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/dewey-leboeuf-russia-office-said-to-seek-new-law-firm.html
(Corrects spelling of name in sixth paragraph of Dewey item
in story published April 19.)  In  SXC Health Solutions Corp. (SXC) ’s
$4.4 billion acquisition of  Catalyst Health Solutions Inc. (CHSI) ,
Sidley Austin LLP represented SXC while Catalyst relied on
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP.  The Sidley corporate lawyers on the deal were partners Gary Gerstman and Scott Williams, and associates Michael Heinz,
Jonathan Blackburn and Christy Herbas, all in  Chicago ; in tax,
partner Sharp Sorensen and associate Karen Hayes in Chicago; in
benefits, partner  Matthew Johnson  and associate Corey Perry in
Chicago; in health care, partner Mark Langdon in Washington and
associate Jenny Cheung in  San Francisco ; in banking, partner
Tracey Nicastro and associate Christina Kiel in Chicago; and in
antitrust, partners Marc Raven and David Giardina in Chicago.  Milbank represented Catalyst. The Milbank lawyers leading
the deal are partner Thomas Janson, of counsel  David Schwartz 
and associates George Esposito and Nehal Siddiqui.  The other Milbank attorneys on the deal are partner Alan
Stone, of counsel Charles Westland, partners Russell Kestenbaum,
Paul Wessel, Lawrence Kass and Richard Gray, of counsel Matthew
Ahrens and associates Nicole Rosser and Jeffrey Michalczak.  Pharmacy benefits managers are combining after Express
Scripts Inc., the largest in the U.S., agreed to pay $29.1
billion for Medco Health Solutions Inc. SXC of Lisle, Illinois,
one of the biggest providers of technology for processing
prescription claims, was the target of speculation last month.
The company is now in position to be one of the nation’s largest
pharmacy benefit companies, said Brian Tanquilut, an analyst
with Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee .  For more on the deal, click here.  Knology Agrees to $750 Million Takeover by WideOpenWest  Knology Inc. (KNOL) , the cable company with customers primarily in
the southeastern U.S., agreed to be bought by closely held cable
operator WideOpenWest LLC for about $750 million.  Kirkland & Ellis  represented WideOpenWest, or WOW, as the
company is known. The firm’s corporate lawyers on the deal are,
in New York, partners Kirk Radke and Joshua Kogan and associates
Charles Fellers, Brandon Charnas and Jessica Woolf.  Also on the deal from Kirkland & Ellis are in
finance/ capital markets , partners Joshua Korff and Jason Kanner
in New York; in tax, partners Patrick Gallagher and David
Grenker and associate Heather Behrend; in antitrust, partner
Christine Wilson and associate Joseph Nord in Washington; in
employee benefits, partner Alexandra Mihalas and associate
Margaret Hermes in Chicago; in environmental, partner Toby Chun
and associate Jonathan Kidwell in  Washington ; in executive
compensation, partner Scott Price and associate Matthew Shiels
in New York; in intellectual property, partner Edward Sadtler
and associate David Lee in New York; and in real estate, partner
Jennifer Morgan and associate Jennifer Sheehan in New York.  Alston & Bird LLP represented Knology. Leading the team was
partner Lesley Solomon, along with partners Richard Grice and
Laura Thatcher in Atlanta and  David Brown  in Washington and
associates Jarrett Ellis,  Virginia  Brown and Jason Peterson in
Atlanta.  Hogan Lovells US LLP provided advice to Knology’s board.
From the firm are corporate partners Joseph E. Gilligan, Steven
M. Kaufman, Paul D. Manca and Joseph G. Connolly Jr., all in
Washington, partner Kevin K. Greenslade in McLean, Virginia, and
associate Christopher H. Schott in Washington.  Employee benefits partner William L. Neff and tax partner
Daniel M. Davidson in Washington, antitrust partner Michele S. Harrington in McLean and lending partner Gordon C. Wilson in
Washington also worked on the deal.  Knology investors will receive $19.75 a share in cash,
according to a statement from the companies yesterday. The total
transaction value is $1.5 billion, including acquired debt.  WideOpenWest, based in Englewood,  Colorado , was acquired by
New York-based private equity firm Avista Capital Partners in
2006. The company provides cable, broadband and landline phone
service to customers in  Indiana ,  Illinois ,  Ohio  and  Michigan .  For more on the deal, click here.  Capital Markets  Pepper Hamilton Represents Teen Retailer Five Below in IPO  Pepper Hamilton LLP was retained by Five Below Inc., the
Philadelphia-based teen specialty retailer, for its initial
public offering.  From Pepper Hamilton are partner Barry M. Abelson in the
Philadelphia office, partner John P. Duke in the Berwyn,
 Pennsylvania , office and associates Jessica A. Bisignano and
Kathryn E. Daly in the firm’s Philadelphia office.  According to the S-1 filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission yesterday, Robert Buckholz, a partner at
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP is representing the underwriters in the
offering. Buckholz didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking a full
list of the attorneys working on the IPO.  Five Below, founded by David Schlessinger and Thomas Vellios, caters to teens and pre-teens with candy, stationery
and beauty products priced at $5 and less. The retailer opened
its first store in 2002 and operated 192 locations in 16 states
at the end of fiscal 2011.  The retailer, majority owned by private-equity firm Advent
International Corp., said in its regulatory filing that the
number of shares to be offered hasn’t yet been determined.  Dewey LeBoeuf  Russian Office of Dewey Said to Be Seeking New Law Firm  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s struggle to survive a defection
crisis that has seen it lose 20 percent of its partners is
intensifying as its 42-lawyer Moscow outpost seeks to decamp to
another U.S. law firm, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations, Bloomberg’s Jeremy Hodges and Sophia Pearson
report.  The firms in talks with Dewey’s Russia-based lawyers
include Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, Winston & Strawn LLP
and King & Spalding LLP, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the person wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter.  Dewey has had a Russian presence since 1990 and currently
houses 12 partners there, according to U.K.-based spokesman
Duncan Miller. With one of the larger Russian offices of the
international law firms in Moscow, its team focuses on corporate
and finance work in the energy sector.  Garry Pegg, co-managing partner of Atlanta-based King &
Spalding’s London office; David Schaefer, a spokesman for San
Francisco-based Orrick; and Thomas Benz, a partner in Chicago-
based Winston’s London office, didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment.  On April 17, eight lawyers, including several members of
Dewey’s key utilities, power and pipelines industry group, left
for Hunton & Williams LLP and Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman
LLP. The drumbeat of departures, if it continues, may trigger
requirements to pay back loans, a law firm consultant said.  “I think the departures are likely of concern internally
and to providers of capital to the firm,” said Kent Zimmermann,
a Zeughauser Group consultant. “This just fuels the perception
that is widely held in the market that the firm is in a
spiral.”  At issue are Dewey’s loan agreements tied to its lines of
credit, the consultant said. Typically, law firms are required
to maintain a certain number or percentage of partners, said
Zimmerman. Dewey is in renegotiation talks with lenders on
restructuring its credit lines, the firm said.  “We’re in ongoing discussions and they’re private,”
Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for the firm, said yesterday. He
declined to comment on the Russia office.  For more, click here.  Moves  Littler Mendelson Adds Shareholder in Pittsburgh Office  Daniel E. Wille, who specializes in employee benefits, has
joined Littler Mendelson PC in the firm’s Pittsburgh office.  Wille previously was a partner in the Pittsburgh office of
Reed Smith LLP. According to a statement by the firm, Wille
works both on litigation and advising companies on employee
benefits.  Littler specializes in representing management in
employment and labor matters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  