-- Diary of Central Banker in Despair as Orban’s Hungary Defies EU
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/diary-of-central-banker-in-despair-as-orban-s-hungary-defies-eu.html
Andras Simor  is Hungary’s last man
standing.  The central bank president has held on as Premier  Viktor Orban  swept out the heads of independent state institutions
during the past two years. Parliament cut Simor’s salary by 75
percent, stripped him of his right to name rate setters and
filled the majority of the seats with ruling-party appointees.  He remains in office, protected by the European Union,
which blocked bailout talks in December to get Hungary to
reverse legislation weakening the central bank’s independence.
To Ewald Nowotny, head of  Austria ’s central bank, the fight over
Simor, 57, has become a fault line in the clash between European
values and national politics.  “The Hungarian central bank under his leadership is one of
the few remaining independent institutions in  Hungary ,” said
Nowotny, a member of the European Central Bank’s Governing
Council, in an April 5 phone interview. “At stake is the
concept of an independent central bank and that is a basic
concept of European law.”  The EU, the  International Monetary Fund  and Hungary haven’t
begun negotiations over the bailout that Orban, 48, requested in
November, as the forint fell to a record and the country lost
its investment credit grade after 15 years. The European
Commission, the EU’s executive body, says talks won’t start
until Hungary changes the law to ensure monetary policy
independence.  Government Meddling  “When we start to see a government really meddling with
the central bank, taking exception to specific people and trying
to replace them or clip their power, then we get worried,”
 Kieran Curtis , who oversees about $3.8 billion in emerging-
market assets at Aviva Investors Ltd. in London, said by phone.  That’s not the only condition as the commission also is
demanding changes to laws governing the judiciary and the data-
protection office, whose independence the EU also considers to
be under threat.  Waning investor optimism about Orban’s willingness to
reduce his influence over independent institutions has weakened
the forint 3.9 percent against the euro in the past two months.
The currency plunged 15 percent in the second half of last year,
the most in the world, before paring losses after the government
pledged Jan. 5 to reach a quick deal on an IMF loan.  The Cabinet filed changes on April 17 to the central bank
law that failed to address all the objections of the EU or the
ECB. Simor’s pay cut and the planned enlargement of the rate
setting Monetary Council are among the issues left out of the
amendments. The Cabinet has agreed to scrap an option to demote
the central bank president if the central bank is combined with
the financial authority.  Day-to-Day Policy  Orban’s government has also clashed with the central bank
over the conduct of day-to-day monetary policy.  Policy makers under Simor have kept the  benchmark interest
rate  at the highest level in the EU, citing the need to protect
the forint amid the euro debt crisis and to rein in the fastest
inflation in the 27-nation bloc.  The central bank “impedes Hungary’s healthy economic
growth,” the  Economy Ministry  said on Dec. 20, after the  Magyar
Nemzeti Bank  raised the main rate by a half-point to 7 percent
following the breakdown of preliminary bailout talks.  The government has rejected claims that its new regulation
of the central bank seeks greater government control.  “The central bank has been independent, it’s independent
and it will remain independent,” Economy Ministry State
Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay said in an April 18 interview in
London. “Central bank independence in Hungary is very
important.”  ‘Total Takeover’  Simor, who in December called the new law a government
attempt at a “total takeover” of the central bank, is one of
the few who have withstood Orban’s assaults.  Adam Farkas, who headed the independent financial
regulator, resigned within a month of Orban taking office on May
29, 2010, citing a lack of confidence from the government.
Gyorgy Kopits, the then-head of the independent Fiscal Council,
which criticized budget policy, was pushed out after the Cabinet
severed funding of the agency and set up a new body dominated by
Orban’s allies.  The head of the  Supreme Court , Andras Baka, was removed
last year along with data-protection commissioner Andras Jori,
after the government overhauled their institutions.  The head of the Constitution Court, Peter Paczolay, stayed
on after the government stripped the panel of its jurisdiction
over economic issues, including on the Cabinet’s imposition of
taxes retroactively. The court also failed to rule on the
nationalization of $13 billion of private pension funds.  Salary Reduction  Simor didn’t escape unscathed. Last year, he was stripped
of his right to nominate two of the four outside members in the
Monetary Council, allowing the ruling party to fill a majority
of the seven-member body with its appointees. Parliament also
cut Simor’s salary to 2 million forint ($8,833) a month.  Simor said last March that he rejected intimidation by a
government official to quit before his mandate expires in 2013.  “A central bank president won’t be threatened or bullied
into resigning,” Simor told reporters on March 7, 2011. He
declined to comment for this article, his press office said.  Simor, born in Budapest in 1954, was trained as an
economist specializing in international finance at the capital’s
elite Corvinus University, named after  Karl Marx  under
communism. After graduating, he got his first job in 1976 in the
central bank’s foreign currency department.  Creditanstalt to Deloitte  He worked for the bank in  London  from 1979 to 1985. After
the country’s transition from communism to democracy in 1990,
Simor headed the brokerage Creditanstalt Ertekpapir Rt. in
Budapest, now part of Vienna-based UniCredit Bank Austria AG. He
went on to become president of the Budapest Stock Exchange and
later Deloitte & Touche LLP in Hungary. He was appointed head of
the central bank by Premier Ferenc Gyurcsany in 2007.  Orban targeted Simor before the 2010 election, when the
former anti-communist student leader won a two-thirds
parliamentary majority that he called the “ballot-box
revolution.”  In 2009, leaders of Orban’s ruling Fidesz party, then the
biggest opposition group, called on Simor to quit after he
confirmed that he had transferred part of his savings to a
company he owned in Cyprus, where the  tax rate  is lower. Simor
refused to resign and has since repatriated his savings after
telling lawmakers he “understood” that state officials “need
to abide by stricter rules.”  Orban’s Calls  Ten days before taking office, Orban pledged to quickly
“settle” conflicts with Simor after his party criticized
monetary policy as “incompetent” for holding rates too high
for too long, allegedly deepening the country’s economic crisis.
The central bank also should have stemmed the proliferation of
foreign-currency loans that put tens of thousands at risk of
losing their homes after the forint plunged, according to Orban.  “You need a basis of cooperation and there is no basis
with the current central bank,” Orban told reporters in
Budapest on May 19, 2010. “We won’t show brutal force against
the central bank. But we have a two-thirds majority and this
situation needs to be solved. We will solve this situation
within a short time after forming the new government.”  Hungarian governments have a history of meddling with the
central bank’s independence ever since the transition from
communism to democracy in 1990.  ‘Personal Attacks’  “This is reminiscent of what I went through,” Peter Akos Bod, who served as central bank president from 1991 to 1994
before quitting, said in a phone interview in reference to
Simor’s ordeals. “I faced savage personal attacks. The
difference then was that Hungary wasn’t part of the European
Union and I enjoyed no protection.”  Bod got the job after Gyorgy Suranyi lost his after a year
in 1991, when the country’s first freely elected government
changed the central bank law to give the prime minister the
power to replace him. Suranyi served a full term from 1995 to
2001, the second half of which coincided with Orban’s first
stint as prime minister.  In 2005, Gyurcsany of the Socialist Party enlarged the
Monetary Council and ended the central bank’s monopoly on the
nomination of policy makers after criticizing Zsigmond Jarai,
the bank’s president at the time who was appointed by Orban.  Simor’s term expires next March. His willingness to endure
attacks and stay on the job may encourage those who follow to
stay on to fight for central bank independence, Nowotny said.  “This is one of the points why I admire Andras Simor,”
Nowotny said. “He’s still fighting even knowing that his term
is coming to an end because he wants to set a standard. I hope
in this way his battle makes sense and is not just a battle but
also the war. He is leading by example.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  