-- DirecTV Lowering Price of NFL Sunday Ticket to Lure Users
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-04-19T21:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/directv-lowering-price-of-nfl-sunday-ticket-to-lure-users.html
DirecTV (DTV) , trying to broaden its
audience, is cutting the price of its Sunday football package by
about 40 percent for existing customers and offering it free to
new customers for a year.  The largest U.S. satellite-TV provider said today it is
dropping the price for the NFL Sunday Ticket package, which
gives users access to all regular season  National Football
League  out-of-market broadcasts, to $199.95 from about $325.
Customers that also want access to the games on mobile devices
will pay $299.95.  DirecTV has had the exclusive rights to out-of-market NFL
games since 1994, one of its main assets against pay-TV rivals
such as  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  A promotion started
last year that gave Sunday Ticket free to new customers for the
season helped DirecTV add a net 327,000 U.S. subscribers in the
third quarter -- the largest gain since 2009.  “Everyone is convinced they are getting squeezed on
margins on all sides, so lowering the price isn’t going to
help,” said  Todd Mitchell , an analyst at Brean Murray Carret &
Co. in  New York , who has a buy rating on the stock. “I think
that’s why the stock dropped.”  DirecTV, based in El Segundo,  California ,  fell  1.6 percent
to $47.95 at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares have gained 4
percent in the past year.  Charging an ‘Experiment’  DirecTV will again give Sunday Ticket at no extra charge to
new subscribers for the season, although mobile access will now
cost new customers $100.  “Charging for digital rights is an experiment,” DirecTV
Chief Executive Officer Mike White said in an interview this
month. “There aren’t great models in how you get your price
elasticities right there. We’re all learning what will the
market bear in terms of digital rights.”  Between 2 million and 3 million DirecTV customers
subscribed to Sunday Ticket last year. The company has 19.9
million U.S. subscribers.  DirecTV is cutting back on discounted video packages to
raise the average revenue it generates per subscriber.
Programming costs will rise in the “high single digits” in
2012, Chief Financial Officer Pat Doyle said on the company’s
fourth-quarter conference call.  The satellite-TV provider must come up with new ways of
making its product appealing to convince customers not to switch
to cable or Internet options such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  or Hulu LLC,
said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  “I think this aggressive price promotion illustrates once
again the competitive landscape of a mature industry,” said
Sweeney. “NFL Sunday Ticket is a valuable arrow in DirecTV’s
quiver.”  The NFL released its 2012-13 schedule on April 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  