-- Don’t Blame China’s Currency for U.S. Trade Deficit
-- B y   Y u k o n   H u a n g
-- 2012-04-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/don-t-blame-china-s-currency-for-u-s-trade-deficit.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
reduced medium-term forecast for  China ’s current-account surplus
of about 4 percent of gross domestic product is belated
recognition of recent  developments . The adjustment may still
turn out to be too high, but good luck telling that to U.S.
politicians.  America’s trade deficit with China hit a record $295
billion last year. Protectionist sentiments are running high,
with recent U.S.  complaints  filed with the  World Trade
Organization  and passage in March of a countervailing tariff
bill. Such measures have been accompanied by a familiar chorus
calling for a major revaluation of the yuan to counteract
China’s alleged currency manipulation intended to keep its
exports cheap.  But to focus on China’s currency is to miss the real story
behind the country’s trade surplus.  From China’s perspective, admonitions that the yuan is
substantially undervalued seem illogical. China’s current-
account surplus has declined steadily from 10 percent of GDP
five years ago to less than 3 percent last year and is projected
by some to decline even further. Moreover, officials in Beijing
are perplexed that after they allowed the yuan to appreciate by
almost 30 percent since 2005, critics still say the currency is
undervalued, as if nothing had happened. (China also recently
widened the yuan’s trading band, suggesting that it is now more
confident about the stability of its value.)  Trade’s Bigger Picture  Much of the confusion comes from focusing on the still huge
U.S.-China trade imbalances, rather than looking at the trade
picture from a global perspective.  The truth is that China’s surpluses are not driving
America’s deficits. This is illustrated by differences in the
timing of changes to both countries’ trade balances. The U.S.
 trade gap  began increasing in about 1998 and peaked around 2005.
China’s  trade surpluses  only began increasing around 2005 and
peaked in 2008. This suggests that U.S. deficits and China’s
surpluses are not directly related but actually reflect country-
specific circumstances.  Three phenomena largely explain the emergence of China’s
trade surpluses: surging American consumption and fiscal
deficits that fueled import demand; a maturing East Asian
production network centered on China; and the ratcheting-up of
China’s savings rates.  The origins and consequences of the increase in U.S.
consumption followed by growing fiscal deficits are well known.
This part of the story has little to do with China but reflects
U.S. political gridlock.  The role of the Asian production-sharing network began
decades ago as  Japan  moved portions of its production base to
 Southeast Asia . China became central to that network with its
2001 accession to the WTO, which offered easier access to
Western markets. At the same time, a massive infrastructure
program strengthened China’s competitive position.  Despite substantial real wage increases of about 12 percent
annually in China,  labor productivity  rose even more rapidly,
making it profitable for multinationals to use the country as
the assembly plant for the world. In that respect, the U.S.
trade balance with China is really a regional, rather than a
bilateral, issue.  Hiding Behind China  Processing exports (those with a high import content,
facilitated by low import tariffs) now account for about half of
China’s trade volumes but are responsible for the entirety of
its surplus. Eighty percent of the value added for these
components, however, is sourced elsewhere.  This relationship is captured in the swelling trade
surpluses of  South Korea , Japan and  Taiwan  with China. Together,
they rose from $30 billion in 2000 to more than $200 billion in
2010. In other words, China’s trade surplus with the U.S.
originates largely from this North Asian trio.  When U.S. President  Barack Obama  welcomed  Lee Myung Bak ,
his counterpart from South Korea, to  Washington  last year, he
commented approvingly that South Korea’s trade with the U.S. was
in balance -- “as it should be.” What Obama should have done was
congratulate Lee by noting that South Korea, along with several
others, has been able to avoid U.S. criticism by hiding its
trade surpluses behind the Great Wall of China.  Indeed, rather than complaining about China’s exports of
relatively labor-intensive products, Americans should ask
themselves why their country isn’t able to produce the high-
tech, capital-intensive components coming to the U.S. from the
North Asian trio via China. These activities command the skills
and salaries more appropriate for American workers.  The  trade balance  is, of course, the difference between
what an economy saves and invests. In that respect, the increase
in household savings rates in China has had a significant
impact on its surplus.  While many suggest that Chinese household savings rates
rose because of welfare concerns and demographic shifts, the
major determinant has gone unrecognized. Rapid urbanization and
the movement of some 250 million migrant workers into coastal
cities have changed the savings dynamics in China. Restrictive
policies have denied these workers formal residency rights and
thus repressed their consumption instincts. Consequently, in
some cities, migrants’ savings rates are as much as twice that
of established residents. And soaring wages in recent years have
led to a sharp increase in savings and, in turn, amplified
China’s large trade surpluses.  These surpluses only began to decline when China’s stimulus
program after the 2008 financial crisis drove up investment
rates. But such high investment rates -- at more than 45 percent
of GDP, the world’s highest -- aren’t sustainable; instead,
consumption needs to increase as a share of GDP.  Although official accounts don’t yet reflect this
transition, it has already started: Rural incomes have been
increasing faster than urban incomes, and rural households have
lower savings rates. In addition, as more migrant workers move
inland due to lower living costs and better job opportunities,
they will also spur consumption.  Granting formal residency rights to migrant workers --
which is now under consideration -- would give consumption an
even bigger boost, and lead to a surge that would eliminate
China’s trade surpluses even as investment rates decline.  Financial markets typically focus on exchange rates in
analyzing the prospects for China’s trade. But in so doing, they
often discount the power of structural shifts that would
moderate global trade imbalances in mutually beneficial ways and
ease the push by China and the U.S. toward more protectionism.  (Yukon Huang is a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment and a former World Bank country director for China.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on elections in  France,
Germany and Greece ; Virginia Postrel on the end of  vertical
integration ;  Michael Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s success ;  Jonathan
Weil  on the  government’s sketchy accounting ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 health-care reform ; Andrew Exum on  disturbing combat
photographs .  To contact the writer of this article:
Yukon Huang at  yhuang@ceip.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  