-- Doosan Abandons $272 Million Scottish Offshore Wind Plan
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-19T13:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/doosan-abandons-272-million-scottish-offshore-wind-plan.html
Doosan Power Systems Ltd., a unit
of  South Korea ’s biggest power equipment maker, abandoned a 170
million-pound ($273 million) plan for offshore wind in  Scotland 
because of economic difficulties in  Europe .  The power plant division of Doosan Heavy Industries &
Construction Ltd. scrapped the plan to develop offshore  wind
turbines  due to “the overall economic conditions and liquidity
issues,” South Korea-based Doosan said in a statement.  Doosan’s decision is a blow to Scotland’s goal to create
jobs and foster an independent economy through building wind
farms on land and at sea. Scotland, seeking a referendum on
independence from the U.K., plans to get all of its electricity
from clean sources such as wind farms by 2020, and intends to
decarbonize its thermal plants with carbon capture technology.  Doosan abandoned its initiative in December, according to
the statement sent by e-mail. The company had agreed to develop
a renewables research and development base at its Westway site
near Glasgow in addition to potential turbine assembly and
manufacturing facilities. Those investments were worth as much
as 170 million pounds and could create 1,700 jobs, the Scottish
government said in a statement in March 2011.  Doosan “remains committed” to working in Scotland and the
U.K. as well as to supporting clean energy solutions, the
company said in the statement.  “Clearly we want as many manufacturers as possible to
establish offshore renewables operations in Scotland but not
every energy company can be involved in offshore wind,” a
Scottish government spokesman said in an e-mailed statement.  Told at Time  Since Doosan’s decision, which it informed the Scottish
government of at the time, Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA,  and
 Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  have announced offshore wind plans
in Scotland. Gamesa,  Spain ’s biggest turbine maker, said it
would build a 150 million-euro ($196 million) wind hub in Leith,
Edinburgh, while Samsung Heavy Industries Co. is planning a 100
million-pound project for its 7-megawatt machine.  Mitsubishi Power Systems Europe Ltd. said in December 2010
it would invest as much as 100 million pounds in a Scottish
turbine research center. Scotland could have about a quarter of
Europe’s offshore wind capacity, according to the government.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  