-- Dow to Build Ethylene Plant in Texas on Cheap Gas Prices
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-04-19T16:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/dow-to-build-ethylene-plant-in-texas-on-cheap-gas-prices.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  will build an
ethylene plant in  Texas  that will employ as many as 2,000
workers, part of the company’s $4 billion investment in expanded
chemical production as the price of natural gas drops to a 10-
year low.  The plant, scheduled to open in 2017, will be built at a
Dow site in Freeport, Texas, the company said in a statement
today. The facility will use ethane and other natural-gas
liquids to make ethylene, a key plastics ingredient. It will
cost $1.7 billion and create 150 jobs, Texas Governor Rick Perry
said in a separate  statement .  Dow, the largest U.S. chemical maker, announced plans for
the project a year ago without naming a location. The Midland,
Michigan-based company is among those planning to build the
first new U.S. ethylene plants since 2001 to take advantage of
gas prices that have dropped to the lowest level since 2002.  “For the first time in over a decade, U.S. natural gas
prices are affordable and relatively stable, attracting new
industry investments and growth and putting us on the threshold
of an American manufacturing resurgence,” Dow Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said in the statement.
The new plant will give Dow “a long-term advantage,” he said.  Cheap gas is doubly advantageous to chemical makers because
it’s used as a raw material and to power factories. U.S. gas is
at a  record low  relative to oil, which is used to make
petrochemicals in Europe and  Asia .  New Plants  Falling U.S. gas prices boosted profit for ethane-based
ethylene production to a record 34 cents a pound, and a similar
margin probably will continue through the first half of the
year, Don Carson, a New York-based analyst at Susquehanna
Financial Group, said in an April 17 report.  Chevron Phillips  Chemical Co., Sasol Ltd.,  Formosa Plastics (1301) 
Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc also plan to build new U.S.
ethylene plants during the next four years. The industry may
eventually spend $30 billion on such projects because increased
gas output from shale deposits has made U.S. production the
cheapest outside of the  Middle East , Mark Lashier, an executive
vice president at Chevron Phillips, said last month.  Dow has six U.S. ethylene facilities, known as crackers, at
three sites in Texas and Louisiana, the newest of which opened
in 1995. The company also plans to build a propylene facility at
Freeport, with an estimated start date of 2015. Freeport is
Dow’s largest manufacturing site, accounting for 20 percent of
global production.  Herbicide Plan  Dow will reopen a cracker this year at its St. Charles
facility near Hahnville,  Louisiana . The two ethylene projects
and the propylene plant will cost about $4 billion and employ as
many as 4,800 workers during peak construction, Dow said.  The new and re-started plants will boost ethylene
production capacity by 2.3 million metric tons a year, a 20
percent increase in Dow’s Gulf Coast capacity, the company said
last year.  Dow also will build a plant in Freeport to make the
herbicide 2,4-D. Dow anticipates higher demand for the product
because of the genetically modified crops the company is
developing to tolerate the herbicide’s application.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  