-- DuPont Sees Boost to Polymers From Automakers Seeking Resins
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-04-19T19:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/dupont-sees-boost-to-polymers-from-automakers-seeking-resins.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S.
chemicals producer, expects additional demand from automakers
seeking to work around a shortage of resin used to make braking
and fuel parts, its chief executive officer said.  DuPont, a maker of chemicals used in auto manufacturing,
has capacity to provide additional polymers called  Zytel ,  Delrin 
and  Hytrel  to the industry, CEO  Ellen Kullman  of Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont, told reporters today on a conference
call.  Automakers including  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and their suppliers are seeking other options
for a resin called PA-12 after a March 31 explosion at chemical
maker Evonik Industries AG. The blast at Evonik’s Marl, Germany,
factory that made Cyclododecatriene, also called CDT, halved the
global source of PA-12.  “It does look like we’ll get some upside” from the
shortage of PA-12, Kullman said. The  auto industry  is “an area
where our volumes are down versus last year but sequentially
improving, so we do have some capacity. It’s really difficult
for us to size it now because each application is different.”  Koch Industries Inc.’s Invista, the maker of Stainmaster
carpet, also produces  CDT  and has “limited excess capacity” to
make more of the material, Jodie Stutzman, a spokeswoman for the
Wichita, Kansas-based unit, said in a phone interview.  “We have a number of customers that we are committed to
supplying and we will honor those commitments first,” she said.
“We’ll work to squeeze any capacity we can” from Invista’s
plant in Victoria,  Texas .  ‘Substantial Risk’  The explosion at Evonik’s plant poses “real and
substantial risk” to vehicle production,  Jeff Schuster , senior
vice president of forecasting at LMC Automotive, said today in
an e-mailed statement.  “Automotive manufacturers may begin to slow the pace of
build that has been in overdrive in recent months,” said
Schuster, who is based in Troy,  Michigan . “More intensive
production management in relation to product mix and inventory
is expected to be a means to cope with the looming shortage.”  Japan ’s automakers may avoid “large-scale” disruptions to
production as suppliers prepare alternative parts in response to
a global resin shortage, Takashi Moriwaki, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, wrote today in a research note.  Suppliers recognized that PA-12 was produced by few
companies and are carrying several months’ supply, Moriwaki
said. Auto-parts makers could supply parts with alternative
materials as soon as June and plan to propose options to
automakers within the next week, he wrote, citing telephone
interviews with companies he didn’t identify.  Stoppage Risks  “Although we cannot discount the risk of production
stoppages because the shortage of only one component is enough
to compromise auto production, our interviews suggest little
likelihood of large-scale shutdowns to Japan’s auto
production,” Moriwaki wrote.  More than 200 executives from automakers including GM,
Toyota, Ford and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and their suppliers met April 17
at a summit near  Detroit  to find alternative materials and parts
and avoid losing vehicle output. The companies are unlikely to
find other options immediately because of their pre-production
vetting processes, researcher IHS Automotive said yesterday.  DuPont’s Alternatives  DuPont’s polymers are “well known” and used in “a wide
variety” of applications, Kullman said on the call. Some
automakers may need to have engineers test and review the
materials before using them as substitutes, the executive said.  The length of the testing process “depends on whether they
know the polymer or not,” she said. “If they’ve already done
the testing but chose PA-12, then they can go back and utilize
ours directly.”  DuPont earlier today said first-quarter net income rose 4
percent to $1.49 billion, or $1.57 a share, from $1.43 billion,
or $1.52, a year earlier. Earnings excluding some items were
$1.61 a share, topping the $1.53 average of 13 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in DuPont’s performance materials segment, which
includes autos, fell 6 percent to $1.6 billion, according to a
statement.  Automakers and suppliers formed six technical committees
aimed at mitigating the effect that the PA-12 shortage may have
on production of parts and finished vehicles, Randi Berris, a
spokeswoman for the Automotive Industry Action Group, wrote
yesterday in an e-mail. The group is hosting “multiple
technical follow-up meetings” during the next few weeks on the
issue, she said.  Supplier Letter  TI Automotive Ltd. warned its customers in an April 12
letter of severe shortages interrupting production “in the next
few weeks.” The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company supplies
brake and fuel lines, as well as fuel tanks and pumps, to all
major automakers, including GM, Ford, Toyota and Volkswagen,
according to its website.  Evonik has begun repairs at the Marl factory, which the
company aims to rebuild “before winter,” Ruben Thiel, a
spokesman for the closely held Essen, Germany-based company,
said April 16 in an e-mail.  Other makers of PA-12 are France’s  Arkema SA (AKE) , Switzerland’s
 Ems-Chemie Holding AG (EMSN)  and Japan’s  Ube Industries Ltd. (4208)   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  