-- DuPont Profit Tops Estimates as Weather Helps Agriculture
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-04-19T20:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/dupont-profit-tops-estimates-as-weather-helps-agriculture.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S.
chemicals producer, reported first-quarter earnings that
exceeded analysts’ estimates after unusually warm weather
boosted sales of genetically modified seeds.  Net income rose 4 percent to $1.49 billion, or $1.57 a
share, from $1.43 billion, or $1.52, a year earlier, Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont said today in a statement. Earnings
excluding costs related to damage from the herbicide Imprelis
were $1.61 a share, topping the $1.53 average of 13 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  DuPont’s agriculture unit, the company’s biggest by
revenue, benefited from rising corn-seed demand in  Brazil  and an
early spring in the U.S. and  Europe . Seed sales rose 20 percent
to $3.2 billion, DuPont said in a  presentation . The biggest corn
crop in the U.S. since 1937 is being planted ahead of schedule,
according to the Department of Agriculture.  “Agriculture was a big part of the story,” Jeff Windau, a
St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who recommends
buying DuPont shares, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Seeds were the primary driver.”  DuPont fell 1.2 percent to $52.61 at the close in  New York .  Net sales gained 12 percent to $11.2 billion from $10
billion, matching the average of 12 estimates. The company
raised prices 8 percent on average. Sales volumes fell 2
percent, led by declines in the electronics unit and in the Asia
Pacific region.  Herbicide Charges  DuPont reiterated its January  forecast  that adjusted
earnings will climb to $4.20 to $4.40 a share this year, from
$3.93 in 2011. That compares with the $4.27 average estimate of
17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Agriculture pretax operating profit rose 18 percent to $1.3
billion, excluding a $50 million expense related to claims that
Imprelis damaged trees. Total charges related to the herbicide
were $225 million as of March 31 and may climb to $575 million,
DuPont said.  The segment’s profit growth may slow to about 5 percent in
the second quarter, the company said in its presentation.  Pretax operating profit in DuPont’s performance chemicals
unit, the world’s biggest maker of titanium dioxide, climbed 30
percent on higher prices. The compound, known by its chemical
formula TiO2, is a white pigment used in paint. TiO2 sales
volumes fell from a year earlier.  Electronics was the worst-performing segment at DuPont.
Earnings there fell 70 percent on lower demand for materials
used in solar panels.  Danisco Purchase  DuPont has beaten profit estimates every quarter in the
three years  Ellen Kullman  has been chief executive officer.
Kullman, who is also the company’s chairman, is targeting a 12
percent annual increase in per-share earnings through 2015.  To do that, the CEO is trying to transform DuPont from a
chemicals producer into what she calls a science company that’s
focused on meeting global demand for food, energy and security.  DuPont acquired Denmark’s Danisco A/S in June for $7.1
billion to expand in food additives and industrial enzymes used
for biofuels. The company is increasing output of solar
materials, titanium dioxide used in pigments for paint,
genetically engineered crop seeds and Kevlar for bullet-proof
materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  