-- Measles Makes a Comeback in U.S. as 222 Cases Found in 2011
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-04-19T18:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/measles-makes-a-comeback-in-u-s-as-222-cases-reported-in-2011.html
Measles  surged in the U.S. to 222
cases last year -- more than a decade after it was deemed
eliminated -- as travelers imported the highly contagious virus,
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported.  Residents of 31 states got measles in 2011, with 86 percent
occurring in people who weren’t vaccinated against the illness
that causes a head-to-toe rash, muscle pain, fever and bloodshot
eyes. While immunizations enabled the U.S. to declare measles
eliminated in 2000, the confluence of international travel and
parents skipping vaccines for convenience or an unfounded fear
about their safety triggered a resurgence, the Atlanta-based CDC
said in its weekly public health report.  Almost half the cases directly brought in from another
country came from Europe, primarily  France ,  Italy ,  Romania ,
 Spain  and  Germany , the CDC said. The number of people with
measles was more than three times the average annual rate of 60
detected during the past decade, the public health agency said.  “Unvaccinated people put themselves and others at risk for
measles and its complications,” since it remains widespread in
most parts of the world, said Anne Schuchat, director of the
CDC’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases,
during a conference call with reporters. “They particularly put
at risk people who are too young to be vaccinated who can
sometimes have the worst complications.”  A disease is considered eliminated when it no longer
spreads naturally and year-round among a country’s population.  There were no deaths or cases of  encephalitis , an
inflammation of the brain, according to the CDC in its  Morbidity
and Mortality Weekly Report . The rate was the highest since 1996
when there were 508 cases.  2012 Increase  The recent increase in the U.S. continued in 2012, with 25
cases reported so far this year, Schuchat said. Last year, 20
million people worldwide got the measles and 164,000 died from
it. There were 37,000 cases in  Europe , making it particularly
important for Americans who are planning to attend the Olympics
in  London  or to travel on the continent to get immunized, she
said.  About 85 percent of the people who contracted the measles
would have been eligible for vaccination. Eighteen infants who
were too young for the immunization got the disease, as did
seven elderly patients thought to be immune. Among 66 patients
ages 16 months to 19 years who were unvaccinated, 76 percent
didn’t get the shot because of philosophic, religious or
personal objections, according to the report from the CDC’s
National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases.  Just being in a room where a person with measles has been,
even if they have already left or aren’t yet showing symptoms,
can spread the disease, she said. It is also deadly, killing
between one to three of every 1,000 people who contract it, she
said.  Vaccination Exemptions  Many Americans don’t believe measles and other vaccination-
preventable illnesses remain a threat, Schuchat said. Signing a
form to exempt their children from the shot can be easier than
getting the immunization, which is a common reason parents give
to foregoing them, she said.  Doctors should be on the lookout for patients with measles,
who typically seek medical care for the condition, the CDC said.
Those who are infected should be immediately isolated to prevent
transmission of the disease to those who aren’t vaccinated
against it, the agency said.  “The clinicians in the country, pediatricians, internists,
and family physicians, many of them have never seen measles,”
she said. “In some of these outbreaks, the families went to
doctors multiple times, visited emergency rooms, it took awhile
for the cases to be diagnosed. During that period, measles was
spread to other people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  