-- Teasury Sells 5-Year TIPS at Record Low Negative Yield
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-04-19T18:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/teasury-sells-5-year-tips-at-record-low-negative-yield.html
The U.S. sold $16 billion in five-
year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities at a record low
negative yield as investors continue to pay a premium to hedge
against the threat of rising consumer prices.  The securities were auctioned at a so-called high yield of
negative 1.08 percent, the fifth consecutive sale of the debt at
a negative yield. TIPS pay interest at lower rates than regular
Treasuries on a principal amount that’s adjusted based on the
Labor Department’s consumer price index.  Investors are willing to accept the negative returns amid
concern the stimulus measures taken by policy makers and the
 Federal Reserve , including keeping its target  borrowing rate 
close to zero since 2008 and buying bonds to drive down yields,
will spur inflation. Consumer prices increased 2.7 percent in
the 12 months ended in March, the smallest 12-month gain in a
year, Labor Department figures showed April 13.  “There is still significant demand for inflation
protection given the accommodative Fed,” said Michael Pond, co-
head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, one
of Fed’s 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at U.S.
auctions. “For the largest-ever notional tips auction at the
lowest-ever real yield, the Treasury has to be very pleased with
these results.”  The bid-to-cover  ratio  for the notes, which gauges demand
by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.58,
compared with an average of 2.63 at the past 10 auction of the
securities, Treasury data show.  Break-Even Rate  The difference between yields on U.S. 5-year notes and
comparable TIPS, a gauge of expectations for inflation during
the life of the debt known as the  break-even  rate, was 1.89
percentage points, down from a year-to-date high of 2.22 on
March 14. The average during the past decade is 1.94 percentage
points.  Indirect bidders, a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 36 percent of the securities at
the sale today, compared to an average of 35.52 percent at the
past 10 auctions.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 9.1 percent of
the securities, versus a 5.53 percent average at the past 10
auctions.  TIPS maturing in three to five years have returned 1.8
percent this year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. TIPS of all maturities have gained 2.5 percent, while the
broader Treasury market has lost 0.07 percent, indexes show.  “Even with the record size of the sale, 10-year notes
under 2 percent and the recent flight to quality investors are
still weary of inflation in the future and are looking for
protection,” said Justin Lederer, an interest rate strategist
in  New York  at primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  