-- Tech Companies Lobby for U.S. Cybersecurity, Immigration Rules
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-19T15:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/tech-companies-lobby-for-u-s-cybersecurity-immigration-rules.html
Technology companies want the U.S.
to bolster cybersecurity, ease immigration restrictions and let
funds held abroad be repatriated, said a group with members
including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)   “We want to make sure that America is a more competitive
nation,”  Carl Guardino , chief executive officer of the Silicon
Valley Leadership Group, said today in an interview at
Bloomberg’s offices in Washington.  Members include software makers Microsoft, based in
Redmond, Washington, and San Jose, California-based Adobe, along
with scientific-testing equipment manufacturer  Agilent
Technologies Inc. (A)  of Santa Clara, California, and cancer-
treatment company  Varian Medical Systems Inc. (VAR)  of Palo Alto,
California, according to the leadership group’s website. Its
members employ one in three workers in California’s Silicon
Valley, Guardino said.  Companies set meetings this week with lawmakers including
Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican sponsoring a
cybersecurity bill, and  Steven VanRoekel , the U.S. chief
information officer.  Cybersecurity legislation must guard privacy and let
government share information with businesses, more than 20
business and technology associations said in an April 17 letter
to House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and Nancy Pelosi, the California Democrat who is minority leader.  Civil-liberties groups say the Rogers bill would erode
online privacy. The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection
Act would shield companies from lawsuits over exchanging data
with the government. It awaits a House vote.  Rogers has said the bill is “very limited” and covers
sharing information about threats and vulnerabilities. The
measure has more than 100 co-sponsors from both parties.  The Silicon Valley group didn’t identify which of five
cybersecurity bills in the House it prefers.  The issue is “moving forward,” Guardino said. “We spent
a lot of time yesterday briefing senators as to why they should
be embracing the key components” of House bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  