-- Medivir Hep C Drug Cures 80% of Patients Post-Treatment
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-04-19T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/medivir-hep-c-drug-cures-80-of-patients-post-treatment.html
Medivir AB (MVIRB) ’s experimental hepatitis
C treatment TMC435 cured as many as 80 percent of patients 24
weeks after treatment ended, suggesting that the therapy prevents
the virus from surging back.  The mid-stage Aspire trial looked at the medicine in
combination with the current standard of care of interferon and
ribavirin. The virus was cleared 24 weeks after treatment ended
in 80 percent of patients who took a once daily TMC435 dose of
150 milligrams for 48 weeks. The sustained cure rate was 70
percent among patients who took 100 milligrams of the drug for
12 weeks. The results were announced today at a medical meeting
in Barcelona.  Medivir is developing its TMC435 tablet with  Johnson &
Johnson. (JNJ)  The drug is a protease inhibitor, which blocks the
action of the protease enzyme the hepatitis virus needs to
replicate, directly stopping it from spreading.  Doctors and analysts see TMC435 as a second-generation
protease inhibitor following the introduction of  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s
Victrelis and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s Incivek last year.
TMC435 reduces dosage to once a day from twice or three times
daily and also has a better safety profile compared with Incivek
and Victrelis, said  Matti Sallberg , a professor of biomedical
analysis at Karolinska University in  Stockholm  who wasn’t
involved in the study.  About 51 percent of patients who didn’t respond to prior
treatment were cured after taking TMC435 with interferon and
ribavirin, compared with 19 percent who didn’t have TMC435 in
the treatment regimen, the company  said  in November.  Interferon-Free  Competitors including  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  are seeking to eliminate interferon from the
treatment regimen because of side effects. Medivir is also
studying TMC435 in combination with Gilead’s 7977 hepatitis C
treatment and with Bristol-Myers’ daclatasvir, both without
interferon.  The trial with Gilead’s 7977 will be the first to examine
the efficacy of a protease inhibitor combined with a nucleotide
polymerase inhibitor, which works differently to block the
virus’s ability to replicate in the body, Credit Suisse analyst
Ravi Mehrotra wrote in a note to investors this week. Positive
results from the trial “will likely provide boost to
perceptions of TMC435 as a real competitor in an interferon-free
world,” he wrote.  A drug interaction study of TMC435 with Bristol-Myers’
BMS-986094 polymerase inhibitor will also be conducted, Medivir
said yesterday.  ‘Strong Validation’  “We see the expanded clinical collaboration as a strong
validation of TMC435,” said Hans Jeppsson, an analyst at Danske
Bank, in a note to investors.  Hepatitis C affects as many as 170 million people globally,
putting them at risk of developing  liver cancer , according to
the  World Health Organization . The growing population of
patients infected with the virus spurred Gilead’s decision in
November to buy experimental hepatitis C-treatment maker
Pharmasset Inc. for $10.8 billion and Bristol-Myers’ acquisition
in February of Inhibitex Inc. for $2.5 billion.  The disease is most commonly transmitted through
contaminated blood transfusions, organ transplants, contaminated
syringes and needle-injected drug use, according to the WHO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  