-- Legal Hurdles Delay Bin Laden Family’s Pakistan Deportation
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-04-19T09:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/legal-hurdles-delay-bin-laden-family-s-pakistan-deportation-1-.html
Pakistan  is working to fulfill
outstanding legal requirements blocking the deportation of slain
al-Qaeda leader Osama  bin Laden ’s widows and daughters to their
respective countries, the interior minister said.  “We are in touch with the respective embassies,” the
minister, Rehman Malik, said in remarks broadcast by Geo
television channel yesterday. Pakistan is seeking replies from
the governments of  Saudi Arabia  and Yemen stating that they will
accept their citizens, he said.  Bin Laden’s three widows and two oldest daughters completed
short jail sentences April 16 after being found guilty of
illegally entering Pakistan. Police found the women in bin
Laden’s fortress-like compound at Abbottabad on May 2, hours
after U.S. commandos attacked in helicopters, killing bin Laden
and then flying his body out of the country. An unconfirmed
number of the women’s younger children also were detained.  A Pakistani court this month said two Saudi women, Siham
Sharif and Kharia Hussain Sabir, were among the widows,
according to court documents cited by the Express-Tribune and
other Pakistani newspapers. Bin Laden’s third wife in Pakistan
was Amal Ahmad Abdul Fateh, a citizen of Yemen.  Earlier this month, a Pakistani court sentenced the adults
to 45 days in jail on immigration charges. The court also
ordered their deportation after their prison term ended.  The government in February demolished most of the hideout
where bin Laden had lived since 2005. A four-member commission
named by Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  is investigating why
the army failed to detect bin Laden’s presence or prevent the
unilateral U.S. attack that killed him.  Four Births  The al-Qaeda chief moved among five “safe houses” in
Pakistan during the nine years he spent in the country after the
Sept. 11 attacks, the New York Times reported last month, citing
a leaked copy of Fateh’s interrogation in custody.  Fateh’s account was contained in a report by Pakistani
civilian and military investigators dated Jan. 19, the newspaper
said. In the course of the nine years, Bin Laden fathered four
children, at least two of whom were born in a government
hospital, the Times said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  