-- TeliaSonera Earnings Miss Estimates as Spanish Margin Lags
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-19T07:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/teliasonera-earnings-miss-estimates-as-spanish-margin-lags-1-.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s biggest
phone company, reported net income that missed estimates as the
company’s Spanish margin narrowed on tougher competition.  First-quarter net income fell 16 percent to 3.91 billion
kronor ($580 million) from 4.65 billion kronor a year earlier,
Stockholm-based TeliaSonera said in a  statement  today. The
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts was for
profit of 4.13 billion kronor. Revenue gained 3 percent to 25.7
billion kronor, beating estimates.  The  margin  for earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization for TeliaSonera’s Spanish business
narrowed to 1.7 percent of sales and the company’s overall
margin contracted 1.5 percentage points to 34.3 percent.
TeliaSonera kept its forecast that the margin would be in line
with last year and sales will grow 1 to 2 percent in local
currencies.  “The company reiterated guidance but of course when they
miss it a bit in the first quarter there might be a few question
marks whether it will be kept for the full year,” said  Mikko Ervasti , a Helsinki-based analyst with Evli Bank. “I expect the
shares to react negatively, with free cash flow weakness as the
key driver, and  Spain  was specifically weak.”  Spanish Network  The company is spending to modernize its network in Spain
and said customer turnover increased in that market in the first
quarter as operators reduced handset subsidies that lock in
clients.  TeliaSonera is also expanding to cover most of Sweden with
higher-speed mobile broadband by the end of 2013. Revenues and
gross margin declined in  Norway  on regulatory changes and
Denmark on price competition, the company said. It cut data
roaming costs in the Nordic and Baltic region in a bid to retain
the highest-spending smartphone users.  “Changed customer behavior which leads to a mix shift in
our business highlights the need to develop our business models
and how we charge for our services going forward,” Chief
Executive Officer Lars Nyberg said in the statement. The company
is introducing separate charges for voice over  Internet protocol 
in Spain and Sweden, he also said.  The stock fell as much as 1 percent and traded 0.9 percent
lower at 42.45 kronor as of 9 a.m. in  Stockholm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  