-- Mellanox Doubles Tel Aviv Gain on Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-04-19T21:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/mellanox-doubles-tel-aviv-gain-as-sales-surge-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  surged
52 percent in  New York , almost double the jump in  Tel Aviv 
trading, after the Israeli adapter maker forecast second-quarter
sales that surpassed analysts’ expectations.  Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman said in an interview
that the company’s revenue will keep increasing.  “We can continue to grow,” Waldman said by phone from
Sunnyvale,  California  yesterday. “Every time there’s a
technology that can provide better efficiency and better
utilization, people will migrate to use it.”  Shares of the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based company, whose
 customers  range from International Business Machines Corp. to
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , soared the most since Mellanox’s initial public
offering in 2007 in both New York and Tel Aviv trading as the
premium over the U.S.-traded stock widened to $10.60. Volumes
traded surged to nineteen times the three-month average in New
York.  Mellanox’s advance boosted gains in the  Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli companies traded in New
York, which added 4.2 percent to 92.90 yesterday, the most in
eight months.  Alvarion Ltd. (ALVR)  gained the most in 2012 after the
telecommunications equipment maker named a new chief executive
officer.  Global Internet traffic jumped eightfold over the past five
years, and will rise fourfold by the end of 2015, according to
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Growing demand for faster data transfer and
storage is helping boost earnings, said Waldman, 51.  Mellanox forecast second-quarter revenue of between $125
million and $130 million, exceeding the $83.4 million median
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Buy Recommendations  Sales increased to a record $88.7 million in the first
quarter, while net income rose to $12.4 million after a loss of
$1.6 million in the year-earlier period, Mellanox said in a
Businesswire statement on April 8.  Wunderlich Securities Inc., Mizuho Securities USA Inc. and
Lazard Capital Markets LLC recommended  buying  shares of Mellanox
following the guidance.  With Mellanox’s “products now experiencing widespread
multimarket adoption, we believe its dominant position will
allow it to marry continuing revenue growth with significant
operating leverage,” Brian Freed, an analyst at Wunderlich,
wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday, raising his
recommendation on the shares from hold.  The area of so-called big data, where specialists mine and
make sense of the constantly expanding information available via
the Internet, is growing, with more companies hiring for these
positions, the Progressive Policy Institute in  Washington  said
at the beginning of the month.  Oracle Earnings  Mellanox jumped 27 percent to 207.80 shekels, or the
equivalent of $55.26, in Tel Aviv yesterday. The company’s
shares were the best performers on the benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) 
yesterday, which added 0.9 percent to 1,153.11.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Oracle, the world’s largest maker of  database software ,
reported a 62-cent adjusted profit per share that beat the 56-
cent average analyst prediction on March 20.  The  Redwood City , California-based company owns a 9.6
percent  stake  in Mellanox and its Exadata database appliance
uses Mellanox’s technology. Exadata sales doubled in the quarter
ended Feb. 29, Oracle said.  ‘20 Times Improvement’  “Oracle is seeing 10 times to 20 times improvement” in
the time it takes for data to be transferred, Waldman said. More
companies are attracted to the “faster and better
performance,” he said.  Tel Aviv-based Alvarion rose 9.5 percent to 68 cents, the
biggest advance since Dec. 8, after its Israeli stock added 4.4
percent to 2.4 shekels, or the equivalent of 64 cents.  Hezi Lapid will replace Eran Gorev as Alvarion’s CEO on May
6, the company said in a Business Wire statement yesterday.
Shares of Alvarion sank 30 percent on April 5 after the company
cut its first-quarter revenue forecast.  “There has been a lot of pressure from investors to take
the company in another direction,” Andrew Uerkwitz, a senior
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in a phone interview from New
York. “With a new CEO, there is some confidence that it’s going
to get back on track.”  Magic Software Enterprises Ltd. (MGIC)  fell 0.8 percent to $6.08.
The Israeli software technology company was cut hold from buy by
Maxim Group LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  