-- Merck Unit’s Plea Over Vioxx Investigation Accepted by Judge
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-04-19T20:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/merck-unit-s-plea-over-vioxx-investigation-accepted-by-judge.html
A unit of  Merck & Co. (MRK) , the second-
largest U.S. drugmaker, pleaded guilty to a criminal misdemeanor
charge as part of a $950 million settlement of a U.S. government
probe of its illegal marketing of the painkiller Vioxx.  An official of Merck Sharp & Dohme said today that the
company agreed to plead guilty to one count of misbranding
Vioxx. U.S. District Judge Patti Saris in Boston accepted the
plea as part of the drugmaker’s agreement to pay a
$321.6 million criminal fine and $628.3 million to resolve civil
claims that it sold Vioxx for unapproved uses and improperly
touted its safety.  “I’m certainly going to accept this agreement because I
think it’s in the public interest,” Saris said from the bench.
“I hope the size of this settlement and the fact that all these
cases are being pressed by the federal and state governments --
the 44 states’ attorneys general -- will be a signal that this
isn’t acceptable conduct.”  Approved by the  Food and Drug Administration  in 1999, Vioxx
became Merck’s third-largest-selling  drug  by 2003, generating
$2.5 billion in annual sales. The company pulled Vioxx off the
market in 2004 after a study found it posed an increased risk of
heart attacks and strokes.  ‘Full Cooperation’  “The government recognized Merck’s full cooperation with
its investigation and by putting this long-standing
investigation to rest, we can more fully focus on discovering,
developing and providing innovative medicines and vaccines that
save and improve lives around the world,”  Ron Rogers , a Merck
spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement about the plea.  Merck didn’t admit to any wrongdoing in the civil portion
of the settlement, Rogers said.  “The  United States  will not tolerate unlawful conduct by
pharmaceutical companies,”  Stuart F. Delery , a U.S. Justice
Department lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement. “Those who
put profits before  patient safety  by promoting their products
for unapproved uses will be prosecuted and held accountable.”  The company, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey ,
already paid $4.85 billion to settle thousands of patient
lawsuits claiming injuries, and another $1.9 billion for legal
costs. It set aside $950 million in October 2010 for the
criminal settlement that resulted in today’s plea.  Arthritis Use  As part of the plea, the Merck unit acknowledged the
drugmaker sold Vioxx for rheumatoid arthritis when it wasn’t
approved by the FDA for that use during an almost three-year
period starting in May 1999. Regulators gave the drugmaker
permission to sell Vioxx for that ailment in April 2002.  Before that approval, the company’s salespeople touted
Vioxx to physicians for rheumatoid arthritis, prompting the FDA
to send a warning letter in September 2001.  In it, regulators accused Merck officials of misleading
doctors by suggesting that “Vioxx is effective for the
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis when this has not been
demonstrated,” according to the criminal charge.  Merck  previously disclosed  that federal prosecutors in
 Boston  identified the company in March 2009 as a  target  of a
grand jury investigation. Prosecutors began examining the
company’s handling of internal research into Vioxx’s heart-
attack and stroke risks and the company’s marketing tactics in
selling the drug starting in 2004, Merck said today.  Trial Victories  The company won 11 of 16 Vioxx lawsuits at trial before
agreeing in 2007 to create the $4.85 billion settlement fund.
The accord called for the company to pay about $4 billion to
resolve heart-attack claims and about $850 million to settle
stroke suits, according to court filings.  Former Vioxx users who sued in state and federal courts
claimed Merck didn’t adequately disclose safety data to the FDA,
failed to properly warn doctors and patients of the drug’s
risks, and misrepresented the potential harm in marketing
materials.  They accused Merck officials of withholding data in 2000
about a clinical trial that found Vioxx caused five times more
heart attacks than another painkiller and publishing misleading
and inaccurate information about the drug’s health risks.  The civil claims, brought by both state and federal
governments, focused on the sale of Vioxx for unapproved uses
and misleading statements Merck officials allegedly made about
the painkiller’s safety, according to court filings outlining
the settlement.  Regulators said Merck  employees  made “false
representations concerning the safety of Vioxx to state Medicaid
agencies,” which state officials relied upon in deciding to
cover Vioxx prescriptions, according to the court filings.
Medicaid is the state-federal health-care funding program.  The settlement also resolves claims filed by 45 state
attorneys general over the company’s Vioxx marketing and sales
practices. The states will share about $202 million. The federal
government will get $426.4 million.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Merck, Sharp & Dohme Corp.,
11-CR-10384-PBS, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  