-- Tesoro Workers at Wilmington Oil Refinery Authorize Strike
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-04-19T03:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/tesoro-workers-at-wilmington-oil-refinery-authorize-strike-1-.html
Union workers at  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s
Wilmington refinery in Southern  California  voted to authorize a
strike as their contract neared expiration.  The majority of employees at the 97,000-barrel-a-day plant
approved giving their bargaining committee the authority to call
a strike, the  United Steelworkers  said in an e-mailed statement.
The union local began talks with Tesoro earlier this month on a
contract to replace one that runs out at the end of April.  Unions at the Golden Eagle plant in California, Tesoro’s
largest refinery, along with workers at Anacortes in Washington
and Mandan in  North Dakota , have granted strike authority since
the company offered a contract that would allow Tesoro to change
workers’ benefits without negotiations.  “We are doing everything we can to negotiate in good faith
and obtain a fair contract, but if Tesoro fails to do the same
they’ll give us no option other than to strike,” Ryan Heustis,
union local chairman at the Wilmington refinery, said in the
statement.  Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at Tesoro headquarters in  San
Antonio , didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail or phone
messages left after business hours. Tesoro said in an April 7
 statement  on its website that the company is working “toward
ratification of all agreements.”  Contract Extensions  Workers at Tesoro’s Salt Lake City plant and at Kapolei in
 Hawaii  have accepted the company’s offers. Tesoro said it plans
to sell Kapolei as soon as the second half of this year.  Tesoro said in the statement that the company hasn’t
received strike notices from any of the other plants.  “In the unfortunate event of a work stoppage, we have
appropriate contingency plans in place which include operation
of selected sites with qualified personnel,” the company said
on its website. “Our contingency plans will of course maintain
our vigilant approach to safety and care for the environment.”  Employees at Anacortes, Golden Eagle and Mandan have been
working on 24-hour rolling extensions of contracts that were
initially set to expire Jan. 31. United Steelworkers members
distributed leaflets at Tesoro-owned gas stations over the
weekend about the contract disputes.  Tesoro “wants the right to change pension, 401(k), health
care and vacation benefits during the next contract without
having to bargain with the union,” the United Steelworkers,
based in Pittsburgh, said in an e-mailed statement on March 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  