-- EU Needs Stronger CO2 Market, Germany’s Reiche Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-04-19T07:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/eu-needs-stronger-co2-market-germany-s-reiche-says.html
Europe  needs to strengthen its
carbon program to stimulate investment in low-emission
technologies after an oversupply of permits pushed prices to a
record low,  Germany ’s deputy environment minister said.  Options to fix the European Union’s emissions trading
system floated by ministers at an informal meeting this week
include a move to a more ambitious carbon-reduction target for
2020 and withholding permits from the market, Katherina Reiche
said in an interview during the gathering in Horsens,  Denmark .  “The majority of  member states  share the vision that we
have to react, but I don’t expect a solution today,” she said.
“Without reaction, we won’t have an efficient ETS. And without
it we’ll also lack funds that we need for renewable energy or
efficient technologies.”  EU carbon-dioxide permits for December have declined 58
percent in the past year as an economic slowdown cut into
industrial output, leading to an oversupply of allowances. The
contract traded at 7.37 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London  today after falling to a record 5.99
euros on April 4.  The emissions caps that the ETS imposes on more than 12,000
facilities were set before the debt crisis and economic slump.
The ETS will be oversupplied by permits covering around 1.1
billion tons of CO2 by 2012, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. This surplus may be transferred into the next trading
phase from 2013 to 2020.  Clean Technologies  “It’s a common position that we have too many certificates
in the system and that’s why we have a dramatic decline in
prices,” Reiche said. “This leads to a situation where the
price sends no signal to invest in energy-efficient or clean
technologies.”  One option to tackle the surplus of permits could be to
temporarily withhold a number of permits from the market as of
2013, a scenario originally floated by the EU’s regulatory arm
in 2010. Such a set-aside could be created by delaying auctions
of some allowances.  “It’s an open question of when and how many
certificates,” Reiche said.  The idea of a set-aside has been criticized by  Poland ,
which relies on coal for around 90 percent of electricity
generation. The Polish government has repeatedly said it objects
to “administrative meddling” with the ETS and the idea of
withholding permits to prop up emission prices.  Carbon-Reduction Goals  “We should work on a solution with Poland,” Reiche said.  At the last decision-making meeting of EU environment
ministers in March, Poland blocked a declaration on future
 carbon-reduction goals , saying it could lead to a change of the
existing targets and hurt the competitiveness of the European
economy amid a lack of a global climate treaty.  Reiche said the issue of Europe’s future carbon-reduction
efforts and the carbon market may be discussed by the region’s
leaders at a summit in Brussels later this year.  The EU is on schedule to meet its goal of cutting
greenhouse-gas emissions by 20 percent in 2020. The European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, said in a policy paper
last year that Europe should cut emissions by 40 percent in 2030
and 60 percent in 2040 compared with 1990 levels.  “The green economy market worldwide has value of 2
trillion euros now and consultants say that in 2020 it’ll be 4
trillion,” Reiche said. “That shows its enormous potential. I
think we can really be on front of this development and we can
benefit from these investments. But you have to be a front-
runner and not a fast follower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  