-- EU Carbon Permits Climb on Plans to Delay Auction Supplies
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-04-19T17:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/eu-to-propose-delaying-co2-permit-auction-volumes-as-of-2013.html
European Union emissions permits
rose to the highest in a month after Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said the bloc may propose a delay in supply at carbon
auctions starting next year.  Permits for delivery in December erased earlier losses to
close up 1.8 percent at a one-month high of 7.45 euros ($9.77) a
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .  “In the 2013-2020 period, there’s today a tendency that
you’ll have much more allowances coming to the market in the
early phase than in the later phase,” Hedegaard told reporters
today in Horsens,  Denmark , after a meeting of EU environment
ministers. “We think it’s time to look into whether that makes
sense.”  The 27-nation bloc is considering options to tackle an
oversupply of carbon allowances, which drove prices in the
world’s biggest greenhouse-gas market to a record low earlier
this month. The EU is moving toward auctioning allowances in the
next phase of the emissions trading system, or ETS, after giving
most of them to companies for free since 2005.  The European Commission, the EU regulatory arm, is planning
to bring forward an annual report on the ETS that the bloc’s law
requires to be presented in 2013, according to Hedegaard. It
will be a “golden opportunity” to look into the auctioning
regulation, Hedegaard told reporters.  Annual Report  The commission plans to present a review of the auctioning
regulation after publication of the annual report and seeks to
complete work on it by year-end, Hedegaard said. It will be
subject to the so-called comitology procedure, in which a
measure needs qualified-majority support from representatives of
national governments to pass. The process typically takes about
five months.  Europe  may struggle to put in place any carbon market
intervention at all if it can’t achieve a temporary delay in
volumes sold in auctions,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst for
Barclays Plc in London, said today by phone. A slowing of supply
would “lay the foundation for a future cap change,” he said.  Auctioning Profile  “It goes without saying that when you change the
auctioning profile then you’re not flooding the market with as
many allowances early next year as is the case if you’re not
changing that,” Hedegaard said. “What we have been looking
into at the commission is whether there’s anything we can do
more or less right away.”  The emissions caps that the ETS imposes on more than 12,000
facilities were set before the debt crisis and economic slump.
The system will be oversupplied by permits and offset credits
covering about 1.1 billion tons of CO2 by 2012, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. This surplus may be transferred
into the next trading phase.  EU nations were “almost unanimous” at the meeting today
that the commission should propose measures to address the
“problem” in the short-term, the U.K. said in an e-mailed
statement.  “This sends the strong signal the U.K. was looking for
that the commission should bring forward proposals to strengthen
the EU ETS in the short-term,” the country said.  Poland , which get about 90 percent of its electricity from
coal, upheld its objection to any measures that are aimed at
boosting the price of EU carbon allowances, saying they would
amount to “market manipulation.”  “My first reaction is that I’m skeptical,” Environment
Minister Marcin Korolec said in an interview after the meeting.
“We’d need to see the details of such a proposal.”  Hedegaard said the commission’s plan is the first step in a
process to strengthen the ETS and the EU will continue to
explore “longer-term structural issues,” including a set-aside
of carbon allowances, or withholding a number of permits from
the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  