-- Europe Urged to Defeat Crisis as IMF Wins Pledges
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-04-19T22:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/europe-urged-to-defeat-crisis-as-imf-wins-pledges-before-g-20.html
Europe ’s governments were told the
onus for fixing their debt woes still lies with them even as the
 International Monetary Fund  lured about $320 billion in
contributions for its crisis-fighting coffers.  With finance chiefs from the Group of 20 meeting today in
Washington, those from Canada and Australia joined the IMF and
U.S. in pressing Europe to intensify efforts to quell the two-
year turmoil as it threatens to engulf Spain.  Describing Europe as the “epicenter” of risks to the
world economy, IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the
lender serves as an emergency backstop and that Europe must
protect itself, boost economic growth and cut debt. Italian and
Spanish bonds fell yesterday on speculation the crisis is
worsening.  “Countries have to take measures,” Lagarde told Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” in  Washington .
“I am in charge of improving the stability and I need to have
the umbrella in case the clouds break into a nasty rain.”  Lagarde is seeking more than $400 billion in new reserves
to increase a lending capacity of about $380 billion and this
week won pledges of support from  Japan  to Denmark. While South
Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said the end result may be
as much as $450 billion, some  emerging markets  including Brazil
are resisting making immediate commitments as they demand more
power for themselves at the IMF.  Policy Makers  Euro-area policy makers are counting on a beefed-up IMF to
placate investors who have propelled yields on Spain’s 10-year
bonds toward levels which trigged bailouts for Greece, Ireland
and Portugal. They already agreed last month to boost their own
defenses to 800 billion euros ($1 trillion.)  That still falls short, said Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who like U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
has declined to give more money to the IMF on the basis it has
enough and Europe should do more. He proposed non-European
countries be handed a veto over the role the lender can play
assisting Europe.  “They need to build up a firewall with their own resources
more than they have done so far,” Flaherty said in an
interview.  Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  echoed that message, saying
in a statement that “important reforms are still needed to
minimize the risk of contagion from instability in Europe.”  Actions Defended  European officials defended their actions as they arrived
in the U.S. capital.  “The Europeans have done their part,” European Central
Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said. “Now it’s up
to our partners and this includes  Canada  and many other
countries to increase the IMF resources.”  Some emerging markets are holding back with Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  saying there is a complementary
need to strengthen the IMF. The U.S. is among nations still to
ratify a 2010 decision that would hand more voting power to
developing economies.  China  is willing to discuss more funding,
Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said in Beijing yesterday.  “We are not ready to talk about specific numbers, given
there are still conditions that need to be met,” Mantega said.
Some countries “are more enthusiastic about asking money from
emerging markets than carrying out the quota reform, because
these are the countries that will lose.”  Central Bankers  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers will meet today
from 9:45 a.m. in Washington at the IMF’s headquarters.  A day after the IMF said European banks could be forced to
sell as much as $3.8 trillion through next year, Lagarde said
European governments should consider using their rescue funds to
inject cash directly into Spanish banks. Other advice the IMF
has given this week included for the ECB to cut  interest rates 
again, for governments to issue joint debt and for banks to be
restructured.  Europe has repeatedly failed to heed international lobbying
to get ahead of its crisis. It underestimated the threat posed
by Greece’s budget woes when they came to light in-late 2009 and
then the amount of cash required to contain the pain.  Officials last month balked at a proposal to lift their
firewall closer to 1 trillion euros and  Spain ’s benchmark yield
has jumped about 1 percentage point since early-March as Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to meet budget deficit targets.  “The Europeans do respond at the last minute in a
desperate way that has not yet provided a more systematic
solution,” said  Simon Johnson , a former IMF chief economist who
now teaches at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
Cambridge, Massachussetts. “Perhaps there will be continued
pressure in Spain or the focus shifts to Italy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Theophilos Argitis in Washington at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  