-- European LBO Loans Fall Most Since 2009 as Debt Crisis Extends
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-04-19T15:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/european-lbo-loans-fall-most-since-2009-as-debt-crisis-extends.html
Loans used to fund buyouts in
 Europe  fell 44 percent in the first quarter, the biggest decline
in three years, as the number of banks willing to underwrite the
debt shrank because of tighter capital rules and a smoldering
fiscal crisis.  Private-equity firms raised $7.9 billion of loans for
purchases in the region, down from $14.2 billion a year earlier
and the largest drop since the comparable period in 2009 when
$465 million of leveraged buyout loans were issued, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  European banks, having pledged to cut more than 950 billion
euros ($1.24 trillion) of assets, are paring lending to
speculative-grade companies even as interest margins for the
loans rose more than 18 percent this year through the end of
March. Less than three months after Greece’s 130 billion-euro
bailout, Spanish debt risk has climbed to a record high amid
signs that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  “The banking model in Europe is transforming from a
principal model to an agency model,” said Jim Casey, co-head of
global debt capital market at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  New York .
“Previously, banks would hold the debt on their balance sheets,
but now they are increasingly acting as intermediaries and not
owning the paper themselves. As that transformation continues,
market share will likely become concentrated amongst banks with
stronger distribution capabilities.”  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Deutsche Bank AG, (DBK)   Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and HSBC Holdings Plc controlled 39
percent of the market, while the top five arrangers had 31
percent at the end of last year, Bloomberg data show.  Market-Share Shift  European banks’ retreat allowed their U.S. and U.K. peers
to gain market share in the first quarter when demand for high-
risk assets recovered after the  European Central Bank  pumped 1
trillion euros into the financial system since December. The
average bid price for European leveraged loans climbed 3.1
percent to 89.50 cents on the euro during the three-month
period, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Citigroup Inc.’s position grew to 4.6 percent at the end of
March from 0.2 percent in the first quarter of 2011, boosted by
the $707 million leveraged financing used to back Apollo Global
Management LLC’s buyout of Ghent, Belgium-based chemical
ingredients manufacturer Taminco Group NV, Bloomberg data show.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, rose to 6.5 percent from 1.9
percent after it helped arrange 885 million pounds ($1.4
billion) of senior loans for the buyout of Iceland Foods Ltd. by
 Malcolm Walker , the supermarket chain’s chief executive officer.  Leverage Levels  “It’s possible to raise more than 1 billion-euro in loans
in Europe at a leverage level that works for buyers of assets,”
said Jeremy Selway, a managing director of leveraged loans at
Deutsche Bank in London.  The amount of debt raised by private-equity firms to fund
their buyouts in Europe represents an average 5.4 times the
companies’ earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the first quarter, up from 4.9 times a year
earlier, according to  Fitch Ratings .  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. last month increased the amount
of financing used to back its buyout of Swedish building-
products supplier Ahlsell AB by 20 million euros, which will be
added to the Stockholm-based company’s balance sheet, Bloomberg
data show. The total size of the financing was increased to
about 10.2 billion Swedish kronor ($1.5 billion) after lenders
offered more than the company had sought.  Demand for buyout debt picked up as the ECB initiated its
so-called longer-term refinancing operation, a plan that
provided more than 1 trillion euros in loans to boost liquidity
at banks and  Greece  obtained its bailout.  Unresolved Challenges  “Since the beginning of 2012, the combination of the LTRO
and the continuing improvement in the  U.S. economy  have created
greater appetite for risk,” said JPMorgan’s Casey. “The ECB
has taken European sovereign risk off the table for the time-
being, although  Spain  and the prospect of bank ratings
downgrades are new challenges that have yet to be resolved.”  Iceland Foods benefited from the recovery of demand for
high-yield assets after bids from lenders allowed it to cut the
interest margin on the euro-denominated portion of its seven-
year  term loan  B by 25 basis points to 500 basis points,
according to Bloomberg data.  “With more funds looking to invest and competition from
high-yield bonds, there will be growing pressure for European
leveraged loan interest margin to go down,” said Mathew Cestar,
head of leveraged finance for Europe, Middle-East and  Africa  at
Credit Suisse in  London . “Pricing on some of the deals recently
already indicated European market condition is normalizing so we
may see a reversal of the trend in late 2011 and earlier this
year when European companies and sponsors took their deals to
the U.S. where the  market  was more stable.”  Higher Rates  Average interest margin of leveraged loans used to fund
buyouts in Europe jumped to a record 498 basis points in the
first quarter of this year from 419 basis points at the end of
2011, according Bloomberg data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG,  Germany ’s largest cable
television operator, in January increased its new seven-year
U.S. term loan by 50 percent to $750 million citing
“significant” demand from investors. The loan pays an initial
interest of 325 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate.  Schaeffler, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based industrial-
bearing maker that’s the biggest investor in car-parts
manufacturer Continental AG, raised $1.28 billion of five-year
term loan in February paying an initial interest margin of 475
basis points while the 450 million-euro trance pays an interest
margin of 500 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  