-- European Elections Show Desperate Need for Strong Leaders
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/european-elections-show-desperate-need-for-strong-leaders.html
France  kicks off this weekend a
series of elections across Europe that together may prove as
important as any since the late 1970s and early 1980s, the last
time the Western world found itself collectively flailing for
solutions to combat an economic slump.  It’s likely that, as they did just over 30 years ago (and
again in December in Spain and last month in Slovakia), angry
voters will sweep out incumbents. What’s less clear is whether,
this time, the new crop of leaders will be as decisive as those
who dominated recovery from the oil-price crisis and stagflation
of the 1970s: Think  Margaret Thatcher  (1979),  Ronald Reagan  and
 Francois Mitterrand  (1981), and  Helmut Kohl  (1982).  So far, the signs aren’t great, and that’s worrying. Strong
political leadership is what European countries -- and the U.S.
-- need most if they are to get their fiscal houses back in
order and retool their economies to compete effectively with
 China ,  Brazil  and other dynamos of the global economy that
haven’t just emerged since the 1980s, but arrived.  What you’d hope to see on campaign trails in France,
Greece, Germany and Ireland over the coming month is a group of
politicians willing to say clearly what’s broken in Europe’s
economies, what it will cost in financial transfers and loss of
fiscal sovereignty to rescue the euro area, and how they plan to
fix the problems. You’d hope, too, that voters would then reward
the candidates with the strongest plans. That doesn’t seem to be
happening.  Neither  Nicolas Sarkozy  nor his Socialist Party opponent
for the French presidency,  Francois Hollande , have been willing
to tell voters the truth ahead of Sunday’s first-round vote:
namely that France cannot pretend it’s an island, throw up
barriers to global competition, work a 35-hour week, retire at
age 60 and hope to thrive. As most in a series of op-ed articles
on  Europe ’s social model we’ve run this week suggest, countries
will need to slim  government spending  and loosen labor markets
to compete globally.  Instead the two candidates for the French presidency
focused on immigration policies and punitive, but fiscally
marginal, taxes on the rich. Both promised to rein in the  budget
deficit , with Sarkozy’s plan the more plausible. Unlike
Hollande, he has avoided pledges that would boost public
spending beyond the already steep 56 percent of gross domestic
product that it accounts for in France. Yet neither candidate
has been honest with voters about what it will take to make
France competitive.  True, Mitterrand arrived in office in 1981 as much more of
a left-wing radical than Hollande is today. Mitterrand governed
with Communist Party ministers, nationalized banks, cut the
working week and imposed a ”solidarity” tax on the wealthy.
Two years later, he reversed course in the face of high
inflation, stagnant growth and a devalued currency. More
important, he linked arms with Kohl, and on occasion even
Thatcher, to strengthen Europe. They paved the way for the
 “single market”  for goods in the EU, and for the Maastricht
Treaty that founded the common currency.  Faced with economic crisis again, Europe’s leaders are
talking up the need for further EU integration, but their
actions don’t quite match up. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
reassuring voters in Schleswig-Holstein and North Rhine-
Westphalia that she won’t risk German deficits to reflate the
euro area or rescue  Greece , let alone Spain or Italy. The two
German states go to the polls May 6 and May 13, respectively,
and are seen as dry runs for next year, when Merkel and her
 Christian Democratic Union  will run for re-election.  If Merkel is being straight with her voters, then the euro
area is destined for rolling crises to come. There’s precious
little sense of European unity today in Greece, or Ireland --
which will vote on whether to accept Merkel’s euro area fiscal
compact in a referendum on May 31. The Irish have a financial
incentive to approve the treaty, and can’t block its adoption,
yet there’s enough anger over EU-imposed austerity that polls
suggest the result could be close.  Greece’s two mainstream parties, Pasok and  New Democracy ,
don’t need to set out a vision of their own to fix the country’s
dire problems ahead of parliamentary elections on May 6. The
country’s creditors, particularly in Berlin, have done that for
them. That lack of control is a big part of why a poll this week
suggested Pasok and New Democracy will see their combined share
of the vote tumble to about 30 percent, from 77 percent in the
last elections three years ago.  Voters are in an ugly mood across Europe, and populists on
the left and right are gaining support. France’s communists,
until recently in freefall, are enjoying a resurgence. The
political vacuum in Greece is being filled by radical anti-EU
parties, including the  Communist Party of Greece  and the neo-
fascist  Golden Dawn . It’s a testament to the strength of the
continent’s democratic institutions that these parties haven’t
done more harm.  But no matter how angry they are, voters deserve -- and
financial markets need -- a more honest account from their
leaders of what must come next for their countries in a
globalized economy, where national governments can no longer
decide policy alone. France will have to cut back public
spending and loosen its labor markets;  Germany  will need to risk
more to bankroll the euro, import more from its neighbors and
export less to them; and Greece will have to transform itself
into a nation of taxpayers with clean, transparent political
institutions. To convince voters of the need for any of these
changes would demonstrate true leadership.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: Virginia Postrel on the end of  vertical
integration ;  Michael Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s success ;  Jonathan
Weil  on the  government’s sketchy accounting ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 health-care reform ; Yukon Huang on  China’s trade surplus ; Andrew
Exum on  disturbing combat photographs .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 