-- Euro-Area Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Declines in April
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-19T14:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/euro-area-consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-declined-in-april.html
Euro-area  consumer confidence ,
which is part of a broader economic-sentiment indicator,
unexpectedly fell in April for the first time this year.  An index of household sentiment in the 17-nation euro area
dropped to minus 19.8 from minus 19.1 in March, the Brussels-
based European Commission said in an initial estimate today.
That’s the first decline since December. Economists had forecast
an improvement to minus 19, the median of 28 estimates in a
 Bloomberg survey  showed.  Surging unemployment rates from  Greece  to Italy and rising
borrowing costs in  Spain  have fueled concern that the debt
crisis is not under control. While European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  has said the euro-area economy is showing
signs of stabilization “at a low level” after the central
bank’s offering of three-year loans, the ECB predicts a
contraction in the region this year.  “Unemployment has got further to go before we reach the
peak,” said James Ashley, a senior economist at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  London . “The crisis does appear to be coming back,
but we’re not in the same state that we were in late 2011. All
the ECB has done is tackle some of the symptoms; it hasn’t
tackled the underlying causes.”  The euro was little changed after the report was published,
trading at $1.3127 at 4:02 p.m. in Brussels, up less than 0.1
percent on the day.  The economy of the 17-nation euro area  shrank  0.3 percent
in the fourth quarter and the ECB predicts an economic
contraction of 0.1 percent for this year as a whole. Officials
are counting on low  interest rates , emergency crisis measures
and export demand from outside the region to aid the recovery.  The commission will publish its report on euro-region
economic confidence on April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  