-- Europe Urged to Fix Crisis as G-20 Warns of More Stress
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-04-20T11:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/europe-urged-to-fix-crisis-as-g-20-warns-of-increased-stress.html
Europe ’s governments were told the
onus for fixing their debt woes lies with them as the Group of
20 warned the two-year crisis still threatens global growth.  With finance chiefs from the G-20 meeting today in
Washington, those from Canada and  Australia  joined the IMF and
U.S. in pressing Europe to intensify efforts to quell the
turmoil as it spreads to Spain. The G-20 cited “the situation
in Europe” first in a list of drags on the world economy,
according to a draft statement obtained by Bloomberg News.  As she closed in on her goal of bolstering the IMF’s
crisis-fighting coffers by more than $400 billion, Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said the lender serves as an
emergency backstop and that Europe must protect itself, boost
economic growth and cut debt. Italian and Spanish bonds fell
today as the G-20 noted “stress has increased as of late.”  “Countries have to take measures,” Lagarde told Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” in  Washington .
“I am in charge of improving the stability and I need to have
the umbrella in case the clouds break into a nasty rain.”  Lagarde is looking to increase a lending capacity of about
$380 billion and has so far raised more than $320 billion with
Russia becoming the latest nation to chip in $10 billion. The
lending amount will be lower than the total amount raised
because the IMF must keep some cash on hand.  The lender wants the money to help insulate the
international economy from dangers such as European contagion,
high unemployment and rising oil prices.  Similar Risks  The G-20 identified similar risks in its draft statement
which may be revised when finance ministers and central bankers
meet today at the IMF’s headquarters in Washington from 9:45
a.m. It said recent signs suggested “continuation of a modest
global recovery” and that “tail risks” had started to recede.  “However, growth expectations for 2012 remain moderate,”
the draft said. “As significant downside risks still persist,
we remain committed to further reduce these risks.”  While South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said
Lagarde may ultimately secure as much as $450 billion, some
 emerging markets  including  Brazil  are resisting making immediate
commitments as they demand more power for themselves at the IMF.
The G-20 draft statement said a paragraph on IMF resources would
be added later.  Final Amount  “I can assure you that the G-20 will announce the final
amount” today, Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak
told reporters in Washington late yesterday. “This will be the
sum that will suit the leadership of the  International Monetary
Fund .”  Euro-area policy makers are counting on a beefed-up IMF to
placate investors who have propelled yields on Spain’s 10-year
bonds toward levels which trigged bailouts for  Greece , Ireland
and Portugal. They already agreed last month to boost their own
defenses to 800 billion euros ($1 trillion.)  That still falls short, said Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who like U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
has declined to give more money to the IMF on the basis it has
enough and Europe should do more. He proposed non-European
countries be handed a veto over the role the lender can play
assisting Europe.  “They need to build up a firewall with their own resources
more than they have done so far,” Flaherty said in an
interview.  Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  echoed that message, saying
in a statement that “important reforms are still needed to
minimize the risk of contagion from instability in Europe.”  Actions Defended  European officials defended their actions as they arrived
in the U.S. capital.  “The Europeans have done their part,” European Central
Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said. “Now it’s up
to our partners and this includes  Canada  and many other
countries to increase the IMF resources.”  Some emerging markets are holding back with Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  saying there is a complementary
need to strengthen the IMF. The U.S. is among nations still to
ratify a 2010 decision that would hand more voting power to
developing economies.  China  is willing to discuss more funding,
Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said in Beijing yesterday.  “We are not ready to talk about specific numbers, given
there are still conditions that need to be met,” Mantega said.
Some countries “are more enthusiastic about asking money from
emerging markets than carrying out the quota reform, because
these are the countries that will lose.”  European Banks  A day after the IMF said European banks could be forced to
sell as much as $3.8 trillion through next year, Lagarde said
European governments should consider using their rescue funds to
inject cash directly into Spanish banks. Other advice the IMF
has given this week included for the ECB to cut  interest rates 
again, for governments to issue joint debt and for banks to be
restructured.  Europe has repeatedly failed to heed international lobbying
to get ahead of its crisis. It underestimated the threat posed
by Greece’s budget woes when they came to light in-late 2009 and
then the amount of cash required to contain the pain.  Officials last month balked at a proposal to lift their
firewall closer to 1 trillion euros and  Spain ’s benchmark yield
has jumped about 1 percentage point since early-March as Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to meet budget deficit targets.  “The Europeans do respond at the last minute in a
desperate way that has not yet provided a more systematic
solution,” said  Simon Johnson , a former IMF chief economist who
now teaches at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
Cambridge, Massachussetts. “Perhaps there will be continued
pressure in Spain or the focus shifts to  Italy .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  