-- Levon Helm, Voice of The Band’s Classic Songs, Dies at 71
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   M a r k   S c h o i f e t
-- 2012-04-19T20:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/levon-helm-southern-voice-of-the-band-s-classics-dies-at-71.html
Levon Helm, the drummer who sang
rock classics such as “The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down”
for The Band, the critically acclaimed group that once backed
 Bob Dylan  and counted  George Harrison  and  Eric Clapton  among its
fans, has died. He was 71.  Helm died today of throat cancer, Rolling Stone magazine
reported, citing his longtime guitarist, Larry Campbell. The
Times Herald-Record newspaper of Middletown, New York, near
Helm’s home, reported that he died at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center  in  New York City .  “He was surrounded by family, friends and band mates and
will be remembered by all he touched as a brilliant musician and
a beautiful soul,” his family wrote on his  website .  Helm underwent radiation treatments in the 1990s,
recovering to produce a Grammy Award-winning album, “Dirt
Farmer,” in 2007.  The Arkansas native was the only U.S.-born member of The
Band, joining four Canadians. The two surviving members are
Robbie Robertson, who was the group’s chief songwriter, and
Garth Hudson. Richard Manuel died in 1986, Rick Danko in 1999.  “The Band, more than any other group, put rock and roll
back in touch with its roots,”  wrote  the Rock and Roll Hall of
Fame in  Cleveland , which inducted the group in 1994. “With
their ageless songs and solid grasp of musical idioms, The Band
reached across the decades, making connections for a generation
that was, as an era of violent cultural schisms wound down, in
desperate search of them.”  ‘Cripple Creek’  The group’s regular drummer, Helm was also among its lead
vocalists, adding his southern voice to songs including “Up on
Cripple Creek” -- which reached No. 25 on the  Billboard  chart
in 1970, making it The Band’s biggest hit. He also sang “The
Weight,” a tale of a traveler who arrives in the town of
Nazareth to encounter several mysterious figures. Its well-known
chorus begins, “Take a load off, Fanny. Take a load for free.”  “I’ve always thought of myself as the drummer,” he told
 CBS News ’s “Sunday Morning” program in 2007. “I would take my
turn to sing whenever I had to, but my joy is to play the drums,
of course, and the singing part was just something I glommed my
way into.”  The 1978 film documentary “ The Last Waltz ,” directed by
 Martin Scorsese , shows a roster of musical luminaries including
Clapton and  Neil Young  chipping in as The Band wrapped up its
touring career with a 1976 concert at Winterland Ballroom in  San
Francisco .  Friction in Band  In his 1993 memoir, “This Wheel’s on Fire,” written with
Stephen Davis, Helm disclosed that “The Last Waltz”
crystallized what had long bothered him about The Band: the
image of guitarist Robertson as leader and star, rather than as
part of a collaborative team.  “For two hours we watched as the camera focused almost
exclusively on Robbie Robertson, long and loving close-ups of
his heavily made-up face and expensive haircut,” Helm wrote,
describing his first screening of the documentary. “The film
was edited so it looked like Robbie was conducting the band with
expansive waves of his guitar neck.”  Responding to Helm’s criticism, Robertson  told  the Los
Angeles Times: “I never wanted to be the boss, and in fact I
never thought I was the boss. I was just trying to organize
things so we could do things like make records and go out and
play a show somewhere.”  ‘Most Extraordinary’  In a statement on his Facebook page yesterday, Robertson
said he had visited the ailing Helm in the hospital. “Levon is
one of the most extraordinary talented people I’ve ever known
and very much like an older brother to me,” Robertson said. “I
am so grateful I got to see him one last time and will miss him
and love him forever.”  Mark Lavon Helm was born on May 26, 1940, in Elaine,
 Arkansas , the second of four children of cotton farmers and
music lovers Diamond and Nell Helm, according to a  biography  on
his website.  He got his first guitar at 9 and, three years later, turned
a washtub into a string bass for his younger sister, Linda.
Performing as “Lavon and Linda,” they won talent contests
along the Arkansas 4-H Club circuit, according to the biography.  Helm became drummer for Ronnie Hawkins’s The Hawks, which
would bring him together with the other members of what would be
The Band. First, though, as Levon and the Hawks, they were
enlisted by Dylan as his backup musicians for a 1965 concert in
 New York  City, and then -- without Helm -- for Dylan’s 1965-1966
world tour, according to “The Rolling Stone Encyclopedia of
Rock & Roll.”  Debut Album  With Helm back on drums, the group began work on its own
material, mostly written by Robertson and Manuel. The Band’s
first album, “Music from Big Pink” -- a reference to the
group’s house in West Saugerties, New York -- was released in
1968. One year later came the group’s second album, “The
Band,” which included “The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down”
and “Up on Cripple Creek.”  Helm won Grammy Awards for “Dirt Farmer,” for his follow-
up 2009 album “Electric Dirt” and for “Ramble at the Ryman,”
a live album recorded at a 2008 performance in Nashville. The
Band itself never won a traditional Grammy but did receive one
for  lifetime achievement  in 2008.  Beginning in 2004, Helm performed in a series of concerts
called the “Midnight Ramble Sessions,” staged in a barn at his
home in Woodstock, New York. The freewheeling  sessions  featured
such guest artists as Emmylou Harris, Dr. John and Norah Jones.
Ticket sales helped cover his medical bills, Helm told PBS in an
interview broadcast in March.  Medical Bills  “At the time we started, I had more bills than I had just
about anything except friends,” he said.  He also had a film career, beginning with a role as the
father of Loretta Lynn (played by Sissy Spacek) in “ Coal
Miner’s Daughter ” (1980).  Helm married the former Sandra Dodd in 1981. He had a
daughter, Amy, from an earlier relationship with singer-
songwriter Libby Titus.  On April 17, his wife and daughter wrote on his website:
“Thank you fans and music lovers who have made his life so
filled with joy and celebration. He has loved nothing more than
to play, to fill the room up with music, lay down the back beat,
and make the people dance! He did it every time he took the
stage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Schoifet in New York at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  