-- Ex-National Lampoon CEO Loses Bid to Dismiss Fraud Charges
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-19T21:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/ex-national-lampoon-ceo-loses-bid-to-dismiss-fraud-charges-1-.html
Timothy S. Durham, the former
president and chief executive officer of  National Lampoon Inc. (NLMP) ,
lost a bid to dismiss a U.S.  securities-fraud  case, in which he
claimed prosecutors violated wiretap laws and rules.  U.S. District Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson in Indianapolis
today rejected Durham’s request to throw out the case. Durham
was indicted last year for allegedly cheating 5,000 investors in
a $200 million scheme involving the sale of interest-bearing
notes issued by Akron, Ohio-based Fair Finance Co.  His trial is scheduled for June 8.  “The government’s evidence establishes that Mr. Durham’s
suspicion of unauthorized wiretapping was unfounded,” the judge
said in a seven-page ruling. “Mr. Durham has introduced no
evidence to the contrary.”  Durham is CEO of the Indianapolis-based leveraged buyout
firm Obsidian Enterprises Inc. and a Republican Party
fundraiser. He resigned his National Lampoon post in January.
That company isn’t mentioned in the indictment.  “We’re disappointed and respectfully disagree,” Durham’s
attorney, John L. Tompkins of Indianapolis, said in a telephone
interview reacting to the ruling.  Magnus-Stinson first heard arguments on the dismissal
motion in February. Tompkins said he and his client used the
intervening time to prepare for trial in the event the motion
was denied.  Facing charges with Durham are former Fair Finance Chairman
James F. Cochran and ex-Chief Financial Officer Rick Snow.  Wire Fraud  The three men face 10 counts of  wire fraud  and one count of
securities fraud, all punishable by as long as 20 years in
prison, and one count of conspiring to commit those crimes. The
court last year entered automatic not guilty pleas for each
defendant.  Durham and Cochran acquired Fair Finance through a holding
company in 2002. Fair Finance, operating in  Ohio  since 1934,
provided liquidity to businesses by purchasing their accounts
receivable at a discount, according to the March 15 indictment.  Fair Finance raised money to do so by selling interest-
bearing certificates to investors.  By February 2005, as Fair Finance continued selling the
certificates, it had shifted from providing commercial financing
to making loans to its principals, their associates, Obsidian
and other entities they controlled, according to the indictment.  ‘Deceived Investors’  “Durham, Cochran and Snow then deceived investors by
making and causing others to make false and misleading
statements about Fair’s financial condition and about the manner
in which they were using Fair investor money,” according to the
charging document.  Prosecutors said in court filing that Durham’s misconduct
claims were “frivolous.”  Fair Finance closed after a November 2009 raid by the U.S.
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation. In February 2010, its creditors
forced it into involuntary bankruptcy in Akron.  The case is U.S. v.  Durham, 11-cr-42, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  