-- Lexus GS350 F Sport Leaves BMW, Mustang Behind in Dust
-- B y   J a s o n   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/lexus-gs350-f-sport-leaves-bmw-mustang-behind-in-dust.html
Sneak attack! My  Lexus (7203)  GS350 F
Sport sedan is nose to nose with a Mustang GT at a stoplight.
The road before us scrolls up a mountain pass. The Ford driver
guns it.  Halfway up the hill the driver glances over and finds me
right next to him. I actually see his brow furrow. A bit later
something similar happens when I beat a BMW M3 out of a deep C-
shaped turn.  Sure, I’ve got something to prove. In most circumstances
the GS350 with all-wheel-drive is not going to thump a M3. (Like
I said, sneak attack.) But if the flesh is willing, so is this
Lexus.  I used to call the previous GS models lifeless and
lustless. Those terms no longer apply.  Lexus  engineers knew they
had to inject some shock-and-awe into the fourth generation of
the midsize GS sedan.  More than 300,000 have been sold worldwide, competing with
Audi A6, BMW 5 Series and Mercedes-Benz E-Class. It has often
led the class in terms of interior and relative luxury, but was
only a “meh” in terms of an entertaining drive.  Blind-Spot Detection  The 2013 GS350 starts at just over $50,000. My test model,
in slightly sinister “Obsidian” paint, included a $5,700 F
Sport package, a $900 heads-up display and navigation and
premium stereo packages. It had all the technology I would care
for, including rain-sensing windshield wipers and blind-spot
detection.  In all, it came to $61,204. That’s extremely competitive
with a  BMW 535i  xDrive sedan, which starts at $55,700 and
similarly loaded runs to almost $69,000.  Don’t let me mislead you: The GS350 is no Lexus rocket
ship, nor is it a driver’s machine like the BMW. This four-
door’s main goal is to carry passengers in comfort, with a dose
of hop-to-it-ivness when desired.  The previous GS lacked any pretense at exterior style; it
was a sleeping pill of a car. The generational change is
immediately obvious from the very first glance.  The GS350 F Sport has a sculptured, three-dimensional front
end, with deep folds that frame the mesh grill. It looks
uncannily like the mouthpiece of Darth Vader’s helmet.  Exterior Attitude  The design cues actually come from a Lexus concept car, the
LF-Gh, and Lexus’s attempt at a supercar, the LFA. Compared with
the rest of the rather conservative body, the GS’s front is busy
and a bit convoluted. It sure has attitude.  The F Sport package includes 19-inch-wheels, which in
profile give the GS a poised stance. More importantly, you also
get retuned steering and suspension systems, and bigger brakes
in the front.  Get-up-and-go comes from a direct-injected, 3.5-liter V-6
with 306 horsepower and 277 pound-feet of torque. Engineers
tuned it brilliantly. Gliding around town gets you a suggestive
hum; pound on the gas and it overflows into a throaty gurgle.  Its steering is weighty and precise, and the best of any
Lexus I’ve tested outside of the LFA, which at $375,000 is a
straight-up racecar. (It was also a bit of a commercial flop.
The supercar was supposed to be the brand’s halo car, but the
type of person who buys a Lexus doesn’t seem to care.)  Flabby Steering  The GS350’s chassis floats over bumps and cracks, which is
mostly welcome around  New York ’s weather-ravaged roads. I would
have preferred more tactile feedback transmitted through the
steering wheel, giving an idea of the road surface and traction
conditions. It feels the same on dry pavement as it does after
an afternoon shower.  The car offers two settings designed for more aggressive
driving, sport and sport plus, but they amount to overkill. The
GS is hardly going to brook extreme driving. It’s still a Lexus,
after all.  The automatic transmission has only six gears, and it
normally shifts around 3,000 rpms. (There’s also an eco-mode,
for even more economical gear changes and a lessened throttle
response.) Shifts are sluggish rather than crisp, and far less
smooth than I’d expect.  To actuate shifts closer to the redline, you must engage
“manual” mode by pulling the leather-coated shifter to the
left and engaging the behind-the-wheel paddles. I found myself
using this mode frequently so I could downshift before passing
on the highway.  Body Contours  Lexus  has paid keen attention to the interior. The seats
contour nicely to your body, the contrasting stitching along
leather surfaces is nicely done, and shiny metal accents look
expensive and modern. Flick the stalk on the blinker and it
feels almost buttery.  Despite the amount of first-tier technology, the center
console is uncluttered and functions are fairly easy to figure
out. That includes the mouse-like controller that sits on the
center stack to the driver’s right.  A cursor can be moved around a massive, 12.3-inch,
widescreen display to control the stereo, navigation system and
car settings.  Will the latest GS350 entice away 5 Series drivers? That’s
unlikely. But it’s certain to find buyers who appreciate
comfort, and aren’t afraid to stand on the gas once in a while.  Especially when there’s a Mustang in the next lane.  The 2013 Lexus GS350 with F Sport Package at a Glance  Engine: 3.5-liter V-6 with 306 horsepower and 277 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic.  Acceleration: 0 to 60 miles per hour in 5.6 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 19 city; 26 highway.  Price as tested: $61,204.  Best feature: Interior comfort and feel.  Worst feature: Less-than-crisp transmission.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights includes a technology report
on “ Connect by Quickoffice .”  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 