-- Fed Gives Banks Until July 2014 to Comply With Volcker Rule
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-04-19T23:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/fed-confirms-banks-must-conform-to-volcker-rule-by-july-2014.html
Wall Street banks will have two
years to implement the so-called Volcker rule so long as they
make a “good faith” effort to comply with the ban on
proprietary trading, U.S. regulators said.  Banks will get the “full two-year period” provided by the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law to “conform” their
activities and investments, the  Federal Reserve  and four other
U.S. agencies said in a statement today. The Fed has the
authority to extend the period of compliance beyond July 21,
2014, the regulators said.  “A lot of sweating brows at big banks are a lot drier
today,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at Federal
Financial Analytics, a Washington research firm whose clients
have included  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  “The statement finally makes
clear that they can’t be held accountable for compliance with a
rule not yet released.”  The rule, named for its original champion, former Fed
Chairman  Paul Volcker , is one of the most contentious parts of
the Dodd-Frank law that was drafted to help prevent another
financial crisis. It’s intended to reduce the chances that banks
will put depositors’ money at risk. Banks argue that it is so
broad and poorly defined it will force them to leave business
lines and could actually increase risks for their clients.  Former Fed Chairman  Regulators had signaled that they probably would provide
banks more clarity because they wouldn’t finish the rule before
the July 21, 2012 implementation deadline.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Feb. 29 that he didn’t
think the deadline would be met, and Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo , during a Senate hearing last month, indicated that
guidance on the law’s enforcement and scope of the conformance
period would be forthcoming.  “During the conformance period, banking entities should
engage in good-faith planning efforts, appropriate for their
activities and investments, to enable them to conform,” the
regulators said in today’s statement.  Today’s statement isn’t “an all-clear” because regulators
also said the banks need to make plans to comply, Petrou said.  The regulators’ decision “is a good step, but not good
enough to address the concerns of the legal and compliance
departments,” Scott Talbott, chief lobbyist for the Financial
Services Roundtable, said in an e-mail. The regulations
implementing the rule are “filled with hundreds of unanswered
questions that make compliance complicated, if not impossible.”  Rule’s Complexity  Lawmakers and regulators have considered taking action on
the timeline for the Volcker rule at the request of the banking
industry, which raised concerns about how to comply with the
statute. It takes effect on July 21 with or without a final
rule.  The Fed, Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. are among the regulators drafting the
final rule. The initial 298-page proposal was released in
October and criticized by groups on both sides of the issue.  Senators  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon and  Carl Levin  of  Michigan ,
the Democrats who drafted the provision in Dodd-Frank, asked for
a more restrictive interpretation.  “Today’s guidance marks another important step towards
protecting taxpayers and our economy from the high-risk,
conflict-ridden proprietary trading that nearly brought down our
financial system,” Merkley and Levin said in a statement today.  Executives from financial firms, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , asked regulators to broaden
exemptions to the rule. Regulators have received more than
17,000 comment letters on the proposal.  ‘Way Too Complicated’  The rule has become “on anybody’s estimation, way too
complicated to be successfully implemented yet, so it has to be
simplified,” Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today before
the statement was released. “This is a question of defining
what is a proprietary position, what is not.”  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S. financial institutions fell
0.8 percent to 47.83 at 4 p.m. in New York, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.6 percent to 1,376.92.  The clarification still falls short of what trade groups
representing the largest banks have been advocating.  The regulators’ decision is “critically important because
it alleviates concerns over potentially having to comply with a
rule whose details had not yet been made clear,” Kenneth Bentsen, executive vice president for public policy at the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, said in a
statement.  ‘Inconsistent’ With Intent  “SIFMA continues to believe that the rule as proposed is
structurally flawed, particularly as it relates to the
assumption that any activity is prohibited proprietary trading
unless otherwise explicitly prescribed,” he said. “We believe
this is inconsistent with congressional intent.”  SIFMA, the Clearing House Association, the  American Bankers
Association  and the Financial Services Roundtable -- Washington-
based groups that represent firms including  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Goldman Sachs, signed a
letter last week asking regulators to scrap the proposal
altogether and start over.  “The stakes for our already stressed financial markets are
high,” the trade groups said in an April 16 letter to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. “To minimize sudden
detrimental impacts to existing businesses, and negative impacts
to the  U.S. economy  and, indeed, to retail investors and
consumers, the recrafting of the rule must be performed in a
nuanced and iterative way.”  Bipartisan Group  A bipartisan group of six senators introduced legislation
March 22 that would postpone implementation of the rule and
align it with regulators’ completion of detailed rules for the
trading ban.  The regulators’ statement “provides much-needed clarity,”
two of those senators, Virginia Democrat Mark Warner and Idaho
Republican  Mike Crapo , said in a statement today. “Now the
agencies should take the time to understand the feedback they
have received and provide a clear rule.”  Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who
co-authored Dodd-Frank, has urged banking agencies to complete a
simplified version by Sept. 3.  The decision is “an appropriate and reasoned approach,”
Frank, the top Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee, said in a statement today. While relieving pressure
on regulators to finish their work by July 21, it’s important
for the Fed “to propose a final rule quickly, and I am
confident that they are seeking to do so.”  The current proposal would allow banks to conduct
proprietary trading that is tied to market-making activities or
hedging risk. Those exemptions have been criticized for adding
to the complexity that would make implementing the ban
difficult.  In remarks in  New York  on March 21, Volcker said that
“strong resistance to the principles involved by affected
institutions, each with deep pockets and phalanxes of lobbyists,
shouldn’t be surprising.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  