-- Fernandez Entrusts Argentina Oil Future to Kicillof
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-04-19T12:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/fernandez-entrusts-argentina-oil-future-to-rising-star-kicillof.html
Argentina has given responsibility
for turning around its biggest oil producer to a 40-year-old
political high-flier whose experience in corporate management
consists of a six-month stint at the money-losing state airline.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  on April 16
charged Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof with helping
Planning Minister Julio De Vido run  YPF SA (YPF)  when she announced
the appropriation of 51 percent of the company from Spain’s
 Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   The next day, Kicillof, sporting long sideburns and an
open-neck shirt, took the lead in defending the takeover to a
roomful of dark-suited senators. Speaking for more than two
hours, the former student activist laid out Fernandez’s plans
for YPF, justified her intervention in the economy and
criticized economists who condemn her for tightening foreign
exchange controls, limiting imports and using central bank funds
to finance spending.  “He’s a  rising star ,” said Rosendo Fraga, a Buenos Aires-
based political analyst. “He’s part of the new generation the
president wants to promote.”  Kicillof told senators that the expansion of  South
America ’s second-biggest economy, which has averaged 7.7 percent
annually since 2003, was thanks to government policies.  The economy is forecast to expand 3 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of seven economists in a survey
by Bloomberg, down from growth of 8.9 percent in 2011.
Economists estimate annual inflation is 23 percent, more than
double the 9.8 percent reported by the government.  Government Role  “When there is a deep crisis the worst one can do is to
think that the state is bad, that the state is the problem,” he
said. “The state is the solution. When there is recession and
economic crisis the state becomes a key actor in revitalizing
demand and production.”  A leader of  La Campora , a youth wing of the Peronist party
that is linked to the president’s son Maximo Kirchner, Kicillof
took charge of finances at Aerolineas Argentinas SA in 2009, the
year after the flagship airline was nationalized. He spent six
months in the post.  In 2010, Aerolineas’s losses were trimmed to $486 million
from $943 million in 2008, according to a company statement.  Last year, he was named to the board of  Siderar SAIC (ERAR) , the
country’s largest steelmaker, as representative of the social
security agency that manages pension funds seized by Fernandez
in 2008. Kicillof, who holds a doctorate in economics from the
University of  Buenos Aires , moved to the  Economy Ministry  in
December, when Fernandez began her second term.  Kicillof’s press office didn’t return phone calls seeking
an interview or comments.  ‘Marxist’ Dress  In a March 15 speech, the president joked that, because
Kicillof never wears a tie, he had been branded a Marxist.  “How can you expect people not to say Kicillof is a
Marxist, given how he dresses?” Fernandez said to an audience
that included Kicillof. “A shirt, no tie, you aren’t
traditional. Officials wear a suit, tie and have a serious face,
and they are older.”  Since Kicillof took charge of the ministry’s economic
policy secretariat,  Argentina  has boosted import restrictions,
changed the central bank’s charter to give government more
access to reserves and boosted restrictions on Argentines’
access to foreign currency.  The nation’s borrowing costs yesterday rose above those of
 Venezuela  for the first time since June 2009 on concern the YPF
nationalization will discourage investment and curb growth.  Student Movement  The extra yield that investors demand to own Argentine
dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries swelled 51 basis points to
1,044, while the yield premium for Venezuela rose 21 basis
points to 1,030, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
index. A level exceeding 1,000 is considered distressed.  In the late 1990s and early 2000s Kicillof headed a  student
political movement  he had founded at the University of Buenos
Aires. He wrote a doctoral thesis and published two books on the
ideas and legacy of John  Maynard Keynes , the 20th century
British economist who argued that governments should run budget
deficits to stimulate economic growth during downturns.  “He was always a brilliant person,” said Gabriel
Bezchinsky, a professor at the university who employed Kicillof
as an assistant in 1996. “He had excellent analytical capacity
and understanding of economic problems.”  Rejecting Repsol  While Kicillof has studied the works of  Karl Marx , he isn’t
a Marxist “and doesn’t consider himself an expert in Marxism,”
said Miguel Teubal, another professor at the university.  In his April 17 presentation to lawmakers, Kicillof
rejected Madrid-based Repsol’s claim that the company’s stake in
YPF was worth $10.5 billion.  “The numbers that some executives talked recklessly about
in valuing the company will be revised as we review the fine
print and the secret information managed by the company,”
Kicillof said.  His comments caused YPF  shares (YPFD)  to plunge the most on record
in Buenos Aires and  New York  yesterday. Shares fell 29 percent
to 77.05 pesos in Buenos Aires, the most since 1994 when
Bloomberg records begin. The company’s American depositary
receipts plunged a record 33 percent to $13.12 as trading
resumed after a halt imposed April 16.  Repsol Response  Senate committees yesterday approved the YPF takeover plan
with some opposition support. The legislation will head for a
full vote on April 25.  Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  said Argentina will have to
pay a fair price for YPF because courts won’t be swayed by the
government’s “demagoguery.”  “The country will have to pay us sooner or later,” Brufau
told reporters at the opening of an upgraded refinery in
Cartagena,  Spain  yesterday. “Mr. Kicillof won’t set the price.
I don’t think he knows much about valuing companies.”  Repsol spent $16 billion on acquiring control of YPF in
1999. The Argentina government first sold part of the former
state-owned company to private investors in 1993, during a wave
of privatizations by then-President Carlos Menem.  Declining Production  Argentina has taken control of YPF as the government seeks
to curb declining oil production after reserves fell 18 percent
between 1998 and 2010, according to data compiled by the
Argentine Oil and Gas Institute. YPF is the largest oil producer
in the country, with about 34 percent of output, Energy
Secretariat data show.  Argentina holds untapped shale oil reserves estimated to
hold at least 23 billion barrels of oil, of which about 13
billion belong to YPF, according to a YPF report published in
February. The company said developing the reserves will require
decade-long investments of at least $25 billion dollar a year.  Kicillof’s designation was probably based more on his
support of Fernandez’s policies than his capacity to reverse the
decline in output at YPF since Repsol  took control  of the
company, said political analyst Jorge Giacobbe.  “For Cristina, loyalty is more important than talent,”
Giacobbe said in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires. “This
was proved with the YPF announcement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ; 