-- Ferrari Targets South Korean Wealth, Casts Eye on Vietnam
-- B y   M a   J i e
-- 2012-04-19T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/ferrari-targets-south-korean-wealth-casts-eye-on-vietnam.html
Ferrari SpA (F)  said it expects South
Korea’s economic growth to make the country a standout for
sports car demand, and Vietnam may be next.  “A surprise over the next five years will be South
Korea,” Herbert Appleroth, Ferrari’s  Asia Pacific (FAX)  chief
executive officer, said in an interview. “It has an abundance
of wealth and economic prosperity, and there is appreciation for
supercars. I think you will see very strong growth.”  Appleroth’s projections point to the next pockets of growth
for luxury carmakers as U.S. and European markets mature.
Vietnam increased the number of high net-worth individuals by 33
percent in 2010, according to the World Wealth Report from Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch and Capgemini SA.  “The next on the radar in this region that I look after
will be  Vietnam ,” he said. Appleroth oversees 17 dealerships in
Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand,
 New Zealand , Australia and, as of last month, one in the
Philippines.  South Korea’s economy will probably grow 3.5 percent this
year, with 4.2 percent forecast for the next year, according to
Bank of Korea estimates.  Ferrari increased its market share in Japan to 58 percent
in the category for the first three months of 2012, compared
with a 54 percent share for 2011, Appleroth said. Ferrari sold
386 cars last year, almost four times Lamborghini SpA’s 99,
according to the Japan Automobile Dealers Association.  Ferrari’s global deliveries rose by 9.5 percent to a record
7,195 cars last year led by record sales in the U.S. and  China .
Sales climbed to 777 cars across China,  Hong Kong  and  Taiwan ,
rising 63 percent. Mainland China accounted for 500 of those.  Japan Orders  Japan  orders will probably grow about 10 percent in 2012
and maintain that pace over the next five years, Appleroth said.
Deliveries will average about 400 as the Fiat SpA unit tends to
supply dealers with fewer cars than they can sell.  A 350-square meter showroom opens today in Osaka’s main
business district as the first Ferrari dealership in the world
to feature the corporate identity update, Appleroth said. The
new design uses more of the carmaker’s trademark red, he said.  Japan hasn’t lost its taste for luxury and exclusivity,
something Ferrari can provide with its new tailor-made program,
Appleroth said.  “We have customers more and more who want to tailor their
cars,” he said. “They spend on average in Japan around 45,000
euros ($59,000) per car on tailored options. From that, we have
growing revenue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  