-- First Dim Sum by Non-Bank Borrower Slashes Costs
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-04-20T05:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/first-dim-sum-by-non-bank-borrower-slashes-costs-india-credit.html
IL&FS Transportation Networks Ltd. (ILFT) 
may pare borrowing costs by 40 percent selling the first Dim Sum
bond from a non-financial Indian company as yields on rupee debt
fail to mirror this week’s cut in  interest rates .  The toll-road operator issued the equivalent of about $100
million of three-year notes at 5.75 percent this week to
refinance a loan raised for the Chongqing Yuhe expressway in
 China , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yuan-denominated
debt sold in Hong Kong pay an average of 4.90 percent, while
top-rated three-year  rupee bonds  of non-bank Indian borrowers
yield 9.45 percent. The 1.5 billion rupees ($29 million) of 2014
securities of IL&FS’s parent company yield 9.53 percent,
according to price indications compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on India’s benchmark 10-year government notes are
the highest of  Asia ’s 13 biggest markets, and IL&FS and Power
Finance Corp., the nation’s biggest issuer last year, are among
companies looking to raise money overseas. While the repurchase
rate was unexpectedly lowered half a percentage point this week
to 8 percent,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
has indicated costs may need to rise to tame prices.  “The company probably came to the Dim Sum market because
of the lower borrowing costs as India’s yields are high due to
inflation,” James Su, who oversees two Dim Sum bond funds of
$40 million at SinoPac Asset Management (Asia) Ltd. in Hong
Kong, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Dim Sum bonds can
also get them exposure to new groups of investors.”  Cheaper Funding  Part of the funds raised will be used to refinance a loan
that IL&FS Transportation took out to acquire 49 percent of the
Chinese project, Samuel said. The four-lane 58.7 kilometer (36.5
miles) highway in Chongqing cost 3.5 billion yuan ($555
million), according to the bond prospectus. The  Indian company 
funded the acquisition through offshore borrowings of about $140
million, the document showed.  “It’s a developing market for one, and it’s at times
cheaper than other markets,” Danny Samuel, head of structured
finance at IL&FS, said by phone yesterday from Mumbai.  The notes may be ranked BBB-, the lowest investment grade,
 Fitch Ratings  said on a statement on April 13.  Alstom SA, the BBB rated French maker of trains and
generators, paid a 4.25 percent coupon on its yuan bonds last
month. The yield has since fallen to 4.06 percent, according to
SinoPac Securities Asia Ltd.  China is encouraging sales of Dim Sum bonds in its push to
make the yuan a global funding tool. Chinese and Hong Kong
companies have sold more than 80 percent of Dim Sum bonds to
date, quadrupling issuance to 151 billion yuan in 2011.  Average Dim Sum bond yields have fallen from 5.53 percent
at the start of the year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  Lotte, Caterpillar  Global companies are increasing issuance of such
securities, with Lotte Shopping Co., America Movil SAB de CV and
Caterpillar Inc. leading 57 billion yuan of sales this year.
Foreign issuers may sell as much as 50 percent of the bonds in
2012, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist and strategist at
Credit Agricole SA in  Hong Kong  said by phone yesterday.  “IL&FS is following in the footsteps of other foreign
companies that have been selling Dim Sum bonds recently,”
Kowalczyk said. “It broadens the pool of issuers and by doing
so makes the market more attractive.”  IDBI Bank Ltd. was the first Indian issuer to sell Dim Sum
bonds, raising 650 million yuan in November offering 4.5 percent
notes due 2014. ICICI Bank Ltd., the country’s second-biggest
lender, issued 210 million yuan of 4.625 percent notes maturing
in 2015 last month.  Rupee Yields  IL&FS Transportation’s parent company, Infrastructure
Leasing & Financial Service Ltd., provides financing for road
and power projects.  Elsewhere in the markets, the yield on India’s benchmark
8.79 percent sovereign notes due November 2021 climbed three
basis points to 8.45 percent today. The rupee advanced 0.3
percent to 52.0125 per dollar.  The extra yield on India’s 10-year notes over similar-dated
U.S. Treasuries widened to 643 basis points from a seven-month
low of 601 reached on March 14, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative contracts
used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, added one
basis point to 7.92 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bond Risk  The cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank  of India,
seen as a proxy for the sovereign, against non-payment climbed
in the past month. Five-year credit-default swaps on the lender
rose 37 basis points to 340, according to CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay face value in
exchange for the underlying debt should a company fail to adhere
to its agreements.  Three-year notes of non-financial companies rated AAA by
Crisil Ltd., the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s , fell seven
basis points to 9.44 percent on April 17, after the rate cut.  IL&FS’s interest and finance charges have more than doubled
over the past three years, rising from 1.74 billion rupees for
the financial year ended March 2009 to 4.98 billion rupees for
the year ending March 2011, the bond’s marketing materials show.
The company had 93.9 billion rupees of borrowings as of Dec. 31,
the circular shows.  Deutsche Bank AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS
AG are managing the sale for Mumbai-based IL&FS, according to a
stock exchange filing on April 13. Export-Import Bank of  India ,
a policy lender wholly-owned by the Indian government, will
guarantee up to $114 million in connection to the sale.  Inflation Pressures  Power Finance, the biggest issuer last year, is considering
selling its first bonds overseas since 1999 “supposing
international markets offer cheaper rates,” Chairman Satnam
Singh said in an interview April 16.  Subbarao lowered the benchmark rate to support  economic
growth , which was 6.1 percent in the three months to December,
the slowest pace in more than two years. The central bank
Governor said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV April 18 that
the chances of a further lowering of rates are small. “The
probability of a hike will depend on inflation and demand
pressures resurging,” he said.  “Investors are going to sell assets of those countries
that are not aiming to reduce inflation, which is not the case
in India,” Tadashi Tsukaguchi, a senior  fund manager  at Mizuho
Securities Co. which manages more than $100 million in  Tokyo ,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “There is chance U.S.
growth will remain moderate in the near term and therefore we
believe companies like IL&FS have made choice of Dim Sum over
the dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  