-- Ford Doubling Production in China With New $760 Million Factory
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-04-19T06:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/ford-doubling-production-in-china-with-new-760-million-factory.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , playing catch up in
China, plans to build a $760 million assembly plant in Hangzhou
that will double its Chinese output to 1.2 million vehicles
annually.  Ford and joint venture partner Changan Ford Mazda
Automobile Co. will start construction later this year and the
plant will open in 2015, initially producing 250,000 vehicles a
year, the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker said today in an e-
mailed statement. The new factory, which follows other capacity
expansions, brings Ford’s total investment in China to $4.9
billion, the automaker said.  Expansion in the world’s largest vehicle market is part of
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s push to increase annual
global sales by 50 percent to 8 million vehicles by 2015 and
have one-third of its deliveries in Asia by 2020. Ford, more
than a decade behind rivals  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
in China, has less than 3 percent of the market.  “Ford got a late start in China,” said  Jeff Schuster ,
senior vice president of forecasting for researcher LMC
Automotive in Troy,  Michigan . “GM has a lineup there that is
more robust in Ford’s lineup. Ford needs to work on its brand
image in China and expand its product offerings.”  Ford has said it will bring 15 new models and 20 new
engines and transmissions to China by 2015. It said it will
introduce three new sport-utility vehicles, including the Kuga
compact SUV, and the new Focus small car at the Beijing auto
show next week.  Ford’s ambitious growth plans are not being hampered by the
prolonged reviewed the Chinese government is giving to Ford’s
request to restructure its joint venture with Changan Ford Mazda
Automobile, said Joe Hinrichs, president of the automaker’s  Asia 
Pacific and Africa region. Last year, Ford sought Chinese
government approval to break apart the JV as it parts ways with
its former Japanese partner Mazda Motor Co.  “There’s been some speculation in the Chinese media that
the length of time it’s taking the restructuring to get approval
would have a restraining effect on our ability to add capacity
and to grow,” Hinrichs said in an interview. “That is not
true. Nothing is constraining us in our growth plans.”  Rapid Expansion  In China and Asia, Ford is undertaking its largest and most
rapid global expansion in 50 years, Hinrichs said.  “Building this plant helps lay the foundation for that
growth,” he said, “and reconfirms our commitment to China,
which is expected to have sales of about 30 million vehicles by
2020.”  Ford sales in China fell 14 percent in the first quarter to
 121,393  vehicles as the country’s car market cooled. China’s
vehicle sales this year will probably miss their 8 percent
growth forecast as the slowing economy and rising fuel costs
curb buying, Gu Xianghua, deputy secretary general of the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers, said last month, citing
his personal opinion.  Vehicle sales growth in China slowed last year to 2.5
percent from 32 percent in 2010 after the government withdrew a
two-year package of tax breaks and rebates that helped the
country overtake the U.S., according to the industry group.  ‘More Competitive’  The second-largest U.S. automaker didn’t say which model it
will produce in the Hangzhou plant.  “We’re going to make cars and other products there,”
Hinrichs said. “We now have the capability to make passenger
cars and crossovers in the same plant.”  The factory will be Ford’s first in the coastal areas that
are home to a large and affluent base of customers, Hinrichs
said.  “This plant will give Ford a more competitive footprint in
 China ,” Schuster said. “Sales are concentrated along the
coasts and having a factory there will raise their presence.”  Ford said April 5 it would spend $600 million to expand
capacity by 350,000 vehicles at its car factory in the
southwestern Chinese city of Chongqing. By 2014, that factory
will produce 950,000 vehicles annually, Ford said.  Earlier this year, Ford opened a second factory in
Chongqing to build its Focus compact car. Ford also is building
a new engine plant and a transmission factory in Chongqing, the
largest manufacturing location for the automaker outside of the
Detroit area.  Ford had a pretax operating loss of $92 million last year
in its Asia Pacific and Africa region, compared with a $189
million profit in 2010, the automaker reported Jan. 27. Ford
blamed last year’s loss on floods in  Thailand  and the cost of
building new plants and developing new models to achieve its
Asian growth targets.  “It’s going to take some time and some marketing dollars
to get Chinese consumers to look closer at Ford,” Schuster
said. “It’s still a ways down the road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  