-- Fracking Wastewater Tied by Scientists to Earthquakes
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-04-19T04:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/fracking-wastewater-tied-by-scientists-to-earthquakes.html
Government scientists are focusing
on the disposal of wastewater from oil and gas drilling as the
possible cause of scores of earthquakes that have shaken the
central part of the U.S. since 2000, according to a study.  Researchers think the increased seismic activity may be
linked to wastewater injected into the ground by oil and gas
drilling operators, William Ellsworth, Earthquake Science Center
staff director for the  U.S. Geological Survey , said yesterday as
he discussed the findings at a conference in  San Diego .  “Something unusual is going on, and we think many of these
earthquakes can be traced to industrial activity,” Ellsworth
said, adding that scientists need more data to confirm their
findings. An abstract of the study was published online earlier
this month, and the full report will be issued this summer.  U.S. Geological Survey  researchers  found that for three
decades prior to 2000, seismic events in the nation’s midsection
averaged 21 a year. They jumped to 50 in 2009, 87 in 2010 and
134 in 2011, according to the study, which was presented at the
annual meeting of the Seismological Society of America.  The findings add to pressure on the industry over a
drilling process known as hydraulic fracturing -- or fracking --
that has sparked concerns the method may provoke earthquakes and
taint drinking water. The study was discussed the same day that
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency released the first
regulations to combat air pollution from gas wells.  No Significant Damage  Hydraulic fracturing has opened vast new shale gas deposits
and helped push gas prices to the lowest level in a decade. Gas
for May delivery fell to $1.94 per million British thermal units
yesterday, the lowest intraday price since January 2002.  Ellsworth’s presentation drew an overflow audience of about
100 seismologists, engineers, government officials and industry
representatives, according to meeting organizers. He said that
none of what government researchers consider to be man-made
earthquakes has caused significant damage and that more long-
term studies are needed.  In hydraulic fracturing, water, sand and chemicals are
injected into deep shale formations to break apart underground
rock and free natural gas trapped deep underground. Much of that
water comes back up to the surface and must then be disposed of.  The scientists traced the jump in seismic activity to
disposing of that wastewater down wells, rather than to the
process of extracting oil or gas, Ellsworth said.  “We find no evidence that there is any association
whatever with these earthquakes to fracking,” Ellsworth said.
He said that disposal of the water that returns to the surface
during this process is the cause of the problem when it is
injected deep underground.  Disposal Wells  There’s “a difference between disposal injection wells and
hydraulically fractured wells,” Daniel Whitten, a spokesman for
the America’s Natural Gas Alliance, which represents companies
such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG) , said
in an e-mail last week after the release of the abstract.
“There are over 140,000 disposal wells in America, with only a
handful potentially linked to seismic activity.”  “We are committed to monitoring the issue and working with
authorities where there are concerns, but it should be noted
that currently there is no scientific data associating hydraulic
fracturing with earthquakes that would cause damage,” he said.  In the U.K. yesterday, an independent panel of scientists
said fracking operations there should be allowed to resume, as
long as “robust” measures are followed to safeguard against
future risks.  Operations Suspended  Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. suspended operations in the
northwest of the country last year after causing two minor
earthquakes. Operations can continue as long as precautions are
taken, according to the report commissioned by the U.K.
Department of Energy and Climate Change.  The area studied by the U.S. government researchers
included a swath of the country running east-west from  Alabama 
to  New Mexico  and north-south along the Great Plains, the study
said.  “A naturally occurring rate change of this magnitude is
unprecedented outside of volcanic settings or in the absence of
a main shock, of which there were neither in this region,”
Ellsworth and his colleagues wrote in the abstract.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at  Callahan@san.rr.com ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  