-- France Fails to Pry Power Market From EDF, Probe Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-20T14:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/france-fails-to-pry-power-market-from-edf-antitrust-probe-says.html
France ’s attempt to open its power
market may be failing as competitors to  Electricite de France SA 
consider abandoning the country, according to a study by the
French antitrust authority.  “Some suppliers are currently reducing their business and
may even pull out completely from the French market,” the
Autorite de la Concurrence said in a study published April 12 on
its  website . “This would be a sign that the opening of the
French  electricity market  has failed.”  The report, which doesn’t specify which companies are
disappointed with business in France, was written in response to
a government plan to create a market for so-called capacity
trading. Its conclusions provide a wider analysis of access to
the power market.  EDF,  Europe ’s biggest power producer, is selling a
proportion of its nuclear output to rivals under a law, known as
Nome, that took effect July 1 and is aimed at opening up the
French market to more competition. The legislation requires EDF
to sell power from its 58 nuclear reactors to rivals including
 GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  at a price set by the government of 42 euros ($55) a
megawatt-hour.  To allow EDF rivals to gain more market share, the
government should give alternative suppliers access to
hydroelectric production and modify regulated rates for
wholesale nuclear power, the Autorite de la Concurrence said.  Power Market  France’s power and natural-gas markets were opened
completely to competition in July 2007. New entrants such as
 Poweo (ALPWO)  SA have made few inroads in the electricity market because
EDF is able to produce relatively cheap power from its nuclear
reactors. The most recent overhaul followed probes by European
Union regulators into EDF’s dominance.  Last year, the utility had 94 percent of the household
market and 78 percent of business demand, according to the
regulator.  The utility controls 80 percent of the country’s power
generating capacity including all atomic reactors, two-thirds of
thermal capacity, 81 percent of hydroelectric capacity and about
a third of renewable output, according to the report. European
utilities including  Sweden ’s Vattenfall AB and  EON AG (EOAN)  have
signaled an interest in winning hydroelectric concessions in
France.  EDF competitors agree with the report’s findings that the
wholesale nuclear rates don’t put them on a level playing field
with EDF and that competition in the French market could
deteriorate further, according to a statement from the
Association Francaise Independante de l’Electricite et du Gaz.
The group represents  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) ,  Enel SpA (ENEL) , Eon and
Vattenfall.  Capacity Trading  The French antitrust body raises questions about the need
to put in place a market for capacity trading in France, planned
as a way to encourage investment by alternative suppliers and
save energy during peak demand periods.  The project would cost consumers an estimated 200 million
euros to 500 million euros annually for results that haven’t
been proven effective in other countries, it said. The measure
would also add an onerous layer of regulation.  Capacity trading is “justified in the long term” because
French peak demand is forecast to increase, the energy regulator
Commission de Regulation de l’Energie said in a statement. The
system may raise consumer prices, would be complicated to put in
place and could affect how the power market operates, it said.  Criticism of the state of competition within the French
power market and plans for capacity trading sparked a dispute
between rival camps in the presidential campaign. Voting gets
under way in two days with Socialist Francois Hollande leading
in the polls to replace President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  The Nome law must be “suspended,” said Francois Brottes,
a French deputy who advises Hollande on energy issues. In a
statement, Brottes said the law encourages “speculation” on
the French market.  Suspension of the law would “expose France to a conflict
with Europe that could explode our power system,” French
Industry Minister Eric Besson said in a statement. “Under the
Nome law, Europe accepted that France retains its regulated
rates that guarantee a competitive nuclear price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  