-- French Credit Risk at Three-Month High
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-04-19T07:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/french-credit-risk-at-three-month-high.html
French credit risk is at the
highest in three months on concern anti-business policies will
be adopted after the presidential election as Europe’s debt
crisis deepens.  Credit-default swaps on  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , the nation’s
third-largest lender, were the worst-performing among European
financial companies yesterday while  France Telecom SA (FTE)  led an
increase in corporate default risk. The cost of insuring the
nation’s sovereign debt is at the highest in three months ahead
of the first round of voting on April 22.  Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande , who had a 16 point
lead against rival President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in a CSA poll
yesterday, has called finance his “biggest adversary”.
Hollande pledged to increase corporate and bank taxes, introduce
a 75 percent levy on earnings of more than 1 million euros ($1.3
million) and cut the retirement age to 60 from 62.  “Some of Hollande’s proposals are potentially significant
head winds for French banks and companies,” said Roger Francis,
an analyst at Mizuho International Plc in London. “It’s a
recipe of tighter regulation and increased taxes which makes for
a less business-friendly environment.”  Credit-default swaps on  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , the nation’s
largest lender, jumped 20 basis points this week to 257.5 and
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) , the second biggest, climbed 19 to 333.5,
both the highest in three months. Credit Agricole rose 30 this
week to a four-month high of 321 while  France Telecom  increased
9 basis points to 134. Swaps on French government debt cost 200
basis points.  Democracy ‘Betrayal’  Hollande is campaigning for a more activist  European
Central Bank  and a revision of the European Union’s fiscal
compact which he has called a “betrayal of French sovereignty
and democracy.” That puts him at odds with German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  who has campaigned for Sarkozy, struggling against
public dissatisfaction with unemployment at a 12-year high.  Hollande says he will eliminate the nation’s budget deficit
by 2017, a year later than Sarkozy’s plan. The gap was 5.2
percent of gross domestic product in 2011 and will narrow to 4.4
percent in 2012, Finance Minister Francois Baroin said April 17.  “A Socialist administration is likely to be less
corporate-friendly than the current one,”  Andrew Garthwaite , a
global equity strategist at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in London,
said in a note to investors. “We are concerned by Hollande’s
talk about wanting to renegotiate the fiscal compact, his
suggestions that he might try to change the mandate of the ECB
as well as his lack of personal chemistry with Angela Merkel.”  Corporate Tax  The Socialist has pledged to introduce a variable corporate
tax rate, which would rise to 35 percent from 33 percent for
large companies, and an additional 15 percent tax on bank
profits, Garthwaite said in the note.  The cost of insuring debt of Electricite de France SA
climbed 10 basis points this week to 134, while Cie de St.
Gobain, Europe’s biggest supplier of building materials, is 15
higher at 155.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “The main risk is that he will not try to reduce the
deficit,” Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at
ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, said of Hollande. “He is more likely
to introduce measures to promote growth. You can expect credit
risk will continue to rise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in  London  at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  