-- Fridson Says Corporate Bonds ‘Fairly Valued’: Tom Keene
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-19T16:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/fridson-says-corporate-bonds-fairly-valued-tom-keene.html
Corporate debt is “fairly valued”
even as the  Federal Reserve  is poised to hold down  interest
rates  for too long, stoking higher inflation and hurting savers,
according to  Martin Fridson , global credit strategist at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners.  While company bonds currently “offer a good option” to
investors, the country’s central bank is “likely to be behind
the curve” in boosting its benchmark rate as inflation becomes
a threat, New York-based Fridson said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene.  “They’re going to have difficulty implementing the exit
plan that they’ve outlined,” partly because lawmakers would
oppose monetary tightening with the U.S. still facing high
levels of unemployment, Fridson said. “I think we’re coming to
a crunch at some point.”  Savers are being punished by record-low yields as Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and New
York Fed President William C. Dudley have signaled further
easing may be needed if growth lags behind projections. The
central bank’s policy threatens to penalize investors again as
rising prices eventually erode the value of their holdings,
Fridson said.  “I just think it’s wrong, just in a very basic sense of
justice,” he said.  Record Low  Yields on U.S. corporate bonds declined to a record 3.4
percent on April 16, a 49 basis-point drop from the end of last
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master index.  Treasury 10-year note yields today traded below 2 percent
for a fifth day on concern the European debt crisis may worsen
and as U.S. jobless claims were higher than forecast last week,
increasing demand for the safest assets.  Consumer prices increased 2.7 percent in the 12 months
ended in March, the smallest 12-month gain in a year. That pace
will probably be 2.4 percent in 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The central bank’s lending rate has been between zero and
0.25 percent since December 2008, following the bursting of the
housing bubble and the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  When borrowing costs eventually rise, it probably won’t be
a smooth transition from the current level of record-low yields,
according to  Abby Joseph Cohen , senior U.S. investment
strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Equities will give better
returns than bonds in the mid-to-long term as companies look to
 emerging markets  for growth, she said.  “Every time there’s been an inflection point in interest
rates, it never goes smoothly,” Cohen said during the same
Bloomberg Radio interview. “There’s usually a shock to the
system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  