-- Fugitive Ex-BTA Boss Can’t Appeal Jail Term, Kazakh Bank Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-04-19T14:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/fugitive-ex-bta-boss-can-t-appeal-jail-term-kazakh-bank-says.html
Mukhtar Ablyazov, the former
chairman of  BTA Bank (BTAS) , shouldn’t be allowed to appeal against a
22 month jail sentence because he is on the run and won’t reveal
his location, lawyers for the Kazakhstan-based lender said.  “What we have here is someone who is playing fast and
loose with the courts,”  Stephen Smith , a BTA lawyer, said at a
London court hearing today. “Seemingly he has fled the U.K. and
if that is right he has committed another contempt of court.”  Ablyazov was sentenced to 22 months in a British jail in
February for breaching a court-ordered asset freeze and lying
under oath in a $5 billion fraud lawsuit. He went into hiding
before the judgment was handed down and has since failed to
report to court authorities.  The former executive has “persistently disobeyed the court
orders,” BTA said in written arguments. “It would bring the
administration of justice into disrepute for a man who has shown
himself so ready to abuse the court’s process unconditionally to
invoke it for his own ends.”  Ablyazov fears for his own safety, according to his
lawyers, who said in court papers that Ablyazov surrendering
himself to U.K. authorities “is without precedent;
disproportionate; and contrary in principle to the  European
Court  of Human Rights.”  Lawyers for the Kazakh bank said the fears only surfaced
when Ablyazov saw a copy of the draft judgment of his sentence.
He had previously testified at trial.  “He would take the view that any information about which
jurisdiction he is in, is too much information,” said  Charles
Bear , a lawyer for Ablyazov.  BTA, which was the biggest lender in  Kazakhstan  before it
defaulted on $12 billion of debt in 2009, filed a series of
civil suits against Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer
Roman Solodchenko claiming they took more than $5 billion from
the Almaty-based bank using fake loans, back-dated documents and
offshore companies. Both men have denied the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  