-- LG Chem Profit Falls on Slowing Plastics Demand in China
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-04-19T10:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/lg-chem-profit-falls-on-slowing-plastics-demand-in-china-1-.html
LG Chem Ltd. (051910) ,  South Korea ’s biggest
chemicals maker, reported a worse-than-estimated 42 percent
decline in first-quarter profit as demand in China waned for
materials used to make plastic and synthetic rubber.  Net income fell to 380.9 billion won ($334 million) in the
three months ended March 31 from 656.6 billion won a year
earlier, the Seoul-based company said today in a regulatory
filing. That compares with the 474 billion won average of 18
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 5 percent to
5.75 trillion won.  Demand for LG Chem’s products waned as China’s economic
growth slowed for the fifth straight quarter, expanding 8.1
percent in the first three months. Business may pick up in the
current quarter, aided by stable naphtha prices and seasonal
demand, LG Chem said today in its statement to investors.  “The earnings were hit by slow demand in  China , which is
the biggest market,” Kim Seung Woo, an analyst at Samsung
Securities Co., said by phone today. “There are few signs to
show demand is recovering fast enough.”  LG Chem, which gained 9.5 percent this year, rose 0.1
percent to close at 347,500 won in Seoul trading before the
earnings were announced. Forty-one  analysts  covered by Bloomberg
have “buy” ratings on the stock. One has “hold.”  New Accounting  The earnings for the quarter were the company’s smallest
since it switched to internationally accepted accounting rules
in the first quarter last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, dropped 45 percent to 459.5 billion
won, LG Chem said. The  petrochemical division , which accounts
for 78 percent of sales, had an operating profit of 369 billion
won, half that of a year earlier.  Operating profit for LG Chem’s information technologies
division, which makes polarizers and other electronics
materials, fell to 77.2 billion won from 93 billion won a year
earlier. The rechargeable battery business for electric cars and
notebooks reported a 69 percent gain in operating profit to 13.5
billion won.  The company is considering lowering its full-year sales
forecast for electric car batteries from the 800 billion won
projected in January because of weak demand at automakers, Chief
Executive Kim Bahn Suk said today. Last year, LG Chem posted 300
billion won in sales of  car batteries .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  