-- Germany Rebounding in Face of Crisis, Institutes Say: Economy
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-04-19T12:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/germany-economy-rebounding-in-face-of-crisis-institutes-say.html
Germany is experiencing an upswing
that will help drive down unemployment and narrow the  budget
deficit  even as the European debt crisis continues to pose the
biggest threat to growth, the leading economic institutes said.  Europe ’s biggest economy will expand 0.9 percent this year,
up from a prior estimate of 0.8 percent, the four groups
including Munich-based Ifo said today in their twice-yearly
economic outlook for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government. The
economy will grow 2 percent in 2013, they said.  “Growth impulses in the German economy will win the upper
hand” from mid-year after showing weaker expansion in the first
half, said the institutes, citing low  interest rates , falling
 unemployment  and steady growth in demand for its products.
Germany will exploit its attractiveness as a “safe investment
harbor” as doubts over the crisis prevail.  The report underscores the growing disparity between
 Germany  and the rest of Europe as the debt crisis resurfaces to
buffet  Spain  and  Italy . Merkel’s Cabinet approved budget
projections yesterday that showed Germany will effectively
eliminate its deficit in 2014, two years ahead of a deadline set
in the constitution. That contrasts with Italy, which pushed
back its balanced-budget goal by a year the same day.  Spain and France sold 13.05 billion euros ($17 billion) of
debt today, meeting their targets, though both faced rising
borrowing costs. Investor scrutiny of both countries is
increasing as the effect of the  European Central Bank ’s
injection of more than 1 trillion euros into the banking system
fades.  ECB Stimulus  Spain sold 2.54 billion euros of two- and 10-year
securities and  France  raised 10.5 billion euros in debt out of
an 11 billion-euro goal. The yield on the 10-year Spanish
benchmark was 5.743 percent compared with 5.403 percent when it
last sold in January. France’s five-year notes had an average
yield of 1.83 percent today, up from 1.78 percent on March 15.  For Germany, the ECB’s measures, aimed primarily at
preventing the insolvency of states in southern Europe, are a
little recognized boon, the institutes said today.  The ECB’s liquidity measures and its 1 percent benchmark
interest-rate are helping German companies leverage their
competitive advantages over their partners in Europe, they said.
Based on comparative costs, German companies are their most
competitive in 30 years, the group said.  Global Trade  An 8 percent drop in the value of the euro against the
dollar since October also improves the competitiveness of German
goods outside the euro area and helps exporters take advantage
of the global recovery, the institutes said. They forecast
global trade to grow 4.4 percent in 2012 and 6.6 percent in
2013.  In  Asia ,  Japan  reported the fastest export growth in a year
and a smaller-than-expected trade deficit, aiding prospects of a
sustained recovery in the world’s third-biggest economy.  Boosted by car exports to the U.S., outbound shipments rose
5.9 percent in March from a year earlier, exceeding the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.2 percent gain. The
deficit was 82.6 billion yen ($1 billion), less than the median
forecast for a 223.2 billion yen shortfall. Comparisons are
distorted by the earthquake in March 2011.  In the U.S., sales of previously owned homes probably
increased in March as a drop in  mortgage rates  propelled demand
to its strongest quarter in almost two years.  Purchases climbed 0.7 percent to a 4.62 million annual rate
from 4.59 million in February, according to the median estimate
of 72 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Sales in the first
three months of the year would average 4.61 million at an annual
pace, the best since April through June 2010. Jobless claims
declined last week, other data may show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  