-- German Business Confidence in April May Drop on Crisis
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/german-business-confidence-may-drop-for-first-time-in-six-months.html
German  business confidence  probably
declined for the first time in six months in April as the
resurgent sovereign debt crisis threatens to curb growth.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to 109.5 from 109.8 in
March, according to the median forecast of 40 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in
Munich today.  Europe ’s largest economy contracted in the final quarter of
last year as spending cuts across the euro region, its largest
export market, damped demand for its goods. Germany may have
avoided a recession as companies increased sales to faster-
growing markets in  Asia  and unemployment at a two-decade low
bolstered consumption at home.  “The German economy stabilized in the first quarter but
the sovereign debt crisis is flaring up again and companies are
getting reluctant to place orders,” said  Aline Schuiling ,
senior economist at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. “Once the euro-
area economy starts growing moderately from the middle of the
year, domestic demand will pick up quite quickly in  Germany .”  Ifo’s gauge of the  current situation  may have slipped to
117 from 117.4 and an index measuring executives’ expectations
probably fell to 102.3 from 102.7, the survey of economists
shows.  ‘Upper Hand’  “Growth impulses in the German economy will win the upper
hand” from mid-year, the country’s leading economic institutes
said yesterday. They raised their growth forecast for 2012 to
0.9 percent from 0.8 percent and predicted expansion of 2
percent in 2013.  Investor confidence unexpectedly rose to a two-year high
this month, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research said
April 17, suggesting Germany can weather the debt crisis in the
euro region’s periphery.  In  Spain , where unemployment is approaching 24 percent as
the economy contracts, the government is implementing the
deepest austerity measures in three decades in an attempt to
rein in its  budget deficit . Investors are yet to be convinced
that the country will deliver, sending Spanish 10-year yields
above 6 percent earlier this week, approaching levels that drove
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal to seek bailouts.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, yesterday
predicted a “very demanding” 2012 as the debt crisis threatens
economic stability. Still, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said he’s “convinced” the company “can approach
the coming months with confidence.”  ‘Remarkably Good’  European car sales dropped 6.6 percent to a 14-year low
last month as deliveries in France and Italy tumbled by more
than 20 percent. VW, which plans new factories in  Mexico  and
western  China , bucked the trend with a 1.7 percent gain.  The German economy is in “remarkably good shape” and
should gather pace as falling unemployment fuels household
spending, Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said April 17.  Unemployment dropped to 6.7 percent in March and unions are
winning some of the biggest pay increases for workers in two
decades. Factory orders rose 0.3 percent in February and exports
unexpectedly increased for a second month, led by demand from
outside Europe.  “There are good chances that the economy can leave behind
the difficult winter months, pick up speed in spring and return
to faster growth in the course of the year,” Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler said yesterday. “Rising employment and positive
income developments will make an important contribution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  