-- Germany Solar Installations May Have Tripled in First Quarter
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-04-19T09:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/germany-solar-installations-may-have-tripled-in-first-quarter.html
German solar installations may have
more than tripled in the first quarter from a year ago, the
country’s deputy environment minister said.  “The first quarter had big installations,” Katherina
Reiche said today in an interview during an informal meeting of
ministers in  Denmark . “It is assumed that nearly 1,800
megawatts were installed.”  Germany  added 513 megawatts in the same period last year,
according to the Bundesnetzagentur grid regulator.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  seeks to cut by half the pace of
annual solar installations after incentives for the industry
pushed new projects to a record 7.5 gigawatts last year, more
than double a target. Subsidy cuts, still going through
parliament, would take effect April 1, about a year after Merkel
decided to exit nuclear generation and replace reactors with a
mix of renewable and more efficient fossil-fuel plants.  Germany’s BSW-Solar lobby has said the government’s subsidy
reduction plans are too harsh and will worsen a shakeout that
led to the insolvencies of at least four German solar companies
since December.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the
biggest maker of thin-film panels, on April 17 said it would cut
30 percent of its workforce and close a factory in Germany
partly due to subsidy reductions in Germany and  Italy .  “So far we can’t see real reductions because the moderate
reductions we introduced with the recent legislative act are
already in the price,” Reiche said. “I’d expect that also in
the future we have a growing PV market in installations.”  “Innovative companies will still have a chance, they have
to go for research and education and export markets. There’s a
market in  Europe , not only in Germany,” Reiche said. “If a
company just counts on subsidies, it can’t be successful as a
global player.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  