-- Gilead Rises After Hepatitis Data Open New Test Options
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-04-19T20:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/gilead-rises-after-positive-hepatitis-data-open-new-test-options.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  jumped 12
percent after the company said it will keep options open to
advance its hepatitis C research rather than commit to a trial
with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  after promising results from a
joint study on the liver disease.  Gilead’s drug known as 7977 and Bristol-Myers’s daclatasvir
showed a 93 percent cure rate among patients with the most
common form of the disease in the U.S. after 24 weeks of therapy
combined with the antiviral ribavirin, Bristol-Myers said today
at the European Association for the Study of Liver meeting in
Barcelona. Between 91 percent and 100 percent of patients
remained clear of the virus four weeks after treatment ended.  “We’re very encouraged by the data,” John McHutchison,
Gilead’s senior vice president for liver disease, said in an
interview at the meeting. “We have lots of different options.
We’re going to work out what the best options are rather than
committing to a phase-three program with something when we have
all those resources internally,” he said, referring to other
Gilead compounds that show promise.  Bristol-Myers also gained on the data, rising 1.1 percent
to $33.93 at 4 p.m. New York time. Gilead rose $5.64 to $52.25,
it its biggest increase since October 2008.  The study results, which stem from an interim analysis and
therefore aren’t final, contrast with data released in February
that showed six out of eight patients had a viral relapse within
four weeks of stopping a 12-week regimen of 7977 and ribavirin.  Bristol-Myers, which led the joint study, is “very
interested” in pursuing a bigger, more advanced trial on the
drug combination, said Douglas J. Manion, the New York-based
company’s development head of neuroscience and virology.  New Generation  “Gilead would need to be a willing participant in that,
but we think it would be a terrific thing,” Manion said in an
interview in Barcelona. “We want to get into phase 3 validation
of as many viable regimens that contain our drugs as possible.”  Bristol-Myers is also “very open-minded” about conducting
a combination study with a class of drugs known as cyclophilin
inhibitors, which target host proteins that are involved in the
growth of the hepatitis C virus, Manion said. Therapeutic
vaccines are also “high on our radar screen,” Manion said.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , Bristol-Myers, Gilead,  Medivir AB (MVIRB)  and
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH are among drugmakers working on a new
generation of hepatitis treatments designed to act more quickly
with fewer side effects than the current standard of care, which
combines ribavirin with interferon, an immune-boosting protein,
for as long as 48 weeks. Interferon needs to be injected and can
cause flu-like side effects.  Achillion Declines  Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN) , another developer of
hepatitis C drugs,  fell  13 percent after UBS analyst Matthew
Harrison said positive data from Gilead and Bristol-Myers
“suggest a lack of strategic value” for its medicines.  The shares dropped $1.20 to $8.30.  The results from the study of daclatasvir and Gilead’s 7977
show the combination “should be viewed as the regimen with the
strongest potential efficacy, convenience and safety,”  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco , wrote
in a note to clients on April 10.  Bristol-Myers yesterday agreed to conduct two trials in
collaboration with Medivir and Johnson & Johnson’s protease
inhibitor TMC435, expanding on an agreement with J&J announced
last year.  “We want to mix and match with every class,” Manion said.  Blocking Protein  Daclatasvir, or BMS-790052, hinders a protein called NS5A
that creates a scaffolding as part of the virus’s replication
process.  Foster City , California-based Gilead’s drug, 7977,
integrates itself into the virus’s replicating process,
preventing it from churning out copies.  Hepatitis is a viral infection that can cause liver
swelling and inflammation and can lead to damage of the organ,
cancer and death, according to the U.S. National Institutes of
Health.  The disease is most commonly transmitted through
contaminated blood transfusions, organ transplants, contaminated
syringes and needle-injected drug use, according to the  World
Health Organization . More than 170 million people are infected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Barcelona via 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  