-- Gillard Presses RBA for Interest-Rate Cut Amid Poll Slump
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-19T04:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/gillard-presses-rba-for-interest-rate-cut-amid-poll-slump-1-.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  pressed the nation’s central bank to reduce the highest
 interest rates  among major developed nations, saying an easing
would support businesses outside the booming resource industry.  Gillard, whose government trailed the opposition Liberal-
National party by 19 percentage points in a Newspoll published
this week, has pledged to end four years of budget deficits in
the fiscal year that begins July 1 as she seeks to bolster her
economic record.  “A surplus is a fundamental economic imperative,” Gillard
said in a speech today in Perth. “We can give the Reserve Bank
room to move on monetary policy if it chooses to, knowing that
an interest rate reduction is good for families and business.”  The government is planning the biggest spending reduction
as a proportion of gross domestic product in at least 40 years
as it drives to return the budget to surplus even as  tax revenue 
falls. Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled this month
he may end a pause in rate cuts as soon as next month if weaker-
than-forecast growth slows inflation.  “Should the RBA consider it appropriate to change the cash
rate, this could deliver widespread benefits for households and
business,” Gillard said in the speech. “A number of sectors of
the economy most under strain are arguably more sensitive to
interest rates.”  Rate Differential  Australia’s 4.25 percent benchmark rate is higher than the
near-zero levels in the U.S. and  Europe  -- a differential that
has helped buoy the local currency. The so-called Aussie has
been above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for almost four months.  Australia’s economy is driven by a mining boom predicted to
last decades as the urbanization of hundreds of millions of
people in China and  India  increases demand for  iron ore , coal
and liquefied natural gas. In contrast, tourism, manufacturing
and retailer industries have weakened under a currency that has
risen 43 percent in the past three years.  The government is “writing a prescription for how to take
a mining boom and turn it into an opportunity boom, something
we’ve never managed to do in this country before,” Gillard
said. “All four of our previous big mining booms ended poorly -
some in recession, others with little lasting benefit to show.
This time it must and will be different.”  The weakness in non-resource industries has prompted calls
for a delay in the return to surplus and for the central bank to
lower rates.  Rate Room  “There is plenty of room for the RBA to move further if
need be, and to all those calling for rate cuts, you should be
calling for a surplus -- not opposing one,” Gillard said.  The prime minister said running a  budget surplus  “lies at
the very heart” of good economic management.  “I find myself in respectful disagreement with every
commentator and economist who says otherwise, and in furious
agreement with those who see the need,” she said.  Australia ’s underlying cash balance for the year to Feb. 29
was a deficit of A$29.4 billion ($30.5 billion), compared with a
forecast made in November of a A$27.5 billion gap.  “The government shouldn’t be pressuring the central bank
on monetary policy, which is well run; instead it needs to focus
on its own task of managing spending,” said Matthew Circosta,
an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “There are big
question marks over whether the government will actually manage
to return the budget to surplus next fiscal year as recent
history has seen it fail to meet fiscal estimates.”  Economic Integrity  Gillard has staked her government’s economic integrity on
delivering a budget surplus. Her strategy has been threatened by
global pressures including  China ’s economic growth slowdown,
Europe’s debt crisis and elevated unemployment in the U.S.  Australia’s first female leader has also been forced to
fend off a leadership challenge from predecessor  Kevin Rudd .  Support for the governing  Labor party  is hovering near a
record low ahead of elections required by the end of next year.  At 29 percent, Labor trails  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal National
coalition on 48 percent, according to a Newspoll published in
the Australian newspaper on April 17.  The survey of 1,205 people, conducted April 13-15, had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Support
for Labor hit a record low of 26 percent in a Newspoll taken on
Sept. 16-18 last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  