-- Goldman Sachs Director Johnson Opposed by Buffett-Linked Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-19T15:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/goldman-sachs-director-johnson-opposed-by-buffett-linked-fund.html
James A. Johnson, the longest-
serving member of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s board, is being
opposed for re-election by a fund management company that boasts
long-time links with billionaire  Warren Buffett .  Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc., the New York firm that
helps oversee $15 billion, including the $5.7 billion  Sequoia
Fund Inc. (SEQUX) , criticized Johnson’s role in “egregious corporate
governance debacles” in a  letter  on its website yesterday and
said it would also oppose Johnson if he stands for re-election
to the board of  Target Inc. (TGT)  The Financial Times reported on the
letter’s contents earlier today.  “We believe that Mr. Johnson’s history should disqualify
him for service on the board of any public company,” Chief
Executive Officer Robert D. Goldfarb and President David M. Poppe, co-managers of the Sequoia Fund, wrote in the letter to
clients. “We respectfully ask that you vote your Goldman Sachs
proxy against him.”  Johnson, 68, has been chairman of the compensation
committee at Goldman Sachs since it became a public company in
1999. Ruane, Cunniff has managed 1.4 million Goldman Sachs
shares since April 2010, including 435,000 held in the Sequoia
Fund. The board of Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, has recommended that shareholders re-elect Johnson,
 David Wells , a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  “He has served them well since 1999 and will continue to
do so,” Wells said. Johnson didn’t immediately reply to a phone
message left at his office in  Washington .  Graham Acolytes  The public rebuke by an investor comes in the same week
that a majority of shareholders of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, voted against a compensation plan
for executives including CEO Vikram Pandit.  Sequoia Fund was co-founded in 1970 by Richard Cunniff and
William Ruane, a friend of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  CEO Buffett
since both studied under value investor  Benjamin Graham  at
 Columbia University . When Buffett shut down his investment
partnership in 1969 to concentrate on Berkshire Hathaway, he
recommended that his clients invest with Ruane.  Buffett, who disclosed earlier this week that he is being
treated for prostate cancer, last year redeemed his $5 billion
preferred-stock investment in Goldman Sachs that was made at the
depths of the financial crisis. He continues to hold warrants on
the stock and has been a supporter of Goldman Sachs Chairman and
CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57.  Beats Peers  Sequoia Fund, which reopened to new investors in 2008 after
having been closed to outside money for 26 years, disclosed in a
regulatory filing in January that it was limiting new investment
through financial advisers and intermediaries. It said it would
continue to sell shares directly to investors.  Sequoia generated a 13.2 percent return last year,
outperforming 99 percent of its peers as well as the 2.1 percent
gain that the  S&P 500 index  recorded when dividends are
included, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund had
a total return of 19.5 percent in 2010, a performance that led
Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. to designate Goldfarb and Poppe
as its domestic stock fund managers of the year.  Ruane, Cunniff voted against Johnson’s re-election to the
Goldman Sachs board and the Target board last year, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the fund doesn’t disclose how it votes.  From 1991 until 1998, Johnson was chairman and CEO of
mortgage-finance company Fannie Mae, which was taken under
government protection in 2008. His tenure at  Fannie Mae  was a
central theme of the book “Reckless Endangerment: How Outsized
Ambition, Greed and Corruption Led to Economic Armageddon” by
 Gretchen Morgenson  and  Joshua Rosner  that was published last
year.  Restated Earnings  In their April 18 letter to investors, Goldfarb and Poppe
wrote that Fannie Mae used its status as a government-sponsored
entity to borrow money cheaply and “dramatically expanded its
portfolio of retained mortgages” during the 1990s.  “Rather than act conservatively to protect taxpayers,
during Johnson’s tenure Fannie ramped up its growth by buying
lower-quality mortgages,” according to the letter. “This
bloated Fannie’s balance sheet, increased its profit and
magnified the risk to taxpayers.”  The letter also cites Johnson’s tenures on the boards of
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest
U.S. health insurer, and Los Angeles-based homebuilder  KB Home (KBH) ,
which both had to restate earnings after backdating option
grants to their CEOs.  Goldfarb and Poppe also cite media reports from 2008 that
said Johnson may have received below-market rates on home loans
from Countrywide Financial, which sold loans to Fannie Mae.  Following a June 7, 2008, report in the Wall Street Journal,
Johnson quit then-Senator Barack Obama’s vice-presidential
search committee to avoid distracting attention from Obama’s
candidacy and said that “blatantly false statements and
misrepresentations” were written about him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  