-- Google Seeks Billions by Boosting Mobile Internet Speeds
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/google-seeks-billions-by-boosting-mobile-internet-speeds.html
Like many users of mobile devices,
Arvind Jain is annoyed by how long it takes Web pages to load
over cellular connections.  The  Google Inc. (GOOG)   engineering director  is continually
monitoring Internet-access rates -- from hotels, offices and
airport lounges around the world -- looking for ways to speed
things up. Jain’s mission: get websites to load over mobile-
phone networks twice as quickly as they do now. Today’s times
are typically 9.2 seconds in the U.S.  The goal is part of a companywide initiative for Google,
the world’s biggest search-engine provider, which aims to use
faster mobile  Internet access  to unlock billions of dollars in
additional e-commerce and online advertising. When people are
waiting for pages to load, they aren’t shopping or viewing ads.
That’s hampering everyone from giant Internet companies to local
businesses trying to reach customers.  “There’s a clear correlation between speed and the success
of your online business,” Jain said.  What makes a mobile Web connection slow? In some cases,
it’s the carriers’ network -- say, if users can’t get 3G or 4G
service on their phones. Often, though, it’s because the Web
page wasn’t designed to load quickly on a wireless device. The
site may have high-resolution pictures or data-intensive
effects. Beyond that, Internet protocols and software aren’t
always optimized for mobile connections, which can lose some of
the data they transmit.  Website Abandonment  An especially long delay can cause consumers to give up on
purchases altogether, and the risk is more acute on mobile
phones than with desktop computers. Twice as many mobile-phone
users abandon a website for reasons such as sluggishness than
their desktop counterparts, according to  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) 
That results in lost revenue for online sellers, as well as
companies like Google, the U.S. leader in mobile advertising.  To fix the problem, Google is tweaking its mobile browser
and working with other companies on changing the way basic
Internet technologies work. It’s also rolling out tools that
help website owners see the connection between their sites’
performance and sales. That can prod businesses to spend the
money needed to speed up their services.  Faster mobile Web loads could increase mobile-commerce
sales in the U.S. by 10 percent, or about $600 million a year,
said  Sucharita Mulpuru , an analyst at Forrester. They also could
help online commerce in general: Almost half of mobile users are
unlikely to return to a website at all if they had trouble
accessing it from their phone, a 2011 study by  Equation Research
found .  Hurting Business  “There’s a big business impact to these kind of
struggles,” said Geoff Galat, vice president of worldwide
marketing at  Tealeaf Technology Inc. , a provider of website-
improvement software.  Faster mobile Web speeds also translate into additional
mobile-ad revenue. A 30 percent improvement in mobile Internet’s
speed could lead to a 15 percent rise in ad sales, said Trevor Healy, chief executive officer of mobile-ad provider  Amobee Inc. 
U.S. mobile-advertising spending will reach $2.61 billion this
year, up from $1.45 billion in 2011, according to EMarketer Inc.  While carriers adopting 4G networks have helped speed up
the mobile Internet, those upgrades won’t have the biggest
impact on performance, said  Craig Mathias , founder of consulting
firm Farpoint Group in Ashland,  Massachusetts . Improvements to
servers, browsers and other Internet software are even more
important, he said.  Catching up to Desktops  Google has plenty of company in trying to accelerate mobile
connections.  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Mozilla
and a slew of startups are all focused on optimizing Web
performance.  The effort could be help mobile speeds catch up with
desktop rates by 2014, said  Lelah Manz , chief strategist for e-
commerce at Akamai. For now, wired users are far ahead. They
haven’t had to deal with nine-second downloads since at least
2001, according to Akamai.  “Mobile has to catch up,” Manz said. “Your shoppers are
more distracted on a mobile device, and the performance is more
important. This realization has just started to hit in the last
six to nine months.”  To get there, Google has been tweaking its Chrome Web
browser for Android, the most popular smartphone operating
system. The software will rely more heavily on artificial
intelligence in predicting what Web address someone wants to
visit -- and then start loading the page while the user is still
typing. That feature is currently available in a beta-test form,
Jain said.  Web Protocols  Google also is pushing for revisions to Internet protocols,
the decades-old rules that govern the way the Web functions. The
changes would better handle the quirks of modern mobile
networks, such as their propensity to occasionally lose data en
route. A revision called  TCP PRR , for example, will deploy a new
algorithm that accounts for data losses and network congestion.  Another adjustment, called TCP Fast Open, will eliminate
the need to synchronize the phone and the server before
transmitting the data. Once the revision is adopted,
synchronization will happen at the same time as the transfer of
data from a website.  Google recently updated its Google Analytics feature to let
Web publishers overlay the speed of their site with business
measurements, such as revenue per day. That helps them see the
correlation and figure out return on investment.  Akamai, meanwhile, is working with  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s
largest maker of wireless networks, to  develop special
technology  that carriers can use to provide priority Web access
to users of retail websites, Manz said. The technology will
become available in the U.S. in 2013, she said.  Fewer Requests  In March, Akamai released the Aqua Mobile Accelerator, a
technology that sends multiple packets over the mobile network
at the same time, cutting down on the number of repeat requests.  Startups are plunging into mobile Web optimization as well.
For the past two months,  CloudFlare Inc.  has been testing a
feature called Polish, which automatically goes through images
on websites and ensures they are compressed correctly. Mobile-
app maker Onavo Mobile Ltd.,  makes sure  images only load when
users scroll down to the part of the Web page where the pictures
would be visible.  For retailers, such technical advances can’t come soon
enough. Said Jonathan Johnson, president of retailer
 Overstock.com Inc. , a Web discounter based in  Salt Lake City :
“The longer purchasers have to wait, the more frustrated they
get, and the more likely they are to leave the site.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  