-- Google Engineer Says E-Mail Didn’t Refer to Java License
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-19T23:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/google-engineer-says-e-mail-didn-t-refer-to-java-license.html
A Google Inc. software engineer
testified that when he wrote in a 2010 e-mail, “We need a
license for Java,” he didn’t mean a license from Java’s
creator, Sun Microsystems Inc., or any other company.  “When you referred to a license, was it a license from
Sun?” Tim Lindholm, the engineer, was asked today by  David Boies , an attorney for  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , which acquired Sun in 2010
and owns the Java programming language.  “No, it was not,” Lindholm said before a federal jury in
 San Francisco  at a trial over whether Google infringed Oracle’s
copyrights and patents when it used Java to develop the Android
operating system for mobile devices. “It wasn’t specifically a
license from anyone.”  The e-mail, which Google tried unsuccessfully to keep
jurors from seeing, is a key piece of evidence in the case. It
has been used several times by Oracle’s attorneys, who told
jurors at the beginning of the trial that Google, the owner of
the world’s most popular search engine, knew it needed to pay
for a Java license.  “Jurors are always looking for motives in intellectual
property cases,” said Philip Anthony, a jury consultant in  Los
Angeles  who isn’t involved in the case. “The importance of the
e-mail provides motive for a juror.”  No Option  “It essentially says to a lay person Google had no other
option but to infringe upon the Java property,” Anthony, chief
executive officer of DecisionQuest, said in a phone interview.  Google has said it didn’t need a license to use the
language, which is free, when it developed Android, now running
on more than 300 million devices.  In his e-mail, Lindholm said he had been asked by  Sergey Brin  and  Larry Page , Google’s co-founders, to “investigate what
technical alternatives exist to Java for Android.”  “We’ve been over a bunch of these, and think they all
suck,” Lindholm wrote. “We conclude that we need to negotiate
a license for Java under the terms we need.”  Shown the e-mail yesterday when he was called to the stand
by Oracle, Page said he couldn’t recall Lindholm or giving him
any directions concerning Java or whether Lindholm had
recommended that Google take a license for Java.  Lindholm, a former Sun engineer who joined Google in 2005,
said later in his testimony today that Google and Sun were in
discussions about a co-development agreement in which Google
would use Sun’s source code, or computer program instructions,
as a basis for work on Android.  ‘No Substantial Role’  “In that agreement a license would have been necessary,”
Lindholm said. He said he played “no substantial role” in the
development of Android.  Google rejected a proposal by Sun in 2006 that the search
engine company pay $100 million for a three-year technology
partnership to build Android jointly, Google’s lawyers said in
the case last year.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City ,  California , is seeking
$1 billion in damages and a court order blocking distribution of
Android unless Google, based in  Mountain View , California, pays
for a license.  Boies didn’t question Lindholm further about the details of
the license referred to in the 2010 e-mail and the engineer
wasn’t asked to explain his meaning when questioned by a Google
lawyer.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  