-- Greentech Stands by Offer as Fersa Says Doesn’t Reflect Value
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-19T13:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/greentech-stands-by-offer-as-fersa-says-doesn-t-reflect-value.html
Greentech Energy Systems A/S (GES)  is
pressing ahead with its 40 euro cent a share offer for  Fersa
Energias Renovables SA (FRS)  after the Spanish clean energy company
said the bid didn’t reflect its value.  “We believe it’s more than fairly priced given the market
conditions and the comparable multiple analysis, the problems of
the company and the size of its indebtedness,” said Sigieri
Diaz della Vittoria Pallavicini, chief executive officer at
Copenhagen-based Greentech Energy Systems.  Greentech’s offer values Fersa at 56 million euros ($73
million) based on its 140 million shares, the CEO said. Combined
with Fersa’s debt, the takeover transaction is worth about 300
million euros, he said in a phone interview. The market value of
Barcelona-based Fersa is about 62 million euros.  Greentech is seeking to buy companies in distress due to
the European debt crisis with plans to boost renewable capacity
to 1 gigawatt by 2014. It currently operates about 300 megawatts
of projects in countries such as Italy, Germany and  Spain .  The shares of Fersa have fallen almost two-thirds this year
as governments including Spain cut back on state-aid for clean
 power plants  to pare debt. Spain is Fersa’s largest market,
according to the company website.  Greentech’s offer was an “unsolicited takeover bid” that
doesn’t reflect company’s real value, Fersa said in a statement
dated April 17. The company didn’t immediately comment when
contacted today by phone. Greentech started the offer to buy all
of Fersa’s shares on  April 13 .  “We are near nine times Ebidta, and nine times Ebitda does
not reflect the valuation of renewable companies today,” Diaz
Pallavicini said, citing  Acciona SA. (ANA)  The Spanish clean power
company trades at 8.23 times Ebitda, according to Bloomberg
data.  Combined Entity  A combined Fersa and Greentech would have 580 megawatts of
installed capacity by the end of this year and gain Greentech
entry to markets including  India , the third-biggest wind market,
as well as  France , he said.  Greentech would finance the transaction with a loan agreed
to though not yet signed with a European bank, he said.  “It will not be an easy deal because it’s in Spain,” Diaz
Pallavicini said. Spain halted subsidies for new renewable
energy projects in January. “It’s a terrible economic climate,
so to come out and invest 300 million euros in Spain is not so
obvious,” he said.  The bid is subject to acceptance of more than 50 percent of
shareholders and made on the condition that Fersa doesn’t sell
any projects or parts of its facilities, he said. Net debt for
the companies would be 480 million euros, he said. Combined
revenue would be 120 million euros.  Diaz Pallavicini aims to have the bid approved by the
regulator by mid-June. The Fersa board will make formal response
once that’s authorized, according to Fersa’s statement.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  