-- Guar Crop in India to Climb on Prices, Boosting Exports
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-04-20T06:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/guar-crop-in-india-to-climb-on-prices-boosting-exports.html
Farmers in India, the world’s
biggest guar gum exporter, may plant more of the crop to benefit
from a ninefold surge in prices, boosting supplies for oil
industry users such as  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   Area under the crop may climb as much as 20 percent in the
season starting July 1 from 3.5 million hectares (8.6 million
acres) this year, said Rajesh Kedia, director at Jai Bharat Gum
& Chemicals Ltd., India’s second-biggest exporter of guar gum, a
thickening agent used mostly in food, pharmaceuticals and in
certain fracturing treatments.  Guar gum rallied to 80,970 rupees ($1,557) per 100
kilograms on March 27 in Mumbai from 8,750 rupees a year
earlier, prompting the nation’s commodity market regulator to
ban futures trading. The price surge negatively impacted margins
for Halliburton, the world’s largest provider of hydraulic-
fracturing services, Dave Lesar, chief executive officer, said
in a conference call on April 18.  “I expect a higher crop next year which may lead to a fall
in prices by half,” said Mitul Shah, managing director of Rama
Industries, the third-largest shipper. Exports from  India  may
climb to as much as 700,000 metric tons next year from about
400,000 tons this year, he said.  The increase in demand for guar gum is being driven by a
surge in the number of private companies allowed to explore oil
and gas in the U.S., Shah said. Halliburton helps companies
drill and complete oil and gas wells using a pressure-pumping
technique known as fracking, which blasts water mixed with sand
and chemicals underground to free trapped hydrocarbons from
shale formations.  Drilling Cost  The cost to drill and complete a well climbed 6 percent in
2010, a further 25 percent last year and is projected to grow 20
percent this year, according to a January presentation from
Tulsa, Oklahoma-based industry consultant Spears & Associates.  “There is a 50-60 percent increase in demand mainly from
the U.S. after the country allowed more private companies into
the oil drilling business,” Shah said.  Guar gum, is extracted from the seeds of a leguminous plant
grown in India,  Pakistan  and the U.S. and is also an ingredient
in food emulsifiers, additives and thickeners. India accounts
for more than 70 percent of the global seed production,
according to the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd.   ‘Fastest-moving Commodity’  “If prices remain in the current range, there may be a
decline in exports next year,” Jai Bharat’s Kedia said. Export
prices surged to $20,000 a ton in March from $5,000 a ton in
October, he said.  India exported 403,675 tons of guar gum worth $617 million
in the year ended March 31, 2011, according to the Agricultural
& Processed Food Product Export Development Authority.  “The problem with guar, it’s probably the fastest-moving
commodity price that I’ve ever seen,” Halliburton’s Lesar said.
“We, like the rest of the industry, are looking for
alternatives to guar, and we are having some customers accept
either lower-grade guar or alternatives to guar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  