-- Gucci Assails Guess for ‘Studied Imitations’ at Trial
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-04-19T20:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/gucci-assails-guess-for-studied-imitations-at-trial.html
Gucci America Inc., (GES)  the maker of
luxury clothing and accessories, made its final arguments in
federal court today in a lawsuit claiming that Guess? Inc.
copied its trademarked designs.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin conducted a three-week
nonjury trial of Gucci’s infringement claims in  Manhattan . She
reserved judgment today and told lawyers for both sides after
their closing arguments to submit post-trial documents “as
quickly as you can. I want to get through this while it’s still
fresh in my mind,” she said.  Gucci, a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , sued Guess in 2009
claiming that the Los Angeles-based clothing maker was selling
apparel and accessories in stores and online with logos that are
“studied imitations of the Gucci trademarks.” The imitations
included a green-and-red stripe design, a square G, the
designer’s name in flowing script and a diamond pattern with
repeating interlocking G’s.  “This was in fact a calculated scheme to infringe on some
of Gucci’s most iconic trademarks,” Louis Ederer, a lawyer for
Gucci, said in his closing argument. He said in March that
$221 million worth of Guess products infringed Gucci’s designs.  Claim to Infringement  Guess said in court papers that Gucci has no right to claim
infringement because it “sat on its rights” for at least seven
years before suing. Guess also said Gucci’s surveys failed to
prove that consumers would be confused by the designs.  “They have no evidence of actual confusion and they have
no lost sales or diverted sales,”  Daniel Petrocelli , a lawyer
for Guess, said in his closing argument. “Intent is the pivotal
issue in this case and the evidence in this trial is
irreconcilable with any notion that Gucci intended or schemed to
deceive consumers.”  Gucci is seeking monetary damages and other assessments
totaling as much as $120 million, Ederer said in court.  Scheindlin interrupted Ederer’s closing at one point to
ask why Gucci had waited years before filing the lawsuit.  “Millions of products were sold in the U.S. with Quattro G
designs,” the judge said. “The advertisements were all over
the place. How could they have missed it?”  ‘Private Investigators’  Ederer replied, “Private investigators were looking for a
lot of other things besides what other fashion designers were
doing. We were focused on counterfeiting. No one came forward
and notified anyone at Gucci America about this.”  The defendants also include Guess’s exclusive footwear
licensee, Marc Fisher Footwear, Max Leather Group and Swank Inc.  “Gucci’s claims of a sophisticated and elaborate scheme
are simply not supported by evidence,” Darren Saunders, a
lawyer for Marc Fisher, said in his closing argument. “What are
Gucci’s claims really about? They’re about a few shoes that,
yes, came too close.”  Guess Chief Executive Officer Paul Marciano testified last
week. Born in  Morocco  and raised in Marseilles,  France , he and
his brothers founded Guess in  California  in 1981. The company’s
early success came from marketing jeans.  “The whole idea of trademark infringement is one of
consumer confusion,” said Joseph Saphia, an intellectual-
property attorney with Wiggin & Dana LLP in New York, who isn’t
involved in the suit. “If there isn’t consumer confusion in the
marketplace, what difference does it make?” Saphia said
yesterday in a phone interview.  PPR fell 2.40 euros, or 2 percent, to 120.05 euros in Paris
 trading . Guess fell 37 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $29.51 on the
New York Stock Exchange.  The case is Gucci America v. Guess Inc., 09-4373, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Editors: Fred Strasser,  Charles Carter   To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  