-- Michelle Obama Military Focus Helps as Women Swell Ranks
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-04-19T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/michelle-obama-military-focus-helps-as-women-swell-ranks.html
First lady Michelle Obama’s
campaign to support military families wins bipartisan praise. It
may be good politics, too.  The face of the U.S. military is changing to become more
diverse in gender and race, meaning the armed forces vote is
less reliably Republican.  “It happens to be good policy framed in a way that’s good
politics for them,” said Peter Feaver, a political science
professor at  Duke University  in Durham, North Carolina, who
worked on the National Security Council under Presidents  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush .  “I would not accuse them of being motivated by the
politics -- I think they’re probably sincerely motivated by the
policy -- but they’re not opposed to the political benefit,”
said Feaver.  In 1975, the composition of new recruits was 5 percent
Hispanic and 9 percent female. By 2010, the number of Hispanic
recruits had more than tripled to 17 percent and the number of
women almost doubled to 17 percent.  Army Lieutenant Colonel Jason Dempsey, who helped shape
Joining Forces, an initiative created by the first lady and  Jill Biden , wife of Vice President Joe Biden, said the country is
entering “an era when the military vote is up for grabs.” The
partisan divide is “softer than it has been in a long time.”  Shifting Votes  While the majority of active-duty Army members vote
Republican, more planned to vote for Obama in 2008 than they did
for Democratic candidate  John Kerry  in 2004, according to an
analysis conducted by Dempsey of a 2008 Military Times poll.  Michelle Obama and Jill Biden started Joining Forces a year
ago with the intention of helping military families cope with
extended separations, unemployment and other issues.  The jobless rate for veterans who have served since the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks was 12.1 percent last year, up from
11.5 percent in 2010, according to a report by the  U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics .  During an April 4 conference call with reporters to
announce pledges of more than 15,000 jobs for service members’
spouses from U.S. companies, the first lady lauded the men and
women who she said “take on so much.”  “Just think of it -- every couple of years they are
packing up and they’re moving from state to state,” she said.
“Oftentimes they’re doing the work of two parents.”  Veteran Jobs  So far, the program has led to more than 50,000 veterans
and military spouses being hired and pledges from businesses to
employ at least 160,000 more. Companies participating in the
initiative include  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   The program is also working to improve training for doctors
and nurses who treat military veterans suffering from combat
trauma, including Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, and on efforts
to make it easier for military spouses to transfer state
professional licenses.  Florida Republican Party Chairman Lenny Curry is a
supporter of the program. “I’m going to give him the benefit of
the doubt and hope and assume it’s not political,” he said.  The Obama administration said politics plays no role in
Joining Forces. Kristina Schake, the first lady’s communications
director, said Obama “takes her personal responsibility
seriously and her work to rally support for military members and
their families as part of Joining Forces will continue and will
remain separate from any election-year political activity.”  Nonpartisan Program  Michelle Obama  emphasized the nonpartisan nature of the
program in an April 6  interview  with American Forces Press
Service, saying the administration wants “to set up a structure
to ensure this continues, regardless of who’s in office.”  Still, in a close election, the votes cast by the more than
1.4 million active duty military personnel, and the support of
their approximately 2 million spouses and dependents, could be
decisive.  The Obama-Biden re-election campaign is running a veterans
and military family outreach program and has signed up almost
11,000 veterans and military family member volunteers.  “In 2008 Barack made a promise that as president he would
bring the  Iraq  war to a responsible end; he kept his word,”
Michelle Obama said in an Internet video posted on the Obama
campaign’s website. “When he took office more than 140,000
troops were stationed in Iraq. This past December the last of
our soldiers came home.”  One-Year Anniversary  The first lady and the vice president’s wife marked the
one-year anniversary of Joining Forces last week -- in the
battleground states of Florida, Pennsylvania and  Virginia .  “In April of a presidential election year every single
thing the first lady does is political,” said  Wendy Schiller , a
political science professor at  Brown University  in Providence,
Rhode Island.  North Carolina , which Obama won by about 14,000 votes -- or
1 percentage point -- in 2008, is home to the Army’s Fort Bragg
and the Marines’ Camp Lejeune. Michelle Obama’s first trip
outside Washington in March 2009 was to Fort Bragg. The
president marked the end of the  Iraq war  with his own visit to
the fort.  Richard Kohn, an emeritus professor of military history at
the University of North Carolina at  Chapel Hill , said Obama has
helped Democrats make a case with military voters and their
families with the killing of  Osama bin Laden , the increase in
U.S. drone strikes, and the way the president has “managed to
maneuver it so that Republicans are responsible” for some $500
billion in defense cuts during the next decade if a deficit deal
isn’t reached by January 2013.  Not Since Truman  Meanwhile, Kohn said, “You haven’t heard a Democratic
president talk in such glowing or laudatory terms about military
service probably in two generations since Truman.”  North Carolina Republican Party Chairman and former
Representative Robin Hayes, who served on the Armed Services
Committee and represented the Fort Bragg area in Congress, said
he expects Obama’s courtship of the military to be outweighed by
his willingness to reduce the  defense budget .  While Hayes said he doesn’t dispute Obama’s motives, “it’s
only a day or two before it shows up in a political ad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  