-- Microsoft Profit Tops Estimates on Corporate Demand
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-04-19T23:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/microsoft-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-corporate-software-demand.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s
largest software maker, reported fiscal third-quarter profit
that topped estimates on better-than-expected sales of software
for businesses.  Net income slipped to $5.11 billion, or 60 cents a  share ,
from $5.23 billion, or 61 cents, a year earlier, Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft said today in a  statement . Analysts
had predicted an average 57 cents in profit, according to
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg . Sales rose to 6 percent to
$17.4 billion, beating the $17.2 billion average projection.  Microsoft benefited from robust corporate purchasing of
Office productivity programs, Windows 7 operating systems and
software for servers. The company plans later this year to
release Windows 8, the newest version of its operating system,
to help it win back consumers and narrow Apple Inc.’s lead in
the market for tablets.  “These are the kind of quarters that are tough to pull
out, and the corporate demand is pulling them through,” said
Pat Becker Jr., a  fund manager  at Becker Capital Management in
Portland,  Oregon , who owns Microsoft shares.  Microsoft shares  climbed as much as 3.2 percent to $32 in
extended trading after the report. The stock had decreased less
than 1 percent to $31.01 at the close in  New York . It gained 24
percent in the three months through the end of March, the
biggest  quarterly increase  since mid-2009, as investors grow
more confident about the prospects for Windows 8.  Attention to Costs  Microsoft gave its first look at operating-cost projections
for the fiscal year that starts July 1, saying expenses will be
$30.3 billion to $30.9 billion.  That’s an increase of as much as 8 percent, higher than
this year’s increase, as the company plans for costs related to
product debuts in Windows and Office, Microsoft Chief Financial
Officer  Peter Klein  said in an interview.  In the current year, expenses will be $28.3 billion to
$28.7 billion, lower than a January forecast of $28.5 billion to
$28.9 billion.  Expenses are under renewed scrutiny because Microsoft’s
revenue growth is slowing, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC
Partners LP in New York, who recommends buying Microsoft shares.  Sales in the current  fiscal year  are predicted by analysts
to rise 6 percent, compared with 12 percent in 2011.  “It’s all about cost discipline because revenue growth
isn’t great,” he said.  Windows Gaining  Unearned revenue, a measure of future sales, was $15.2
billion, above the $14.9 billion average estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit in the year-ago quarter was boosted by a 5-
cent tax benefit.  Windows division sales rose 4 percent to $4.62 billion,
compared with the $4.2 billion average estimate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the fastest growth since
the quarter that ended Sept. 30 2010, Microsoft said.  “We are seeing year-over-year growth in Windows again, and
it’s actually looking like it’s growing faster than PCs,” said
Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities LLC in
 Portland , Oregon, who has a neutral rating on the shares.  Revenue in the Business division, mostly from Office
software, rose 9.1 percent to $5.81 billion. That shows that
demand for Office 2010 software, which was released in mid-2010,
has persisted longer than would be expected for an almost two-
year old product, Microsoft’s Klein said. Analysts on average
had projected $5.6 billion.  Business Demand  Office has “frankly been better than you would normally
expect at this point in the cycle,” he said.  The Windows division was bolstered as purchases of Windows
7 software from enterprise customers outweighed lackluster
demand from consumers. Shipments of corporate machines rose 8
percent, while consumer demand was flat, Klein said.  The increase in Windows sales was greater than the overall
increase in PC shipments reported by Gartner Inc. PC shipments
were better than expected in the first quarter, according to
market-research firm Gartner, rising 1.9 percent, instead of the
1.2 percent drop Gartner had forecast. The PC market is shaking
off the impact of the European debt crisis and a disk-drive
shortage resulting from last year’s flooding in  Thailand .  Households that used to purchase cheap netbook computers
are switching to such devices as tablet computers, he said. A
new iPad went on sale last month and sold 3 million units in its
debut weekend.  Windows 8 Cometh  Microsoft probably won’t be able to alter that trend until
Windows 8 ships, Klein said in January.  While the company has declined to say when Windows 8 will
go on sale, people with knowledge of the matter said last month
that Microsoft will finish work on the product this summer and
put it on sale around October.  Prior to this quarter, Windows division sales have fallen
short of analysts’ estimates in four of the past five periods.  Another area of consumer weakness showed up in the division
that includes Xbox, where sales declined 16 percent to $1.62
billion, below analysts’ average estimate for sales of $2.1
billion. In what Microsoft termed a “soft” console market, the
company sold only 1.4 million Xbox 360 machines, down 48 percent
from the year-ago quarter.  Microsoft doesn’t plan to market a new version of its
gaming console until 2013 at the earliest, people with knowledge
of the matter said last month. That means Microsoft will need to
squeeze a few more quarters of sales from the device, and that
weaker demand for the current machine is a concern, Barnicle
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  