-- Tiger Moms Craving SUVs Drive Next Wave of Chinese Demand: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-19T22:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/tiger-moms-craving-suvs-drive-next-wave-of-chinese-demand-cars.html
Zhou Na, a 37-year-old Beijing
mother, says she knows why sport-utility vehicles are the
fastest-growing segment in the world’s biggest automobile
market: kids.  “I have to drive my kid around practically non-stop on
Saturday,” said Zhou, who ferries her eight-year-old son to
Kung Fu and English classes on weekends to the Children’s Palace
of Beijing before joining her friends for yoga. “It’s pretty
tiring, but I feel very good driving my BMW X5 around.”  Zhou represents the growing army of so-called tiger moms
who may fuel the next spurt of growth for the automotive
industry in China, where the middle-class population is
projected to double over the next decade.  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are among automakers
unveiling new models, particularly SUVs, at next week’s Beijing
International Automotive Exhibition to vie for families looking
for a second vehicle to drive around children and buy groceries.  “You look at the trend for more utility and family-
oriented vehicles and behind that is women,” said  Bill Russo , a
senior adviser at Booz & Co. and formerly Chrysler Group LLC’s
China head. “In the U.S., we call it the soccer moms.”  SUV demand in China jumped 20 percent last year, more than
triple the growth in total passenger-car deliveries, according
to data from the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.
SUV demand continues to outpace other vehicle segments, with
sales up 18 percent in the first quarter, bucking the slump in
the broader market, where deliveries fell for the first time
since 2005.  Car Sales Increase  The average Chinese consumer now earns more than $4,000 a
year, crossing a threshold that  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  says
typically spurs car purchases to increase at twice the pace of
income growth.  “A car parked outside follows on the heels of home
ownership as part of the middle-class Chinese dream,”  Janet Lewis , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Macquarie, wrote in a
February report. “Private  car ownership  was not common prior to
2000, but a family car is quickly becoming a desired -- and
attainable -- consumer product.”  China’s middle-class population will reach 600 million to
800 million in the next 10 to 15 years, compared with about 300
million now, according to Macquarie.  ‘Tiger Moms’  “For tiger moms -- and other moms -- SUVs offer great
appeal as the whole family can be transported safely and in
style,” said Trevor Hale, Ford’s Shanghai-based spokesman, in
reference to the nickname coined by author Amy Chua for strict
Chinese mothers. “We see great potential to grow this segment
and are bringing more of our SUVs to  China .”  Ford will display three SUV models at the Beijing auto
show, including the Kuga that’s aimed at families with a small
child. The Dearborn, Michigan-based carmaker currently sells the
imported Edge SUV in China and plans to build the Kuga at a new
plant in Chongqing, southwest China, Hale said.  BMW will show the  X3 xDrive 28i  and revamped X6 at the
Beijing show, which opens to the public on April 27. Sales of
BMW’s X-series SUVs surged 92 percent in the first quarter to
more than 20,000 units, according to the company.  Porsche AG, which depends on the Cayenne for half of its
deliveries, will show a refreshed version of the luxury SUV.
Maserati will exhibit its new Kubang, which the company said it
expects to go into production in 2013.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Lamborghini will unveil an SUV study at the Beijing show, almost
two decades after discontinuing the so-called Rambo Lambo
military vehicle, a person familiar with the company’s plans
said in February.  ‘Year of SUVs’  “Automakers are swooping in with SUV models, even those
that never had SUV models before,” said Zhang Zhiyong, an
independent automotive analyst based in Beijing. “The segment
is getting more crowded, which will definitely lead to price
competition.”  That doesn’t deter Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz, which predicts
2012 to be the “year of the SUV” for the German carmaker,
which will unveil its China-made GLK in Beijing next week.
Mercedes-Benz boosted SUV sales in China by 85 percent last
year, while total sales in the country rose 35 percent.  “With the rising middle class in the country, SUVs are
among the most popular choices for Chinese consumers,” said
Bjorn Hauber, executive vice president of sales and marketing at
Mercedes-Benz (China) Ltd.  Demand for SUVs will continue to increase as more families
buy their second car and the number of women owners increases,
said Hui Yumei, head of automotive research at Sinotrust
International Information & Consulting (Beijing) Co.  Changing Times  “In the past, most Chinese families had one car and it’s
driven by the men,” said Hui. “Times have changed and there’re
now more women car owners. SUVs will be the most important
segment for automakers in China for a long time.”  Automakers are counting on Hui’s prediction to come true
after sedan sales in China declined 2.2 percent in the first
quarter, weighed by record fuel prices and a slowing economy.
So-called dual-purpose vehicles used to ferry goods and people
have slumped 8.5 percent, while truck sales have dropped 6.8
percent, according to data from the auto association.  That’s a contrast to 2010, when overall auto demand jumped
32 percent after the government introduced subsidies and
rebates. Sales then slowed to 2.5 percent last year after the
incentives ran out. This year, vehicle sales will probably miss
the 8 percent growth forecast by CAAM, Gu Xianghua, deputy
secretary general of the state-backed auto association, said
last month.  The slowdown may be short-lived. Macquarie estimates SUVs
will revive annual total vehicle sales growth to at least 10
percent from next year as incomes grow, Chinese cities become
increasingly urbanized and public transportation remains
inadequate.  Among those driving demand may be women like Nina Zhang, a
35-year-old accountant living in Beijing, who bought a  Land
Rover Freelander 2  last year to run errands and take her
daughter to dance and art lessons on weekends at Jingshan Park,
a former imperial garden.  “We used to go away a lot to the countryside before we
became parents,” said Zhang, whose husband drives a Volkswagen
Magotan sedan. “Now we don’t have as much time, but this SUV
reminds us of the lifestyle that we love.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Tian Ying in
Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  