-- Military Brass Serve TAPS; Folger’s Quiz: Scene in D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-19T14:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/military-brass-serve-taps-folger-s-quiz-scene-in-d-c-.html
Anyone who “aspires to
leadership” should read Shakespeare’s “Henry V,” according to
Representative Rush Holt, the New Jersey Democrat.  “It’s a little militaristic, but you gotta love it.”  Holt, along with British Ambassador Peter Westmacott,
reflected on the writer’s works last night at the gala for the
 Folger Shakespeare Library , the world’s largest collection of
things Bardish.  The gala co-chairmen, David and Margaret Gardner, posed in
front of the library’s statue of the character Puck, inscribed
with words from “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.”  During the cocktail reception in the library’s Great Hall,
Representative John Dingell, the  Michigan  Democrat, said
“Hamlet” was his favorite Bard work. His wife, Debbie Dingell,
vice chairman of General Motors Foundation Inc., was “at home
with President Obama,” helping him campaign in Michigan, the
congressman said.  Gala committee member Edward Leahy, who’s on the law
faculty at Oxford University, said he favored “Macbeth,” while
Francis Wahlgren, the international department head and senior
vice president for printed books and manuscripts at Christie’s,
admired the library’s prized possession, a 1623 First Folio, the
first collected edition of Shakespeare’s plays.  After the cocktail hour, guests made their way into the
Elizabethan theater for the evening’s entertainment: “Wait,
Wait, Forsooth!” -- a parody of the NPR show “Wait Wait ...
Don’t Tell Me.” Holt and other guests were quizzed on their
Bard knowledge.  A filet mignon dinner was served to the more than 200
guests in the library’s Gail Kern Paster Reading Room. The
evening raised over $200,000.  TAPS Gala  The Mellon Auditorium glowed with red, white and blue
decorations and military officers in full dress regalia.  On Tuesday night, the Tragedy Assistance Program for
Survivors Honor Guard Gala gave General James F. Amos,
commandant of the Marine Corps, its Military Award. Fellow
Marines greeted him like a rock star when he arrived with his
wife, Bonnie.  Secretary of the Navy Raymond Mabus, himself a former Naval
officer, was among the 600 military personnel and civilians
present who helped raise more than $1 million for TAPS, which
offers support to the families of fallen soldiers.  Steven Schorer, president of DynCorp International LLC, a
sponsor of the evening, joined members of congress who included
Joe Heck, a military physician in the Army Reserves and a Nevada
Republican. Norm Dicks, the  Washington  Democrat, was given the
TAPS Congressional Award.  Lawrence Prior, the executive vice president of  BAE Systems (BA/) 
PLC, another sponsor, talked to Jim Bennett, whose son, U.S.
Marine Corps Lance Corporal Daniel Bennett, was killed in
 Afghanistan  in 2009.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Jason Harper  on  Lexus Sport 
and Zinta Lundborg interviewing  Maya Lin .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 