-- Illumina CEO Has Year to Top Roche’s $6.7 Billion Offer
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-04-19T20:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/illumina-ceo-has-year-to-top-roche-s-6-7-billion-offer.html
Jay Flatley , the Illumina Inc.
chief executive who lifted revenue from $1 million to $1 billion
over 12 years, persuaded investors to support his rejection of
 Roche Holding AG’s (ROG)  takeover bid.  Now he has a year to prove he can increase his company’s
value beyond Roche’s $6.7 billion offer, said Bryan Brokmeier,
an analyst with Maxim Group LLC in  New York .  Flatley, 59, must introduce new  products , either in-house
or through acquisitions, and expand sales to get the shares
rising, Brokmeier said. Without that, Roche will have an easier
time gaining control of the San Diego-based company’s board at
the 2013 shareholder meeting, he said.  Bed-rock investors are “betting on the horse that has
consistently won,”  Peter Lawson , an analyst with Mizuho
Securities USA in New York, said by telephone. Will Illumina
“continue to win, and do they have something up their sleeve?
That’s the major question here, and it’s a hard one to answer.”  Illumina (ILMN) , the world’s second-biggest maker of DNA
sequencers, called Roche’s $51-a-share offer a “low-ball
price,” in a March 19 letter to shareholders. Investors agreed,
voting down Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s attempt to gain
control of Illumina’s board at yesterday’s shareholder meeting.
Roche said it won’t extend its offer after it expires at 6 p.m.
New York time tomorrow.  Illumina fell 1 percent to $44.06 at the close in New York.  $25 Billion Market  The market for gene tests, like the ones sold by Illumina,
may grow to $25 billion from $5 billion within a decade as more
doctors use a patient’s genetic makeup to tailor treatments,
according to a March 12 report from  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)   Illumina makes machines that can provide a full transcript
of a person’s DNA. That information may be used by doctors to
diagnose rare disease, identify patients at increased risk for a
genetic condition, like  Parkinson’s disease , or match cancer
treatments to patients’ tumors.  The company stands to be the leader in the  field , according
to Institutional Shareholder Services. The Rockville, Maryland-
based proxy-advisory firm urged in an April 6 report that
Illumina’s stock holders reject Roche’s “inadequate offer,”
because it ignored the commercial potential of its technology.  “Illumina is a business that sells picks and shovels to
the California gold rush miners,” said Alastair Mackay, an
analyst with GARP Research & Securities Co. in a telephone
interview.  Racing Rivals  The company also is racing with Carlsbad, California-based
 Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  to build faster, less-expensive
sequencers. In January, both companies announced they had
developed machines that could sequence a genome in a day, rather
than weeks or months, for less than $2,000.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, could use
the machines to develop medicines that target genes that drive
malignancies, and has said they would be able to expand the
market for the devices.  Analysts haven’t ruled out a better offer from Roche if
Illumina releases new products and produces better than expected
earnings, said Bill Quirk, an analyst with Piper Jaffray in
 Minneapolis . Illumina said it  expects  sales to increase 11
percent this year to $1.18 billion. For the first quarter, the
company said on April 2 sales would be about $270 million, about
$12 million more than analysts expected.  Roche may also come back with their offer of $51 a share if
Illumina doesn’t meet investor expectations and the stock falls,
said Maxim’s Brokmeier.  Hostile History  Roche has a history of hostile deals. It took about eight
months to acquire  Genentech , paying $46.8 billion for the 44
percent of the biotechnology company it didn’t already own. The
drugmaker proposed $89 a share in July 2008, and then began a
hostile tender offer at $86.50. The company then raised the bid
twice, to $95 a share, to win support from Genentech’s board.  Roche waited seven months to raise a hostile $75-a-share
bid for Ventana, which agreed to sell in January 2008 after
Roche boosted its offer 19 percent to $89.50.  “I don’t think Roche has completely given up,” Brokmeier
said in a telephone interview. “They may come back with an
offer if Illumina shares don’t move higher and shareholders see
they shouldn’t have walked. Or if Illumina comes out with better
news on its pipeline and greater information.”  Any deal probably would have to be above $55 a share in the
near-term and privately negotiated by the companies’ boards
rather than taken to shareholders, Quirk said in a telephone
interview. Analysts expect Illumina’s shares to reach $54.85
over the next 12 months, according  estimates  of 13 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Another Try Unlikely  Roche investors think the possibility of a deal at a higher
price is unlikely. The drugmaker made a hostile offer for
Illumina Jan. 27, raised it March 29, and yesterday said it will
consider other options to expand its business.  “If they can get it in the low 50s the deal makes long-
term sense,” said Marc Booty, who helps oversee more than $100
billion, including Roche shares at Pictet Asset Management Ltd
in  London . “If not, I’m happy to see them walk away. The
Illumina bid has detracted from improvement of the base business
at Roche in my view.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 