-- IMF Gets $320 Billion in New Pledges to Raise Resources
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-04-19T16:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/imf-gets-320-billion-in-new-pledges-to-boost-resources.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said she expects more
contributions after landing pledges of about $320 billion in her
campaign for bigger reserves to combat threats to global growth.  “I look at this pot of money as an umbrella,” Lagarde
said today on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan” in Washington before meetings of the world’s finance
chiefs. “There are clouds on the horizon.”  Japan, Denmark and  Switzerland  are among the countries to
rally this week to Lagarde’s call for a bigger lending capacity
beyond the current $380 billion to shield the world economy
against any deepening of Europe’s debt turmoil.  Having last month boosted their own defenses beyond $1
trillion, euro-area policy makers are counting on a reinforcing
of the IMF to calm financial markets.  Spain  now sits in the
crosshairs with the yield on its 10-year bonds closing in on
levels at which Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  required bailouts.  Between $400 billion and $450 billion is the “most
realistic” end result, South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in an interview in which he promised his country would
contribute “more than its fair share.” That marks a scaling
back of the $600 billion first sought, reflecting demands for
Europe to do more to fix its own woes and a refusal by the U.S.
to chip in more money. The lending amount will be lower than the
total amount raised because the IMF must keep some cash on hand.  Two-Year Crisis  While a boost for the IMF would help it protect smaller
economies sideswiped by Europe, it’s not enough to defeat the
two-year crisis, said  Simon Johnson , a former IMF chief
economist who now teaches at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology .  “The Europeans have to fix their own problems,” Johnson
told Bloomberg Television. “Bailing them out, protecting them
with generous money from outside will not help them make
progress.”  Europe was also urged to do more by Lagarde, Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan and Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty .
said.  “They need to build up a firewall with their own resources
more than they have done so far,” Flaherty said in an interview
in Washington. Swan said in a statement that “important reforms
are still needed to minimize the risk of contagion from
instability in Europe.”  Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds today led declines among
Europe’s higher-yielding government securities amid concern the
crisis is worsening. The yield on Spain’s benchmark has jumped
about 1 percentage point since the beginning of March as Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to meet budget deficit targets.  Euro-area finance ministers decided March 30 that 500
billion euros in fresh money would go along with 300 billion
euros already committed to create an 800 billion-euro defense
against the woes. That stopped short of a bolder proposal that
would have taken the amount close to 1 trillion euros.  “The tool box is much bigger and I hope they can address
the Spanish issues together with the Spanish government,”
Lagarde said. “If there’s a need, the IMF has to be there for
all members.”  Largest Shareholder  The U.S., the IMF’s largest shareholder, is refusing to
offer more cash in part because of skepticism  Europe  has done
enough, the view the IMF has substantial resources already and
reluctance to seek more money from Congress in an election year.  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner yesterday called for
“a clean and unequivocal commitment” by European policy makers
to ensure countries can borrow at sustainable  interest rates ,
noting they had “put in place a stronger set of tools for
managing this crisis.”  “In the U.S., with an election only six months away, any
’bailing out’ of Europe would be misinterpreted,”  Bill Gross ,
who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in an e-mail. “Leadership, therefore, is
lacking.”  China  is still willing to discuss means for funding the IMF
with member countries, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin
said at a briefing in Beijing today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  