-- Index of Leading Economic Indicators in the U.S. Climbed 0.3%
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-19T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/index-of-leading-economic-indicators-in-the-u-s-climbed-0-3-.html
The index of U.S. leading
indicators rose for a sixth month in March, indicating the
world’s largest economy will maintain its expansion.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.3 percent after a 0.7 percent gain
in February that was the biggest in 11 months, the New York-
based group said today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a rise of 0.2 percent in
March.  An improving job market is helping Americans overcome
higher fuel expenses and boosting the spending that accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy. Strengthening consumer demand
will help sustain the more than two-year expansion and make the
economy more resilient to a slowdown in  Europe .  “The momentum is holding up,”  Carl Riccadonna , a senior
U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York ,
said before the report. “Job creation and income growth are
positives for economic growth.”  Estimates of 51 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a decline of 0.2 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent.  Seven of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, led by  interest rate  spreads, building permits
and stock prices.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, climbed 0.2 percent for a
second month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  Lagging Indicators  The gauge of lagging indicators increased 0.3 percent after
a 0.1 percent gain.  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment  benefits last week, a sign the improvement in
labor-market conditions may be cooling.  Jobless claims fell by 2,000 to 386,000 in the week ended
April 14 from a revised 388,000 the prior period that was higher
than initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The median forecast of 47 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a drop to 370,000.  Even so, consumers are growing more upbeat. Household
confidence improved last week to match the highest level in four
years as more Americans said their finances were in better
shape.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 31.4 in the
period ended April 15, compared with minus 32.8 over the
previous seven days. The reading equaled that from two weeks
earlier as the best since March 2008. At the same time, the
monthly expectations measure fell from a one-year high, showing
concern remains that too many Americans are still unemployed.  Railcar Deliveries  Companies such as  Greenbrier Companies Inc. (GBX) , which makes
railcars and provides services for the industry, are benefiting
from the expansion. Revenue from manufacturing in the second
quarter rose to $320.2 million, the strongest period in the  Lake
Oswego , Oregon-based company’s history. It delivered 3,700 new
railcars, up from 3,300 in the first quarter.  “We continue to see strong demand for our hopper cars and
tank cars tied to the U.S. energy sector, as well as new orders
for additional car types not previously in backlog,” Mark Rittenbaum, chief financial officer at Greenbrier, said on an
April 9 conference call. “We have steadily ramped up production
rates at our eight operational lines and we’re firing on more
cylinders.”  Payroll Growth Cools  Employers added 120,000 jobs in March, half as many as in
February and the fewest in five months, according to payrolls
figures released on April 6. The jobless rate fell to 8.2
percent, a three-year low. Even so, the economy has added
635,000 jobs since December.  Federal Reserve policy makers plan to meet April 24-25 to
debate policy for an economy described as growing at a “modest
to moderate” pace in the central bank’s  Beige Book  survey
released this month. They have pledged to keep the benchmark
interest rate near zero until late 2014 to stimulate the
expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  