-- Independent News CEO O’Reilly Quits as Denis O’Brien Triumphs
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-04-19T16:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/independent-news-ceo-o-reilly-quits-as-denis-o-brien-triumphs.html
Independent News & Media Plc (INM)  Chief
Executive Officer Gavin O’Reilly stepped down, ending four
decades of control of the country’s biggest newspaper company by
his family, amid pressure from shareholder  Denis O’Brien .  “It had become clear that recent and public shareholder
tensions were proving an unnecessary distraction for both me and
the company,” O’Reilly, who succeeded his father Anthony O’Reilly as chief executive in 2009, said in a statement. “This
was not in the best interests of the company.”  O’Reilly stepped down amid tensions with O’Brien, the
company’s biggest shareholder, as the company’s shares plunged
in the wake of Ireland’s worst recession in its modern history.
In 2009, O’Brien said O’Reilly was “incapable” of running the
company and six months ago, he called for “a radical overhaul”
of the company’s board.  “Denis made a big investment in buying shares in the
company, which in retrospect from a financial point of view was
a fairly poor investment,” said Gerard Moore, an analyst at
Merrion Capital in Dublin before the announcement. “O’Brien’s
camp is not shy in expressing its view that change needs to
happen and for that to happen the company needs new
management.”  Vincent Crowley, chief operating officer, will replace
O’Reilly, the company said. O’Reilly’s departure follows a
“compromise agreement” approved unanimously by the board, it
said.  Profit  Independent News has fallen 58 percent in Dublin trading
over the last year, giving the company a market value of 134
million euros. Last month, O’Reilly said profit may fall for a
second straight year in 2012.  Any attempt by O’Brien, who has a stake of about 22 percent
in the company, to take full control of Independent News may
raise competition concerns. O’Brien, ranked as Ireland’s
wealthiest man in the 2011 Sunday Times  Rich List , controls
 radio stations  national radio station Newstalk, as well as other
media interests.  Irish Communications Minister Pat Rabbitte said April 13 he
is planning laws on media mergers to legislate against the
“undesirability of allowing any one individual or undertaking to
hold significant interests” within the  media industry .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ; 