-- India Test-Fires Longest-Range Missile to Counter China
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-04-19T05:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/india-test-fires-longest-range-missile-to-counter-neighbor-china.html
India  successfully test-fired a
missile capable of striking parts of northern  China , taking the
South Asian country a step closer to joining an exclusive club
of nations possessing intercontinental ballistic missiles.  The 50-ton, 17.5-meter Agni-V missile that can carry a
nuclear warhead and travel 5,000 kilometers lifted off at 8:07
a.m. local time from Wheeler Island in the eastern state of
 Odisha  today, according to Sitanshu Kar, the New Delhi-based
defense ministry spokesman.  “It was an immaculate flight with all parameters
achieved,” Kar said on the phone. “The defense minister has
spoken with the scientists, congratulating them.”  India is ramping up defense spending while seeking to
resolve territorial disputes through talks with its archrivals
in the region. India has gone to war with China in 1962, while
it has clashed with Pakistan at least three times. The five
permanent members of the  United Nations Security Council  are the
only countries that have deployed such missiles that can reach
beyond 5,500 kilometers, according to the International
Institute for Strategic Studies based in  London .  India’s rocket is aimed at “narrowing the missile gap
between India and China,” according to Poornima Subramaniam,
Asia-Pacific armed forces analyst at IHS Jane’s, a unit of  IHS
Inc. (IHS)  “Extensive land- and sea-launched missile development
programs have become important elements in India’s nuclear
strategy.”  China Criticism  Agni, which means fire in Sanskrit, is a series of missiles
that India has tested since 2002. The smallest has a range of
700 kilometers aimed at fortifying the country’s borders.  The Chinese media was critical of the test. An article
today in the  Global Times , a newspaper affiliated with the
People’s Daily newspaper published by the ruling Communist
Party, warned India not to overestimate its military strength
and accused western countries of being silent on its military
buildup.  China and India share a disputed 3,550-kilometer Himalayan
border. India and Pakistan have fought over the region of
Kashmir, claimed by both the South Asian neighbors.  India will increase total defense spending by 13 percent to
$38 billion this financial year as it seeks to modernize its
armed forces to keep pace with the military buildup in China,
where defense outlays of more than $100 billion per year are
second only to the U.S.  Pakistan  raised its military spending by
11 percent to about $5.5 billion in the year ending June 30.  Failed Tests  Some of India’s earlier rocket tests have ended in failure.
An upgraded version of its Agni-II nuclear-capable missile was
unsuccessful in December 2010, while a launch of the Agni-III
missile in July 2006 also failed.  South Korea  today unveiled two new cruise missiles
“capable of hitting any” target in  North Korea  after a long-
range rocket test last week by the totalitarian state failed
minutes after liftoff, disintegrating into 20 pieces. The
botched test has fueled tensions in the region, with  Japan 
joining the U.S. in denouncing the provocation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  