-- Industries Qatar First-Quarter Profit Drops 9.5%
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-04-19T16:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/industries-qatar-first-quarter-profit-drops-9-5-correct-.html
Industries Qatar (IQCD) , the Persian Gulf
country’s second-biggest company by market value, reported a 9.5
percent drop in first-quarter profit amid higher costs.  Net income fell to 1.9 billion riyals from 2.1 billion
riyals a year earlier, the company said in an e-mailed statement
to the Qatar Exchange. The average estimate of five analysts was
for a profit of 1.75 billion riyals. Revenue rose 9 percent to
4.36 billion riyals, according to the statement.  The results beat analyst estimates “mainly due to the
surge in steel revenues,” Ahmed Shams El Din, Cairo-based
director of equity research at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in
an e-mail. The company also showed “better than expected urea
volumes as the impact of the maintenance shutdown on the
quarterly performance was more muted than we thought.”  The company , which owns units that make petrochemicals,
fertilizer, steel and fuel additives, said costs rose 23 percent
to 2.2 billion riyals.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s
biggest petrochemical maker, reported April 17 that its net
income dropped 5 percent amid higher feedstock costs.  Industries Qatar is utilizing the world’s third-largest
natural gas reserves to increase output. The new Qafco 5
fertilizer plant rose to 86 percent of its capacity by the end
of the quarter and will reach “normal utilization levels” this
quarter, the company said. A new low-density polyethylene
petrochemical plant will start operation this quarter.  The company experienced “reduced profitability in the
fertilizer and steel segments,” Industries Qatar said in an e-
mailed press release. “Fertilizer margins were impacted by
additional depreciation following the capitalization of the 8.9
billion riyal Qafco 5 facility in March” and increased
feedstock costs.  The shares  dropped 0.9 percent to close at 139.8 riyals
today before the results were announced. The stock has gained
5.1 percent this year compared with a 1.6 percent decline for
the  benchmark QE Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  