-- Irish Supporters of EU Fiscal Treaty Lead, Opinion Poll Shows
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-04-19T08:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/irish-supporters-of-eu-fiscal-treaty-lead-opinion-poll-shows.html
Fifty-eight percent of Irish voters
who expressed a preference will support the European fiscal
treaty in the May 31 referendum, a poll commissioned by the
 Irish Times  showed today.  Forty-two percent are opposed to the treaty, when
undecided voters are excluded, the Dublin-based newspaper said,
citing the poll of 1,000 voters carried out by Ipsos MRBI on
April 16 and April 17. Thirty-nine percent are undecided, the
poll showed.  Though polls have consistently showed the yes side leading,
there’s no guarantee of a successful outcome for Prime Minister
 Enda Kenny  as he faces his biggest test since winning power last
year. At the same stage of the first Lisbon Treaty campaign in
2008, rejected by voters in June of that year, supporters of the
treaty had a bigger lead, the Irish Times said.  “It’s all to play for,” Irish European Affairs Minister
Lucinda Creighton said in an interview with Dublin-based
broadcaster RTE today. “This referendum is not a foregone
conclusion.”  When undecided voters are included, 30 percent of voters
said they will support the treaty, while 23 percent said they
are against it, according to the poll. The survey had a sampling
error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  In four previous polls since February, between 59 percent
about 60 percent of voters with a preference said they would
support the treaty.  The compact requires nations to virtually eliminate
structural deficits, creates an “automatic correction mechanism”
and enshrines the new measures in national law.  The treaty also provides for tighter control of tax and
spending by governments that overstep the bloc’s deficit limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yield 6.93 percent, compared with 1.7 percent for German bunds
of similar maturity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  