-- Misbehaving Protein May Provide Clue to Alzheimer’s Drug
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-04-19T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/misbehaving-protein-may-provide-clue-to-alzheimer-s-drug.html
Scientists have glimpsed proteins
turning into the distinctive clumps of  Alzheimer’s disease , an
action that takes a millisecond or less, providing researchers
with clues on drugs to target the ailment.  This stage when amyloid beta clumps begin to form may be a
crucial place to target preventive medicines, said  Michele
Vedruscolo , the study author and a biophysicist at the
University of Cambridge in the U.K. Today’s finding, published
in the journal  Science , could lead to “a statin for
neurodegenerative disease,” he said.  Cholesterol-lowering statins like  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor
work to prevent heart attacks, which damage  heart muscle  in ways
that can’t be repaired, Vedruscolo said. Similarly, in
Alzheimer’s disease, a drug targeted at preventing the
characteristic abnormal proteins of the disease may ward off
brain cell death and resulting  memory loss .  “It’s fair to say prevention is the key,” Vedruscolo said
in a telephone interview. “After the disease has already
exhibited symptoms, it’s far, far more difficult to intervene.”  He is working with Elan Corp. to develop drugs that may
shepherd the protein past the vulnerable state described in the
paper, preventing the formation of beta amyloid clumps that have
been associated with Alzheimer’s disease since  Alois Alzheimer 
first described them in 1906. Many researchers theorize that the
disease is caused by these plaques.  Once the beta amyloid clumps form, they encourage other
clumps in a vicious cycle, so it’s crucial to prevent the
disease, Vedruscolo said.  Nuclear Imaging Tools  Researchers used nuclear magnetic resonance imaging and
computer modeling to see how proteins assemble themselves. Many
of the intermediate states of folding last a millisecond or
less, said  Lewis Kay , a study author and a biophysical chemist
at the  University of Toronto  in  Canada .  Proteins are made of amino acids, like beads on a string,
Kay said. Before  folding , or assembling themselves into
patterns, there are just beads. In order to make sure proteins
assemble properly, some chaperoning molecules exist in the body
to help the process. Unfortunately, as people age, the chemical
chaperones get less good at their jobs, Kay said.  “If I can bind a drug to the vulnerable regions, I can
protect it,” Kay said. “I can chaperone the protein on in the
folding process.”  Amyloid protein may also play an important role in
 Parkinson’s disease , according to the paper. This finding may
lead to new therapies there as well.  ‘Game Changer’  “This is potentially a game changer for drug discovery,”
said Dale Schenk, chief scientific officer for Elan, in an e-
mail. “We look forward in the future to applying the principles
described in this work to other proteins.”  Global dementia cases are expected to double within the
next 20 years to as many as 65.7 million people, the  World
Health Organization  said April 11. More than 5 million Americans
have Alzheimer’s, which is the most-common type of dementia,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association .  Vedruscolo is working with Elan as part of the Dublin-based
company’s collaboration with the University of Cambridge.
Today’s research was funded by the National Science and
Engineering Research Council of Canada and the Canadian
Institutes of Health Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  