-- Mitt Romney’s Failed Definition of Success
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-04-19T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/mitt-romney-candidate-or-motivational-poster-.html
“I am being sunk by a society that
demands success when all I can offer is failure,”  says  the
ruined theater impresario Max Bialystock in Mel Brooks’s “The
Producers.”  Mitt Romney  sees things differently: He is offering success
to a society that seems to actually prefer failure. “If people
think there’s something wrong with being successful in America,
then they’d better vote for the other guy,”  he says . “Because
I’ve been extraordinarily successful, and I want to use that
success and that know-how to help the American people.”  Among the secrets of success that Romney might wish to
share is how you arrange to be born to a rich family. Or, to be
less vulgar, an intact and loving family that valued education.
Or, for that matter, to be born smart. The neocon
controversialist Charles Murray writes books arguing that the
second and third factors (family and innate intelligence) are
more important than the first (money). You can argue about this
all day, but in Romney’s case it doesn’t matter because he had
all three factors hard at work, paving his way to success.  Is he even aware of it? Maybe Romney’s not so smart,
because he goes  on and on  about how successful he is in a way
that strikes people as obnoxious. “I stand ready to lead us down
a different path, where we are lifted up by our desire to
succeed, not dragged down by a resentment of success.”  Is there a “resentment of success” in this country? I
don’t sense it. Certainly you do not need to resent success in
order to believe that successful people are, for the most part,
adequately rewarded for their success.  Rewarding Success  Sure. Lovely. Let’s reward success. But the Republicans
seem to think that success is self-defining. Anyone who has done
well or was born well deserves what he or she has got, and maybe
more, because these are society’s “ job creators .” Let’s add up
just a few of the ways in which this is not necessarily true.  Maybe your success is due to something you got from your
parents. This could be money, or good manners. It could even be
a quality like determination. Evolutionary psychology is
teaching us that huge chunks of personal characteristics, good
and bad, derive from our genes. The full implications of this
have not sunk in, but one of them surely is that “rewarding
success” is more futile and more difficult than previously
thought.  Maybe your success is due to something you got from the
government, like a broadcast license, or a new freeway through
your property, or a special tax break. Maybe it’s due to an
education you received at a public university, or financed
through federal  student loans . Maybe it’s just because you’re an
American. The  average baker  in the U.S. earns more than twice
what a baker earns in  Poland  and five times what a baker earns
in  China  (and I imagine the bread and the working conditions are
better, too). What’s true for bakers is true for bankers:
operating in a rich country is more lucrative than operating in
a poor one. This is for reasons having nothing to do with
admirable personal characteristics.  And let’s not forget simple luck. All the factors discussed
above boil down to good luck -- whom you’re born to, and where,
and so on. But the residual, unexplained differences in how
people succeed or don’t are also mostly luck.  A society that rewards success is good for the successful,
and no doubt good for society as a whole. Romney is right about
that. But not everyone can be successful. How many people did
Romney have to elbow out of his way on the path to success?  “It is not enough to succeed. Others must fail.” That’s
 Gore Vidal , and it’s unnecessarily vicious. The pleasure of
success shouldn’t depend on the prospect of others failing, but
the reality of success usually does.  But failures are people, too! If success is mostly luck,
then so is failure. When a government policy rewards success in
a way that actually does lift all of society, that’s fine. But
the policies advocated by Republicans, including Romney --
primarily lower taxes on the higher brackets -- would only make
success more successful. They would do nothing to distinguish
success for the few from success that really does benefit us
all.  “I’m not ashamed to say I was successful,”  Romney says . No
one is asking him to be ashamed of his success. What he should
be ashamed of is his complacency. It seems absurd to say so, but
maybe it will take losing the presidency to teach him a little
humility. If he wins, he’ll be really insufferable.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on elections in  France,
Germany and Greece ; Virginia Postrel on the end of  vertical
integration ;  Jonathan Weil  on the  government’s sketchy
accounting ;  Jonathan Alter  on  health-care reform ; Yukon Huang on
 China’s trade surplus ; Andrew Exum on  disturbing combat
photographs .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 