-- Ivanhoe CEO Loses in Rio ‘Chess Game’ Over Mongolia Mine
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-04-19T20:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/ivanhoe-ceo-loses-in-rio-chess-game-over-mongolia-mine.html
Twelve years after beginning his
quest to build a copper mine in  Mongolia ’s Gobi Desert, it’s
checkmate for Robert Friedland.  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. said yesterday the billionaire investor
resigned as chief executive officer, along with other top
executives at the Vancouver-based company. It said Rio Tinto
Group agreed to ensure funding of the $6 billion Oyu Tolgoi
project’s construction. The accord means Rio is free to appoint
Ivanhoe’s management, cementing control of the company three
months after increasing its stake to 51 percent.  “Friedland’s lost the chess game with Rio,” John Stephenson, a  fund manager  in Toronto who oversees about $2.7
billion at First Asset Investment Management, said in an
interview.  Oyu Tolgoi -- which means “turquoise hill” in Mongolian -
- is just the latest of several chapters in the often
controversial career of Friedland, who holds a 14 percent stake
in Ivanhoe. A one-time mentor to Apple Inc. co-founder Steve
Jobs, Friedland, 61, has raised funds for mines in  North America 
and  Asia  since the mid-1980s and led the C$4.3 billion ($4.3
billion) sale of the Voisey’s Bay nickel deposit in  Canada  in
1996. His next adventure may be developing mines in  Africa .  Ivanhoe’s involvement in Mongolia dates back to 2000 when
it signed an option with BHP Billiton Ltd. to explore in the
south of the country. That led Ivanhoe to buy the Oyu Tolgoi
deposit. It bought BHP’s remaining 2 percent copper-smelting
royalty in 2003 for $37 million.  Poison Pill  To raise the capital required to build the mine, Ivanhoe
sold a 10 percent stake to London-based Rio in 2006. Rio agreed
to help provide financing and went on to raise its shareholding.  The relationship between the two companies became
fractious, culminating in a dispute over a shareholder rights
plan, or poison pill, put in place by Ivanhoe to stop an
unsolicited takeover.  In December, an arbitrator ruled in favor of Rio,
effectively allowing the world’s third-largest mining company to
gain control of Oyu Tolgoi, which is scheduled to start
production in the second half of this year.  While Rio increased its interest to a majority, until
yesterday’s announcement it wasn’t clear where the funds to
build the mine would come from. As negotiations to secure bank
funding dragged on, Ivanhoe began talks to sell other assets to
raise cash.  “Rio has basically stepped up to the plate and this is
their project now,” said Trey Reik, chief investment officer at
Bristol Investment Partners LLC in Darien, Connecticut, which
owns Ivanhoe shares. “Oyu Tolgoi is now essentially fully
funded.”  Ivanplats IPO?  Friedland, who flies in his own Gulfstream IV jet and has a
personal fortune estimated by Canadian Business magazine at
C$2.81 billion, may be shifting his focus to Africa with a
planned initial public offering of shares in  Ivanplats Ltd .  The company, which he controls, owns a copper deposit in
the Democratic Republic of Congo and a South African platinum
project. It may seek to raise as much as $1 billion in an IPO as
early as the second quarter, people with knowledge of the plan
said in January.  “Robert is an incredible visionary,” Ian Cockerill, an
Ivanplats director and former CEO of Gold Fields Ltd., said in a
telephone interview. “He sees a lot of things others don’t see.
That’s why people sometimes think he’s off his trolley.”  Rio’s Funding  Friedland, who lives in  Singapore , wasn’t immediately
available for comment, according to an Ivanhoe spokesman who
declined to be identified in line with company policy.  To be sure, Friedland’s interest in Ivanhoe went up in
value by about $182 million yesterday after the stock jumped 15
percent following the announcement of the accord. Rio will
provide an immediate credit facility of as much as $1.5 billion
to ensure construction at Oyu Tolgoi isn’t interrupted and also
will support the completion of a syndicated loan for as much as
$4 billion.  “If you look at the number of successes he’s had over the
years, it is quite something,” Don Lindsay, CEO of Vancouver-
based  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest diversified mining
company, said in a February interview. “The odds of him being
successful again are quite high.”  Ivanhoe fell 3.4 percent to C$12.96 at the close in
Toronto.  Friedland, born in  Chicago , is the oldest of three
children. Ilona, his Polish mother, endured forced labor during
World War II, while his German father, Albert, survived
Auschwitz, according to Canada’s National Post newspaper.  ‘Mercurial, Dictatorial’  He attended  Reed College  in  Portland ,  Oregon , where he
obtained a bachelor’s degree in political science. It was at
Reed that Friedland befriended Jobs, with whom he shared an
interest in Eastern religions and environmentalism, according to
Walter Isaacson’s 2011 biography of Jobs, “ Steve Jobs ” (Simon
& Schuster, 656 pages, $35).  Friedland taught Jobs about the “reality distortion
field” -- a phrase later used by others to describe Jobs’
powers of persuasion -- Isaacson quoted Daniel Kottke, Jobs’
best friend at Reed, as saying.  Friedland “was charismatic and a bit of a con man and
could bend situations to his very strong will,” Kottke said in
the book. “He was mercurial, sure of himself, a little
dictatorial.”  Friedland’s first involvement in mining was in the early
1980s when he bought 10 percent of Galactic Resources Ltd., a
gold miner, he said in a 2004 interview with Bloomberg Markets
magazine.  Bidding War  His first multibillion-dollar transaction came in 1996
when, as co-chairman of Diamond Field Resources Inc., the owner
of  Voisey’s Bay , he presided over a bidding war between Canadian
miners Inco Ltd. and Falconbridge Ltd. Inco prevailed.  “He always used to say, if you had one person interested
in a project you had a negotiation, if you had two you had an
auction,” Gordon Toll, a former deputy chairman of Ivanhoe,
said in an interview. “He’s good at taking it to the limit and
getting the last squeak out of the pig.”  Not all of Friedland’s investments turned out as well as
Diamond Fields. Galactic’s mine near Summitville, Colorado, was
blamed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for
contaminating the Alamosa River.  Friedland resigned as a director in 1990 and Galactic later
filed for bankruptcy in 1992. He later made a $20.7 million
voluntary payment to help restore the river, while denying
responsibility for the pollution. The episode earned him the
nickname “Toxic Bob.”  Myanmar Copper  Friedland invested in a  copper mine  in Myanmar in the
1990s, a move criticized by non-governmental organizations
Canadian Friends of Burma and MiningWatch Canada. He cut his
ties with the copper operation there in 2007, according to
Ivanhoe.  In 2005, Friedland told an investor conference in  Florida 
that developing part of Oyu Tolgoi was like making “T-shirts
for five bucks and selling them for $100,” the Wall Street
Journal reported in 2007. The comments probably delayed
Ivanhoe’s investment agreement with Mongolia, said Julian Dierkes, an associate professor at the University of British
Columbia who has studied the country’s mining laws.  “He’s been much more circumspect since then,” Dierkes
said in an interview.  Friedland has expanded his interests beyond Oyu Tolgoi to
include mining assets in Australia and Kazakhstan. Ivanhoe also
holds a controlling stake in coal producer  SouthGobi Resources
Ltd. (SGQ) , which last week it agreed to sell to Aluminum Corp. of
 China  Ltd. Friedland also holds 16 percent of  Ivanhoe Energy
Inc. (IE) , a Vancouver-based  oil company .  Congo Mine  “He never is doing just one thing at one time,” Bristol
Investment’s Reik said. “We probably only know half the things
he’s working on.”  Ivanplats controls the Kamoa copper project in Congo and
 Platreef , a project that sits on deposits of platinum, gold,
copper and palladium in  South Africa . Ivanplats filed documents
to Congolese mining regulator to turn its exploration permits to
mining permits, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said in an
interview on Feb. 28.  “He’s now onto what can he promote next,” Andrew
Michelmore, CEO of China’s Minmetals Resources Ltd., said last
month in an interview. “I’ve heard him talk about Kamoa being
bigger than Oyu Tolgoi, and you just go, yep, there he goes
again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  