-- J&J Wins EU Approval for $21.3 Billion Synthes Acquisition
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-19T20:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/j-j-wins-eu-approval-for-21-3-billion-synthes-acquisition-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  won European
Union approval for its $21.3 billion purchase of  Synthes Inc. (SYST) 
after agreeing to sell its DePuy Orthopaedics Trauma business to
allay antitrust concerns.  J&J’s offer to dispose of operations making devices that
treat bone fractures eliminated antitrust concerns over “very
high combined market shares” for the products, the European
Commission said in an e-mailed  statement  today.  “We obtained remedies to ensure that competition will
remain strong in these markets, for the ultimate benefit of
patients and social security systems,” said EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  in the statement.  J&J, the world’s second-largest seller of health products,
offered in April 2011 to buy  West Chester , Pennsylvania-based
Synthes for 159 Swiss francs a share in cash and stock. The
Brussels-based regulator opened an expanded probe in November
into the deal, citing concerns that the transaction would
trigger an increase in prices for orthopaedic medical devices.  J&J expects to fulfill its “commitment to the commission
with the divestiture of the DePuy Orthopaedics Trauma business
to Biomet in the second quarter of 2012” after it receives all
regulatory approvals, said  Lorie Gawreluk , a spokeswoman for
J&J’s DePuy unit, in an e-mail.  J&J fell less than 1 percent to $63.03 at the close in  New
York .  Regulatory Approvals  J&J is “actively working with” U.S. regulators who have
not yet approved the Synthes acquisition, Gawreluk said. J&J was
required to seek approval from five regulatory agencies and has
now received clearance from Japan, Canada, China and the EU, she
said. J&J expects the Synthes deal to close by end-June 2012.  Synthes is “happy with the decision,” Gilgian Eisner, a
spokesman for the company in Zuchwil, Switzerland, said in a
telephone interview. He declined to comment further.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J plans to sell the
global trauma business of its DePuy unit to Biomet Inc. for $280
million in cash to remove a regulatory obstacle to its planned
purchase of Synthes, Biomet said earlier this month.  The binding offer from Biomet, a closely held device maker
based in Warsaw, Indiana, covers DePuy’s devices to treat  bone
fractures  and expires June 1, Biomet said.  J&J raised its full-year earnings forecast this week after
quarterly profit climbed on the divestiture of an older drug and
revenue from new medicines. Earnings excluding one-time items
 will  be $5.07 to $5.17 a share for 2012, helped by currency
exchange rates, it said in a statement on April 17. Last
quarter, the company provided a forecast of as much as $5.15.  First-quarter profit beat by 1 cent the $1.36 average of 19
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, bolstered by sales of
new drugs, including the prostate cancer medicine Zytiga. The
company gained $357 million in cash for selling its hypertension
treatment Bystolic to  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 