-- Japan Is Asked to Insure Iran Oil Shipments as EU Sanctions Bite
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2012-04-19T13:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/japan-is-asked-to-insure-iran-oil-shipments-as-eu-sanctions-bite.html
Japan ’s government may insure
tankers carrying Iranian oil, joining  China  and India in
responding to European sanctions blocking private providers.  The Japanese transport ministry held discussions with the
Japan Shipowners’ Association about providing insurance,
Akimitsu Ashida, chairman of the group representing the
country’s shipping companies, said at a conference in  Tokyo 
today. India is considering sovereign guarantees, and Chinese
government officials also met to discuss ways to prevent
sanctions from disrupting Iranian shipments.  All except 5 percent of the world’s tankers won’t be able
to carry Iranian without losing cover against risks including
collisions and oil spills because their insurers are affected by
a European Union embargo that takes effect July 1. The Persian
Gulf country’s output may fall more than 20 percent as sanctions
start, the  International Energy Agency  estimated April 12.  “This shows that Asian countries can’t afford to stop
importing from Iran,” said Mark Church, a trade lawyer at  Reed
Smith LLP  in London. “It puts them on a collision course with
the countries that are imposing sanctions.”  Japan’s ship owners will ask the government to help provide
insurance if the EU doesn’t “appreciate” the Asian country’s
efforts to reduce imports from Iran, said Ashida, who’s also
chairman of  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (9104)  Ltd., the world’s largest owner
of supertankers. India’s shipping industry asked for government
guarantees to replace cover from European companies, K. Mohandas, then shipping secretary, said Feb. 28.  Special Meetings  In China, Iran’s largest customer, the transport ministry
and National Development Reform Commission held special meetings
on the issue, and the government will make sure shipments will
not drop, Yan Zhichong, general manager of tanker operator  China
Shipping Development Co. (1138) , said March 16.  The 13 members of the  International Group  of P&I Clubs,
based in London, cover 95 percent of the world’s tankers,
according to Andrew Bardot, the group’s secretary and executive
officer. Members follow EU law to access the reinsurance pool,
he said in January.  Japan Ship Owners  The Japan Ship Owners’ Mutual Protection & Indemnity
Association, the country’s only insurer of this type, will not
pay claims involving Iranian cargoes because the EU sanctions
affect its reinsurers in the International Group, according to
an April 10 statement on its website. The China Shipowners
Mutual Assurance Association is in the same situation because it
is reinsured by the International Group, according to a faxed
reply from the Beijing-based group Feb. 24.  Sanctions already cut  Iran ’s production by 250,000 barrels
a day to 3.3 million a day, and output may fall to 2.6 million
in the middle of the year, the IEA said April 12. Exports slid
to 1.8 million barrels a day from 2.3 million at the end of last
year, according to Citigroup Inc.  The U.S. and EU are trying to pressure Iran over its
nuclear program, which they say is aimed at producing atomic
weapons. The government in Tehran, facing four sets of United
Nations sanctions, says the project is for civilian purposes.  “Countries with big oil demand like Japan, China and India
will be hit the hardest, hence they are all considering
alternatives to maintain Iranian oil supply,” said Per Mansson,
managing director of shipbroker Norocean Stockholm AB. “U.S.
and European sanctions will hit the oil-importing nations in the
Far East very hard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  