-- SMBC Nikko May Be Excluded From Japan Air IPO Underwriters
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-04-19T06:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/japan-air-may-exclude-smbc-nikko-as-ipo-underwriter-after-breach.html
Japan  Airlines Co., the carrier
planning an initial public offering this year, may exclude  SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc.  as a lead underwriter for the sale after
regulators said the brokerage breached domestic  securities law .  “We are now carefully considering how to respond,” Ryu
Shimizu, a spokesman for state-backed  Enterprise Turnaround
Initiative Corp. , said when asked by telephone today if SMBC
Nikko would be disqualified following a  Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission  recommendation that the company be
penalized. He declined to comment further.  ETIC, the fund holding about 97 percent of Japan Air’s
voting rights after a government bailout, has said it can
disqualify underwriters from the sale of Japan Air stock as a
matter of policy. SMBC Nikko, a unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316) , was found to have illegally solicited
investors to buy shares prior to the announcement of a client’s
public offering in 2010, the SESC said on April 13.  Kiyoo Kuniyoshi, a Tokyo-based spokesman for SMBC Nikko,
declined to comment. Taro Namba, a spokesman for Japan Airlines,
deferred questions about the offering to ETIC.  The turnaround corporation, which must sell its stake in
Japan Air by January 2013, is seeking an IPO for the airline of
500 billion yen to 1 trillion yen ($6 billion to $12 billion) as
soon as September, two people familiar with the matter said in
January. The carrier was delisted from the  Tokyo Stock Exchange 
in 2010 and emerged from bankruptcy in March 2011.  Regulatory Scrutiny  Japanese regulators have increased scrutiny of trading
surrounding public equity offerings in response to investor
criticism alleging that leaks on financing plans are eroding
confidence in the stock market.  The SESC said on March 21 an employee at Chuo Mitsui Asset
Trust & Banking Co. traded on information linked to a share sale
by  Inpex Corp. (1605)  after obtaining non-public information from an
employee of one of the deal’s lead underwriters.  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Mizuho Securities Co. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. managed the energy company’s share sale.  Nomura was involved in an  insider-trading  case connected to
Inpex’s 2010 equity offering, a person with knowledge of the
matter said on the same day.  Other investigations involving Japan share sales include
 Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202)  and Tokyo Electric Power Co. for possible
insider trading, the commission said.  Can Disqualify  ETIC can “disqualify or suspend” a share sale manager
after awarding a mandate, taking into account how the brokerage
is executing its operations, it said in a statement seeking
interest from potential lead underwriters on July 1.  Last July, ETIC selected five Japanese brokerages,
including SMBC Nikko, as arrangers for the Japan Air sale to
domestic investors. It chose  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Morgan
Stanley to manage the offering overseas in January. Nomura and
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  are global coordinators.  The SESC this month recommended the Financial Services
Agency penalize SMBC Nikko after it found 23 salespeople
disclosed information to 34 clients before an unidentified
company’s IPO announcement. Shozaburo Jimi, Japan’s financial
services minister, said on April 17 the FSA will “respond
severely” to SMBC Nikko’s breach.  The FSA houses the SESC and is responsible for penalizing
companies found to violate Japan’s finance rules.  Separately,  Japan Housing Finance Agency , which had hired
SMBC Nikko, Nomura and Goldman Sachs to sell 10-, 15- and 20-
year bonds next month, dropped SMBC Nikko, the agency said on
its website on April 17, following the SESC’s penalty
recommendation. The housing agency appointed Mitsubishi UFJ
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  Securities Co. as an underwriter, replacing SMBC
Nikko, according to the website.  Takashi Yoshihira, a manager in the agency’s market
operations department, said SMBC Nikko was replaced for
“various reasons,” declining to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  