-- Japan’s Fastest Export Growth in a Year Boosts Outlook
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-04-19T09:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/japan-s-fastest-export-growth-in-a-year-boosts-outlook.html
Japan  reported the fastest export
growth in a year and a smaller-than-expected trade deficit,
aiding prospects of a sustained recovery in the world’s third-
biggest economy.  Boosted by car exports to the U.S., outbound shipments rose
5.9 percent in March from a year earlier, exceeding the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.2 percent gain. The
deficit was 82.6 billion yen ($1 billion), less than the median
forecast for a 223.2 billion yen shortfall. Comparisons are
distorted by the earthquake in March 2011.  The results support the International Monetary Fund’s
estimate earlier this week that Japan’s economy may expand as
much as 2 percent this year, boosted by reconstruction spending.
Exports have been helped by the yen’s decline after the  Bank of
Japan  boosted monetary stimulus in February, a policy Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa said late yesterday in  New York  he’s
“committed” to keeping.  “The key reason for the good result is a solid rebound in
exports to the U.S. where cars are selling well,”  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at  Itochu Corp. (8001)  in  Tokyo , said.
“Exports to Asia are rebounding, mainly because of the strong
recovery in shipping to ASEAN nations.”  The yen strengthened to 81.17 per dollar immediately after
the trade data’s release before returning 81.30. The Japanese
currency traded at 81.54 per dollar as of 5:40 p.m. in Tokyo.  Inflation Goal  The BOJ set an inflation goal of 1 percent and expanded
asset purchases by 10 trillion yen in February. Morgan Stanley
MUFG Securities Co., Mizuho Securities Co. and SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. predict the central bank will expand asset
purchases at a meeting on April 27 amid pressure from lawmakers
for more aggressive action to counter more than a decade of
deflation.  “The  Bank of Japan (8301)  is fully committed to continuing
powerful monetary easing through various measures, including
maintaining the policy  interest rate  at practically zero and
purchasing financial assets, until the current goal of year-on-
year CPI inflation at 1 percent is deemed to be achievable,”
Shirakawa said in his New York speech.  Exports to  Europe  and  China  slid, while those to the U.S.
rose 24 percent, led by motor vehicle shipments.  Nippon Yusen
K.K. (9101) , Japan’s largest shipping line, expects its car-carrying
vessels to transport the most vehicles in five years in the 12
months started April 1 as demand surges in North America.  Shipments of electronics to the US were up 25.5 percent.  Japan’s  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the maker of Prius hybrids, the
world’s best-selling gasoline-electric vehicle, on April 5
raised its forecast for 2012 industry-wide U.S. sales of cars
and light trucks, citing recovering consumer confidence.  Yen Effect  Among G10 currencies, the yen has declined the most in the
past six months against the  U.S. dollar , dropping more than 6
percent in that period.  “A weaker yen against the dollar and euro is helping trade
competitiveness,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney, said before the report. “A synchronized
upswing in reconstruction and exports should drive a better
second half.”  Lingering concerns about Europe after a surge in bad loans
held by Spanish banks ahead of bond sales helped push Asian
stocks lower. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 0.1 percent
to 124.88 as of 5:32 p.m. in Tokyo. Japanese shares also fell,
with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average down almost 1 percent for the
day.  Japan’s imports rose 10.5 percent in March from a year
earlier as nuclear plant shutdowns swelled the nation’s energy
bill, today’s report showed. The nation faces the prospect of a
stint without atomic-generated electricity for the first time in
more than four decades after closures in the aftermath of last
year’s earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis.  Brazil Rates  In total, 53 of 54 nuclear reactors have been shut either
owing to damage, government order, or mandatory maintenance. The
last one running, on the northern island of Hokkaido, goes off-
line from May 5.  Brazil cut its benchmark interest rate to a near-record low
of 9 percent as slowing inflation creates space for the central
bank to continue stimulating growth in Latin America’s biggest
economy.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  New Zealand  reported consumer prices
 rose  in the first quarter by less than the central bank forecast,
giving Governor Alan Bollard scope to hold interest rates at a
record-low. The Philippine central bank kept borrowing costs
unchanged today after two consecutive rate cuts.  Hong Kong Jobs  Hong Kong  reported that its  unemployment rate  for March was
3.4 percent, unchanged from a month earlier.  Italy announced that industrial orders fell 2.5 percent in
February from the previous month, while Denmark’s statistics
office reported a rebound in consumer confidence in April.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region probably expanded
in April at near the fastest pace in almost a year, economists
said before a report by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.
Sales of previously owned U.S. houses rose 0.7 percent to a 4.62
million annual rate in March, while initial jobless claims fell
in the week ended April 14, other reports are forecast to show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  