-- Japan Automakers May Avert Resin-Related Shutdown, Analyst Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-19T13:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/japan-automakers-may-avert-resin-related-shutdown-analyst-says.html
Automakers in  Japan  may avoid
“large-scale” disruptions to production as suppliers prepare
alternative parts in response to a global resin shortage,
according to a Deutsche Bank AG analyst.  Suppliers recognized that PA-12, a resin used to make
brake- and fuel-system components, was produced by few companies
and are carrying several months’ supply, Takashi Moriwaki, an
analyst for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, wrote today in a
research note. Auto-parts makers could supply parts with
alternative materials as soon as June and plan to propose
options to automakers within the next week, Moriwaki wrote,
citing telephone interviews with companies he didn’t identify.  “Although we cannot discount the risk of production
stoppages because the shortage of only one component is enough
to compromise auto production, our interviews suggest little
likelihood of large-scale shutdowns to Japan’s auto
production,” Moriwaki wrote.  More than 200 executives from companies including  General
Motors Co. (GM) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
met April 17 at a summit near  Detroit  to find other options for
resin after a March 31 explosion at chemical maker Evonik
Industries AG. The blast at Evonik’s Marl, Germany, factory that
made Cyclododecatriene, also called CDT, halved the global
source of PA-12.  Automakers and suppliers are unlikely to find immediate
alternatives to the shortage of resin because of their pre-
production vetting processes, researcher IHS Automotive said
yesterday.  Technical Committees  Officials formed six technical committees aimed at
mitigating the effect that the PA-12 shortage may have on
production of parts and finished vehicles, Randi Berris, a
spokeswoman for the Automotive Industry Action Group, wrote
yesterday in an e-mail. The group is hosting “multiple
technical follow-up meetings” during the next few weeks on the
issue, she said.  TI Automotive Ltd. warned its customers in an April 12
letter of severe shortages interrupting production “in the next
few weeks.” The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company supplies
brake and fuel lines, as well as fuel tanks and pumps, to all
major automakers, including GM, Ford, Toyota and Volkswagen,
according to its website.  Evonik has begun repairs at the Marl factory, which the
company aims to rebuild “before winter,” Ruben Thiel, a
spokesman for the Essen, Germany-based company, said April 16 in
an e-mail.  Other makers of PA-12 are France’s  Arkema SA (AKE) , Switzerland’s
 Ems-Chemie Holding AG (EMSN)  and Japan’s  Ube Industries Ltd. (4208)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  