-- Jersey City Developer Liberty Harbor North in Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-19T20:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/jersey-city-developer-liberty-harbor-north-files-for-bankruptcy.html
Liberty Harbor North Inc. , a
developer of waterfront property opposite  Manhattan  in Jersey
City,  New Jersey , filed for bankruptcy to resolve a $21 million
court judgment related to the urban-renewal project.  Company President Peter Mocco, a former mayor of
neighboring North Bergen, put three companies affiliated with
the Liberty Harbor community into bankruptcy to settle a legal
dispute with a former landowner.  “We need the quick definitive action of the bankruptcy
court to permit me to enter into a settlement,” Mocco said
today in an interview.  Liberty Harbor North controls land worth $350 million, the
company said in court papers filed April 17 in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in  Newark . The project itself is not in bankruptcy and has
adequate  cash flow , Mocco said.  The development is an example of “new urbanism,” which
relies less on cars and more on public transportation in
creating a sense of community, Bob Antonicello, executive
director of the  Jersey City  Redevelopment Agency, said in a
telephone interview.  It is monitored by more than 500 security cameras, served
by two light-rail stations, and sits within walking distance of
PATH trains run by the  Port Authority  of New York & New Jersey,
Mocco said.  Redeveloping Cities  “People have really looked at this and said this could be
a striking example of how to redevelop cities,” Antonicello
said.  The bankruptcy filing is “very disappointing,” he said.  “When the developer files a bankruptcy and thinks it won’t
impact the future development, that’s ludicrous,” he said. “At
the end of the day, bankruptcies have a stigma. This will be a
stigma on what has the potential for being a jewel on the
Hudson. This cold, calculating business move could have a very
damaging effect on the city.”  Mocco said Antonicello “doesn’t appreciate or have
knowledge” of the need to settle the land dispute in
bankruptcy.  “In order for me to do that, I have to take advantage of
the tools the  bankruptcy court  has given to us,” he said.  The condominiums and town houses at Liberty Harbor sell for
about $350,000 for a one-bedroom unit to $1.8 million for five
bedrooms. About 650 of the units are occupied, and many of the
residents work on  Wall Street , Mocco said.  Four-Acre Parcel  The finished project will have as many as 10,000
residential units spread over 80 acres, Mocco said.  The legal dispute involves a four-acre parcel of industrial
land once owned by Ron, Lynn and Katherine Kerrigan, he said.
The family sued the Jersey City Redevelopment Agency, which
pursued an eminent-domain action on behalf of Mocco, Antonicello
said.  A jury awarded them more than $18 million for the taking, a
judgment upheld on appeal, Mocco said. With interest, their
claim is now worth about $21 million, according to court papers
filed with the bankruptcy court.  Mocco and his wife, Lorraine, signed a personal note and
guarantee to the agency, Antonicello said. The agency is now
pursuing a collection action against the Moccos in state court,
according to Antonicello.  Biggest Creditors  “This bankruptcy filing has nothing to do with the
economic downturn and the recession,” Antonicello said. “This
is more the result of a strategic bankruptcy where people have
the resources but perhaps not the will to work through their
difficult times.”  The Kerrigans and the Redevelopment Agency are listed as
Liberty Harbor North’s biggest unsecured creditors. Liberty
Harbor North owes creditors about $44 million, according to
court papers.  The three companies that sought court protection each
listed different debt figures. Some of the debt was jointly owed
by at least two of the companies, including the Jersey City and
Kerrigan liabilities.  The bankruptcy was first reported by the Jersey Journal
newspaper.  The case is Liberty Harbor North, Inc. 12-19964,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 