-- JPMorgan Gives $2.5 Million for Public School Turnaround
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-19T11:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/jpmorgan-gives-2-5-million-for-public-school-turnaround.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Foundation
last night announced a $2.5 million gift to Turnaround for
Children, a New York-based nonprofit that works to transform
low-performing schools.  The grant over a three-year period will help pay for full-
time social workers and teacher-training dealing with the
disruptiveness of poverty. The cost of the  Turnaround  model at
each school is $250,000 a year.  “Turnaround is committed to closing the gap, and so are
we,” Kim Jasmin of the foundation said in the ballroom of the
 Plaza Hotel .  More gifts followed on the occasion of Turnaround’s annual
benefit.  Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan’s chairman and chief executive,
pledged $25,000. D.E. Shaw Managing Director Trey Beck,
Turnaround’s chairman gave $32,000. Both men were absent;
Turnaround vice chairman Simone Levinson read their messages
aloud, from her Blackberry.  Recording artist  John Legend , industrialist  David Koch  and
Blackstone Group Vice Chairman  Byron Wien  also sent promises of
pledges in e-mails. (Wien is the godfather of the eldest child 
of the founding chairwoman of Turnaround, Dr. Kelly Posner 
Gerstenhaber; her husband, David Gerstenhaber, is president of
Argonaut Capital Management.)  Goldie Hawn  Mark Gallogly, co-founder of Centerbridge Partners, was
among the guests at the event who made a donation. He and
Jeffrey C. Walker, former chairman of CCMP Capital, sat with
Goldie Hawn as she ate a whole-wheat roll and filet mignon.  When Hawn took the stage as honoree -- introduced by a
fifth grader named Erick DeLaCruz, who aspires to be a New York
Yankee -- she spoke about  MindUp , the program she started to
teach social and emotional skills.  “We want to nurture confidence, optimism and empathy,”
the actress said.  Honoree Russ Carson said he became a Turnaround donor after
meeting its founder, Dr. Pamela Cantor, at a dinner party.  “I made the mistake of asking her what she does,” Carson
said.  Other guests who have made the same mistake: Larry Rogers,
David Tepper’s deputy at Appaloosa Management; David Wasserman,
a Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC partner; and Atlantic Media Co.
chairman David Bradley and his wife, Katherine Bradley, whose
CityBridge Foundation is funding the Turnaround model in
Washington D.C.  Brooklyn Women  The  Brooklyn Museum  last night celebrated women artists.  “It’s electric,” said honoree Mickalene Thomas, wearing a
black and sequined Margiela blazer and Dries Van Noten pants.
“There are many of us here. We are making art. We are in the
museums. The times are changing.”  Guests crunched on spring vegetables sprinkled with truffle
vinaigrette. The long dinner tables were decked out by artists.
Fay Ku lined hers with three-dimensional paper tigers.  Meanwhile at Jazz at  Lincoln Center , Wynton Marsalis played
a benefit concert with  Paul Simon . Saxophones and trombones
cozied up to accordions and washboards.  The audience was up on their well-shod feet for the encore,
“You Can Call Me Al.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Jason Harper  on  Lexus
Sport ;  Rich Jaroslovsky  on Connect  technology ; Zinta Lundborg
interviews  Maya Lin .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 