-- JPMorgan Wins Narrowing of $8.6 Billion Lehman Lawsuit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-04-20T14:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/jpmorgan-wins-narrowing-of-8-6-billion-lehman-lawsuit-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , fighting
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. over $8.6 billion the defunct firm
wants back, won dismissal of some of Lehman’s claims, leaving it
to fight the rest.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said Lehman cannot claim
money from JPMorgan for securities transactions governed by so-
called safe harbor law, devised to protect banks dealing with
weak companies. Lehman is entitled to pursue the remaining
“complex and fact driven causes of action,” he said in a
decision filed yesterday in  Manhattan .  Lehman’s suit alleges the New York-based lender helped
cause its 2008 collapse by demanding $8.6 billion in collateral.
JPMorgan, which loaned $70 billion to Lehman’s brokerage around
the time of the bankruptcy, sued Lehman back after the suit,
alleging the firm defrauded its lender into making the loan.  JPMorgan is pleased with the ruling and will continue to
fight the remaining claims, which it believes “are likewise
without merit,” spokeswoman  Jennifer Zuccarelli  said in an e-
mail today.  “JPMorgan continued to support Lehman and extend credit
throughout the firm’s financial distress, which was the basis
for the collateral requests at issue,” she said.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, said she couldn’t
immediately comment on Peck’s ruling.  ‘Hardest to Prove’  The remaining claims -- including an allegation that  Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan’s chief executive officer, promised to return $5
billion in collateral -- “are probably the hardest things to
prove,” said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham
Greenebaum Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky . “They’re not just
issues of contract but verbal agreements.”  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank, has tried to move the case
to a district judge, saying it raises legal issues beyond the
jurisdiction of a bankruptcy judge. Peck can’t rule on Lehman’s
allegation that JPMorgan caused monetary damage to failing
Lehman in 2008, the bank has said. Lehman says the suit confines
itself to bankruptcy matters.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  New York  is
“working on” a decision on whether Lehman’s suit belongs in
district court, according to court papers. Peck should rule
first on JPMorgan’s move to dismiss the case, Sullivan told both
sides, according to a transcript of a Dec. 30 court session.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
September 2008, listing $613 billion in debt.  The lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank NA, 10-03266,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The district case is Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase  Bank, 11-cv-6760, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  