-- Keppel Land Gains After Profit Jumps 70%: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-04-19T09:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/keppel-land-advances-after-profit-jumps-70-singapore-mover.html
Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD) , the property
developer partly owned by the world’s largest builder of oil
rigs, had its biggest gain in three weeks in Singapore trading
after profit rose 70 percent on increased sales of apartments.  Keppel Land   shares  rose 1.8 percent to S$3.40 at the close
of trading. Net income climbed to S$141.9 million ($113.4
million) in the three months ended March 31, from S$83.3 million
a year earlier, the company said yesterday.  Homes sales in the quarter ended March increased to 6,682
units, the highest since September 2009, as low  interest rates 
and high liquidity boosted demand, according to data from the
 Urban Redevelopment Authority . Keppel Land also recently
completed Reflections at Keppel Bay, a residential project
designed by architect  Daniel Libeskind .  “Keppel Land reported a 70 percent growth in earnings
mainly due to the recognition of profits from completed units at
Reflections at Keppel Bay,” Wilson Liew, Singapore-based
analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pte, said in a note to clients
today. Liew reiterated a “buy” on the stock and recommended to
invest in the stock before it becomes ex-dividend on April 24
for its 20 cents a share payout.  Keppel Land’s home sales in Singapore were primarily from
its projects in the suburbs in Sengkang and Jurong, it said in
its annual report to shareholders. The company said yesterday it
sold more than 90 homes in the quarter, and has set aside 150
units at the Reflections development for corporate residences to
tap demand for waterfront apartments.  “The strong performance was largely due to bumper
contribution from Reflections at Keppel Bay following the
handover of completed units to buyers who bought under the
deferred payment scheme,” Keppel Land said in the statement,
referring to a sales incentive offered earlier.  In January, Keppel Land said it acquired a 51 percent stake
in a commercial project in Beijing’s Chaoyang central business
district with a gross floor area of about 100,000 square meters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  