-- Korean Won Climbs, Bonds Fall on IMF Forecast, Spain
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-04-19T06:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/korean-won-climbs-bonds-fall-on-imf-forecast-spain.html
South Korea ’s won weakened as bad
loans surged in  Spain , re-igniting concerns the European debt
crisis is deepening.  Government bonds  were little changed.  Spain’s non-performing loans as a proportion of total
lending jumped to 8.16 percent in February, the highest level
since 1994, the central bank said yesterday. Bank of Korea
Governor Kim Choong Soo said that while an improving global
outlook may provide a boost to his nation’s export-driven
economy in the second half, downside risks will probably persist
due to volatile oil prices and problems in  Europe , according to
today’s statement.  “Spain’s bad-loan issue and Italy cutting its growth
forecast are renewing concerns over Europe’s periphery states,”
said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Woori
Futures Co. “Still, with events including Spain’s debt auction
and U.S. data coming up today, investors will refrain from
betting aggressively on a stronger dollar.”  The won fell 0.1 percent to close at 1,138.05 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency pared
earlier losses of as much as 0.4 percent on speculation
exporters sold the greenback, according to Kim Do Hee, a Seoul-
based currency dealer at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group.  One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, slid 35 basis points,
or 0.35 percentage point, to 8.08 percent.  Sales at major South Korean department stores rose 1.6
percent in March from a year earlier, after a 2.9 percent gain
the previous month, government figures showed today.  North Korean Threats  Spain will issue as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion)
of two- and 10-year bonds at today’s auction.  Italy ’s economy
will shrink 1.2 percent this year compared with the previous
forecast for a contraction of between 0.4 percent and 0.5
percent, the government said yesterday. U.S. releases its
jobless claims and existing home sales data today.  North Korea  is prepared to wage a “holy war” against
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government and would take
“special action” against targets that could include central
Seoul, its state media said late yesterday.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent bonds due December
2014 was little changed at 3.49 percent, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show. Three-year debt futures climbed 0.01 to 104.05 and
the one-year interest-rate swap slipped one basis point to 3.51
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  