-- Korea’s Bahk Pledges More Than ‘Fair Share’ to IMF Resour
-- B y   A k i   I t o ,   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-19T15:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/korea-s-bahk-pledges-more-than-fair-share-to-imf-resources.html
South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said his country will contribute “more than its fair
share” in additional International Monetary Fund resources to
help stabilize the European debt crisis.  “The world will know and feel immediately that  Korea  will
contribute more than its fair share” once the nation announces
the additional amount, Bahk said in a Bloomberg News interview
today in  Washington . The figure will be more than international
expectations given the country’s gross domestic product and
foreign exchange reserves, he said, declining to provide a
specific figure.  The European debt crisis has taken center stage at this
week’s Group of 20 conference, where Bahk and his counterparts
are expected to discuss ways to contain the region’s turmoil.
IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday that she
has received pledges totaling about $320 billion.  That $320 billion doesn’t include Korea’s commitment and
the “most realistic” total of pledges from countries across
the globe is probably about $400 billion to $450 billion, Bahk
said, speaking through an interpreter.  Switzerland  and a group of countries that were not named
promised to contribute $26 billion, Lagarde said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Poland agreed to pitch in another $8
billion. That adds to a combined $86 billion promised by Japan,
Denmark, Norway and Sweden over the past three days and $200
billion from euro nations a few months ago.  It’s “not desirable to be hesitant” to act in the face of
the crisis because a stabilized  Europe  is in Korea’s economic
interests, Bahk said.  Separately, Korea’s economy is “faring well” compared to
what he had expected earlier, he said. Volatility in the
nation’s currency has recently been “quite low,” reflecting
authorities’ “satisfactory achievement” in stabilizing the
won, Bahk added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  