-- KPN Belgian Sale Said to Attract Xavier Niel, Bain, CVC
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-04-20T10:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/kpn-weighs-strategic-options-for-belgian-mobile-business.html
French telecom billionaire Xavier Niel, Bain Capital LLC and CVC Capital Partners Ltd. are among
those that may bid for Royal KPN NV’s Belgian mobile phone unit,
people with knowledge of the situation said.  Buyout firms Apax Partners LLP and Providence Equity
Partners Inc. are also considering bids for the unit known as
BASE, said the people, who declined to be identified as the
preparations are private. KPN, the Netherlands’ largest phone
company, this week said it was beginning a “comprehensive
review” of the future of BASE, which people familiar with the
matter said may fetch about 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion) in
a sale.  Private equity firms are positioning themselves to take
control of assets being sold by Europe’s former phone monopolies
as the costs of new network technology and heavy regulation
weigh on operators’ performance. Apax in December agreed to buy
Orange Switzerland for $2.1 billion from  France Telecom , which
is trying to shed some European operations in favor of expansion
in the  Middle East  and Africa.  Spokesmen for CVC, Apax, Bain and Providence declined to
comment.  Room for Improvement?  Ultimately, interest from the buyout firms, which typically
profit by cutting costs and streamlining operations at companies
they acquire, may be lukewarm as KPN has run BASE effectively,
leaving relatively little room for improvement, one of the
people said. The unit is Belgium’s third-largest mobile
operator, after  Belgacom SA (BELG) ’s Proximus and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s
Mobistar.  Bidding for BASE would mark another major international
foray for Niel, whose 61 percent stake in  France ’s  Iliad SA (ILD) , an
operator of mobile and broadband services, is worth about 3.4
billion euros. He also made a bid for Orange  Switzerland  in
partnership with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s private-equity arm.  Profit Erosion  KPN is struggling to maintain profits while investing in
its domestic broadband network, forcing it to consider asset
sales. The Hague-based company said in January it would
accelerate a restructuring program that will cost 4,000 to 5,000
jobs after it predicted lower profit and cash flow this year.  It may also face new competition at home as the Dutch
government reserves space for new entrants in an upcoming
auction of mobile frequencies. The arrival this year of a fourth
full-service mobile operator in France, the Free Mobile brand
founded by Niel, has eroded sales for larger competitors.  In  Germany , where KPN competes with companies including
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , it is also under pressure after its E-Plus
unit was the only one of four national mobile operators to fail
to secure wireless spectrum in the coveted 800-megahertz band,
meaning it will have to partner with rivals to expand service.  Like KPN, European phone companies including Deutsche
Telekom and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  are trying to cope with the impact of
a consumer shift toward online services like Skype that reduce
their share of revenue, and new European Union rules on roaming
rates and other charges. Neelie Kroes, the European official
responsible for telecommunications, in February told operators
she would “not respond well to threats” after executives
including the  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  CEO Vittorio Colao criticized
new roaming caps, and said the 27-nation body would push ahead
with further regulation.  The Bloomberg  Europe  Telecommunications Index, a measure of
the region’s largest phone operators’ stock performance, has
declined 2.8 percent this year, compared with a 5.1 percent rise
in the Stoxx Europe 600, which tracks large European companies
in all sectors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net  