-- KSL Tops Apollo’s Offer for Great Wolf in Escalating Fight
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-04-19T20:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/ksl-tops-apollo-s-offer-for-great-wolf-in-escalating-fight-2-.html
Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF)  said KSL
Capital Partners LLC  has offered to $7.25 a share to acquire
the water-park operator, topping  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ’s
$7 offer made yesterday.  Great Wolf said in a statement today that KSL’s offer is
superior and Apollo will have until April 24 to make a better
bid. The board of Madison, Wisconsin-based Great Wolf still
recommends Apollo’s offer and will consider both bids after
Apollo’s next decision in the escalating private-equity contest,
according to the statement.  New York-based Apollo yesterday raised its offer for Great
Wolf to $7 a share from $6.75 after KSL, a Denver-based private-
equity firm, bid $7 on April 8. Shareholders sued Great Wolf
following Apollo’s initial proposal on March 13 of $5 a share,
claiming Great Wolf didn’t obtain the highest possible offer.  The shares of Great Wolf, which owns 11 resorts in  North
America , rose 3.6 percent to $7.42 at the close of trading in
 New York . The stock traded at $4.19 on March 12, the day before
the board approved Apollo’s original offer.  Carolyn Sargent , a spokeswoman for Apollo at Rubenstein
Associates Inc., declined to comment.  “They are going for targets that don’t seem to be
particularly attractive but are relatively still promising,”
Murillo Campello, professor of finance at  Cornell University ’s
Johnson Graduate School of Management, said regarding Apollo’s
bid yesterday. “That’s how I see the war on this resort
company.”  Cash to Work  U.S. leveraged-buyout investors are looking to put to work
the $425 billion of unspent capital commitments they had at the
end of 2011, according to PitchBook Data Inc., a Seattle-based
private-equity research company.  Great Wolf is getting financial advice from Deutsche Bank
AG and legal counsel from Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison
LLP and Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor LLP.  Apollo is being advised by  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  