-- NATO Seeks Russian, Chinese Financial Aid for Afghan Secu
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-04-19T13:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/nato-seeks-russian-chinese-financial-aid-for-afghan-secu.html
NATO called on  Russia  and  China  to
help finance Afghanistan’s security forces in order to prevent
instability near their own borders as the U.S.-dominated
military coalition winds down its Afghan campaign.  In an echo of  Europe ’s bid for international aid to fight
the euro debt crisis, the alliance made a global plea to help
meet a target of $4 billion annually to train and equip Afghan
soldiers and police after the allied mission ends.  “We would welcome financial contributions from Russia,
China and other countries to ensure a strong, sustainable Afghan
security force beyond 2014,” Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters in Brussels today after a two-day
meeting of  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  foreign and
defense ministers.  Financing the standalone Afghan force has taken on greater
urgency as Western allies pull back the current 129,000-strong
foreign contingent after more than a decade of warfare in the
wake of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on the U.S. A rump force will
stay after 2014 to assist the Afghans.  Rasmussen made the aid appeal to parry a request by Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  for regular participation by
Russia in planning sessions of the 50-nation NATO-led force.
While Russia hasn’t sent soldiers to Afghanistan, a country it
occupied in the 1980s, it has opened supply routes for NATO.  Lavrov, who met allied officials including U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  today, called for the Russian
involvement after NATO invited a Russian representative to
attend the Afghanistan session at an alliance summit in Chicago
next month.  Lavrov criticized what he termed NATO’s “unclear
planning” and “artificial withdrawal timelines” from
Afghanistan, and said Russia hasn’t made its mind up whether to
send someone to Chicago. Both sides ruled out the attendance of
 Vladimir Putin , soon to be re-installed as Russia’s president,
for scheduling reasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  