-- Nestle Purina Sued Over Dog Treats Owner Says Are Deadly
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-19T23:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/nestle-unit-faces-dog-owner-lawsuit-over-allegedly-toxic-treats.html
A  Nestle SA (NESN)  unit, Nestle Purina
Petcare Co., was sued by a Chicago-area man who claimed its
Waggin’ Train treats killed his dog.  Dennis Adkins’s 9-year-old Pomeranian, Cleo, became sick
and died of  kidney failure  last month after eating Waggin’
Train’s “Yam Good” chicken-wrapped treats, according to the
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  Chicago .  “Waggin’ Train has spent millions of dollars in promoting
trust and confidence among consumers in its pet food products,”
Adkins said in the complaint. “The product was not wholesome,
was not nutritious and was unhealthy.”  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in December
reiterated what it called a “cautionary warning to consumers”
about a potential association between dog illnesses and chicken
jerky-based products. The FDA first issued the advisory in 2007.  “The products —- also called chicken tenders, strips, or
treats -— are imported from  China ,” according to the agency.
“FDA has conducted extensive chemical and microbial testing but
has not identified any contaminant.”  Still, the  agency advised consumers  to not substitute
chicken jerky products for a balanced diet, saying they are
intended to be eaten only in small quantities. The FDA also said
owners of dogs eating the products should monitor their pets for
decreased appetite or activity, increased water intake, vomiting
and diarrhea.  ‘Safe to Feed’  Waggin’ Train products are “safe to feed as directed,”
Nestle Purina said in an e-mailed statement.  “We believe the claims made in the suit to be without
merit and intend to vigorously defend ourselves,” the St.
Louis-based company said.  According to Adkins’s complaint, he purchased the treats on
March 11 and fed one a day to his dog -- in pieces -- for three
days, starting March 13, while making no other changes to Cleo’s
diet. The dog became ill on March 15 and died of kidney failure
on March 26.  His other 9-year-old Pomeranian, Pharaoh, neither ate the
treats nor became ill, Adkins said.  Adkins also sued  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest
retailer and owner of the store where he bought the treats. He
seeks compensatory and punitive damages, claiming the companies
breached express and implied warranties that the treats were fit
for consumption.  ‘Hundreds Died’  Adkins also asked the court to recognize a class of
plaintiffs comprising anyone who bought Nestle or Waggin’ Train-
brand dog treats containing chicken imported from China in the
past four years, and a sub-class of those who made the purchases
from Wal-Mart.  “Thousands of persons purchased the dog treats at issue,
and hundreds of dogs died as a result,” Adkins said.  “At Wal-Mart, we’re committed to providing our customers
and their pets with safe and affordable food,” Greg Rossiter, a
spokesman for the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company, said
today in a telephone interview.  All of the company’s pet-food suppliers are required to
comply with all applicable government safety regulations,
Rossiter said. Wal-Mart is aware of the chicken jerky-based food
concerns and is in contact with the FDA, he said.  The case is Adkins v. Nestle Purina Petcare Co., 12cv2871,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  