-- New York Times Profit Increases Sevenfold After Asset Sales
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-04-19T20:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/new-york-times-profit-increases-sevenfold-after-asset-sales-2-.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , publisher of
the namesake newspaper, advanced the most in almost four months
after reporting a more than sevenfold rise in first-quarter
profit that reflected gains on the sale of regional
publications.  Times Co. climbed 4.4 percent to $6.38 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain since Dec. 20. Net income rose to $42.1
million, or 28 cents a share, from $5.42 million, or 4 cents, a
year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding some items, profit was 8 cents a share,
beating the 2-cent average of seven analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  The newspaper publisher, which still owns the Boston Globe
and the Worcester Telegram & Gazette after selling the Regional
Newspaper Group for $143 million in December, has built up its
digital business to capitalize on the ad industry’s shift toward
online marketing and away from print.  “The results were better than we anticipated,” said Leo Kulp, a Citigroup Inc. analyst. “Costs were better than we
thought and there appears to be a lot of upside in these
results.”  Not all of the Times’s numbers rose. Sales declined 0.3
percent to $499.4 million. Five analysts had estimated $499.8
million on average. Advertising revenue declined 8.1 percent to
$237.9 million, from $258.9 million a year earlier. Times Co.
expects ad revenue in the second quarter to be “similar to the
level experienced in the first quarter,” the company said.  Times Co.’s annual sales have fallen every year since 2006
as the publishing industry has lost ad dollars to Internet
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.  Paid Subscriptions  Paid subscriptions to the company’s digital publications,
including the New York Times, the International Herald Tribune
and the Boston Globe, totaled 472,000 as of March 18.  “The paid subscriptions aren’t quite enough to make a
major difference to the declines in print advertising,” said
Kulp, who rates the shares neutral.  Digital-advertising sales dropped 10 percent from a year
earlier to $71.1 million because of lower revenue at About.com,
while circulation sales gained 9.7 percent to $227 million, the
company said.  Times Co. has operated without a permanent chief executive
officer since Janet Robinson was fired in December, a
development that’s helped drive down its stock price despite
gains in online subscriptions, according to Douglas Arthur,
media analyst with Evercore Partners Inc.  ‘Lots of Good’  “There’s lots of good going on with the company, from
selling the regional newspapers to great pay-wall numbers and
increased cash, but the stock is just death because there’s no
CEO,” Arthur said in an interview before the earnings release.
“This is the slowest CEO search ever,” said Arthur, who rates
the shares overweight and doesn’t own any.  The company recently moved to boost its online
subscriptions by further restricting the number of free articles
people can read on the  New York  Times website to 10 articles a
month from 20.  The company hasn’t broken out online subscriptions to the
New York Times website alone since September, when there were
324,000 such paying readers.  Online Subscriptions  “We’re looking to see if that growth in online
subscriptions can be sustained,” Kannan Venkateshwar of
Barclays Capital Inc., said in an interview earlier this week.  Times Co. is generating an average of $250 annually for
every digital subscriber, according to his estimates. If the
publisher can continue to increase the number of paying readers,
it could be enough to offset declines in print advertising, said
Venkateshwar, who rates the shares neutral.  New York Times comes second to the Wall Street Journal in
online subscribers. The Journal, owned by  News Corp. (NWSA) , averaged
521,417 paying readers to its site as of October, according to
the  Audit Bureau of Circulations .  Gannett Co. (GCI)  started a digital-
subscription program for 81 daily newspapers this year, while
keeping its flagship  USA Today  freely available online.  U.S. newspapers lost $10 in print-advertising sales for
every dollar gained online last year, Pew Research Center said
last month. In 2010, newspapers lost $7 in print advertising for
every dollar made from digital outlets.  Times Co. will bring in an estimated $90 million this year
from digital subscriptions, Evercore’s Arthur said.  “If they keep that up, online could turn into a real
business in the next year or two,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  