-- Newman From TV’s “Seinfeld” Cited in Bill to Curb Can Smuggling
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/newman-from-tv-s-seinfeld-cited-in-bill-to-curb-can-smuggling.html
A lawmaker seeking to curb
smuggling of bottles and cans into  California  for cash
redemption is invoking Newman and Kramer from the “Seinfeld”
television show -- and a scam they hatch that leads to a car
chase and a damaged mail truck.  Assemblyman  Richard Gordon , a Democrat from  Menlo Park , is
proposing a bill that would require anyone who imports bulk
amounts of recyclable containers into California to report where
they came from.  An  analysis  of the bill details a pair of 1996 episodes of
Seinfeld in which characters Cosmo Kramer and Newman, a postman,
devise a plan to smuggle a mail truck full of bottles and cans
from New York to Michigan and redeem them for 10 cents per
container, versus 5 cents in  New York .  “If I could, I would name it the Newman-Kramer Deterrence
Act of 2012,” Gordon said in a telephone interview. “I’m not
sure, candidly, that that was my initial intent. I was just kind
of having fun and it was a good laugh in the office. But if it
does bring some attention to what is an issue, hey, great.”  In the shows, Kramer and Newman decide to use a postal
truck to avoid the costs of gas, tolls and permits so they can
make their state-to-state recycling arbitrage pay.  Such plans aren’t merely fiction. In  Maine  last year, three
people were indicted for allegedly cashing in 100,000 out-of-
state bottles and cans worth more than $10,000. The state offers
five-cent refunds on most containers and 15 cents for wine and
liquor bottles.  ‘Operation Can Scam’  And in  Michigan  in 2007, the attorney general’s office
announced the conclusion of  “Operation Can Scam,”  in which
investigators snared Ohio smugglers who “bilked Michigan
taxpayers out of hundreds of thousands of dollars by
perpetrating a continuous fraud on the Michigan Bottle Deposit
Fund,” according to a press release. Container smuggling costs
the state $13 million a year, the release said.  California lawmakers enacted the  Beverage Container
Recycling and Litter Reduction Act  in 1986, paying 5 cents for
containers less than 24 ounces and 10 cents for containers 24
ounces or larger. Since the program began, consumers have
recycled 255 billion aluminum, glass and plastic beverage
containers.  The containers can be redeemed on a per-container basis, up
to 50 at a time, or by the pound, at about 2,200 recycling
centers statewide. Only containers purchased in California are
allowed.  According to the analysis of Gordon’s bill, Calrecycle, the
agency that manages the state’s beverage container recycling
program, doesn’t know how many bottles and cans are imported
into California to be redeemed, though the agency believes it is
a widespread practice.  Seinfeld aired on NBC, now owned by Comcast Corp., for nine
seasons from 1989 through 1998.  Pushing Out Newman  In the relevant episodes, called “The Bottle Deposit,”
Kramer winds up throwing the containers, then Newman himself,
out of the truck to make it faster, to try to catch  Jerry Seinfeld ’s stolen car after spotting it on an Ohio highway.  While that’s not what the California bill’s creators had in
mind when they tackled the issue, they hope memories of the show
will raise its profile, said Jay Dickenson, the consultant for a
legislative committee who wrote the analysis.  “That episode instantly to me summed up what they were
getting at here, though they probably were thinking more about
organized crime rather than mail carriers,” Dickenson said.
“It’s such a popular show and people remember that episode, so
I think it will help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  