-- News Corp. Was ‘Shadow State,’ Scaring Lawmakers, Watson Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-19T16:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/news-corp-was-shadow-state-scaring-lawmakers-watson-says.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. acted
as a “shadow state,” assigning reporters to investigate a
parliamentary panel looking into one of its newspapers, in what
lawmaker  Tom Watson  called a successful attempt to intimidate
the committee’s members.  Watson, speaking today at the launch of his book “Dial M
For Murdoch,” said the News of the World assigned six reporters
to dig for personal information on Parliament’s Culture
Committee in 2009, after it began asking questions about phone-
hacking at the tabloid.  “I am sorry to say this tactic was successful,” Watson,
who was on the committee at the time, told reporters. “The
committee’s legitimate investigation was undermined and
Parliament was, in effect, intimidated. The web of influence
which  News Corp . spun in Britain, which effectively bent
politicians, police and many others in public life to its will,
amounted to a shadow state.”  According to Watson and Paul Farrelly, a fellow Labour
member of the committee who attended today’s gathering in
 London , the result of the intimidation was a 2010 decision not
to summon Rebekah Brooks, the then-chief executive officer of
News Corp.’s U.K. unit News International, to testify before
them. Both lawmakers refused to say which members of the
committee were influenced.  “If I was targeted by a particular journalist, it’s news
to me,” Farrelly said. “Maybe they couldn’t find anything
out.”  He said the committee’s report into whether News Corp.
executives lied to the panel in 2009, which Chairman  John Whittingdale  had originally said would be released at the end of
last year, will be made public May 1.  “At no stage did News International ever suggest to me
that there would be consequences for members of any decision we
took, and I was not aware of any such suggestions being made to
other members,” Whittingdale said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 