-- Nigeria Suicide Bombs Leave Oil Producer’s Investors Unfazed
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-04-19T12:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/nigeria-suicide-bombs-leave-oil-producer-s-investors-unfazed-2-.html
Nigerian troops wield AK-47s at the
 Hilton Hotel  in the capital of Abuja, while security guards scan
for car bombs at entry checkpoints, snarling traffic. Down the
road, police block access to the Holy Trinity Catholic church on
Sundays as worshippers congregate.  Nigerians have lived with high security alerts since
attacks by an Islamist militant group named Boko Haram
intensified with a suicide bombing of the  United Nations 
headquarters in Abuja in August. The U.S. Embassy in  Nigeria 
warned its citizens on April 17 that Boko Haram may be planning
more attacks in the capital, including at hotels.  Investors in Africa’s largest oil producer are unfazed. The
yield on Nigerian Eurobonds is near a record low, the currency
is Africa’s second-strongest performer against the dollar this
year and  Nestle SA (NESN) ,  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and  Diageo Plc (DGE)  plan
investments to tap a market of more than 160 million people. The
attacks have been isolated to Abuja and northern states, home to
Nigeria’s Muslim population, leaving oil facilities and the
commercial hub of Lagos in the south undisturbed.  “The latest escalation of Boko Haram’s terror attacks is
disturbing from a security perspective,” said Christian Mejrup,
an emerging-market portfolio manager at Kolding, Denmark-based
Global Evolution AS, which holds Nigerian treasury bills. “From
an economic perspective they are negligible since they are still
isolated to the northern part of Nigeria.”  North vs South  Ninety-seven years after Britain merged its northern and
southern Nigerian colonies to create  Africa ’s most populous
nation, the two regions are looking like different countries.  About 74 percent of Nigerians in the north live in poverty,
compared with 63 percent in the south, according to data from
the Abuja-based National Bureau of Statistics.  The 17 southern states, which cover a fifth of the
country’s territory, produce about two-thirds of the economy’s
output, while the government spent 62 percent of its 4.4
trillion naira ($28 billion) budget in 2011 on the south,
according to Lagos-based Economic Associates.  “All the sectors that are growing fastest are in the
south,” said Jude Uzonwanne, head of the Nigeria office of
Boston-based investment adviser  Monitor Group . “The north’s
economy is still geared towards subsistence agriculture.”  State of Emergency  Boko Haram has claimed responsibility for a surge in gun
and bomb attacks, including on the UN building in Abuja, a
Christmas Day bombing of a church there and multiple blasts on
Jan. 20 in the northern city of Kano that killed about 256. The
group, whose name means “Western education is a sin,” seeks to
impose strict Muslim law in the country.  President Goodluck Jonathan in January declared a state of
emergency in parts of the north, where Boko Haram, inspired by
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban, told Christians to leave. The group began
attacking police stations, government buildings and churches in
the north since 2009, when security forces killed the militants’
leader,  Mohammed Yusuf .  The government is “on top of” the threat, Jonathan said
today in Berlin. Nigeria is “a safe place for investment,” he
said. “We are a stable country.”  Boko Haram’s reach may yet extend to the south as it has
shown it can adapt with technology and spread attacks outside of
its north-eastern base, said Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing
director of New York-based DaMina Advisors LLP.  “It may be only a matter of time before Lagos is
attacked,” he said.  Closing Mills  Still, the yield on Nigeria’s $500 million of Eurobonds due
2021 fell to a record low of 5.311 percent on April 3. The naira
has gained 3.2 percent against the dollar this year and had its
best quarter since 2007.  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index (NGSEB10) , which tracks the
performance of Nigeria’s 10 largest banks by market
capitalization, has advanced 8.9 percent to 300.13 this year and
had its best first quarter since 2010.  Nigeria’s population will expand 2.5 percent a year from
2010 to 2015, according to data from the United Nations.  United Nigeria Textiles Plc and other textile makers, once
thriving foreign-currency earners for Nigeria, have shut mills
in the north in the past decade amid competition from  China  and
other Asian producers. Meanwhile, construction of pipelines,
refineries, power plants and factories is booming in the south.
 Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM) , Africa’s biggest supplier, is building a 3
million-ton plant in Calabar, Nigeria’s southeastern seaport.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-largest brewer by volume,
plans to build a $100 million plant in Onitsha, in southeastern
Nigeria. Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, says it will
double the size of its business within three years in Nigeria.  “There’s huge potential still and on top of that the
 population growth  is just staggering,” Martin Woolnough, chief
executive officer of Nestle’s Nigerian unit, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  