-- Nokia Reports Operating Loss on Nokia Siemens Costs
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-19T14:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/nokia-reports-first-quarter-results.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  reported a first-quarter
operating loss of 1.34 billion euros ($1.8 billion), burdened by
costs at the unprofitable equipment venture with  Siemens AG. (SIE)  The
stock sank to the the lowest price in 15 years.  The loss includes 1.1 billion euros in one-time charges, of
which 772 million euros were for Nokia Siemens Networks, Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia said today. Revenue fell 29 percent to 7.35
billion euros, the lowest since 2004, as handset sales slumped
in emerging markets and margins in smartphones shrank.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, five months after
shipping the first phone based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows
Phone software, is now turning his attention to Nokia Siemens,
the venture in which he tried to sell a stake last year before
talks collapsed. After sales fell 7 percent with an adjusted
operating loss of 5 percent of revenue, the venture predicts a
“clear” improvement in profitability this quarter.  “Whether the rest of the year will become acceptable for
NSN is written in the stars,” said  Thomas Langer , an analyst at
WestLB in Dusseldorf who recommends selling Nokia shares. Nokia
Siemens “has to show in coming quarters that it can attain a
margin of more than 5 percent. As long as they can’t show that
it will remain a ball and chain for Nokia.”  Nokia Siemens, whose main competitors are Ericsson AB and
Huawei Technologies Co., announced plans in November to
eliminate 17,000 jobs, or about 23 percent of its workforce, to
focus on mobile broadband and services. The venture, still with
more than 68,000 employees last quarter, has been unprofitable
in all but two quarters since it was set up in April 2007.  ‘Pretty Deep’  Nokia fell as much as 5.6 percent to 2.86 euros and traded
at 2.94 euros, or 2.8 percent lower, as of 5:36 p.m. in
Helsinki. That’s the lowest level since April 1997. It has lost
23 percent of its value in the past week alone after saying on
April 11 that the main handset business lost money last quarter
and will do so again in the current period.  The first-quarter net loss was 929 million euros, bringing
the total losses in the past year to 2.4 billion euros.  “Even the restructuring we think is pretty deep and pretty
structural, and we continue to pursue all options as we go
forward,” Elop said on a conference call. He wouldn’t elaborate
on the future structure and ownership of Nokia Siemens.  Elop vowed last week to take “significant” structural
actions, including potential asset sales, to survive amid
competition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Chinese manufacturers such as
 ZTE Corp. (000063)  The CEO has announced more than 10,000 job cuts since
the linkup with Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft.  Six-Year Low  “We’re acting with urgency and we will communicate these
details as quickly as possible,” Elop said today. “We will
make any changes to our organization and team that are
complementary to our renewed focus.”  Once dominant in the mobile-phone industry, Nokia’s market
capitalization has fallen by about 70 billion euros since Apple
Inc. introduced the iPhone in 2007. Last quarter, Nokia’s
shipments slid 24 percent to 83 million phones, the lowest level
in almost six years.  Nokia, which is phasing out its homegrown Symbian system,
sold about 2 million handsets from the new Lumia line running
Windows Phone. It plans to increase advertising spending on
Lumia this quarter, Elop said.  Still, its low-end phones failed to cover the costs of
smartphone transition as rivals introduced cheaper touchscreen
models in India and  China , many based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software.  Debt Rating  Colin Giles, a 20-year Nokia veteran who was appointed by
Elop in February 2011 to lead Nokia’s sales organization, will
leave Nokia in June for personal reasons, Nokia said today.
Giles ran the company’s China operations before becoming
executive vice president of sales, and stepped in again last
year to revamp the company’s China operations.  Nokia’s four regional senior vice presidents and the heads
of sales operations will now report directly to Niklas Savander,
executive vice president of markets.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Nokia’s rating to one step
above junk this week, and said it may reduce it further if Lumia
fails to pick up or if the handset margin deteriorates further.
A further cut by any of the top three debt rating companies
would put the ranking to junk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  