-- Obama’s NRC Nomination Draws Fire From Democrat Reid Over Yucca
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-04-19T20:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/obama-to-renominate-nrc-s-svinicki-amid-silence-from-leader-reid.html
President  Barack Obama  will
renominate U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commissioner Kristine Svinicki, a Republican, drawing opposition from the Senate’s top
Democrat.  Obama doesn’t want to have a break in service when
Svinicki’s term on the five-member commission ends in June,
White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today.  The Senate will act “when we have to” after hearings,
Democratic leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada said today at a news
conference. Reid opposes her renomination, a spokesman said.  Svinicki, 45, has criticized NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko , a
former science adviser to Reid. She also has complained about
the commission’s effort to shut a nuclear-waste disposal site at
Yucca Mountain in Nevada, which Reid opposes.  Reid opposes Svinicki because she wasn’t forthcoming with
Congress in 2007 about her work on the Yucca project, Adam
Jentleson, a spokesman for Reid, said today in an e-mail.  The renomination “would be a good thing” and any delay is
“inexplicable,” Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky said today at a Washington news conference. The
nomination may be held up “because Commissioner Svinicki
confronted the chairman over his abusive behavior,” McConnell
said.  Republicans including Senator  John Barrasso  of Wyoming,
 Jeff Sessions  of Alabama and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska called for
Svinicki to be renominated quickly. Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New
Mexico Democrat and chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, also backs her renomination.  Silence a ‘Whistle-Blower’  Opponents “should not be trying to silence a whistle-
blower,” Barrasso said.  Senator  Barbara Boxer , during a June 16 Senate hearing of
the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee she leads,
said it was “troubling” that Svinicki had misrepresented her
work on the Yucca Mountain nuclear-waste dump when testifying at
her 2007 confirmation hearing. Boxer said Svinicki said she
didn’t work on the project. Documents later showed she was
assigned as an Energy Department employee to study which
radioactive materials could be stored at the site, Boxer said.
Svinicki said at last year’s hearing that she disagreed with
Boxer’s interpretation.  The Senate also held hearings last year after Svinicki and
her colleagues wrote Obama to say Jaczko created a “chilled
work environment” by berating employees and withholding
information, charges that he denied. The agency’s watchdog also
faulted the chairman’s actions.  ‘Not Forthcoming’  Jaczko “was not forthcoming with the other commissioners
about his intent to stop work” on the  Nevada  waste dump,
according to a June report from the NRC inspector general.
Jaczko, a former science adviser to Reid, an opponent of the
Yucca project, has said he acted within the law.  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, led by
Republicans, also held hearings on the dispute.  Svinicki took office on March 28, 2008, filling one of two
seats reserved for the Republicans. Commissioner William Ostendorff is the other Republican. The chairman of the five-
member panel is the same party as the president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  