-- Oil Gains for First Time in Three Days, to Gain in Week
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-20T06:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/oil-trades-near-seven-day-low-as-economic-data-misses-targets.html
Oil rose for the first time in
three days in  New York , trimming a second weekly decline, as a
technical indicator showed prices may have fallen too much.  Futures gained as much as 0.6 percent after dropping 0.4
percent yesterday. Oil’s slide may be limited after it closed
above its 100-day moving average, which was at $101.98 today.
Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.
Prices are down 0.2 percent this week amid signs the U.S.
economy may be slowing and tension with Iran over its nuclear
program may ease.  “Prices appear to be locked on the upside by the 50-day
moving average of $104.67 and finding support on the downside at
the 100-day moving average,”  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said in a note.  Crude for May delivery rose as much as 56 cents to $102.83
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $102.83 at 2:20 p.m. Singapore time. It fell
to $102.27 yesterday, the lowest close since April 10. The May
contract expires today. The more-actively traded June future
rose 48 cents to $103.20 a barrel.  Brent oil for June settlement was at $118.34 a barrel, up
34 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $15.15, from $15.28 yesterday.  Price Outlook  Oil in New York may resume its decline next week on
speculation that the U.S. economic recovery will slow, reducing
demand for crude, and tension with  Iran  will ease, a Bloomberg
survey showed. Seventeen of 30 analysts forecast prices will
decline through April 27. Seven respondents predicted they will
rise and six estimated there will be little change.  U.S. jobless claims dropped by 2,000 to 386,000 last week,
according to data from the Labor Department yesterday. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for
370,000. Existing-home purchases declined to a 4.48 million
annual rate last month from 4.6 million in February, the
National Association of Realtors in  Washington  said.  Negotiators from Iran, the five permanent members of the
 United Nations Security Council  and  Germany  will meet in  Baghdad 
on May 23 to discuss the Persian Gulf nation’s alleged efforts
to develop nuclear weapons, a claim it denies. The parties met
in Istanbul on April 14 for the first talks in 15 months.  Energy Risk  Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said yesterday that he
hoped for “good news” from the meeting, according to Shana, an
oil ministry news website. Further European Union sanctions will
affect global energy-supply security and crude prices, he said.
The EU plans to put sanctions on Iran’s energy industry into
effect July 1.  “People are beginning to wind back their  risk premium 
associated with Iran,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The  U.S. economy  is bubbling along
but it’s not really giving people the sense that the momentum
will have an upward trajectory from here.”  The New York Mercantile Exchange cut the margin requirement
on a series of crude spreads two days after President  Barack Obama  called for an increase to reduce speculative activity by
traders. The new rules governing the amount of money investors
must put up to back bets on Nymex’s light, sweet crude and Brent
spreads will be effective at the close of business April 23, CME
Group Inc., the exchange’s parent company, said yesterday.  The changes don’t apply directly to the Nymex oil futures
and options contracts, the most actively traded instruments for
crude on the exchange. They are specifically for commodity
spreads through which a trader can take a position on two linked
contracts, said Damon Leavell, a CME spokesman in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  