-- Tokyo Trading Glitch Thaws Resistance to Alternative Platforms
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-04-19T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/tokyo-trading-glitch-thaws-resistance-to-alternative-platforms.html
     April 20 (Bloomberg) --The Tokyo Stock Exchange’s worst
breakdown in six years has forced a rethink of the role
alternative trading platforms play in ensuring that shares of
some of the world’s biggest companies keep changing hands.  A Feb. 2 computer malfunction that halted trading on 15
percent of the bourse’s biggest stocks was exacerbated when the
 Japan  Securities Dealers Association asked alternative venues to
stop processing transactions during the interruption. The
broker’s association will from this month allow platforms such
as Chi-X Japan and SBI Japannext to keep trading if the
country’s main bourse is disrupted, said Ryuichi Yamamoto, a
manager of proprietary trading rules at the  association .  The policy was a response to complaints from investors who
were unable to trade 241 companies including Sony Corp. and
Hitachi Ltd. for 2-and-a-half hours while Tokyo scrambled to fix
its computer system, according to Yamamoto. The association had
no plan in place prior to the February incident, he said.  “We gathered a variety of opinions from people in the
market and we were told that the alternative venues are
providing a valuable substitute service in other countries,”
Yamamoto yesterday said in a phone interview. “We decided that
in the future they should keep running to allow trading even
when there are system problems on the main venues.”  The growth of Japan’s propriety trading platforms has
lagged behind similar businesses in Europe and  Canada  because of
regulations that treat them differently from traditional bourses,
according to Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Holdings Inc.
Alternative venues last year handled 7.8 percent of the trades
on the Topix Index, while they accounted for about 25 percent of
the stocks that changed hands on  England ’s  benchmark index.   5 Percent Rule  Obstacles to growth include the so-called 5 percent rule,
which requires investors to make a takeover bid if they acquire
more than 5 percent of a company through off-exchange
transactions with more than 10 shareholders. No such regulation
exists for shares bought on the main bourses.  The February glitch stemmed from a malfunction in a server
that handled order information for about 15 percent of the
shares on the 1,665-member Topix. The disruption meant investors
couldn’t trade  Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. (8750)  or retailer Aeon Co.,
which aren’t listed on the Osaka Securities Exchange or other
regional bourses that kept running during the outage.  Sony’s share volume on the Osaka exchange that day was 150
times the three-month average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors diverted orders to Japan’s second-largest
bourse after the electronics maker a day earlier said it was
replacing Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer .  ‘Continuity Plan’  Trading on Japan’s new platforms was halted by the broker’s
association, which said that stock prices couldn’t be set fairly
without the main bourse. The association has no jurisdiction
over traditional exchanges.  “People need to think about the business continuity plan
case when the exchange system goes down,” said Hajime Sato,
marketing manager at  SBI Japannext  in  Tokyo . “The glitch
triggered a lot of constructive debate among the brokers and
also investors.”  Japan’s alternative platforms include  Chi-X Japan 
and SBI Japannext, which show prices and are open to individual
investors, and more than a dozen so-called dark pools, which
allow buyers and sellers to be anonymous. The new venues
increased market share last year by the most since they started
business in 2007.  Off-exchange trading has shown its worth on other days when
individual stocks were unable to be bought and sold in Tokyo.
Four times as many shares of Olympus Corp. traded away from the
main bourse after a rush of sell orders forced Tokyo to cancel
trading of the stock on Nov. 10, when the scandal-hit optics
maker was warned it might be delisted.  “Trading on proprietary platforms really increased last
year and that’s raised interest in them,” Yamamoto said. “The
problems on the TSE got the market thinking about changing the
rules.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  