-- Hollande Vows Minimum Wage Rise as Sarkozy Warns on Deficit
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-04-19T10:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/hollande-vows-minimum-wage-increase-as-sarkozy-warns-on-deficit.html
Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  promised to raise France’s minimum wage if he wins next
month’s presidential vote as incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  stepped
up warnings his opponent’s policies risk punishment by markets.  Hollande, who is extending his lead in polls of voter
intentions for the May 6 runoff, said he’ll organize a meeting
of unions and employers to set an increase that would be
implemented in July.  “We’ll make a little push to catch up what hasn’t been
done in the past, though within the limits of the economic
situation,” Hollande said today on RMC radio.  His pledge was aimed at the 12 percent to 17 percent of
voters who polls show may support Left Front candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon in the first-round ballot in three days. Sarkozy, who
wants to cut payroll charges for companies to boost employment,
suggested the promise would put France at risk of suffering the
increase in borrowing costs now afflicting  Spain .  “Everyone in France is aware of what’s happening to
Spain,” Sarkozy said in an interview on Europe 1 radio. “It’s
the result of seven years of Socialism with the same policies
that Mr. Hollande is promoting.”  Spain vs France  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond has jumped
about 1 percentage point since the beginning of March, touching
a record of more than 6 percent, after conservative Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he wouldn’t be able to meet deficit
targets. Yields rose again today to 5.80 percent after Spain
sold 2.54 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of bonds, just above the
maximum target for the auction, and its borrowing costs rose.  The yield on the equivalent French notes has gained about
25 basis points in the same period to 3 percent. France sold 8
billion euros in debt today as risks linked to the presidential
election also drove up the government’s cost of borrowing.  “We borrow at half the rate of Spain,” Sarkozy answered
when asked if investors will avoid French debt regardless of who
wins the election. “Have the markets attacked France in the
past five years? I have done everything to protect France.”  Sarkozy said his next term would be about “creating a new
model for French growth” by cutting labor costs and improving
competitiveness.  Sarkozy’s government is targeting a budget deficit of 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2013. The  International
Monetary Fund  said April 17 it’s more likely to be 3.9 percent.  Runoff Choice  French voters choose between 10 candidates on April 22 and
face a choice between the two leading contenders -- almost
certainly Sarkozy and Hollande -- in the runoff.  Hollande will come in ahead of Sarkozy in both rounds, two
polls published this week showed. The two leading candidates
would have support of 29 percent and 24 percent in the first
round, compared with 15 percent for Melenchon and 17 percent for
National Front candidate Marine Le Pen, according to a CSA poll
of 1,005 voters April 16-17. No margin of error was given.  The Socialist’s lead in a head-to-head match grew to 16
points from 14 points last week, according to the poll.  While Hollande has pledged to meet the deficit reduction
targets put in place by the current government, his plan
forecasts a balanced budget in 2017, a year after Sarkozy. He
said today that he would revise the formula on which the minimum
wage is calculated to take account of economic growth as well as
inflation.  France ’s minimum wage, known as the “smic,” is currently
1,398.4 euros ($1,840) a month.  Spain’s former prime minister, Socialist Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, raised taxes in 2010 as the euro zone’s
crisis began to bite. In the first years of his term, he
eliminated the country’s wealth tax and ran budget surpluses
from 2005 to 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  