-- Monti’s 2012 Italy Budget in Line With EU Forecast, Bailly Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-19T11:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/monti-s-2012-italy-budget-in-line-with-eu-forecast-bailly-says.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s 2012 budget, which more than doubles the government’s
economic-contraction forecast, is “in line” with European
Commission estimates, commission spokesman Olivier Bailly said.  Monti’s revised three-year economic plan, presented
yesterday, forecasts the economy will shrink 1.2 percent this
year, up from 0.5 percent projected in December. The prime
minister also pushed back his balanced-budget goal amid a
deepening recession, six weeks after  Spain  helped reignite
 Europe ’s debt crisis by abandoning its own deficit target.  “The revised government projection for the Italian economy
for 2012 is in line with commission interim forecast published
last February,” Bailly told reporters in Brussels today. “The
commission foresaw a contraction of 1.3 percent. We believe that
the two analyses are on the same line.”  The Italian government now expects a deficit equivalent to
0.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2013, up from the
previous forecast of 0.1 percent.  “The new budgetary targets presented by the Italian
government appear consistent with the revised economic
background,” Bailly said.  “The full and consistent implementation of the fiscal
measures already adopted in  Italy  will allow this country to
attain a sizeable primary surplus in 2013, which is the
political objective that Mr. Monti set for his own country,” he
said.  Looking beyond 2013, Bailly said it will be “essential”
for Italy to main “sound public finances.” The government must
also address long-standing structural weaknesses and boost
economic growth, he said.  “The next crucial step for us is the adoption by the
parliament of the long-awaited reform of the labor market, which
is key to increase both employment and competitiveness,” Bailly
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  