-- Moody’s Upgrades Foster’s to Baa1 After SABMiller Acquisition
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-04-19T03:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/moody-s-upgrades-foster-s-to-baa1-after-sabmiller-acquisition.html
Moody’s Investors Service raised
its rating of Foster’s Group Ltd. by one level to Baa1, its
third-lowest investment-grade, following the acquisition by
 SABMiller Plc. (SAB)   “The benefits of SABMiller’s ownership and wider expertise
in the global beer markets is likely to positively impact
Foster’s business model,”  Ian Lewis , a Moody’s senior credit
officer, said in a report today. “A number of Foster’s older
beer brands, which have had declining earnings and share, such
as VB and Crown Lager will be re-invigorated.”  Standard & Poor’s  earlier this month also upgraded
Melbourne-based Foster’s by one level to BBB+ after London-based
SABMiller completed the A$10.5 billion ($10.9 billion)
acquisition in December.  Foster’s Chief Executive Officer Ari Mervis said at an
investor conference in London in March that SABMiller plans to
increase profit margins at the Australian beermaker and carve
out greater-than-expected cost savings from the deal.  Credit-default swaps insuring the debt of Foster’s against
non-payment rose 1 basis point to 66 basis points as of 10:49
a.m. in Sydney, according to prices from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   The swaps have fallen 25 basis points since Dec. 1, when
Foster’s gained shareholder backing for the takeover offer,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The contracts, which typically climb as investor confidence
deteriorates and decrease as it improves, pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  