-- Dream of Taxpayer Bailout Profit Is Just That
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-04-19T23:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/hope-for-treasury-bailout-profits-rests-on-fuzzy-math.html
The U.S. Treasury Department wants
the public to believe the government’s bailouts of the financial
sector might make money for taxpayers. It’s easy to see why.  If the government could show an overall profit, the
implication would be that bailouts must be a good thing. Put
aside the moral hazard they create, by encouraging reckless
behavior. Never mind that the country’s largest too-big-to-fail
banks are larger today than when the financial crisis began in
2007. The leaders who pulled off this amazing feat would deserve
our praise, and everything will have worked out for the best --
or so goes this line of thought.  Whatever logic there is to this  reasoning  falls apart,
however, if the prospect of future gains is false. And sure
enough, it probably is.  The Treasury Department a week ago  released  its latest cost
estimates for the government’s numerous crisis-response
programs. “Overall, the government is now expected to at least
break even on its financial stability programs and may realize a
positive return,” the report said. Unfortunately this
conclusion rests heavily on wishful thinking and creative
accounting, which becomes obvious when you dig into the report’s
footnotes.  Behind the Numbers  Here’s a breakdown of the numbers. The  report , citing White
House budget office figures, estimated $46 billion of costs
under the Troubled Asset Relief Program to support struggling
homeowners. It showed $2 billion of overall gains on the
Treasury’s investments in various bailed-out companies, such as
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , some of which are held
outside of  TARP . Other Treasury programs to buy mortgage-backed
securities and to guarantee money-market funds would produce $26
billion of gains, the report said.  Add up those categories, and the projected net cost so far
is $18 billion. On top of that, there’s the current net cost of
the government-sponsored housing financiers  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , which the Treasury pegged at $151 billion. So how
did Treasury project a potential gain overall?  First the Treasury counted $179 billion of so-called excess
earnings from the  Federal Reserve  as a gain. The report said
this figure represented amounts “above what would be expected
in normal times,” and included $82 billion collected through
fiscal 2011 as well as estimated gains through fiscal 2015.
Second, the report included a White House budget  projection 
showing the net cost of the Fannie and Freddie conservatorships
would fall 81 percent to $28 billion by fiscal 2022. Put another
way, the projection envisions record profits at the two
companies for years to come.  Those numbers are where the report starts to get loopy.
When the Fed remits profits to the Treasury each year, to a
large degree it is refunding money to the government. In fiscal
2010, the latest year for which the Fed has published an  annual
report , the bulk of the Fed’s earnings consisted of interest
income on securities issued or guaranteed by the government and
government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie and Freddie.  For instance, say the Fed collects interest on the Treasury
bonds it holds, and later returns this money to the Treasury in
the form of an earnings distribution. The payments from the Fed
eliminate an expense for the Treasury. But to call them a gain
for the Treasury is circular. The Treasury hasn’t made a profit.
The transactions are a wash, economically. Similarly, the main
reason Fannie and Freddie have been able to meet their
obligations is they keep borrowing more money from the Treasury.  As for the declining Fannie and Freddie cost projections,
the Treasury is relying on a forecast that in essence has the
two companies generating $123 billion of earnings over the next
10 years. This would be nice, except there’s no basis for
believing it will happen. The companies have reported  losses 
every year since 2007. During the previous 10-year period from
1997 to 2006, which included the housing boom, their combined
 earnings  were only $82 billion.  Government Foresight  Think back 10 years ago to 2002. Was the government
predicting then that Fannie and Freddie each would get embroiled
in accounting scandals within two years, and go broke in 2008?
Of course it wasn’t. The Treasury report did include a
disclaimer that the forecast “could change materially depending
on future changes in  home prices , enterprise market share, and
other operating assumptions.” That’s a gross understatement.
The forecast is a fantasy -- a number pulled from the air.  Plus, there were all sorts of other bailout programs the
Treasury report didn’t include in its estimates, such as
increases in mortgage guarantees by the U.S. Federal Housing
Administration. What’s clear is that the Treasury’s objective
wasn’t to show a true measure of costs. It was to find a way to
show a potential gain to taxpayers, by any math necessary.  We’ve been down this path before. A great example can be
found in a 1998  case study  by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. of the government’s 1984 bailout of Continental Illinois
National Bank & Trust Co.  When the agency finally sold the last of its ownership
stake in 1991, it “produced a net gain to the FDIC of $200
million in excess of the $1 billion  capital investment 
originally provided to Continental,” the study’s authors wrote.
Dividend income amounted to an additional $202 million. There
also was a downside: “The Continental open bank assistance
transaction affirmed for many the notion that certain banks were
simply ‘too big to fail.”’  Although that deal showed a profit, the gain excluded the
future costs to society that come with moral hazard. We’re still
paying the bill.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on elections in  France,
Germany and  Greece ; Virginia Postrel on the end of  vertical
integration ;  Michael Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s success ;  Jonathan
Alter  on  health-care reform ; Yukon Huang on  China’s trade
surplus ; Andrew Exum on  disturbing combat photographs .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  