-- Morgan Stanley Sees a Potential Moody’s Cut as Manageable
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-19T18:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/morgan-stanley-sees-potential-moody-s-downgrade-as-manageable.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the
world’s biggest brokerage, sees a potential three-level credit-
rating downgrade from Moody’s Investors Service as manageable,
Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said.  “We’ve done a lot to narrow the impact of any potential
ratings change,” Porat said in an interview today. “Our view
is that the potential outcomes are manageable, and I think our
clients understand that.”  Morgan Stanley faces what would be the largest credit-
rating cut among U.S. banks, which may force the firm to post
more collateral on derivatives trades and pay more to borrow.
Moody’s said it will take ratings actions on the largest global
investment banks by the end of June. A three-level cut would
reduce Morgan Stanley’s grade from A2 to Baa2.  Moody’s will need to incorporate data from last month’s
 Federal Reserve  stress test, which Morgan Stanley passed, and
first-quarter results, Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said
on a conference call with analysts.  “They now have the benefit of two concrete pieces of
information that they didn’t have,” said Gorman, 53. “It’s
important and constructive that they’re delaying their readout
on this until early June as they try and assimilate all of that
plus the feedback that they’ve had from the industry.”  Morgan Stanley has cut back its structured derivatives
business, which would be most affected by a downgrade, Porat
said. The firm also has moved more derivatives to central
clearinghouses, a probable requirement of regulations stemming
from the Dodd-Frank Act, and has a higher-rated subsidiary it
could use for some trades, said Porat, 54.  ‘Relevant Parts’  “We’ve reduced the universe of relevant parts of the
 business  or positions that would be affected by any kind of a
change,” she said.  The firm’s clients also don’t rely solely on Moody’s, Porat
said. Morgan Stanley is rated A- by Standard & Poor’s and A by
 Fitch Ratings .  “A lot of clients are doing their own credit work,” she
said.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, said
earlier this week that it may be forced to reduce business with
some banks if their credit ratings are lowered.  “I don’t think there’s any possibility we’re not going to
be doing business with BlackRock,” Gorman said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “It’s only certain
individual contracts and we’ve created a number of workaround
situations where we can deal with this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  