-- Morgan Stanley Shares Rise as Profit Beats Analyst Estimates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-19T20:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/morgan-stanley-beats-estimates-on-increase-in-trading-revenue.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  climbed in New York
trading as first-quarter results beat analysts’ estimates and
stock- and bond-trading revenue rose more than at any other
major  U.S. bank .  Morgan Stanley advanced 41 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $18.07
at 4:15 p.m. in New York, the fourth-biggest increase on the  81-
company (S5FINL)  Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index. Profit was 71
cents a share excluding accounting charges, topping the 44-cent
average  estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fixed-income trading revenue surged 34 percent, surpassing
the 19 percent gain at Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s drop of more than 15 percent, excluding accounting
adjustments. Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman 
has set a goal of 15 percent return on equity after lingering
pressures from the financial crisis held that measure below 10
percent for five straight years. The gauge was 9.2 percent for
the first quarter.  “You had very favorable tailwinds in the fixed-income
markets, and so trading revenues are very strong,” Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in  New York , said
in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s Bloomberg Surveillance with
 Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The question is the
sustainability.”  Including the $2 billion accounting adjustment, the firm
had a net loss of $94 million, or 6 cents a share, compared with
profit of $968 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement.  Share Performance  Morgan Stanley’s shares are up 19 percent this year. They
fell 44 percent in 2011, the biggest decline since 2008, and
through yesterday were 40 percent below where they traded when
Gorman took over at the beginning of 2010.  “This quarter is further evidence that Morgan Stanley has
rebounded from the financial crisis of 2008,” Gorman, 53, said
in the statement.  The accounting charge is known as a debt-valuation
adjustment, or DVA. It stems from increases in the value of the
company’s debt, under the theory it would be more expensive to
buy back the securities. Morgan Stanley booked $3.4 billion of
gains in the third quarter of last year as its credit spreads
widened.  Revenue at Morgan Stanley climbed to $8.91 billion from
$7.76 billion a year earlier, excluding accounting adjustments.
Book value per share dropped to $30.74 from $31.42 at the end of
2011.  ‘Best Quarter’  “Great trading results, OK banking and wealth-management
numbers and solid expense trends all combined to produce
the best quarter we’ve seen at MS in a long time,”  Glenn
Schorr , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a note to
clients today, referring to the firm by its stock ticker.  First-quarter revenue from fixed-income sales and trading,
which is run by Ken deRegt along with commodity trading co-heads
Colin Bryce and Simon Greenshields, was $2.59 billion, excluding
DVA. That topped estimates of $2.02 billion from Fiona Swaffield, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , and $1.85 billion
from Citigroup’s  Keith Horowitz .  Fixed-income revenue was $1.94 billion in the first quarter
of 2011 and $1.25 billion in the fourth quarter. Colm Kelleher,
co-president of the firm’s Institutional Securities division,
oversees the trading business.  Goldman Sachs’s first-quarter fixed-income revenue,
excluding DVA, was $3.57 billion. Citigroup’s climbed to $4.74
billion, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. posted a 2 percent decline
to $5.02 billion.  ‘All Contributors’  “There was balanced strength across products and across
geographies; there was no one particular driver of results,”
Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat, 54, said in an interview.
“When you look at each of rates, foreign exchange, corporate
credit, commodities and even investment-grade securitization,
they were all contributors.”  The bank benefited as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 12 percent in the quarter and credit spreads tightened.
The gains came after the  European Central Bank  expanded lending,
 Greece  reached an agreement with creditors in the biggest
sovereign-debt restructuring in history and the U.S.
unemployment rate fell.  In equities trading, headed by Ted Pick, Morgan Stanley’s
revenue rose 6 percent from the year-earlier period to $1.83
billion, excluding DVA. That was a 44 percent increase from the
fourth quarter’s $1.28 billion, and compared with $2.4 billion
at Goldman Sachs and $1.42 billion at JPMorgan.  David Trone , an
analyst at JMP Securities LLC, had estimated revenue of $1.55
billion, while Atlantic Equities’ Richard Staite estimated $1.3
billion.  Investment Banking  Morgan Stanley generated $851 million in first-quarter
revenue from investment banking, which is overseen by Paul J. Taubman. That figure, down 16 percent from a year earlier,
included $313 million from financial advisory, $172 million from
equity underwriting and $366 million from debt underwriting.  Global  wealth management , overseen by  Greg Fleming , posted
pretax income of $387 million, up from $344 million a year
earlier, as revenue climbed less than 1 percent to $3.41
billion. The division’s pretax profit margin rose to 11 percent
from 10 percent in the first quarter of 2011.  Gorman has set a target for that margin of more than 20
percent, and Fleming vowed to raise the margin to the “mid-
teens” by the middle of next year. Total client assets rose to
$1.74 trillion as the unit had $8.7 billion of fee-based net
inflows.  Citigroup Venture  Morgan Stanley has the option to buy a 14 percent stake in
the venture from Citigroup next month, increasing its ownership
to 65 percent, and can buy the business outright over the next
two years. Citigroup Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach 
indicated this week that the bank may be willing to sell the
rest of its stake to Morgan Stanley this year.  Porat declined to say whether Morgan Stanley would try to
buy the rest of Citigroup’s stake this year. She said the firm
only asked for approval for a 14 percent purchase from the
 Federal Reserve  earlier this year.  Asset management reported a pretax gain of $128 million, up
from $125 million in the previous year’s period.  Compensation and benefits increased 3 percent from the
year-earlier quarter to $4.43 billion, or 64 percent of the
firm’s total revenue. The ratio was higher than in the first
quarter of 2011, when the bank set aside 57 percent of revenue.
Excluding DVA, the ratio fell to 50 percent from 55 percent.  Severance Charge  The results included a $138 million severance charge as the
firm followed through on a plan announced in December to cut
1,600 jobs in response to the weak  investment-banking  and
trading environment.  Profit fell 13 percent last year to $4.11 billion. Return
on equity was 4 percent for the year as the firm took charges to
eliminate swap contracts purchased from MBIA Inc. and to convert
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.’s preferred stake to  common 
shares.  Morgan Stanley faces a potential three-level downgrade of
its  credit rating  from Moody’s Investors Service, which will
take ratings actions on the largest global investment banks by
the end of June. That would be the largest cut among U.S. banks
and may force the firm to post more collateral on derivatives
trades and pay more to borrow. Porat said today that the firm
has taken steps to ensure that any downgrade would be
manageable.  Morgan Stanley was the top-ranked adviser on announced
mergers in the first quarter and the No. 1 equity underwriter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Facebook Inc., the
world’s largest social-networking service, said in February that
it picked Morgan Stanley to lead its initial public offering,
boosting the investment bank’s bid to claim first place in the
IPO league table for a third straight year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  