-- Osborne Urged by Lawmakers to Shed Light on BOE Governor Search
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/osborne-urged-by-lawmakers-to-shed-light-on-boe-governor-search.html
Chancellor of Exchequer  George Osborne  is facing pressure to shed light on his search for the
next Bank of  England  governor after the head of the Canadian
central bank denied a report he had been contacted.  “I am concerned that the process for selecting the next
governor lacks clarity,”  Andrew Tyrie , chairman of Parliament’s
cross-party Treasury Committee, wrote in a letter to Osborne
yesterday. “Press reports suggest that prospective candidates
are being informally approached.”  The Financial Times reported April 18 that Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  had been informally approached by the U.K.
central bank’s Court to replace  Mervyn King  when his term
expires in June 2013. Carney denied he’d been contacted and
David Lees, chairman of the body that governs the bank’s
affairs, said the Court had made no approach to anyone.  “I would be grateful if you could set out in detail the
process envisaged for the appointment of the next governor,”
Tyrie wrote. “The choice of the next governor will be
perhaps the most important public appointment the government
will make.”  Tyrie’s panel, which scrutinizes the Treasury and the  Bank
of England , renewed its appeal to be given a statutory power of
veto over the appointment or dismissal of the governor. The
committee made the recommendation in November following an
inquiry into the accountability of the central bank.  The suggestion “has attracted widespread support,” wrote
Tyrie, a lawmaker for the ruling Conservative Party of Osborne
and Prime Minister  David Cameron . “Regrettably, you rejected
that recommendation. I hope that you will reconsider.”  King is scheduled to leave the bank after serving the
maximum two five-year terms allowed. The next governor may be
limited to a single eight-year term under legislation proposed
by the government.  The governor is appointed by the queen following a
recommendation by the government. Osborne and officials at the
Treasury aim to make an announcement later this year, a person
familiar with the matter said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  