-- Total Talks With Argentina About Boosting Natural-Gas Output
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-04-19T19:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/total-talks-with-argentina-about-boosting-natural-gas-output-1-.html
France ’s  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-
largest oil producer, is in talks with Argentina about
increasing natural-gas supplies by more than 5 percent after the
country took control of YPF SA in a dispute over crude output.  Ladislas Paszkiewicz, Total’s senior vice president for the
Americas, discussed boosting output in the country by 2 million
cubic meters a day and expand exploration with YPF in a meeting
with government officials in  Buenos Aires  today, the Planning
Ministry said in a  statement . YPF and Total will start working
on the plan next week, the ministry said.  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  seized
control of Buenos Aires-based YPF from  Spain ’s Repsol  YPF SA (YPFD)  on
April 16, saying the company failed to increase production and
investment. The government seeks to curb declining oil output
after reserves fell 18 percent between 1998 and 2010, according
to data compiled by the Argentine Oil and Gas Institute.  Total is the largest gas producer in Argentina. Production
would rise at two fields, called Aguada Pichana and Aguada San
Roque, in the province of Neuquen in southwestern Argentina, the
ministry said.  The area accounts for about 20 percent of the nation’s gas
production. Total holds a stake in the fields and operates them,
and YPF is a shareholder together with Pan American Energy LLC,
according to the statement. The group met today at YPF’s
headquarters.  ‘Very Conscious’  Total is committed to boosting output in the South American
country to meet increasing demand, Paszkiewicz said last week.  “We want to continue developing, increasing production,”
the executive said April 17 during an industry event in  Rio de
Janeiro . “We’re very conscious of the needs of the country to
bring more gas to market.”  Total produced 13.7 billion cubic meters of gas in
Argentina last year, or about 37.5 million per day, according to
 data  from the country’s Energy Secretariat. A 2 million cubic
meters increase would represent a 5.3 percent boost in the
company’s daily gas output.  YPF  rose  3.2 percent to 79.50 pesos in Buenos Aires at 4:21
p.m., its first gain since April 12. Total  fell  2.6 percent to
36.34 euros at the close in Paris today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net 
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  