-- Panetta Cites Growing Concern About North Korean Missile
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-19T19:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/panetta-cites-growing-concern-on-n-korea-mobile-missile-1-.html
The U.S. has “growing concern”
that  North Korea  may have gained mobile missile technology that
was displayed during a parade this month, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said.  “If they in fact have a mobile capability” for
intercontinental ballistic missiles, the potential threat from
North Korea is increased, Panetta told the House Armed Services
Committee in  Washington  today. He said intelligence agencies are
working to determine the ramifications of the display, and
didn’t provide further details.  While Panetta called the disintegration of a North Korean
rocket during an attempted satellite launch last week “a huge
failure,” he said the U.S. has “growing concern about the
mobile capabilities on display in the parade recently.” North
Korea staged the parade for the 100th anniversary of the birth
of state founder  Kim Il Sung .  The technology display may heighten tensions with the U.S.
and its allies in the region, who have said they anticipate
further provocative actions by North Korea, possibly including
an underground nuclear test. The U.S. said the failed missile
launch violated North Korea’s February agreement to suspend
rocket and nuclear tests in exchange for 240,000 tons of U.S.
food aid.  The April 15 parade featured what appeared to be a new,
larger ballistic missile, said Baek Seung Joo, who commented the
day of the display. He studies the nation’s military at the
Korea Institute for Defense Analyses in  Seoul .  South Korea ’s
Defense Ministry indicated at the time that it was unable to
comment on the design or whether it was a real missile.  China’s Help  China  has provided “some help” with North Korea’s
technology, Panetta said in response to a question from
Representative  Michael Turner , an Ohio Republican who is
chairman of the panel’s strategic forces subcommittee.  “I don’t know the exact extent of that,” the defense
chief said, adding that the matter should be discussed in a
closed session. “But clearly there’s been assistance along
those lines.”  Robert Gates , Panetta’s predecessor, and Admiral Robert Willard, former Pacific commander for U.S. forces, warned in the
past year that North Korea appeared to be developing the
capability to transport missiles by road.  Willard told the House Armed Services Committee last month,
just before leaving office, that such a system might be “less
predictable” than North Korea’s rockets alone. He said
defending against such systems “is always problematic for any
armed force, and we are no exception.”  16-Wheel Transporter  Turner wrote two days ago to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Director of National Intelligence James Clapper
expressing concern over possible Chinese aid to North Korea’s
missile program. Turner cited a letter he received from  Richard
Fisher , a senior fellow on Asian military affairs at the
International Assessment and Strategy Center in Alexandria,
Virginia.  The 16-wheel “transporter-erector-launcher” for the
potentially road-mobile missile in the parade “is very likely
based on a Chinese design,” Fisher wrote in the April 15 letter
to Turner. “There is even the possibility that it is
manufactured in China for North Korea’s use.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  