-- Parsons Blames Glass-Steagall Repeal for Crisis
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-20T00:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/parsons-blames-glass-steagall-repeal-for-crisis.html
Richard Parsons , speaking two days
after ending his 16-year tenure on the board of  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and a predecessor, said the financial crisis was partly caused
by a regulatory change that permitted the company’s creation.  The 1999 repeal of the Glass-Steagall law that separated
banks from investment banks and insurers made the business more
complicated, Parsons said yesterday at a  Rockefeller Foundation 
event in  Washington . He served as chairman of Citigroup, the
third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, from  2009  until handing off
the role to  Michael O’Neill  at the April 17 annual meeting.  “To some extent what we saw in the 2007, 2008 crash was
the result of the throwing off of Glass-Steagall,” Parsons, 64,
said during a question-and-answer session. “Have we gotten our
arms around it yet? I don’t think so because the financial-
services sector moves so fast.”  The 1998 merger of Citicorp and Sanford I. Weill’s
Travelers Group Inc. depended on the U.S. government overturning
the portion of the Depression-era act that required banks to be
separate from capital-markets businesses like Travelers’ Salomon
Smith Barney Holdings Inc. Parsons, who was president of  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX)  at the time, had been a member of the Citicorp board
before joining the board of the newly created Citigroup.  “Why didn’t he do something about it when he had a chance
to?” Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA in  New York  who rates
Citigroup shares “underperform,” said in a phone interview.
“He’s a couple days out the door and he’s publicly criticizing
the ability to manage the company.”  ‘Dynamic World’  Unlike John S. Reed, the former Citicorp CEO who said in
2009 that he regretted working to overturn Glass-Steagall,
Parsons said he didn’t think that the barriers can be rebuilt.  “We are going to have to figure out how to manage in this
new and dynamic world because there are good and sufficient
business reasons for putting these things together,” Parsons
said. “It’s just that the ability to manage what we have built
isn’t up to our capacity to do it yet.”  Parsons didn’t refer to Citigroup specifically during his
comments and  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for the bank in New
York, declined to comment. Mayo said Parsons’ comments show he
views the New York-based bank as “too big to manage.”  “This gives more support to the new chairman to take more
radical action,” said Mayo, whose book “Exile on  Wall Street ”
was critical of Parsons and the management of banks including
Citigroup. “Citigroup needs to be reduced in size whether
that’s breaking up or additional asset sales or whatever it
takes.”  ‘Separate Houses’  Parsons said in a phone interview after the event that it
was difficult to find executives who could run retail banks and
investment banks in the U.S. because the two businesses had been
separated by Glass-Steagall for about 60 years.  “One of the things we faced when we tried to find new
leadership for Citi, there wasn’t anybody who had deep
employment experience in both sides of what theretofore had been
separate houses,” he said. Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is trying to change that, Parsons said. “I think if you
ask Vikram he’d say probably his biggest challenge long-term is
developing the management.”  Banks are growing because corporations and other clients
want them to, and management must meet the challenge, he said.  U.S. Bailout  “People have a sort of a notion that ‘well, we can decide
that’s too big to manage,’” he said. “But it got that way
because there was a market need and institutions find and follow
the needs of the marketplace. So what we have to do is we have
to learn how to improve our ability to manage it and manage it
more effectively.”  Citigroup, which took the most government aid of any U.S.
bank during the financial crisis, has lost 86 percent of its
value in the past four years, twice as much as the 24-company
 KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  Most shareholders voted this week against the
bank’s compensation plan, which awarded Pandit about $15 million
in total pay for 2011, when the shares fell 44 percent.  Shareholders’ views shouldn’t be “given the same level of
weight” as those of the board and management, Parsons said.
Companies “shouldn’t make the mistake of putting them in the
driver’s seat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colleen McElroy at   cmcelroy@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 