-- PG&E Quake Risks at Diablo Nuclear to Undergo 3D Exam
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-04-20T20:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/pg-e-quake-risks-at-diablo-nuclear-to-undergo-3d-exam.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG)  and  Edison International (EIX) 
are embarking on the most extensive and costly study of
earthquake risks ever undertaken for U.S. nuclear power plants
using 3-D seismic technology pioneered by the oil industry.  The utilities plan to spend $128 million and use research
gathered at sea to acquire a better understanding of seismic
hazards at  California ’s two atomic plants built along the coast
in the most earthquake-prone area of any U.S. reactors.  Answers from the studies will help regulators decide if
PG&E’s Diablo Canyon plant and Edison’s San Onofre station that
together supply 14 percent of the California’s electricity are
safe enough to operate through 2042. Three-dimensional imaging
scans, rarely used outside of energy surveys, may raise the bar
for safety tests in other nations concerned after  Japan ’s atomic
disaster left its taxpayers with a bill exceeding $130 billion.  “Modern geologic thought sees the movement of the earth in
much more complex terms than was understood 30 years ago,” when
the reactors were built, said Sam Blakeslee, a Republican state
Senator and former  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  seismologist, who helped
draft a 2006 California law that spurred the seismic reviews.  Today’s supercomputers and sensors visualize seismic faults
not as static lines, rather as overlapping, multi-directional
fractures that can cause blocks of rock to pop up, rotate and
spin, Blakeslee said in an interview at a San Luis Obispo,
California, coffee shop about 12 miles from Diablo Canyon.  Reactor Knocked Offline  Concerns that earlier research may have understated hazards
for U.S. nuclear plants from temblors escalated with last year’s
Fukushima nuclear meltdowns and a 2007 quake that knocked
Japan’s largest nuclear station offline for nearly two years,
Blakeslee said. The earlier 6.8 magnitude temblor “very
significantly exceeded” the level of seismic activity for which
the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear plant was designed, according to
an International Atomic Energy Agency report.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission is monitoring the
proposed 3-D surveys in California as it drafts new industry
guidelines for re-evaluating earthquake risk, Scott Burnell, a
commission spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The federal regulator has discovered greater-than-expected
seismic risks for some plants in the central and eastern U.S.
with studies it conducted with the U.S. Department of Energy and
the Electric Power Research Institute, a  Palo Alto , California-
based research center.  Diablo Canyon, California’s largest atomic plant, was built
in a coastal fault zone about 160 miles (257 kilometers)
northwest of Los Angeles, the most populous city in a state with
the largest economy in the U.S. Rival utility Edison operates
San Onofre atomic plant 60 miles north of  San Diego .  Wine Country  If Diablo Canyon suffered a Fukushima-style accident, winds
could carry the radioactive plume 85 miles southeast to  Santa
Barbara , leaving a swath of California’s central wine country an
uninhabitable wasteland, according to simulations by the
National Resources Defense Council, the  New York  City-based
environmental activist group.  California regulators in 2009 prodded the companies to re-
assess seismic and tsunami risks to help the state determine
whether the two plants are safe and cost-effective to relicense
through mid-century, said Barbara Byron, nuclear policy adviser
for the  California Energy Commission .  PG&E shares have lost 6.5 percent since March 11, 2011,
when an earthquake and tsunami set off a chain of events that
produced meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station.
Edison advanced 13 percent in the period, while the 42-member
Standard & Poors 500 Utilities Sector Index rose 7.4 percent.  PG&E rose 1 percent today to $43.20 at the close in New
York. Edison rose 0.9 percent to $42.89.  Spending Quadrupled  After the Fukushima disaster, and at the urging of a state-
appointed board overseeing its study, PG&E proposed to quadruple
its spending to $64.2 million and more than double its offshore
survey to about 357 square miles. Edison has revealed few
details of its plans.  The Japanese government is preparing a $136 billion bailout
package for  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  after the Fukushima
disaster forced about 160,000 people to flee their homes.  PG&E is prepared to spend “hundreds of millions” of
dollars on safety upgrades for Diablo Canyon if studies show
they are warranted, Anthony Earley, chief executive officer of
California’s largest utility owner, said in a February
interview.  To critics, the latest seismic reviews are tainted by
mistrust that the state’s two largest utility owners aren’t
looking hard enough for the truth, given the billions of dollars
in assets involved, Blakeslee said. State regulators met this
week to consider whether PG&E’s seismic study is adequate.  ‘Transparent Process’  PG&E is committed to a “very transparent and open public
process” that includes public meetings and legislative and
regulatory reviews of its seismic risk studies and response,
said Jearl Strickland, director of nuclear projects at Diablo
Canyon for San Francisco-based PG&E.  Edison, of Rosemead, California, considers the study part
of the company’s “ongoing commitment to safety,” said Jennifer
Manfre, a spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  The NRC agreed in Fukushima’s wake to wait for the seismic
study results before determining whether to grant 20-year
extensions to Diablo Canyon’s licenses, which expire in 2024 and
2025. Edison has said it plans this year to decide whether to
seek a similar extension for San Onofre after its licenses
expire in 2022. San Onofre is offline indefinitely as the NRC
investigates leaks and excessive wear on its steam generators.  Quashing Concerns  State officials also want a say in the process since the
NRC “has consistently excluded” seismic vulnerabilities “that
are not related directly to plant aging,” Byron said in an e-
mail.  PG&E said it’s confident the study will quash concerns
about Diablo Canyon, fortified to withstand a 7.5 magnitude
temblor and already subject to the greatest seismic scrutiny of
any U.S. atomic reactor. The company has steadfastly maintained
the plant’s defenses far exceed any shaking that area faults may
produce.  “The plant is adequately designed to be able to withstand
any credible earthquake that could occur in our region,” said
Strickland, during a tour of the facility.  Diablo Canyon is dug into the Irish Hills along a cliff,
sitting on top of (solid) bedrock that extends out beneath the
 Pacific Ocean . Built 48 miles west of the San Andreas fault,
it’s the only  U.S. atomic plant  with its own seismic department,
yet its earthquake risks aren’t fully understood.  Researchers want to know how the Shoreline fault,
discovered in 2008 a half-mile from the plant’s reactors,
interacts with the more powerful Hosgri fault, 2.5 miles
offshore and first charted by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
seismologists as construction began in the early 1970s.  Earthquake Reinforcements  PG&E spent $1.4 billion to bolster the plant during
construction after the NRC mandated upgrades to withstand a
worst-case Hosgri temblor. The repairs cost another $3.12
billion in the early 1980s after PG&E engineers discovered the
earthquake reinforcements were improperly installed, according
to a  California Public Utilities Commission  filing.  Improvements include concrete buttresses about three and a
half stories (34 feet) high that fortify the airline hanger-
sized building housing Diablo’s turbines and electric
generators, Strickland said. Thick steel beams were put in place
to hold steam pipes that snake into the turbines. Electrical
wires threaded through tubes were bolted to walls.  PG&E’s subterranean ultrasound test, slated to begin in
September, will mark the first time the tools of the oil trade
will be re-purposed to measure seismic hazards at a U.S. nuclear
plant, said Byron, the state energy commission adviser.  Oil Explorer Technology  The company is in talks with  Columbia University  and the
 National Science Foundation  to rent the Marcus G. Langseth, a
research vessel, to complete the offshore survey near Diablo
Canyon. Edison asked California ratepayers to fund a similar $64
million seismic survey for San Onofre, 60 miles south of  Los
Angeles , and may also rent the Langseth, Manfre said in a phone
interview.  PG&E still faces political and logistical tangles as it
prepares to map an ecologically fragile stretch of coast with
trucks, ships, airplanes and blasts from air guns. The company
needs permits from eight state and federal agencies that are
weighing the threat to wildlife, including migrating whales and
harbor porpoises.  Sound Waves  PG&E’s study will use sound waves fired by air guns to
chart folds, fractures and faults lacing rock and sediment as
deep as 7.5 miles, where earthquakes are typically generated,
according to state filings.  To get the most accurate image below any point on earth,
researchers must gather data extending 10 miles in all
directions, Chip Gill, president of the International
Association of Geophysical Contractors, said in a phone
interview. He compared the process to stepping to the side to
look under a table.  The San Luis Obispo Mothers For Peace, which has fought
Diablo Canyon since the early 1970s, point to PG&E’s San Bruno
pipeline explosion in 2010 to question the company’s reliability
in evaluating its own risks.  Anti-nuclear activists like the Alliance for Nuclear
Responsibility suggest the seismic study is biased since PG&E
has already concluded Diablo Canyon is safe.  “How can one conduct a scientific inquiry if you have a
pre-conceived conclusion?” asked David Weisman, outreach
coordinator for the San Luis Obispo-based Alliance, in a phone
interview. “They’re looking in all the wrong places for things
they hope not to find.”  Pipeline Explosion  Public confidence in PG&E was shaken after federal and
state investigators determined poor management and safety
practices led to the pipeline explosion in San Bruno,
California, a  San Francisco  suburb, that killed eight and
destroyed 38 homes. The power company hired a new CEO after the
disaster and vowed to improve its safety record.  PG&E’s study plans are being vetted by a state-appointed
peer review board. The data gathered by the Langseth will be
shared with scientists for separate analysis, Strickland said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  