-- Polish Central Bank Sees Temporary CPI Impact From Euro 2012
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-19T09:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/polish-central-bank-sees-temporary-cpi-impact-from-euro-2012.html
Poland ’s hosting of the European
2012 soccer championship will spur a “limited and temporary”
boost in  inflation  as shop owners, restaurants and hotels raise
prices amid a flood of fans, the central bank said.  Prices in Poland are on average lower than in the  European
Union , which may be used as “an excuse for companies to take
advantage of Euro 2012 and raise prices more than justified by
costs,” the bank’s Economic Institute said in a report obtained
by Bloomberg today. The effects of the tournament will be
“limited and temporary” because accommodation services
comprise only 0.3 percent of the consumer-price basket, it said.  While policy makers from  Turkey  to  Brazil  are reducing
 interest rates  to support economic expansion, central bank
Governor Marek Belka said on April 4 that  borrowing costs  may
rise with inflation exceeding the bank’s target for 17 months.  Consumer prices grew 3.9 percent in March from a year
earlier, compared with the 3.5 percent upper end of the central
bank’s target range. The inflation rate in June and July may
increase by less than 0.5 percentage point, the institute said.  “Even if we see a price increase in categories other than
accommodation, the increase will be temporary and should not
elevate inflationary expectations,” the institute said.  About 800,000 fans are expected to watch teams from 16
European countries compete in the tournament between June 8 and
July 1, according to the Polish Sports Ministry. Poland is co-
hosting the tournament with Ukraine.  Hosting the championships will help cut Poland’s
 unemployment rate  toward the government’s 12.3 percent target at
the end of the year, Labor Minister Wladyslaw Kosiniak-Kamysz
said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  