-- Qantas A380 to Fly Again 18 Months After Engine Explosion
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-04-20T07:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/qantas-a380-flies-again-after-repairs-cost-near-new-price.html
The  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  A380 that
suffered a mid-air engine explosion about 18 months ago will
return to the skies tomorrow after repairs costing A$139 million
($144 million).  The Nancy-Bird Walton will fly back to Sydney from
Singapore following the work, which was covered by insurance,
said Thomas Woodward, a Qantas spokesman. The Airbus SAS plane
made an emergency landing in the city-state in November 2010
after one of its four Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc engines exploded
over  Indonesia .  All parts of the A380 damaged in the explosion were
replaced, rather than repaired, in preparation for the
resumption of commercial services with a flight to  Hong Kong  on
April 28. The plane has also gone through a testing schedule
usually reserved for brand-new aircraft, including a more than
four-hour-long test flight.  “Throughout it all, the airplane behaved superbly,”  Ben
Holland , an Airbus technical pilot, said at a press briefing in
Singapore today. The plane went as high as 43,000 feet, its
maximum altitude, he said. Another flight was also made to test
cabin equipment, such as lighting and microwaves.  Qantas won A$95 million in compensation from Rolls-Royce
for disruptions caused by the incident, which prompted the
carrier to ground its entire A380 fleet for more than three
weeks. The costs associated with the accident are thus
equivalent to at least $242 million, more than the $228 million
list  price  of a  Boeing Co. (BA)  787-9 Dreamliner.  The A380 has an average list price of $389.9 million,
according to Airbus. Airlines usually get discounts for large
orders.  Long Wait  Work on the Nancy-Bird Walton, which included rebuilding
the engine and part of the plane’s skin, took about eight
months, Woodward said. The rest of the time, the aircraft, named
after one of  Australia ’s first  female pilots , was sitting at
Singapore’s Changi airport waiting for access to maintenance
hangars, he said.  The plane couldn’t be fixed earlier as only Singapore
Airlines Ltd. had facilities big enough for an A380 at the
airport and it needed them for its own fleet. The carrier was
eventually able to free up time for the Australian airline.  “You don’t invest in an A380 hangar and not use it,” said
Alan Milne, the head of Qantas’ integrated operations center.
“For them to rearrange their maintenance schedule to allow us
to have it for so long was just a wonderful piece of
cooperation.”  Rib-Feet Cracks  The months the plane spent in storage added to the
challenge of fixing it following the explosion, said Andrew
Daws, an Airbus flight-test engineer. During the repairs,
hairline cracks were also found in rib-feet used to support the
plane’s wings that were unrelated to the explosion. That helped
prompt inspections and tighter checks on A380s worldwide.  The Nancy-Bird Walton’s return to service will raise
Qantas’s  active fleet  of the 450-seat aircraft to 12. The
carrier has another eight on order. The plane will also help the
carrier with plans to speed up the retirement of less fuel-
efficient 747s.  “The older the aircraft are, the more you have to spend to
keep them going,” said  Mark Williams , an analyst at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “It’s not just fuel costs,
it’s maintenance as well.”  In the Nov. 4, 2010, incident, part of the Nancy-Bird
Walton’s  Rolls-Royce (RR/)  Trent 900 engine casing blew off shortly
after takeoff from Singapore, sending shrapnel through a wing
and fuselage, according to a  preliminary report  by the
Australian Transport Safety Bureau. None of the 469 people on
board were injured.  Engine Fire  The incident was caused by an oil leak and subsequent fire
within the engine, according to the safety regulator. London-
based Rolls-Royce subsequently revised procedures including ones
for assessing new parts, it said.  Rolls-Royce has taken “appropriate remedial action to make
sure that such events cannot happen again,” said David Mair of
Republic Consulting Pty. in Sydney, which represents the engine-
maker. The failure was confined to a single part, he said.  Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce said in February
that the airline will retire two more 747s in addition to four
being phased out this month. The carrier, which has never had a
fatal jetliner crash, had 20 747s as of June. Deliveries of 50
on-order 787s also due to start  next year .  Replacing the older aircraft will help pare  fuel  usage,
after prices jumped more than 40 percent in  Singapore  trading in
two years. The airline still expects fuel costs to increase by
A$300 million in the six months through June from a year earlier
because of higher prices and increased flying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  