-- Qihoo Boosts New York Stocks as PBOC Signals Adding Cash
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-04-19T21:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/qihoo-boosts-stocks-as-pboc-signals-adding-cash-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose in the U.S.,
led by  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , on a Xinhua News Agency report
that the central bank will ensure the availability of cash to
help bolster growth in the world’s second largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.6 percent to a one-week
high of 103.33 yesterday in New York. Qihoo, a  software
developer , jumped the most in a year after filing its first
annual report since listing shares in the U.S.  China Real Estate
Information Corp. (CRIC)  advanced to a one-month high after
shareholders approved its merger with  E-House China Holdings
Ltd. (EJ)   The People’s Bank of China will take “targeted liquidity
management actions” by reducing banks’ reserve-requirement
ratios to bolster the amount of available cash, the official
Xinhua agency said in an April 18 report citing an unidentified
person at the central bank.  China  has been cutting reserve
ratios to boost lending as economic growth slowed to the least
since 2009 last quarter.  “Anything that could help reverse the downward trend in
China’s rate would positively impact stocks,” Arjun Jayaraman,
who manages $400 million in assets, including Chinese equities,
at Causeway Capital Management in  Los Angeles , said by phone
yesterday. “Actions that indicate that Chinese authorities are
more willing to provide liquidity, lower  interest rates , are
good for equities.”  More Cuts Seen  After cutting banks’ reserve requirements by a total of one
percentage point since November, China’s policy makers will
probably reduce them by the same amount by the end of the second
quarter to free up lending, according to the median estimate of
15 analysts in a Bloomberg survey released on March 30. China
has kept interest rates on hold since July while central banks
in India and  Brazil  cut benchmark rates this week.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose for a third day, gaining
0.6 percent to a one-month high of $37.77. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  slid 0.6 percent to 1,376.92 in its second day of
declines after data showed previously owned U.S. homes
unexpectedly fell in March and more Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week.  Beijing-based Qihoo surged 17 percent to $24.08 in New
York, the biggest jump since June 7. The company’s American
depositary receipts earlier soared as much as 27 percent to
$26.18. The amount of Qihoo’s ADRs traded reached 8.3 million,
or 4.5 times the three-month daily average.  The anti-virus software developer filed its  2011 annual
report  to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday,
the first since its initial public offering in March 2011. The
report carried a statement from Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA
Ltd., Qihoo’s external auditor, who said the financial
statements “present fairly, in all material respects” Qihoo’s
financial position in 2010 and 2011.  Refuting Allegations  “Qihoo’s official SEC filing showed its financial figures
were checked and audited, which is a good refutation of
allegations by some short sellers on its business and a positive
to its stock,” said Qi Guo, who does research on U.S-listed
Chinese Internet companies for ThinkEquity Partners LLC in San
Fransisco. “It’s a company with fast growth whose special
business model is not well understood by international
investors.”  Qihoo rejected in an April 3 statement allegations that
were raised in a Forbes magazine article a day earlier that
Qihoo’s “revenue model” had changed since its IPO. The company
also refuted accusations by companies including short sellers
Citron Research, which disputed Qihoo’s sources of revenue in
reports since November.  China Life  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was little changed yesterday
at 2,378.63 after posting the biggest jump in two months the
previous day. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong added 1.4 percent to a one-month
high of 11,047.43.  ADRs of  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) , the nation’s biggest
insurer, advanced 3.2 percent to $40.68 in U.S. trading
yesterday, the highest level since March 16.  The Beijing-based company’s unit, China Life Insurance
(Overseas) Co., was granted a quota of 1 billion yuan ($159
million) to 1.5 billion yuan to invest in China’s interbank bond
market, the Hong Kong Journal reported yesterday, citing Yu
Yong, assistant president of the company.  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission, the industry
watchdog, may soon announce new rules for insurers’ overseas
investments, the Oriental Morning Post reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter.  China Life’s ADRs traded 0.7 percent  below  its  Hong Kong 
stock, which climbed 3.9 percent to HK$21.20, the  equivalent  of
$2.73 per share. The discount in the ADRs, each representing 15
common shares in Hong Kong, widened from 0.1 percent on April
18.  Real-Estate Merger  Ping Cheng, a Hong Kong-based analyst at DBS Vickers,
yesterday upgraded the company’s rating from fully valued,
meaning it expects a negative total return of more than 10
percent over the next 12 months, to hold. DBS Vickers also
lowered the stock’s 12-month price target to $23.20 from $24.  China Real Estate, a Shanghai-based property data and
consulting firm, surged 5.7 percent to a one-month high of
$5.57.  The company’s shareholders voted to approve its merger plan
with E-House, it said in a statement yesterday. E-House, also
based in  Shanghai , said on Dec. 28 that it agreed to acquire
outstanding shares of Real Estate that it didn’t already own.  E-House surged 7 percent to $6.41, the biggest one-day
increase since March 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  