-- Australia Extends Unbeaten Streak Against Windies as Test Drawn
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-20T00:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/rain-forces-draw-in-second-west-indies-australia-cricket-test.html
Australia  will take an unbeatable
1-0 lead into the final cricket Test against West Indies after
rain and bad light halted the host’s run chase on the final day
of the second match.  Captain  Michael Clarke  declared Australia’s second innings
at 160-8 to set West Indies a victory target of 215 in 61 overs
in Port of  Spain , Trinidad. The home team reached 53-2 in 11
overs before the match was abandoned as a draw before tea.  “The rains cost both teams,” Clarke said in a news
conference. “It would have been a really good finish to a tough
Test match.”  The result extended Australia’s grip on the Frank Worrell
Trophy to two decades. West Indies last beat Australia in a Test
series in 1992 and has won just one of the past 21 matches
between the teams.  Man-of-the-match Kemar Roach recorded his second five-
wicket haul to finish with 10-146, becoming the first West
Indies bowler in seven years to take 10 wickets in an elite
Test. He’s the first West Indian to claim 10 in a match against
Australia since Curtly Ambrose in 1993.  Australia won last week’s opener in Barbados by three
wickets. The third Test will be played at Windsor Park in
 Dominica , starting April 23.  The touring team will be without fast bowlers  Peter Siddle 
and  James Pattinson  for the series finale. Cricket Australia
said the pair will return to Australia because of back injuries
and no replacement player will be sent to the West Indies.  Ryan
Harris , who was rested after a man-of-the-match performance in
the first Test, and left-armer Mitchell Starc, are the other
pacemen in Australia’s squad.  “It’s disappointing that we lose two very good bowlers,
but I guess Mitchell Starc certainly comes into contention
now,” Clarke added. “We have the option to play two spinners
again and Ryan Harris is fresh and ready to go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  