-- Rajaratnam Case Shows Outmanned, Outgunned SEC on a Roll
-- B y   D e v i n   L e o n a r d
-- 2012-04-19T22:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/rajaratnam-case-shows-outmanned-outgunned-sec-on-a-roll.html
One late afternoon in March 2007,
Sanjay Wadhwa sat at his desk transfixed by the data on his
computer screen. Wadhwa was then a low-level supervisor in the
 Wall Street  office of the  U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission  investigating a supposedly routine case of “cherry-
picking.” The SEC had gotten a complaint that Rengan Rajaratnam, the founder of Sedna Capital Management LLC, a small
hedge fund, was doling out a disproportionate share of his best
trades to the beneficiaries of a “friends and family” account.
It was Wadhwa’s job to figure out what was going on, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its April 23 issue.  The day was winding down, and Wadhwa could have used an
evening run. It’s not strange for an employee of the SEC to
leave the office at 5:30 p.m. on the dot -- the National
Treasury Employees Union, which represents the agency’s non-
managerial workers, basically encourages it -- but Wadhwa stayed
at his desk, considering the data. Rengan Rajaratnam was trading
technology company stocks, and he routinely did so just before
an earnings announcement jolted their prices. Wadhwa also said
that one of Sedna Capital’s lucky insiders happened to be the
fund manager’s older brother,  Raj Rajaratnam , co-founder of the
Galleon Group LLC. The elder Rajaratnam was a hedge fund
industry star who had become a billionaire through his ability
to “arbitrage reality,” as he not-so-modestly put it. He owned
homes in Manhattan, Connecticut, and Miami, and kept a private
jet at a small airport near New York to ferry clients to the
Super Bowl and Las Vegas.  Brothers’ Trading Records  With the trading records of both brothers side by side on
his computer, Wadhwa noticed that Raj and Rengan somehow managed
to buy and sell shares with the same fortuitous timing. He
called in two other staff attorneys and pointed to the screen.
“I think Raj is our guy. If anybody is getting inside
information, it’s him. His Rolodex would be bigger and fatter
than Rengan’s.”  Wadhwa was right. The investigation would explode into what
federal prosecutors have called the biggest insider trading case
in history. It also ushered in a new era at the SEC, which has
been on a four-year transformation. The SEC filed 735
enforcement actions in 2011, a record for the agency. It
collected $928 million in penalties, almost four times the
amount it collected in 2008. Rajaratnam is in jail -- though he
is appealing -- and his case has generated scads of leads, which
the SEC continues to pursue. On May 21 a fish even larger than
Rajaratnam will appear in court: Rajat Gupta, a one-time
McKinsey & Co. leader. Gupta, also a former director on the
board of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , stands accused by the SEC and
the Department of Justice of tipping Raj Rajaratnam about the
bank’s inner workings as the financial markets fell apart in
2008. Gupta has pleaded not guilty.  Settling Suits  The SEC has also settled lawsuits against  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s JPMorgan Securities unit, Wachovia Capital Markets LLC,
and Goldman Sachs for misleading investors in securitized debt
packages, such as collateralized debt obligations, during the
financial crisis. It has been particularly attentive to Goldman
Sachs. The SEC extracted a record $550 million settlement from
the bank two years ago in a case involving a claim that the Wall
Street firm had misled investors in a CDO on the eve of the
financial crisis. According to the SEC lawsuit, the bank had
allowed hedge fund manager John Paulson, who shorted the CDO and
who was not charged, to select the troubled subprime mortgages
that would determine its performance. In these cases the
settlements did not include an admission of guilt.  ‘Huddling’ Sessions  In April, Goldman agreed to pay $22 million to resolve SEC
claims that it allowed researchers to hold weekly “huddling”
sessions where they shared nonpublic information with top
clients. (Goldman admitted to some of the SEC’s fact findings,
and neither admitted nor denied the remainder.) The firm also
recently disclosed that it has been warned by the SEC that it
might be sued again for possible misdeeds involving the sale of
mortgage-backed securities. Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  The SEC has created a special asset management unit to
pursue hedge funds. It revealed in December that it had used a
statistical analysis to take action against individuals involved
in four funds whom it accused of beautifying results, among
other things. This is refreshing for an agency that failed to
detect hedge fund manager  Bernie Madoff ’s $65 billion Ponzi
scheme despite repeated warnings from money manager  Harry Markopolos . In a U.S. Senate hearing after Madoff’s December
2008 arrest, Markopolos said, “The typical SEC staff attorney
would have trouble finding ice cream in a Dairy Queen.”  The SEC has made progress despite every disadvantage. In
traditional  law enforcement , a policeman does not have to be
particularly smart to outsmart a criminal. SEC agents, without
criminal justice powers or huge salaries, are expected to police
the brightest minds out of the best colleges.  Competing for Talent  Yet competing for talent with the cash and freedom offered
by the private sector is not the SEC’s largest problem. Often
it’s the government itself. If the SEC was “asleep at the
switch” during the boom, as is often said, it’s fair to say it
was drugged. A 2009 report by the U.S. Government Accountability
Office found that under former Chairman  Christopher Cox , who
served from 2005 to 2009, management at the SEC actively
discouraged enforcement attorneys from bringing cases. Despite
the rampaging markets, the agency assessed just $256 million in
penalties in 2008. “Under Cox, the commission put all kinds of
restrictions on enforcement,” says William Black, a former
litigation director for the Federal Home Loan Bank Board who now
teaches economics and law at the University of Missouri at
Kansas City. “Their efforts were designed to throw sand in the
gasoline tank, and it worked.” Cox declined to comment.  Political Challenges  Politics make the SEC’s job difficult in every
administration. In March, Chairman  Mary Schapiro , appointed by
President Barack Obama in 2009, appeared before the House
Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government to
argue for a $1.5 billion budget, an 18 percent increase. That’s
roughly what  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  spent last year on outside data
processing and telecommunications. “It just worries me that in
spite of all the money we threw into the SEC, y’all still missed
Madoff,” said Representative Jo Ann Emerson, a Missouri
Republican. The SEC receives no taxpayer dollars; it is entirely
funded by fees Congress allows it to collect on securities
transactions, which equal 2 cents on every $1,000 of trades. And
that budget is only partially directed to enforcement; the
majority, more than two-thirds, goes to its more prosaic duties,
such as conveying data to investors and crafting policy.  Overcoming Obstacles  Yet despite every obstacle the SEC has had a string of
successes, including the Galleon investigation, which has
yielded 56 arrests and 48 convictions. Raj Rajaratnam was
sentenced to 11 years in prison last October after an eight-week
trial. (He has appealed his conviction.) “The thing about the
SEC and Sanjay Wadhwa is they were present and watchful at the
very start of the Galleon case,” says  Preet Bharara , the U.S.
Attorney for the Southern District of New York, who makes the
big announcements about criminal arrests even on cases
originated by the paper shufflers at the SEC. “It would be hard
to overstate their importance,” says Bharara.  The twists and turns of the Galleon probe -- revealed here
for the first time through the eyes of the SEC and the lawyer
who broke the case -- reveal much about the SEC’s challenges:
its complacent culture, its Byzantine bureaucracy, and its
statutory weaknesses. They also show how the SEC overcomes those
challenges. “We don’t have handcuffs,” says Wadhwa. “All we
have are our pencils, our rulers, and our calculators.”  Mustard Carpet  Wadhwa’s office in the World Financial Center in lower
Manhattan isn’t really an office. There are no flourishes of
personality or decorations of any kind. The walls are a drab
yellow; the carpet is mustard-colored. It’s a room cluttered
with stacks of documents, which crowd the desk, window sill, and
floor. Even now, months after Rajaratnam went to jail, most of
them are from the Galleon case and its related investigations.  Wadhwa is 45 and looks a decade younger. Born in New Delhi,
he came to the U.S. with his parents and two sisters when he was
19. He got an undergraduate degree in accounting from Florida
Atlantic University and a law degree from  South Texas College  of
Law. He added a master’s in tax law from New York University in
1996 and spent the next seven years working in private practice,
first at Cahill Gordon & Reindel and then at Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom. Among other things, he helped Wall Street
clients construct some of the derivatives that would become
infamous during the financial crisis.  Toward the end of his private-sector stint, Wadhwa says he
felt burned out. In 2003 he applied for a job in the New York
office of the SEC’s enforcement division. Mark Schonfeld, then
head of the New York office and now a partner at Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher, was puzzled by Wadhwa’s résumé: “He’d never been a
litigator,” Schonfeld recalls. “I wondered, ‘Is this something
he really wants to do?’ ” Still, he hired Wadhwa as an entry-
level staff attorney at half his private-sector salary. In a
way, it was a no-lose deal for Wadhwa: A lot of people do a few
years at the SEC and leave for high-paying jobs at large firms.  No BlackBerry  The SEC was quite different from the big firms he had
worked at. Wadhwa thought nothing of putting in long hours at
Skadden Arps. The firm gave him a BlackBerry so he would always
be on call, and there were paralegals to make copies and such.
When he arrived at the SEC, only the managers got smartphones,
and he wasn’t a manager. Staff attorneys went home at 5:30 p.m.
If they stayed an extra hour each night, they could take every
other Friday off. Many did. Wadhwa made his own copies and sent
his own faxes.  ‘Painful’ Process  These drab chips of office culture were only the tip of an
unfathomable bureaucratic iceberg. Even before Cox became
chairman and added additional layers of sign-offs to an already
burdensome process, it could take weeks to get a decision on an
investigative matter. If Wadhwa needed the authority to issue
subpoenas in a case, he had to write a memo requesting a
“formal order of investigation.” It would then be reviewed by
four levels of management in the New York office before it was
forwarded to Washington for final approval by the agency’s five
commissioners. “Painful,” he says.  Yet for someone of Wadhwa’s thorough disposition, the job
had its rewards. On his first day, his supervisor led him into a
windowless room in which there were 70 boxes of trading records,
e-mails, and offering memorandums subpoenaed in an insider
trading investigation involving a new Wall Street fad: private
shares in public companies. “Here’s your first project,” his
boss said. “Go through the documents. See what you can find.”  With his law firm experience, Wadhwa was able to make sense
of the paperwork. He used the contents of the boxes to figure
out that certain participants made bets against the public
shares of the companies knowing they would decline after the
issuing of private stock was announced. The SEC turned his
findings over to the U.S. Attorney. In 2005, Guillaume Pollet, a
managing director at S.G. Cowen & Co., pleaded guilty to insider
trading charges. Shortly after, Wadhwa was promoted to a
supervisory position. One of the rewards was a BlackBerry.  Immutability  By 2007, Wadhwa and some of his colleagues had figured out
the SEC’s only advantage: immutability. Unlike the firms and
people it regulates, the federal government isn’t going anywhere
fast. So it might as well go slow. As an investigatory method,
this translates into the staff collecting as much information as
possible -- phone records, trading records, lists of people at
public companies who possessed confidential information -- and
sequestering themselves until they can figure out if they have
anything.  Fast-moving Galleon walked right into Wadhwa’s trap. In
2006, Galleon registered with the SEC as a “regulated
investment adviser,” which meant it was required to preserve
all electronic correspondence. Thus, in response to an SEC
subpoena in May 2007, it was compelled to turn over 4 million
pages of documents, several hundred thousand e-mails, and 50,000
instant messages. It was far too big a payload for Wadhwa and
his colleagues to sort by themselves, so the agency’s
examination team pitched in.  Subpoena  After Wadhwa’s discovery of synchronized trading between
the Rajaratnam brothers -- Rengan was never charged -- the SEC
subpoenaed Raj Rajaratnam. On June 7, 2007, the portly fund
manager arrived at the reception area of the SEC’s office to
testify. Wadhwa led his guest into a conference room with the
same dispiriting color scheme as his office. Flanked by two
lawyers, Rajaratnam spent the entire day fielding questions as
if there were nothing he cared about more than helping the
agency investigate his firm. He denied that he was trading
stocks illegally. He insisted there was no need; Galleon had a
deep research bench. “I have 34 analysts,” said Rajaratnam.
“It costs me something like 30 or 60 million to keep them
happy.” He joked about Paris Hilton’s recent DWI arrest.  Roomy81  At one point, Wadhwa’s BlackBerry buzzed. It was an e-mail
from a member of the exam staff who had found a string of
instant messages between Rajaratnam and someone called Roomy81.
Andrew Michaelson, a young staff attorney, was doing the
questioning. In a break, Wadhwa pulled him aside. They didn’t
want to let on that this was something more than a routine
proceeding, but they decided it couldn’t hurt to ask who this
person was. When Rajaratnam resumed his testimony, Michaelson
inquired nonchalantly, “Are you familiar with a Roomy81 instant
message address?”  “Yes,” Rajaratnam replied. He said her name was  Roomy
Khan .  “Who is that?”  “She worked at Galleon,” he said. “Then she left Galleon
to start her own fund. I think she primarily manages her own
money.”  Trading Polycom  Four days later the SEC found an instant message from Khan
to Rajaratnam in which she appeared to be providing inside
information about the telecommunications company  Polycom Inc. (PLCM) :
She told him not to buy the stock until she got earnings
guidance. The investigators looked at their trading records. It
was just as they suspected. Khan called the hedge fund manager
several times before earnings announcements by Polycom; they
both traded the stock.  After these discoveries, Wadhwa started to become more
secretive. He and his team members talked about their cases in
code when they went down to the food court. Wadhwa was known to
shush other SEC employees if they talked business on the
elevators.  Other SEC workers were curious. “They knew something was
going on, but that was it,” Wadhwa says. “They would ask,
‘What are you working on?’ We would say, ‘Oh, this and that.’ ”
Unlike many SEC employees, Wadhwa and his team often worked
nights and weekends.  Wharton Connection  Periodically, one would burst into another team member’s
office to announce a discovery -- they discovered, for example,
that Rajaratnam was frequently in contact with Rajiv Goel, a
managing director at  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and one of his former
classmates at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School.
Rajaratnam traded in and out of Intel on a daily basis, but just
because Galleon’s co-founder was on the phone with his college
chum didn’t prove anything. Finally, Jason Friedman, another
young lawyer on Wadhwa’s staff, figured out that someone was
logging into Goel’s Charles Schwab account via a computer at
Galleon and making trades (using inside information, of course)
on his behalf. It was clearly a quid pro quo. Friedman couldn’t
help it; he ran across the hall to tell his boss. Goel later
pleaded guilty.  In September 2007, Wadhwa and his group met with
representatives of the U.S. Attorney’s office and the FBI. The
Galleon case was entering a new phase and Wadhwa suggested the
FBI approach Khan about cooperating. The SEC typically lays the
groundwork for the Department of Justice in criminal cases
involving Wall Street. If the U.S. Attorney’s office brings a
successful criminal prosecution, it’s all but assured that the
SEC will be able to extract civil penalties from the same
individuals, but the prosecutors tend to get all the credit
because they put people behind bars. Thus, Bharara ends up on
the cover of Time under the headline, “This Man Is Busting Wall
St.” By the time the civil case is wrapped up, the press is
tired.  Videotape  The FBI warmed to Wadhwa’s suggestion. As it turned out,
Khan had been captured on videotape faxing internal information
to Rajaratnam when she was an employee at Intel. She cooperated
with an investigation. No charges were filed against Rajaratnam.
Khan pleaded guilty in 2001 to wire fraud charges.  A month later, FBI Special Agent B.J. Kang, a square-jawed
Taiwanese immigrant who wore government-issued windbreakers,
knocked on the door of Khan’s home in northern California. “I
have to cooperate,” she sobbed to him. “Otherwise, I’ll go to
jail.” Kang called Wadhwa with the news: Khan had flipped.  Paris Hilton  In 2008, SEC attorneys sat in on several meetings with Khan
in New York at the U.S. Attorney’s office. A heavyset woman with
dark eyes, Khan promised to provide incriminating information
about her trading partners in hopes of getting a lesser
sentence. This did not necessarily mean she was forthright. She
told her inquisitors that she bought Hilton Hotels stock on the
eve of the company’s acquisition by the Blackstone Group in 2007
because she thought Paris Hilton’s DWI bust around the same time
would be good publicity for the company. The SEC said her phone
records told a different story. This sharpened Khan’s memory.
She admitted she had been tipped by Deep Shah, a Moody’s
Investors Service analyst, who was evaluating the hotel
company’s debt before the deal went through.  The U.S. Attorney’s office wanted Khan to record her
conversations with Rajaratnam to catch him in what she referred
to as a “dirty call.” She agreed. According to a transcript of
one of their conversations, he spoke about several stocks,
including Intel.  Getting a Wiretap  “Are you hearing anything about Intel?” Khan asked him on
Jan. 14, 2008.  “Intel, I think, will beat the current estimates by …
like, 9 to 10 percent and then guide down 8 percent,”
Rajaratnam said.  “Did you hear anything about  Xilinx (XLNX) ?”  “I got to call a couple of guys there at Xilinx.”  It was enough for U.S. District Court Judge Gerald Lynch to
grant a March 7, 2008, request by the U.S. Attorney’s office and
the FBI to put a wiretap on Rajaratnam’s mobile phone. Soon they
were listening to the billionaire trade information with
characters including Goel, Anil Kumar, a McKinsey consultant who
fed Rajaratnam information about clients such as Advanced Micro
Devices, and Rajat Gupta, a Goldman Sachs board member who
allegedly tipped the Galleon co-founder about Warren Buffett’s
investment in the bank in September 2008.  Under federal law, the SEC isn’t permitted to listen to
live wiretaps. “I don’t mean this in a dismissive way,” Wadhwa
says. “But the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has access to
wiretaps, but the SEC doesn’t? And somehow you expect us to
oversee Wall Street? There has to be some relationship between
the responsibilities and the tools.”  Calls from FBI  Wadhwa and his team members continued building their civil
case against Rajaratnam and assisting federal prosecutors as
best they could. From time to time, Wadhwa would get a call from
an FBI agent who couldn’t understand something in the case. The
agent would ask questions in hypothetical terms to avoid
revealing his source. Wadhwa assumed this meant criminal
prosecutors were using wiretaps in the Galleon case. The FBI
wasn’t even permitted to tell him whether there was a tap.  By summer 2008, as the economy was collapsing and an
election was approaching, Wadhwa began to feel pressure to file
his case from his superiors in Washington, who worked under the
SEC’s former enforcement director, Linda Chatman Thomsen. It
didn’t matter that the U.S. Attorney’s office was in the middle
of its investigation. As far as his superiors were concerned,
Wadhwa and his team had enough to satisfy the lower burden of
proof in a civil trial.  Primary Global Research  Wadhwa resisted. He told his bosses he had discovered more
suspects who were trading on the same information as Khan and
Rajaratnam. Eventually, they would lead the U.S. Attorney’s
office and the SEC to Primary Global Research LLC, a Silicon
Valley firm whose employees connected hedge funds with people at
companies such as  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
Wadhwa could feel his investigation moving in a promising new
direction. “We wanted to bring these faces into focus and see
what role they were playing,” he says. He feared that if he
moved too quickly against Rajaratnam, these new suspects would
destroy evidence that the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office
needed to take them down.  The pressure eased after Schapiro was appointed to head the
SEC in January 2009. A soft-spoken career regulator, Schapiro
had served as an SEC commissioner before. She became the face of
the SEC on Capitol Hill, advocating for more funding and more
regulatory authority under Dodd-Frank. She also made it clear
that she wanted a tougher agency. To head the enforcement
division, she picked  Robert Khuzami , a former prosecutor who had
jailed white-collar criminals and terrorists in the U.S.
Attorney’s office in the Southern District of New York before
departing in 2002 to become an attorney at Deutsche Bank.  No ‘Second-Guessing’  Shortly after Khuzami arrived, he reviewed the Galleon
case. In a telephone conversation, Wadhwa nervously gave his new
boss an update. He was relieved when the enforcement director
told him to take his time. “I just trusted Sanjay,” Khuzami
recalls. “He didn’t need me micromanaging and second-guessing
him.”  That gave Wadhwa a short reprieve. On Oct. 15, 2009, the
FBI overheard the Galleon co-founder making plans to fly to
London to attend a movie premiere. Fearing that Rajaratnam might
flee the country, the bureau decided to arrest him. Wadhwa
received a heads-up and stayed in the office all night preparing
the SEC’s civil suit against the hedge fund manager. The next
morning, at 7 a.m., the U.S. Attorney’s office e-mailed him the
criminal complaint containing excerpts from the wiretaps. It was
the first time he knew for sure of their existence. Wadhwa is
convinced that if Rajaratnam had been picked up any sooner, many
of the figures involved with Primary Global Research would never
have been caught. “There is no doubt in my mind,” he says.  Welcome Change  As far is Wadhwa was concerned, Schapiro and Khuzami were
just what the SEC needed. Says Schapiro: “I wanted everyone to
have a sense of urgency. I wanted people to act like their hair
was on fire.” Khuzami conducted the biggest overhaul of the
enforcement division since its creation in the 1970s. One of the
first steps was to eliminate the requirement that the
enforcement staff get approval from the agency’s five
commissioners before issuing subpoenas. Khuzami says this was an
“empowering event” for his staff. “Now if I’m doing a
parallel case with some criminal prosecutor and he issues a
subpoena in 30 minutes, I can do the same thing,” he says. “I
don’t have to say, ‘Oh, excuse me, can you wait 10 weeks while I
create my memo and get it approved?’ ”  Specialization  Previously, the division’s attorneys had often been
generalists who flitted from case to case. Khuzami shifted 20
percent of his 1,200-person staff into specialized units
focusing on areas such as insider trading, structured finance
abuses, and municipal bond scams. As a result the SEC has filed
bigger and more sophisticated cases.  Which is not to say that Khuzami’s tenure has been trouble-
free. In November, U.S. District Court Judge Jed Rakoff
admonished the SEC for not being tough enough on Citigroup,
refusing to sign off on the SEC’s $285 million settlement
negotiated with the bank. Rakoff’s objection: The agreement
included one of the SEC’s standard clauses allowing the
defendant to “neither admit nor deny” wrongdoing. Khuzami
responds that the SEC wouldn’t have gotten a substantially
larger amount if it had taken the case to trial. The agency has
appealed the decision. It was the first time since 1984 that the
agency has challenged a judge’s decision in an enforcement case.
(In March the appellate court indicated it was likely to rule in
the SEC’s favor.)  ‘One Step Ahead’  “The problem with enforcement divisions in the past has
been that the industry has always stayed at least one step ahead
of them,” says former SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt (who is also a
director of Bloomberg LP). “In recent years it has been two and
three steps ahead. [Khuzami] has diminished the gap between
regulator and regulated from a chasm to just a normal-sized
gap.”  Wadhwa was once again at his document-strewn desk on Feb.
10, 2012, when his phone rang. It was Marc Berger, then deputy
chief of the U.S. Attorney’s securities fraud unit in Manhattan.
He wanted Wadhwa to know that the FBI had arrested Douglas
Whitman, a hedge fund manager in Menlo Park, Calif. This wasn’t
surprising. Wadhwa had a complaint ready charging Whitman with
insider trading. He handed it to an SEC paralegal and told him
to head to the courthouse.  Flowers Follow Tip  Whitman was a familiar figure to Wadhwa. He had discovered
the hedge fund manager five years ago while looking at Khan’s
phone records. He was one of her neighbors in California. The
SEC alleges that she shared the same tips about Google’s
earnings with Whitman in 2007 that she provided to Rajaratnam.
According to the complaint, Whitman made $620,000 on the stock
and then sent Khan flowers.  A week after Whitman was busted, the U.S. Attorney and the
SEC filed charges against John Kinnucan, another suspect in the
expert network case. Kinnucan gained notoriety in 2010 when he
refused to cooperate after FBI agents visited his Portland
(Ore.) home as he was enjoying a late afternoon glass of wine.
He has pleaded not guilty. “This is all ultimately growing out
of the Galleon investigation,” said Wadhwa later that day.
“That’s really where the seeds were planted that led to this
expert networks investigation. Frankly, that’s going to be
larger than the Galleon investigation.”  16,000 Intercepted Calls  Wadhwa is now deputy chief of the SEC’s market abuse group,
which handles insider trading, among other things. He has 55
people reporting to him and is trying to teach them what he has
learned. The Galleon case continues. Shortly after Rajaratnam’s
arrest, the U.S. Attorney’s office turned the recordings of the
Galleon wiretaps over to Rajaratnam. Although Rajaratnam’s
defense team had them, the SEC still did not. After more than a
year of legal tussling, the SEC finally got them in February
2011 through the discovery process in the civil suit. Wadhwa has
several staff attorneys listening full-time to the 16,000
intercepted calls. The SEC has yet to file a case as a result.
Wadhwa believes it is only a matter of time. “I have faith,”
he says. “I personally don’t think we got all of Raj’s insider
trading,” Wadhwa adds. “It would be foolhardy to think so.”  SEC Targets  Listed below are key figures in the Rajaratnam
investigation, as well as the biggest SEC penalties since 2009.  -- Anil Kumar: A former McKinsey director and college buddy
of Rajaratnam, he pleaded guilty to passing him confidential
information and testified for the prosecution in the hedge fund
manager’s trial. He has not been sentenced.  -- Danielle Chiesi: The former consultant for New Castle
Funds pleaded guilty to passing inside information to
Rajaratnam. She was sentenced to 36 months in prison.  -- James Fleishman: The ex-Primary Global Research
executive was sentenced to 36 months in prison after a jury
convicted him of conspiring to funnel inside information to
clients. He has appealed his conviction.  -- Mark Anthony Longoria: A former Primary Global Research
consultant and supply-chain manager for Advanced Micro Devices,
he pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud. He has not
been sentenced.  -- Rajat Gupta: The former Goldman Sachs director and
senior partner at McKinsey was charged with multiple counts of
securities fraud. He has pleaded not guilty.  -- Douglas Whitman: Founder of Whitman Capital Inc. and
Roomy Khan’s former neighbor, he was charged with conspiring to
commit securities fraud. The SEC says they shared stock tips.
Whitman has pleaded not guilty.  -- Roomy Khan: A former Intel and Galleon employee, she
pleaded guilty to insider trading charges and has assisted
federal prosecutors in a wide-ranging probe. She has not been
sentenced.  -- Winifred Jiau: The former Primary Global Research
consultant was sentenced to four years in prison after she was
convicted of passing public company data to hedge funds.
Prosecutors said she was paid $208,000 for her tips.  Largest SEC Penalties Against Individuals Since 2009  -- Raj Rajaratnam, 2011, co-founder, Galleon Group: $92.8
million.  -- Angelo Mozilo, 2010, former CEO, Countrywide Financial
Corp.: $22.5 million.  -- Alfred Teo Sr., 2011, former chairman, Sigma Plastics
Group:  $17.4 million.  -- Stanley Brooks, 2012, former CEO, Brookstreet Securities
Corp., $10 million.  -- Maurice Greenberg, 2009, former CEO,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  -- $7.5 million.  Highest SEC Settlements Paid by Wall Street Firms Since
2009  -- Goldman Sachs, 2010: $550 million.  -- JP Morgan Securities, 2011: $153.6 million.  -- Bank of America Corp., 2010: $150 million.  -- Charles Schwab Corp., 2011: $118.8 million.  -- Morgan Keegan Inc., 2011: $100 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Leonard in New York at 
 dleonard12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock at 
 epollock@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  