-- Rajaratnam Had Two Goldman Employee Tippers, Lawyers Say
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/rajaratnam-had-second-goldman-sachs-tipper-lawyers-tell-judge.html
A second  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
employee is under investigation for passing illegal tips to
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, a lawyer for former
Goldman Sachs Director Rajat Gupta said in court today.  Gupta, the one-time McKinsey & Co. leader who has pleaded
not guilty, faces trial May 21 for allegedly leaking tips to
Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where
Gupta was also a director. He faces six counts of  securities
fraud  and one count of conspiracy.  Prosecutors revealed in February that in addition to Gupta,
a person they described as an “insider” and a “Goldman Sachs
executive” provided information about  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  to Rajaratnam. Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , said at a
court hearing yesterday that Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  notified him on April 18 that a second Goldman Sachs
employee also provided information to Rajaratnam about two
stocks.  “Last evening at 11:06 -- Mr. Brodsky is a harder worker
than I am -- he gave us, as your honor can see, an additional
disclosure that he learned that another U.S. Attorney’s office -
- I think the Central District of California -- is conducting an
investigation involving another Goldman Sachs person,” Naftalis
said in court yesterday.  ‘Another’ Goldman Employee  Naftalis said the second Goldman Sachs employee identified
by Brodsky “is not the first one that we have disclosure
about.” He said the second tipper was “another current Goldman
Sachs person who is alleged to have given nonpublic information.
And as per Mr. Brodsky’s request, I am not going to name his
name or regarding the two public companies that he allegedly
gave material, nonpublic information to Mr.  Raj Rajaratnam 
about.”  “His or her name,” Brodsky interjected.  “We obviously would request of the government to get us
any and all information relating to this additional source that
Mr. Raj Rajaratnam had at Goldman Sachs of nonpublic information
as soon as possible,” Naftalis said.  Brodsky didn’t dispute the defense lawyer’s account of the
second Goldman Sachs tipper and in court, handed a copy of his
letter to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over
the case.  ‘Mr. X’  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the statements in court. Bruce
Riordan, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in Los
Angeles, also declined to comment.  Naftalis previously asked the government to disclose any
evidence that Rajaratnam had additional inside sources at
Goldman Sachs. At a March 16 hearing, Naftalis asserted that the
“wrong man” was on trial.  The evidence may be used to show that the other source who
provided information to Rajaratnam was the real culprit, not
Gupta, Naftalis has said.  Rakoff pressed prosecutors to provide the defense with the
identity of “Mr. X,” the other Goldman Sachs employee who was
a purported source for Rajaratnam. That person’s identity hasn’t
been made public.  Prosecutors disclosed in a Feb. 3 letter to Rakoff that
“certain witness statements related to an insider at Goldman
Sachs” who provided tips that “did not relate to Goldman and
or Procter & Gamble,” the judge said at the hearing as he read.  Rakoff said that in his letter, Brodsky asked Birotte’s
office in  Los Angeles  to provide the defense with documents and
other information.  ‘Am Disappointed’  “I, of course, am disappointed to learn that there’s a
case involving insider trading of any kind whatsoever under the
sun that is not centered in the Southern District of  New York ,
but so be it,” Rakoff said as he concluded yesterday’s hearing.  The U.S. investigation of possible insider trading by
Goldman Sachs employees expanded in March to include  David Loeb ,
a managing director who works on Asia equity sales in New York
and focuses on  Taiwan , said a person who declined to be
identified because the matter wasn’t public.  In February, Henry King, an analyst covering Taiwan, was
identified as being under investigation by U.S. authorities, a
person familiar with the matter said.  After court yesterday, Naftalis declined to comment on
whether Loeb or King were either “Mr. X” or the second Goldman
Sachs tipper employee referred to at the hearing. Brodsky also
declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs said in a Feb. 28 regulatory filing that it
was “fully cooperating” with any investigations of  insider
trading .  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  