-- Rakoff Thwarts Madoff Trustee Quest for New Judge
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-04-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/rakoff-thwarts-madoff-trustee-quest-for-new-judge-in-manhattan.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Merrill Lynch and hundreds of other defendants in lawsuits filed
by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm are finding
that their best ally may be U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff.  Rakoff, who along with another federal judge has already
dismissed about $90 billion of the $100 billion in claims made
by the liquidator,  Irving Picard , has invited Picard’s targets
to ask that their cases be moved from bankruptcy court to his
district court. Rakoff said district courts are the proper venue
for some of Picard’s claims because they involve issues outside
of bankruptcy law. Picard has said that defendants who want to
switch are engaging in “forum shopping.”  Last week, Picard made his own bid for a more congenial
venue, asking to remove some of his cases from Rakoff’s court to
that of another U.S. District Judge, Loretta Preska.
Unfortunately for Picard, the judge in charge of making the
decision was Rakoff, who turned him down, according to a person
familiar with the situation and an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg.  “Picard faces an uphill battle with Rakoff,” said Michael Clark, a former federal prosecutor with Duane Morris LLP in
Houston who specializes in financial fraud. Rakoff’s court seems
to have been a “graveyard” for Picard’s claims, he said.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the trustee’s move to
transfer cases to Preska, or the group message sent by his firm,
Baker & Hostetler LLP.  Bankruptcy Judge Power  The transfer of cases may undercut U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland ’s power to recover some of the money that Madoff
generated through his fraud and limit Picard’s ability to
collect money to pay victims of Madoff’s $52 billion Ponzi
scheme, the largest in U.S. history. For example, Rakoff cut
Picard’s $1 billion demand from the owners of the New York Mets
baseball team by almost two-thirds by making it harder for him
to take back principal and limiting his ability to recover
profit.  In the end, the Mets owners settled Picard’s claims by
agreeing to pay $162 million in fictitious profits, a sum they
won’t be required to pay for at least four years, if at all,
depending on what happens to the owners’ own claims of
$178 million in losses in the Madoff fraud.  This month, Rakoff took more than 300 of Picard’s lawsuits
in which defendants adopted the common theme of a Supreme Court
decision in June that described limits to bankruptcy judges’
power, according to his April 13 order filed in  Manhattan 
federal court.  Playboy Model Suit  The Supreme Court decision stopped former Playboy model
Anna Nicole Smith’s heirs from collecting millions from Texas
billionaire J. Howard Marshall’s estate and put district judges
in control of more bankruptcy issues.  Clients of lawyers who received Picard’s e-mail saying he
intended to transfer their cases from Rakoff to Preska, include
Merrill Lynch, represented by  Arnold & Porter , and a fund client
of  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP .  Cleary lawyer Tom Moloney, who represents HSBC as well as
the fund on the trustee’s list, declined to comment on his
clients’ Madoff cases.  The trustee’s group message went to lawyers who represent
investors sued by Picard for return of money allegedly received
from a feeder fund to the Madoff  Ponzi scheme , Fairfield Sentry
Ltd., wrote lawyer Nicholas Cremona, a member of Picard’s Madoff
team at Baker & Hostetler, in the e-mail. Preska has handled
similar suits in the past, he said, asking them to withdraw
their cases from a plan being devised by Rakoff “to the extent
that you have signed on.”  Justice and Efficiency  The law “provides that cases will be transferred for
consolidation when the interests of justice and efficiency will
be served,” Cremona wrote. “As a result, we intend to write to
Judge Preska and Judge Rakoff to request that the motions be
heard before Judge Preska.”  Explaining why he would take all the cases instead, Rakoff
said on the conference call that Preska currently isn’t handling
any Madoff cases, so the suits on the trustee’s list can’t be
directed to her, said the person who was on the call.  Defendants in Picard’s suits may be disappointed if they’re
hoping their whole cases will be handled by Rakoff, said Kent Yalowitz, a lawyer representing Merrill Lynch and other
defendants. Rakoff could send the cases back to Lifland to
handle and issue recommendations to Rakoff on how to rule, he
said.  “Judge Rakoff is looking very carefully at how to manage
this very large group of cases, and he could end up sharing that
task with Judge Lifland,” he said.  June Decision  In their requests to Rakoff to take their cases, more than
300 Picard targets cited the Smith ruling; many also cited the
Mets case. In his order, Rakoff told them to choose one lawyer
to file arguments on whether the Smith ruling barred bankruptcy
judges from making final decisions on fraudulent transfers --
and if so, whether the lower court judges could file
recommendations on the cases to a district judge. He’ll decide
in June how to handle the suits, he said.  Rakoff set his deadline for new applications in March. At
the time, more than 400 defendants had tried to move their cases
from  bankruptcy court , mostly to Rakoff, according to a March 5
bankruptcy court order. From March 27 to April 2, more than 400
new requests came in to Rakoff, including second pleas by banks
such as HSBC that had benefited from his earlier decisions. Koch
Industries Inc., the company run by billionaire brothers Charles
and  David Koch , and Mark Madoff’s widow, Stephanie, wanted
Rakoff, too.  ‘Escape Hatch’  Picard has said people and companies he sued are
“eviscerating” the bankruptcy court and “perverting” the law
by rushing to find new judges for their cases. They seek an
“escape hatch” from bankruptcy court, which Congress intended
to handle cases involving clawbacks of money withdrawn from a
Ponzi scheme, the trustee said in an October filing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “With the floodgates fully flung open, more and more
parties are blatantly engaging in forum shopping,” Picard said.  Picard filed more than 1,050 lawsuits to recoup
$100 billion he alleges was stolen from the confidence man’s
other customers. Picard estimates that the fictitious account
statements of Madoff customers totaled $52 billion.  He often accused parties of ignoring “red flags” warning
of fraud. Rakoff told him that wasn’t enough to recoup money
they invested -- there must be proof of bad faith.  Picard, who has charged $273 million for his firm’s Madoff
work, is appealing district court decisions that knocked out
$30 billion of his claims against banks. Madoff is in jail,
serving a 150-year sentence for fraud.  The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 