-- Travelers Beats Estimates as Sales Climb; Dividend Raised
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-04-19T12:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/travelers-beats-analysts-estimates-as-policy-sales-increase.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the only insurer in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , said first-quarter profit beat
analysts’ estimates as policy sales increased. The company
lifted its quarterly dividend 12 percent.  Net income slipped to $806 million, or $2.02 per share,
from $839 million, or $1.92, a year-earlier, when the New York-
based company booked a gain tied to the resolution of a tax
matter, according to a statement today. Operating profit, which
excludes some investment results, was $2.01 a share, beating the
$1.52 average  estimate  of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman, 59, is raising prices
for coverage after natural disasters caused record losses last
year for the  insurance industry  and yields fell on the company’s
fixed-income holdings. Travelers’ investment income has come
under pressure as the  Federal Reserve  keeps  interest rates  near
zero, making it harder to maintain portfolio returns as bonds
mature and proceeds are reinvested.  “What they’re trying to counter it with is to raise prices
on the underwriting side,”  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at KBW
Inc., said in a phone interview before the release.  Travelers rose 2.9 percent to $61.20 at 7:08 a.m. before
the start of normal trading in New York. The insurer had gained
less than 1 percent this year through yesterday, compared with
the 6.7 percent advance for the 30-company Dow.  Policy sales climbed to $5.5 billion from $5.44 billion a
year earlier. In the business insurance segment, rates climbed 8
percent for renewing customers.  ‘Seeking Price Increases’  Net investment income fell to $593 million from $622
million a year earlier. Lower reinvestment rates on the bond
portfolio and a 5.4 percent drop in income from alternative
investments, such as private equity, real estate partnerships
and  hedge funds , contributed to the decline.  “Given that low investment yields and unusual weather
patterns have continued, we remain committed to actively, but
selectively, seeking price increases and improved terms and
conditions in order to continue to improve returns,” Fishman
said in the statement.  Catastrophes cost Travelers $109 million in the quarter
after tax and net of reinsurance, compared with $122 million a
year earlier. The industry faced a record $105 billion in
insured losses last year from catastrophes, according to a
report from  Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer. About $25
billion of those costs came from U.S. storms and tornadoes.  Shifting Allocations  Fed policy makers repeated their view that economic
conditions warrant “exceptionally low levels for the federal
funds rate at least through late 2014,” according to minutes of
their March 13 meeting released this month. That’s pushed
insurers including  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and
 Allstate Corp. (ALL)  to change asset allocations to improve returns.  Travelers began shifting some of its cash holdings into
longer-term investments last year as near-record low yields
eroded returns on the company’s investment portfolio, Fishman
said at an investor conference in New York in December.  The dividend was raised to 46 cents a share from 41 cents,
beating by 3 cents the Bloomberg Dividend Forecast.  Book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, rose to $63.81 from $62.32 at the end of December,
as the company bought back $350 million of its own stock in the
quarter. Travelers slowed repurchases last year after tornadoes
in April and May fueled catastrophe claims that cost the company
more than  Hurricane Katrina .  Profit in the year-earlier quarter benefited from a gain of
about $100 million tied to the resolution of a tax matter,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  