-- Travelers Surges as Profit Exceeds Estimates: New York Mover
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-04-19T15:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/travelers-surges-as-profit-exceeds-estimates-new-york-mover.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV)  rose the most in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  as profit beat analysts’ estimates
and the company boosted its dividend 12 percent.  The insurer climbed 4.9 percent to $62.37 at 11:10 a.m. in
New York, the biggest increase since October. First-quarter
operating profit, which excludes some investment results, was
$2.01 a share, according to a statement today from the company.
That compares with the $1.52 average  estimate  of 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman, 59, is raising prices
for coverage after natural disasters caused record losses last
year for the  insurance industry  and yields fell on the company’s
fixed-income holdings. Travelers’ investment income has come
under pressure as the  Federal Reserve  keeps  interest rates  near
zero, making it harder to maintain portfolio returns as bonds
mature and proceeds are reinvested.  “We’re impressed with the proof they are aggressively
taking rate, and chasing away” less-profitable customers,
Sanford C. Bernstein analysts led by Josh Stirling said in a
note to clients today.  Travelers led other property-casualty insurers higher.
Zurich-based  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  climbed 2.6 percent and Warren, New
Jersey-based Chubb Corp. advanced 1.8 percent.  Policy sales climbed to $5.5 billion from $5.44 billion a
year earlier. In Travelers’ largest segment, business insurance,
rates climbed 8 percent for renewing customers. The dividend was
raised to 46 cents a share from 41 cents, beating by 3 cents the
Bloomberg Dividend Forecast.  Lawsuit Settlement  Travelers said that it expected to book a gain of
$90 million related to a lawsuit against  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  Last year, the bailed-out insurer agreed to pay
$450 million to a group of rivals that had alleged AIG
shortchanged industry-funded pools that provide coverage to
injured workers. The settlement is being appealed by some
parties, Travelers said today in a regulatory filing.  Net income slipped 3.9 percent to $806 million from a year-
earlier, when the New York-based company booked a gain tied to
the resolution of a tax matter. Net investment income fell 4.7
percent to $593 million from $622 million a year earlier on
lower reinvestment rates in the bond portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  