-- Treasuries Snap Gain Before Existing Home Sales Report
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-04-19T07:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/treasury-10-year-yield-less-than-2-before-spain-sale.html
Treasuries snapped a gain from
yesterday as economists said data today will show U.S. home
sales rose in March, indicating there are areas of expansion in
the housing market after new construction tumbled.  Fidelity Investments , the Boston-based fund company that
oversees $1.61 trillion, has been favoring high-yield debt and
other bonds that pay more interest than  government securities .
The U.S. plans to sell $16 billion of five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities today. It is also scheduled to
announce the amounts for two-, five- and seven-year auctions
scheduled for next week.  “Yields that are less than 2 percent are expensive,” said
Youngsung Kim, the head of fixed income in  Seoul  at Samsung
Asset Management Co.,  South Korea ’s largest private bond
investor. “There’s some economic data showing the economy is
slowing down. I think it’s just temporary. The  U.S. economy 
isn’t bad.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  rose one basis point to 1.99
percent at 8:21 a.m.  London  time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The rate dropped to 1.94 percent on April 16, the
lowest since March 6. The price of the 2 percent security due
February 2022 was 100 3/32.  Housing Sales  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes probably climbed 0.7
percent in March from February to a 4.62 million annual rate,
according to the median estimate of 72 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Home starts slowed in March to a five-month low,
the Commerce Department said this week.  Claims for first-time jobless benefits fell to 370,000 last
week from 380,000 the previous week, a separate survey showed
before the Labor Department report today. The number dropped to
361,000 in February, the lowest since April 2008. The  Federal
Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index held near
the highest since April 2011, according to another survey.  Fidelity favors high-yield securities, floating-rate loans,
real estate bonds and emerging-market debt, according to a
 report  yesterday on the company’s website.  “These assets continued to be well supported by strong
economic fundamentals, low default rates, and strong flows from
investors seeking higher yields than those offered by U.S.
government bonds,” the report said. Fidelity has also
“modestly reduced” these holdings following a recent rally.  The note on Fidelity’s website summarizes a discussion
among leaders of the investment-management divisions including
Christine Thompson, chief investment officer for bonds.  Samsung Asset Management’s Kim said he is avoiding  U.S.
government debt  in favor of South Korean bonds.  Comparing Returns  Treasuries have returned 1.2 percent this year as of
yesterday, while U.S. high-yield bonds have gained 5.2 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. TIPS gained
2.5 percent, the data show.  Treasuries have fluctuated between gains and losses each
day this week. They rose yesterday as concern about  Europe ’s
debt crisis increased demand for the most secure assets.  Spain and France plan to hold bond auctions today as
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s struggle to meet deficit
targets and the French presidential elections drive up yields in
the euro area.  “It will be difficult for Treasury rates to go up,” said
Hajime Nagata, an investor in  Tokyo  at Diam Co., which manages
the equivalent of $121.8 billion and is an arm of Dai-ichi Life
Insurance Co.,  Japan ’s second-biggest life insurer. “The
biggest concern is the Spanish auction. The market is also
worried about contagion risk.”  Nagata said he’d like to buy if the 10-year yield rises to
2.1 percent.  Growth Concern  U.S. employment growth slowed to 120,000 in March from
240,000 in February, fueling a debate over whether economic
growth is faltering.  Brazil ’s central bank cut its benchmark interest rate
yesterday and noted the “fragility of the global economy” in
its statement.  Concerns about a slowdown are “overdone,” according to
UBS AG, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly with
the Federal Reserve.  U.S. 10-year yields will rise to 2.7 percent by Dec. 31,
Andrew Cates in  Singapore  and Larry Hatheway and Sophie
Constable in London, economists for UBS, wrote in a report
today.  Fed Bond Buying  The U.S. central bank plans to  buy  as much as $2 billion of
Treasuries due from August 2022 to February 2031 today as part
of a plan to replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its
holdings with longer maturities to keep borrowing costs down,
according to the New York Fed’s website.  Five-year TIPS  yielded  negative 1.30 percent, versus
negative 0.877 percent at the previous sale of the securities on
Dec. 15.  Investors bid for 3.01 times the amount offered four months
ago, compared with an average of 2.63 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 48.8 percent, the most since
October 2006.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, has widened to 2.26 percentage
points from 1.95 percentage points at the end of 2011.  The U.S. auction plan will probably consist of $35 billion
of two-year securities on April 24, the same amount of five-year
debt on the following day and $29 billion of seven-year notes on
April 26, according to Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory
company in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , that specializes in
 government finance .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  