-- Renaissance Said to Start Trading New Fund With $3.5 Billion
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-04-19T19:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/renaissance-said-to-start-trading-new-fund-with-3-5-billion.html
Renaissance LLC, the investment
firm founded by  Jim Simons , started trading its new hedge fund
on March 1 with $3.5 billion in assets, mostly employees’ money,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The Renaissance Institutional Diversified Alpha Fund is the
first that the East Setauket, New York-based firm has started in
five years. It climbed 3 percent in March and during the first
13 days of April, according to one of the people briefed on the
return, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private.  Renaissance uses computer models to decide when to buy and
sell investments. The firm has said that its new fund, known as
RIDA, was to initially start out trading stocks listed on U.S.
exchanges as well as futures and forwards, according to a
document sent to potential investors in January. Apart from the
majority of the assets that came from employees, some of the
money for RIDA came from outside clients and a portion was
transferred from other funds, the person said.  The decision to start the new fund came a little more than
a year after  Peter Brown  and  Robert Mercer , co-chief executive
officers and former International Business Machines Corp.
language-recognition specialists, took over from Simons, 73, who
retired in 2010.  Renaissance already runs the $7 billion Renaissance
Institutional Equities Fund and the $4 billion Renaissance
Institutional Futures Fund, along with a third fund that is open
only to the firm’s employees. The equities fund, known as RIEF,
climbed 11 percent this year through April 13 and 35 percent
last year, the person said.  Unlike the firm’s equities fund, which is designed to
outperform the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by 4 percentage
points to 6 percentage points, the new fund won’t be measured
against a benchmark and its swings in performance are also
expected to be greater than RIEF’s, according to the document.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Renaissance, declined
to comment on the firm’s assets or performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  