-- Repsol Required to Buy Eskenazi YPF Stake
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-20T16:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/repsol-required-to-buy-back-eskenazi-family-s-25-ypf-stake.html
Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , whose YPF
unit was nationalized by Argentina this week, agreed in 2008 to
buy back the Eskenazi family’s shares in that  oil company  in the
event that Repsol loses majority control.  The accord also calls on Repsol, under certain conditions,
to take over loans the family used to buy YPF shares. Kristian Rix, a spokesman for Madrid-based Repsol, today said the
agreement is “not applicable” in the context of expropriation.
An Eskenazi holding company said it isn’t analyzing the sale or
liquidation of its shares in YPF, in an e-mail to Bloomberg.  Repsol, based in Madrid, probably would try to fight a move
by the Eskenazis to enforce the  accord  by using a so-called
force majeure argument, according to two lawyers familiar with
the matter who saw the document or were briefed on it. The
Eskenazi family’s 25 percent stake wasn’t nationalized.  Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  this week called the
expropriation illegal and estimated Repsol’s potential loss at
5.7 billion euros ($7.5 billion). The uncertainty of getting
compensated by Argentina’s government has pounded Repsol’s
shares. While the stock gained for first time in four days,
rising 1.7 percent to close at 14.92 euros, the price is down 15
percent this week.  Repsol would argue that Argentina’s seizure of 51 percent
of Buenos Aires-based YPF was an unforeseeable event preventing
it from fulfilling its obligation to the Eskenazis, said Tom
Ginsburg, a professor of international law at the  University of
Chicago , in a telephone interview. He hadn’t seen the accord,
which is subject to Spanish law.  Not Foreseen?  “It’s black-letter law that expropriation by a government
would constitute force majeure so long as it was not foreseen or
foreseeable by the company,” Ginsburg said. “The Eskenazi
family will argue that  Argentina  had a long history of
expropriation, so it should have been foreseeable that a change
in ownership could come about through a government takeover.”  Repsol will claim that it didn’t voluntarily change its
ownership stake, so it doesn’t have a duty to pay the Eskenazis,
Ginsburg said.  “The event that would trigger their duty would be limited
to a market-driven transaction rather than a government
expropriation,” Ginsburg said. “The Eskenazi argument
essentially makes Repsol the insurer against government
expropriation. If I’m Repsol, why would I agree to that?”  The family’s Petersen Group holding company said it
isn’t analyzing the sale or liquidation of its shares in YPF
and is looking at financial alternatives with its banks,
according to an e-mailed statement today from the company. Loans
used to acquire the stake in YPF remain outstanding, Petersen
said.  Swaps Gain  The company’s credit-default swap, a form of insurance
against defaulting on its bonds for five years, was 7.7 percent
higher at 398 basis points at 6:50 p.m. local time. The price
has risen 28 percent in the last four days.  Repsol’s debt rating yesterday was cut one level by
Standard Poor’s Ratings Service to the lowest investment-grade
level.  A spokesman for the Eskenazis’ Petersen Group holding
company, which owns about 25 percent of YPF, didn’t respond to
phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Argentina President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  ousted
Sebastian Eskenazi as the head of Buenos Aires-based YPF on
April 16, appointing Planning Minister Julio de Vido and Deputy
Economy Minister Axel Kicillof to run the company and announcing
plans to seize a 51 percent stake in YPF from Repsol.  The takeover follows those of airline Aerolineas Argentinas
SA and a $24 billion pension fund by Fernandez since she took
office in 2007.  Import Restrictions  The Eskenazis made their fortune in banking and
construction, buying 15 percent of YPF from Repsol in 2008 in a
deal backed by then-president  Nestor Kirchner , the late husband
of Fernandez. The acquisition was financed with a syndicated
 bank loan  and a seller’s note from Repsol. The Eskenazis bought
an additional 10 percent of YPF in 2011 with two similar loans.  Since Kicillof took charge of the ministry’s economic
policy secretariat, Argentina has boosted import restrictions,
changed the central bank’s charter to give government more
access to reserves and boosted restrictions on Argentines’
access to foreign currency.  Brufau said Argentina will have to pay a fair price for YPF
because courts won’t be swayed by the government’s
“demagoguery.”  “The country will have to pay us sooner or later,” Brufau
told reporters at the opening of an upgraded refinery in
Cartagena,  Spain , on April 17. “Mr. Kicillof won’t set the
price. I don’t think he knows much about valuing companies.”  $16 Billion Acquisition  Repsol spent $16 billion on acquiring control of YPF in
1999. The Argentina government first sold part of the former
state-owned company to private investors in 1993, during a wave
of privatizations by then-President Carlos Menem.  Argentina has taken control of YPF as the government seeks
to curb declining oil production after reserves fell 18 percent
between 1998 and 2010, according to data compiled by the
Argentine Oil and Gas Institute. YPF is the largest oil producer
in the country, with about 34 percent of output, Energy
Secretariat data show.  Any Repsol-Eskenazi disagreement must be settled by a panel
of three arbitrators working under Spanish law and  International
Chamber of Commerce  regulations in  New York , according to the
accord. Repsol and the Eskenazis can appoint a member of the
panel each with the third chosen by their representatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at   bsills@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 