-- Rhino Poaching Threatens South Africa’s CEO-Owned Game Farms
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-04-20T15:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/rhino-poaching-threatens-south-africa-s-ceo-owned-game-farms.html
Barry Lok grimaced as he gazed at
the rotting carcass of his rhino bull, Kruger, lying under a
tree on his farm northwest of Johannesburg. His heart had been
pierced by a poacher’s bullet and his horn, worth its weight in
gold, sawn off to be sent to  Asia .  Kruger’s slaying spells more than the loss of a beast Lok
loved for its “prehistoric beauty.” Lok, like private rhino
owners including  Nicky Oppenheimer , the richest South African,
must now either pay heavily for more security or sell livestock
and contribute to the species’ demise.  Rhino poachers in  South Africa , home to about 90 percent of
the world’s population of the endangered animals, are
increasingly targeting private game owners as the level of rhino
killing rises toward a record. Demand is rising in China and
 Vietnam , where rhino horn powder is believed to cure cancer.
Last year 125 rhinos were poached from private farms in South
Africa, a 52 percent increase from 2010.  “If we’re going to keep them here we’re going to have to
protect them,” Lok, the 54-year old founder of chip-board
company  William Tell Holdings Ltd. (WTL) , said in an interview at his
5,000-acre farm. “Bluntly, you’d have to sell the rhinos to pay
for it. That’s not sustainable.”  The farmers need rhinos to run their hunting and game
viewing businesses, which can charge a premium if their
properties boast the so-called big five: rhinos, elephants,
buffaloes, lions and leopards. Some, like Lok, breed the animals
for sale to ranchers.  Product ‘Rhino’  By targeting rhinos, poachers are endangering conservation
efforts while also threatening South Africa’s billion-dollar
wildlife ranching industry. A 1970s law that gave farmers in the
country ownership of wildlife on their land has led to the
tripling of animal populations, according to  Wildlife Ranching
South Africa,  a  Pretoria , South Africa industry organization.  Revenue at game farms has risen by an average of 20 percent
a year over the last 15 years. More than 10,000 private game
farms now cover about 50.7 million acres, according to the
official journal of Wildlife Ranching South Africa. That’s
almost three times the land of government conservation areas.  The fear of future attacks has driven Lok to hire four
guards at a cost of 40,000 rand ($5,114) a month in salaries,
training and equipment.  “The rhino is worth more dead than alive,” said Pelham
Jones, head of the Private Rhino Owners Association, which
represents most of the country’s 400 rhino ranchers, in an
interview this month. “The investor in product ‘rhino’ says,
hey, this isn’t such a good idea anymore.”  Poaching Record  White and black rhinos were brought back from the brink of
extinction in South Africa in the 1960s to a stable population
of close to 20,000. Most of them are the larger white rhinos,
which can weigh more than two metric tons.  The rise in killings dates to 2009, when South Africa
imposed a  moratorium  on the domestic trade in horns to match an
international trading ban, according to the Johannesburg-based
 Endangered Wildlife Trust , a non-profit organization. Until then
horns and their products could be traded locally.  “The ban actually becomes the cause of the problem rather
than the solution,” said Michael T’Sas Rolfes, an environmental
economist who is advising the  Department of Environmental
Affairs  on a study into lifting the ban, in a phone interview.
It “is a disaster, because the price skyrocketed and it
attracted organized crime.”  Vietnamese Demand  The number of rhinos poached so far this year is already
double the total killed illegally in the eight years until 2007,
according to government figures. Standing at 181 as of
yesterday, it probably will hit a record this year. A rhino is
poached in South Africa about every 18 hours, according to the
Florida-based International Rhino Foundation, a non-profit
organization.  Rising affluence in  Southeast Asia  -- Vietnam has expanded
at an average of 7.2 percent annually over the last decade -- is
stoking demand for rhino horn. The material, made from
substances similar to hair, is usually ground into powder, mixed
with water and drunk by those who believe it can treat ailments
including cancer.  “If a person is sick, frequent intake will help them
recover fast,” said Hoang Minh Nhat, a Hanoi resident whose
boyfriend bought a horn for use by his ailing parents. “We are
not really sure what helped them. We only know that, after a few
months of taking rhino horn, their health improved.”  In Hanoi’s old quarter, traders sell grinding plates
embossed with a picture of a rhino and quote varying prices for
horns, which they sell illegally. Horns can trade for as much as
$65,000 a kilogram, according to T’Sas Rolfes. At the current
price of $1,642 per ounce, a kilogram of gold is worth $51,072.  ‘Staggering’ Wealth  “There’s massive demand,” said Tom Milliken, the rhino
and elephant program leader for Cambridge, U.K.-based TRAFFIC
International, a World Wildlife Fund-backed organization that
monitors the wild animal and products trade, in an interview
from Harare,  Zimbabwe . “The amount of disposable wealth, the
number of newly rich people in these countries is really
staggering.”  The bulk of poached rhinos, more than 70 percent, still are
killed in government parks. So far this year, 111 have been
poached in the Israel-sized  Kruger National Park , compared with
252 last year. The government has deployed the army, improved
rangers’ equipment, arrested scores of suspects and shot
poachers dead.  Right to Kill  Next is a plan to tighten hunting legislation, monitor
wildlife shipments more closely and increase ranger numbers,
Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa said in an April 4
interview.  South Africa this year barred Vietnamese nationals, who
apply for nearly 60 percent of rhino-hunting permits, from
hunting the animals on the grounds that it can’t be assured the
horns won’t be resold. Legal hunting gives a value to rhinos,
encouraging their breeding by private owners.  Hunters are willing to pay as much as 500,000 rand for the
right to kill a large rhino bull on a private farm, said Herman
Barnard, the manager of Wildlife Ranching South Africa, in a
phone interview.  “A majority of the people that are being arrested here, a
lot of the permits that are being applied for here, come from
Vietnam,” Molewa said in interview in Kruger Park.  The  University of Pretoria  is also operating a database
that has 3,000 samples of rhino DNA, which can help connect
recovered horns to poaching incidents.  300 Rhinos  For Lok, poaching was “something that happened to others”
until the death of Kruger, which he named after its mother’s
birthplace and the national park, where he had honeymooned with
his wife. Treating two other rhinos that were shot and wounded
by poachers earlier this year has cost the white-haired
entrepreneur thousands of dollars in helicopter and veterinary
fees, he explained over  Nescafe (NESN)  and biscuits as a German
shepherd lay beside his sandal-clad feet under a thatch shelter.  Oppenheimer, whose wealth is ranked by Forbes magazine,
wasn’t available for an interview. He owns more than 300 rhinos,
according to Duncan MacFadyen, the conservation manager for his
properties.  John Hume, a hotel magnate in South Africa who says he’s
also the world’s biggest private rhino owner, will this year
triple his security costs. He’s hiring 40 new guards, alarming
his 28,400-acre properties and installing cameras designed to
tell the difference between animals and humans. The 70-year-old
dehorns all of his 762 rhinos.  Legalize Trade  Still, six of his animals were killed by poachers last
year, he said in a phone interview. Hume is promoting a campaign
to legalize trade in rhino horn.  “If we made money out of the rhino’s horn, not only would
it contribute to stopping the poaching, it would get people to
rear and buy rhinos,” Hume said. “It would be the best news
the rhino could be possibly get.”  Petitioned by rhino owners, the environmental-affairs
department is due to complete a study into the viability of
legalizing the trade within South Africa by August.  For now private owners face the stark choice of protecting
their rhinos or losing them to poachers.  “Game farming has turned into a war,” said Lok, lamenting
the loss of a “paradise” he created to enjoy with his wife and
three sons. “How can you protect them in the face of such
demand?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  