-- Rhode Island Sets $118 Million Sale With Cities in Crisis
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/rhode-island-sets-118-million-sale-with-cities-in-crisis.html
Rhode Island  plans to sell $118.5
million of general-obligation bonds as fiscal strains have led
to downgrades for cities including Providence, the capital.  Proceeds from the sale will be used to buy back debt,
according to an offering document. Providence, the biggest
municipality in the smallest U.S. state, had its rating cut to
two steps above junk grade last month by  Fitch Ratings . Governor
Lincoln Chafee has said that local finances are in crisis.  “The state’s persistent revenue under-performance and
spending challenges” were cited by Moody’s Investors Service in
a report yesterday, explaining its Aa2 rating on the bonds,
third-highest. Moody’s also cited Rhode Island’s record of using
one-shot solutions to balance its budget and short-term
borrowing to maintain  cash flow .  Treasurer Gina Raimondo, a Democrat, led an overhaul of the
state’s pension in November to reduce its unfunded liabilities.
She and Chafee, an independent, have pushed for similar changes
in  retirement plans  for municipal workers.  Central Falls , Rhode
Island’s smallest city, cited its obligations to retirees when
it entered bankruptcy last year. Providence is among five
communities in fiscal distress, according to the governor.  “After three years of operating deficits, the city’s cash
position is very weak and the current budget gap presents cash-
flow problems during the final two months of the fiscal year,”
Fitch said last month in a report on Providence. The company cut
the city’s credit score to BBB, two steps above noninvestment
grade, from A, three levels higher.  Pension Cited  “We must reform our pension system, and our large tax-
exempt institutions must do more to help the city and rebuild a
strong fiscal foundation,” Mayor Angel Taveras, a Democrat,
said in a statement issued in response to Fitch’s cut. Moody’s
also lowered the capital’s rating in March to Baa1, three levels
above junk, from A3, one step higher, citing fiscal strains.  “It’s a real crisis in Rhode Island,” Chafee said in an
interview at a National Governors Association meeting in
February. He named other distressed cities in the state as East
Providence, Woonsocket, West Warwick and Pawtucket.  Fitch affirmed its AA rating, third highest, on the state’s
general-obligation debt, citing improving revenue and
“conservatively managed” finances in an April 18 report. While
the pension changes have “significantly improved” the system’s
health, the state’s 11 percent unemployment  rate  in February,
second highest in the U.S., has kept its economy among the
nation’s weakest, according to Fitch.  Low Return  A Barclays Capital index of municipal debt issued in Rhode
Island shows a year-to-date return of 2.35 percent through
yesterday, compared with 2.71 percent for all such bonds.  The state expects to save about $8.2 million from
refinancing older debt with the bond proceeds, according to Joy Fox, a spokeswoman for Raimondo.  Rhode Island last sold long-term general-obligation bonds
in 2010, with a 10-year tax-free portion priced to yield 3.45
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, or 0.29
percentage point more than a Bloomberg Fair Value  index  of top-
rated debt. That index has dropped to 2.11 percent, the lowest
in more than a month, and touched 1.88 percent on Feb. 6, the
lowest since at least 1991, the data show.  Janney Montgomery Scott will lead banks marketing the
offering, which is set to be priced next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  