-- RIM Said to Be Near Choosing JPMorgan as Strategy Adviser
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-19T20:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/rim-said-to-be-near-choosing-jpmorgan-as-strategy-adviser.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  is near a
decision to pick a financial adviser, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
is the leading candidate to help the company weigh strategy
options, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  A final choice hasn’t been made and could come within days,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified because
the matter is private. RIM is considering options such as a
licensing deal or a strategic investment, a person with
knowledge of the matter said this week.  Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins, who took over from
company co-founders  Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim Balsillie  in January,
said he’s considering strategy changes after customer and
market-share losses led to five straight quarters of sales
shortfalls for Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM.  “This clearly indicates that opinion in Waterloo is
changing much faster than people anticipated,” said Anil Doradla, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in  Chicago . “It’s a
far cry from what they stated six months ago.”  Heins has taken a far more candid approach to recognizing
RIM’s shortcomings and communicating them within and outside the
company than his predecessors, said Doradla, who rates its
shares the equivalent of hold.  ‘Recognizing the Realities’  “He’s recognizing the realities and saying, ‘You know
what, let’s be realistic’ -- and credit to him,” Doradla said.  RIM also discussed its options with  Bank of America  Corp.,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the situation.  Tenille Kennedy, a RIM spokeswoman, declined to comment,
citing a policy not to discuss rumor or speculation.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan, also
declined to comment, as did John Yiannacopoulos, a Bank of
America spokesman.  RIM climbed 2 percent to $13.47 at the close in New York.
The  stock  has dropped 75 percent in the past 12 months.  The company would prefer to license its BlackBerry mobile
operating system, a person with knowledge of the matter said
this week. RIM is racing to put the final touches on a new
platform, known as BB10, and release the first smartphone built
on the software later this year.  After a licensing deal, RIM’s next choice would be to find
a strategic investor, the person said this week. RIM doesn’t
plan to sell itself, according to the person.  Hiring Intent  Doradla, the William Blair analyst, said RIM doesn’t need a
banker to negotiate a licensing relationship.  “The way I interpret hiring a banker is to sell parts of
business, an outright sale or an equity stake by a third
party,” he said.  Heins, who joined RIM in 2007, said in March that while the
company would consider a sale, that wasn’t “the main
direction” he’s pursuing.  Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Northern Securities in
Toronto, said that means RIM is considering even narrower
options.  “I have never seen a banker be hired for licensing
negotiations,” said Kanade, who has a sell rating on RIM.
“There is only one reason you hire a banker and that’s to put
it up for sale or sell parts of the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  