-- TNK-BP Faces Dividend Criticism, Damage Claims on Pipeline Probe
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-04-19T16:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/russia-s-natural-resources-ministry-seeks-probe-into-tnk-bp.html
TNK-BP may face damage claims for
oil spills from  Russia ’s environmental watchdog as the Energy
Ministry accused the venture, owned by  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of
billionaires, of sacrificing pipeline maintenance for dividends.  TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer, pays almost
all its profit to its shareholders, Energy Minister Sergey Shmatko said today at a government meeting with Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin . Regulators will seek damages from TNK-BP as one
of the biggest polluters of the Ob and Yenisei river basins in
Siberia, Natural Resources Minister Yuri Trutnev said at the
meeting, which was attended by reporters.  Putin told Shmatko to talk with TNK-BP’s shareholders about
pipeline upgrades and “use all instruments within the law.”  TNK-BP shares slumped 4.4 percent, the biggest decline in
six months, closing at 90.83 rubles at 6:45 p.m. in Moscow. The
oil producer’s press service declined to comment on the meeting.  The Natural Resources Ministry asked prosecutors yesterday
to investigate TNK-BP for attempting to avoid government
scrutiny by re-registering five units. TNK-BP has been targeted
before by ministry regulators for underproduction at the Kovykta
natural-gas field in eastern Siberia, which was eventually sold
to state-run OAO Gazprom.  Prepare Claims  “I’ve ordered the Natural Resources Inspectorate to
prepare damage claims and recommended the company prepare a plan
for replacing its pipelines,” Trutnev told Putin. Each year,
300,000 metric tons to 500,000 tons of oil and products are
leaked into the Ob and Yenisei river basins, he said.  TNK-BP paid out $7.9 billion of cash as dividends in 2011,
according to a company presentation. The venture is owned 50-50
by BP and the AAR group of companies controlled by billionaires
 Mikhail Fridman ,  German Khan ,  Viktor Vekselberg  and Len
Blavatnik.  “They have sufficient financial resources to triple
investments and bring the infrastructure in order in five to
seven years,” Trutnev said.  TNK-BP acted within the law with its re-registration of
units, a press official said by e-mail today, declining to be
identified in line with company policy. The venture began
restructuring its exploration and production unit in 2008 to
reduce the number of entities and enlarge key production units,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  