-- Repsol Drops to S&P’s Lowest Investment Grade After YPF Seized
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-04-19T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/s-p-downgrades-spain-s-repsol-ypf-to-bbb-outlook-negative.html
Repsol YPF SA’s (REP)  rating was reduced
to the lowest investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s , days after
Argentina’s government seized its local  YPF SA (YPF)  unit and rejected
the company demands for $10.5 billion of compensation.  Spain’s largest oil company was cut to  BBB- from BBB  with a
negative outlook, meaning the rating could be further reduced if
Madrid-based Repsol doesn’t cut debt this year, S&P said
yesterday in a statement. Argentina, which took control of YPF
on April 16, won’t provide “near-term” compensation, S&P said.  “When somebody mentions they don’t expect Repsol to get
any compensation in the short-term, they are probably correct,”
 Boris Segura , a strategist at Nomura Securities International,
said yesterday in a telephone interview from  New York .
“Argentine authorities are insisting they will not come
anywhere close to the figure that Repsol is demanding.”  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said the
takeover reflects a failure to boost production and investment
in Buenos Aires-based YPF, the country’s largest oil company.
The government is seeking to reduce fuel imports that doubled to
$9.4 billion last year.  Repsol’s financial risk, excluding YPF, is “significant”
compared with “intermediate” before the takeover, S&P said.  Deteriorating Metrics  “The nationalization of YPF will materially worsen
Repsol’s credit metrics,” S&P said. “YPF accounted for a
significant share of group production and  cash flow .”  YPF represented 40 percent of Repsol’s 2011 consolidated
group earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization, or Ebitda, it said.  Repsol slid 4.8 percent to 14.67 euros in  Madrid , the
lowest since April 30, 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock has tumbled 16 percent this week, as of
yesterday.  Repsol probably won’t receive a “near-term” payment of a
loan made to the Petersen Group, which was dependent on YPF
dividends, S&P said. The Petersen group, controlled by
 Argentina ’s billionaire Eskenazi family, holds 25 percent of YPF
after purchasing shares from Repsol since 2008.  The Eskenazis counted on YPF  dividend payments  of as much
as 90 percent of profit to repay Repsol and about $680 million
of bank loans. The family is in talks on financing alternatives
for more than $2 billion of loans used to acquire the shares,
according to a company official, who asked not to be named
because the talks aren’t public.  Petersen owes Repsol 1.45 billion euros ($1.9 billion)
after it bought a stake in YPF, Repsol said April 16.  Expropriation Fears  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said Argentina’s
nationalization of YPF is seen as a “mistake” by most of the
region’s leaders. He shares views expressed this week by Mexican
President Felipe Calderon that “no one in their right mind”
would invest in a country that nationalizes companies, he said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  The YPF takeover may prompt companies with investments in
Argentina to boost production, while deterring new investors
from tapping deposits that include shale oil and natural gas,
said Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS Securities Inc.  Argentina will rely on “solid data” to value its takeover
of 51 percent of YPF’s shares and not use estimates from Repsol,
Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof said at an April 17 Senate
hearing.  “You could see some companies willing to get more in line
with the interests of the government out of fear of
expropriation,” Hernandez said in a phone interview from
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Though it’s hard to see companies that
aren’t in Argentina wanting that exposure.”  Expanding Production  France’s  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil producer, is
in talks with Argentina about increasing natural-gas output.  Total discussed plans to increase gas production in the
country by 2 million cubic meters a day and expand exploration
with YPF at a meeting between government officials and Ladislas Paszkiewicz, Total’s senior vice president of the Americas, the
Planning Ministry said in a statement yesterday.  Argentina’s government may not have the experience or funds
to develop large energy projects, Hernandez said.  Argentina sets prices on oil and gas below international
prices, reducing incentives to invest. The country’s oil
reserves fell 18 percent between 1998 and 2010, according to
data compiled by the Argentine Oil and Gas Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  