-- Sallie Mae CEO Albert Lord Rejects Education Loan Bubble Claims
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-19T14:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/sallie-mae-ceo-albert-lord-rejects-education-loan-bubble-claims.html
Albert Lord, chief executive
officer of student lender  SLM Corp. (SLM) , challenged claims that
education debt is ballooning to dangerous levels.  “We don’t see anything of any evidence close to a
bubble,” Lord said today on a conference call with analysts.
“This country underwent a significant financial crisis in our
very recent past. It’s not really a surprise that many see
bubbles around every corner.”  Lord’s comments address concerns that U.S. households could
buckle under the burden of growing student loan bills, with
educational debt at $1 trillion, according to the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau. Tuition expense has risen about
three times as fast as wages since 2001 before accounting for
inflation, according to data from the Labor Department.  Many former students won’t be able to obtain mortgages at
affordable rates because of their debt burdens, according to a
report this week from Brockhouse & Cooper Inc. Interest payments
on student debt amount to $1,165 a year, based on an average
balance of $23,300 in last year’s third quarter and a 5 percent
interest rate, according to the report from strategist  Pierre Lapointe .  SLM, known as  Sallie Mae , boosted its originations of non-
government-guaranteed education loans to $1.2 billion in the
first quarter, up from $940 million in the year-ago period,
according to a statement yesterday. The Newark, Delaware-based
company is forecasting $3.2 billion of originations in 2012.  While rejecting claims that a bubble is forming in the
student-loan market, Lord said that the $200 billion in new
loans taken out during the past two years was surprising.  “I confess to being a bit wide-eyed myself at the $200
billion number,” he said.  Less than $20 billion of that debt was private, or non-
government guaranteed, he said. Sallie Mae is increasing private
loan originations after legislation passed in 2010 cut companies
out of the market for government-backed lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  