-- Santa Clara Borrows Against Odds of Gain With 49ers
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/santa-clara-borrows-against-odds-of-gain-with-49ers.html
Michele Ryan says Santa Clara, a
Silicon Valley city of 116,500, overreached by betting it can
build a $1.18 billion stadium for the  National Football League ’s
San Francisco 49ers without dunning taxpayers.  Elected officials, in borrowing $950 million for the
project from firms led by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , went beyond
the $114 million investment approved by voters, says Ryan, who
teaches high school mathematics. Groundbreaking for the field is
today, with the team planning to move in for the 2014 season.  “What happens if this doesn’t work?” Ryan, chairwoman of
the anti-stadium group Santa Clara Plays Fair, said by
telephone. “They don’t want to ask those questions.”  Santa Clara is wagering on the nation’s most-popular sports
league, joining U.S. cities that owe at least $10 billion
combined for professional sports venues, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Atlanta,  Minneapolis  and  San Diego  are in
talks to borrow hundreds of millions of dollars more, while a
study by  Harvard University ’s Judith Grant Long suggests that
such investments generate little economic benefit and typically
cost taxpayers about 40 percent more than forecast.  Santa Clara, home to chipmakers  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA) , avoided using its general fund or tax increases to pay
for its plan. By relying instead on projected stadium revenue,
including the sale of naming rights and personal-seat licenses,
along with $200 million from the NFL, the city is taking what
may be the largest per-capita risk for any municipal sports
facility. Its general-fund spending reached $138.3 million in
fiscal 2011.  Revenue Variables  The size of the potential unfunded liability hinges on how
much a sponsor would pay to put its name on the venue and the
amount fans agree to hand over to guarantee a seat, as well as
the economy and the team’s business management, said  Roger Noll ,
a professor emeritus of economics at nearby  Stanford University .  “The thing that makes this such a dog is that Santa Clara
first of all is a small town,” Noll said by telephone.
“There’s some amount of financial hit the city could probably
pay, but the probability that it’s going to exceed that is
certainly not zero.”  Santa Clara is about 45 miles (72 kilometers) south of San
Francisco, where the 49ers missed a chance to go to the  Super
Bowl  when they lost their conference championship playoff to the
 New York Giants  in January. The team hasn’t played for the NFL
title since 1995 and made the postseason last year for the first
time in a decade. In December, two power outages at the 69,900-
seat Candlestick Park held up a nationally televised game.  Heading South  After a year of study, the 49ers said in 2006 that the team
would move to  Santa Clara , the site of its headquarters and a
training center, and leave 52-year-old Candlestick Park.  Unanswered questions remain about what happens when the
loan from Goldman Sachs and 15 other firms matures in 2015 and
has to be refinanced, said Jamie McLeod, a City Council member
who opposed municipal financing. The cost of subsidies has risen
for facilities including the Louisiana Superdome in  New Orleans ,
Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis and in  Ohio , where Cincinnati
is selling a hospital to cover debt for venues used by Major
League Baseball’s Reds and the NFL’s Bengals.  “We’ve seen a lot of cases where teams want to limit their
liability and have to be bailed out by the public,” McLeod
said. “The bottom-line concern I have is how water-tight are
the legal documents” that are supposed to shield the city.  City Shield  The protections include placing ownership of the 68,500-
seat facility with the Santa Clara Stadium Authority, a city
affiliate set up to arrange the loan and finance the work.
Gregory Carey, who heads the Goldman Sachs infrastructure group
in  New York , told the council in March that the loans were
oversubscribed and that the team’s Forty Niners SC Stadium Co.
would cover cost overruns.  Bob Lange, a team spokesman, didn’t respond to a telephone
call and an e-mail seeking comment on the plan.  The floating-rate debt will be less than $600 million when
it’s refinanced, which may be as soon as 2013, Carey said.  “We’re probably going to be coming back with somewhere
around a $575 million loan that is a combination of the
authority and StadCo,” Carey said. “But we feel things have
gone exactly as expected, which is very unusual in markets, and
we feel very, very good about the position we’re in.”  Cost of Loan  The loan will cost about $78 million, including fees and
interest during construction, and must be refinanced by
September 2015, either with new lending or with long-term debt.
Goldman Sachs won the business “because it had the most
favorable terms,” said Alan Kurotori, the assistant city
manager who handled the deal.  Interest will be set based on the 90-day  London interbank
offered rate , or Libor, which averaged 1.02 percent last week,
plus 3.25 percentage points, Kurotori said. Libor is a daily
benchmark that reflects the rate at which banks in  London  are
willing to lend to each other for a specified time period.  The football team that has played in  San Francisco  since
1946 has agreed to stay in the Silicon Valley city for at least
40 years, with the possibility of extensions, Kurotori said. The
49ers, whose name won’t change, must pay to demolish the Santa
Clara stadium once it becomes obsolete.  The agreement makes fans shoulder the loans instead of
Santa Clara taxpayers, Carey said at a March council meeting.
The facility’s financial and maintenance obligations belong to
the team’s corporation and not the stadium authority, he said.  Buffered Risk  “There are many layers of protection,” said Kurotori.
“If they wanted to leave, they would have to pay off the loans
and demolish the stadium.”  City taxpayers shouldn’t need to cover any of the costs,
because the loan was made to the stadium authority, which was
created last year to handle the project. Revenue derived from
the facility, such as rent and other payments from the team, is
to be used to cover debt service.  “What happens a few years after the stadium is built and
they refuse to pay remains to be seen,” councilwoman McLeod
said, referring to the team. “We’re told that they protected
the city, but there are still questions in my mind about the
risk the city is taking.”  Although the city’s general fund is supposed to be spared,
the “obvious problem for the taxpayers of Santa Clara becomes
inadequate debt coverage,” said John Vrooman, sports economist
at Vanderbilt University in Nashville,  Tennessee .  Team Commitment  Ultimately, the funding will come from the team, and the
49ers’ commitment to cover the debt “is less than an ironclad
guarantee,” said Stanford’s Noll. If the team reneges on the
deal, the city’s only alternative is “to let it go bankrupt.”  “The creditors will own the stadium unless the city kicks
in millions of dollars of financial support,” said Noll. “The
guarantee from the 49ers only works if it works.”  Stadiums are “the worst thing you could possibly build”
from a city’s economic perspective, Noll said. Public subsidies
for sports venues cost taxpayers an average of 40 percent more
than planned for 99 facilities built through 2001, according to
 research  by Long, who teaches urban planning at Harvard in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  The deal is different than a ballot measure authorizing the
project that passed in 2010, McLeod said. Although cost wasn’t
mentioned, she said a term sheet showed that the city would
commit to investing $114 million in the stadium and borrowing
$330 million through the authority. The public didn’t learn the
amount of the loan until more than a year later, McLeod said.  Unsuccessful Battle  Santa Clara Plays Fair fought the plan as the borrowing
level rose, collecting signatures on a petition demanding a new
referendum, said Ryan, the group’s chairwoman. A judge rejected
the bid this month, clearing the way for today’s groundbreaking.  “We’ve done everything we can to protect the taxpayers and
the general fund from risk,” said Kurotori, the assistant city
manager.  Taxpayer costs haven’t been detailed beyond $75 million
from municipal agencies and special districts, plus a “half-
hearted promise prohibiting the use of Santa Clara city funds
for funding or operating the 49ers stadium,” Vrooman said.  “The wording of the deal has been vague and confused from
the beginning,” Vrooman said. “If a private professional
sports club takes public money, then the public should be privy
to quasi-public details.”  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  ILLINOIS, Moody’s Investors Service’s lowest-rated U.S.
state, plans to sell $1.8 billion in general-obligation
refunding debt as soon as April 30, according to the ratings
company. The sale may save more than $100 million in interest
costs on a net present value basis, said a statement from the
company. Moody’s rates the securities A2, sixth-highest. (Added
April 18)  NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY plans to offer
about $413 million of tax-exempt bonds and $22 million in
taxable debt by competitive sale as soon as next week, according
to an offering document. The proceeds will be used to fund or
refinance the cost of school facilities projects. S&P rates the
bonds A+, fifth-highest. (Added April 18)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  