-- Sarkozy’s France Inc. Suffers Losses From Presidential Meddling
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-04-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/sarkozy-s-france-inc-suffers-losses-from-presidential-meddling.html
France  Inc. has lost 124.3 billion
euros ($163 billion) under President Nicolas Sarkozy.  Companies in which the state holds  stakes , from  Electricite
de France SA (EDF)  and  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  to  France Telecom SA (FTE) 
underperformed international peers on Sarkozy’s watch as his
government blocked their job cuts to curb unemployment, opposed
tariff increases and taxed them to plug deficits.  The value of state holdings in publicly traded companies
has slumped 66 percent since Sarkozy was sworn in on May 16,
2007, more than the benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC) ’s 48 percent drop in
the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With French
joblessness at a 12-year high and household purchasing power a
key election subject, investors see more pain regardless of who
is elected president after next month’s ballot.  “The state will favor social peace over minority
shareholders,” said Alexandre Hezez, chief investment officer
at Paris-based Convictions Asset Management, which oversees 681
million euros. “This isn’t where you want to invest. I don’t
think the state is looking for value creation at these 
companies.”  The combined  value  of the government’s stakes in companies
from power producer EDF, GDF Suez SA, Airbus-parent European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., as well as in  Aeroports de
Paris ,  Areva SA (AREVA) , France Telecom, Air France-KLM,  Renault SA (RNO) ,
 Safran SA (SAF) , Thales SA and  CNP Assurances (CNP)  hit an all-time low
yesterday of 63.7 billion euros from a peak of 224 billion 
euros in November 2007, Bloomberg data shows.  Not a Plus  Neither Sarkozy nor Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande 
has signaled they will lower the state’s stakes in companies.
While they are neck and neck in opinion polls for the first
round of the election on April 22,Hollande has been
consistently ahead in the polls for the decisive May 6 round.  “As an investor, I wouldn’t put money in a company where
the state is because I don’t call the shots,” said Roland Fernet, head of KBL Richelieu Gestion in Paris. “Tariffs can be
set by the state, markets are regulated, so we have fewer cards
to play. French state-controlled stakes aren’t a plus.”  EDF and  GDF Suez (GSZ) ’s ability to raise prices, which are
politically unpopular, has been constrained by their largest
shareholder. The state holds 84.4 percent of EDF and 36 percent
of GDF Suez.  Under Sarkozy, electricity  prices  paid by French consumers
rose by 15 percent,  compared with a  29 percent jump in the same
period in  Germany , where rates are set freely by utilities.  EDF  shares  have slumped 76 percent since Sarkozy took
office. Over that period, shares of German utility  EON AG (EOAN)  have
 dropped  54 percent.  ‘Exposed’  Sarkozy also limited or prevented gas price increases by
GDF Suez on several occasions, forcing it to absorb some of the
higher cost of the fuel. GDF Suez said gas tariff shortfalls
have shaved about 2 billion euros from earnings since mid-2007.  GDF  shares  have lost 49 percent during his term, compared
with a 9 percent drop in U.K. gas supplier  Centrica Plc. (CNA)   It’s unlikely that EDF or GDF would be allowed “a sharp
increase” in power and gas tariffs after the elections, Damien de Saint-Germain, an analyst at  Credit Agricole (ACA) , said in an
April 17 research note. “While GDF Suez would be exposed to
another margin squeeze, EDF would have difficulties in passing
its increase in capex to customers’ bills.”  In 2009, Sarkozy named Henri Proglio EDF’s chief executive
officer, replacing  Pierre Gadonneix , who had unsuccessfully
sought a three-year 20 percent increase in tariffs. Proglio was
among a handful of people to celebrate Sarkozy’s election win in
May 2007 at a restaurant on the Champs Elysees avenue.  Nuclear Battle  Proglio battled with  Anne Lauvergeon , the CEO of Areva, the
world’s biggest builder of nuclear reactors, over the country’s
atomic energy leadership. The spat delayed a 3 billion-euro
capital increase Lauvergeon had asked for since 2004 for
expansion. Areva ended up raising just 900 million euros in
December 2010.  Sarkozy declined in 2011 to renew the CEO mandate held by
Lauvergeon, a one-time adviser of late Socialist President
 Francois Mitterrand . The new CEO Luc Oursel was ordered not cut
jobs in France as part of his turnaround plan.  Meanwhile, election frontrunner Hollande wants to reduce
France’s dependence on nuclear energy, which may hit revenue at
both reactor builder Areva and EDF, which owns all 58 of the
country’s atomic generators.  Suicide Watch  France Telecom, in which the state holds 27 percent, also
got a new CEO, Stephane Richard, in February 2010 when a
reorganization plan put in place by his predecessor Didier Lombard amid intensifying competition in the phone market
provoked a wave of suicides at the company.  Richard, who had joined the company from the  finance
ministry , had to put an end to the reorganization.  Sarkozy’s government also slapped phone operators with a
tax to fund a partial end of commercials on public television,
and awarded a mobile-phone license to a new entrant that
triggered a price war at the start of 2012.  France Telecom shares have lost 54 percent in the past five
years, more than the 32 percent drop in German counterpart
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and a similar slide at  BT Group Plc. (BT/A)   To be sure, it’s not clear that the underperformance of
these companies has to do with state meddling, said Ralph Bruneau, head of stocks at  Ofi Asset Management (OFICEHY)  in Paris, which
oversees 47 billion euros. Rather, it may reflect their domestic
dependence, he said, pointing to EADS.  Shares of EADS , in which the state owns a 15 percent stake,
have soared 37 percent during his term as the company benefited
from soaring orders for Airbus planes in  Asia  and the  Middle
East .  ‘French Discount’  French plane-engine maker Safran’s  shares  have climbed 38
percent. The reorganization of French defense electronics
company  Thales SA (HO)  helped contain the drop in its  shares  to 39
percent, less than the 83 percent slide in the shares of rival
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , 32-percent owned by the Italian state.  Still, France’s interventionist state programs create
instability in the market, Bruneau said.  “There’s probably a French discount tied to the
uncertainty of our economic policy,” he said.  When Renault SA, in which the state holds a 15 percent
stake, and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , in which France has no stake,
have sought to expand in low-cost countries for production,
they’ve been told to produce in France and limit job cuts.  Sarkozy met with Peugeot Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin at the Elysee Palace on Nov. 17, asking him to reconsider
plans to cut more than 6,000 jobs. Renault in 2010 backtracked
on a proposal to build the next Clio subcompact exclusively in
Turkey after Sarkozy publicly opposed the plan.  The president has justified his actions by pointing to the
6 billion euros the government loaned the two companies during
the 2009 financial crisis.  No Strategy  Investors say that raises questions about who’s in the
driver’s seat. Renault’s  shares  have dropped 66 percent during
his tenure, while Germany’s  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  has gained 7 percent.
Peugeot’s 82 percent drop forced it to sell new  shares  this
year, giving a 7 percent control to  General Motors Co. (GM)   France’s flagship airline Air France, 16 percent owned by
the state, has been similarly constrained. While  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  has been firing people at Austrian Airlines, and
 British Airways (IAG)  plans to eliminate 1,200 positions when it takes
over Lufthansa’s unprofitable BMI brand, Air France -- bailed
out by the state in the 1990s -- has had to avoid job cuts when
it presented 1 billion euros in cost reductions in January.  Shares of the unprofitable French airline, which has a
market value of 1 billion euros and 6.5 billion euros of net
debt, have slumped even more during Sarkozy’s mandate, shedding
90 percent.  “When gas prices or public service fares are blocked, or
one is prevented from having a strategy, it’s doesn’t really
help earnings,” said Fernet at KBL Richelieu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  