-- Sarkozy-Hollande Runoff Shaping Up in Fight on Finances
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-20T12:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/sarkozy-hollande-runoff-shaping-up-in-fight-on-finances.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
headed South and his Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande  went
East on the last day of campaigning before the first round of
voting, courting supporters of other candidates whose backing
they need in the runoff.  Hollande and Sarkozy are almost certain to top the 10-
person field April 22, putting them into the May 6 decider.
Hollande will be in the Ardennes region today, while Sarkozy
holds a rally in Nice on the Mediterranean tonight. No
campaigning is permitted tomorrow or on election day.  “It’s a foregone conclusion who will be in the second
round,” said William Keylor, a professor of modern French
history at  Boston University , said in a telephone interview.
“Now begins the not-always easy task of maintaining the base
and appealing to the center.”  With the highest joblessness in 12 years and an economy
barely growing, Sarkozy has trailed Hollande in every poll in a
head-to-head match over the past 11 months. Hollande promises
more spending and higher taxes, saying Sarkozy’s tax cuts
worsened  France ’s finances and failed to create jobs. Sarkozy
claims credit for spending cuts and a retirement-age increase
that he says warded off the worst of the euro debt-crisis
turmoil.  The winner faces commitments to the European Union to
reduce debt and deficits. Government debt will exceed 90 percent
of gross domestic product next year, the International Monetary
Fund estimates. The IMF sees a deficit of 3.9 percent of GDP
next year -- while Sarkozy has promised to reach the EU limit of
3 percent -- and growth of 1 percent.  Debt, Deficit  “Post the election, Hollande probably moves toward the
center,” Stephane Deo, the chief European economist for UBS
Securities in  London , said in a note to investors April 17.
“Whoever wins is going to have to start talking honestly about
how to tackle the deficits and debt levels.”  The final polls before the vote showed Hollande, 57, with a
lead in a head-to-head match of between seven and 14 points over
the incumbent, who is finishing his first five-year term.  A CSA survey completed yesterday showed Hollande will win
28 percent in the first round and Sarkozy 25 percent. That puts
Sarkozy, 57, at risk of becoming the first incumbent not to win
the first round. Ifop-Fiducial’s last tracking poll had Sarkozy
up 28-26. Neither published a margin of error.  Top Five  CSA had the National Front’s Marine Le Pen at 16 percent,
anti-capitalist Jean-Luc Melenchon at 14.5 percent, and self-
styled centrist  Francois Bayrou  at 10.5 percent. Five others
would split the rest.  The scores of Hollande and Sarkozy have varied only a few
points in the past month. “There’s been a remarkable stability
throughout the campaign,” said Jean-Daniel Levy, director of
opinion research at  Harris Interactive (HPOL)  in France. “Sarkozy has
made several efforts to shake things up, but we haven’t seen it
generate any momentum.”  London bookmakers see Hollande as the likely next president
of France.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  offers odds of 1-5, meaning that a
winning $5 bet returns $1 plus the original stake. Sarkozy is
10-3, meaning a $3 bet wins $10.  Paddy
Power Plc (PAP)  offers 1-8 on Hollande and 9-2 on Sarkozy.  Ladbrokes
Plc (LAD)  has Hollande at 1-8 and Sarkozy at 9-2.  “The real key of the first round is not who crosses the
finish line first but the overall balance between votes for the
right and the left,”  Gael Sliman, director of BVA, said in e-
mailed comments. “From this point of view, the Socialist
candidate should have important reserves for the second round.”  The first-round leader has won five of France’s eight
direct presidential elections, dating back to 1965.  Second-Round Reserves  Hollande leads Sarkozy in what the French call
“reserves,” or likely support from among the also-rans.  While 85 percent of Melenchon voters will vote for Hollande
in the second round, only 54 percent of Le Pen’s supporters are
sure to go for Sarkozy, according to a BVA poll April 17.
Bayrou’s support splits 39 percent for Hollande and 25 percent
for Sarkozy. The rest were undecided.  Hollande, who was party leader from 1997 to 2008 and
represents a rural district in the parliament, would be the
first Socialist president since  Francois Mitterrand  in 1995. He
has never held a minister’s post.  He has proposed a 75 percent tax on the wealthiest, an
increase in the minimum wage, renegotiating European treaties on
deficit limits to promote growth, and banning leveraged buyouts.  Debt Rating  Sarkozy has stressed personal responsibility, security, and
national identity to chip away at support for the National
Front. He has sought centrists by saying speculators will attack
French bonds should Hollande be elected. While  Standard & Poor’s 
cut France from AAA this year, the country’s debt has kept the
top grade from other credit-rating firms.  “It is particularly difficult to know from either Hollande
or Sarkozy what are political rhetoric and electioneering and
what are true commitments,” said  Marc Chandler , chief currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York .  A Sarkozy ouster would follow those by leaders in Ireland,
 Portugal ,  Greece ,  Italy ,  Spain , Slovenia and Slovakia since the
debt crisis began, and make him the second French president
after Valery Giscard D’Estaing in 1981 to lose a re-election
bid. Sarkozy’s 36 percent approval rating in an April 15 Ifop
poll is the lowest for any post-World War II French president.  ECB Role  In the final days of campaigning, both Hollande and Sarkozy
have backed a more activist  European Central Bank . That risks
tensions with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel . The comments by
Sarkozy also broke a pledge by Sarkozy and Merkel last November
not to publicly comment about the ECB.  “The candidates’ views on European matters have converged
over the past few weeks,” Thomas Costerg, an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in London, wrote in an e-mailed comment.
“We think fears of a Franco-German rift are overdone. The solid
Franco-German relationship goes beyond party politics.”  While about 70 percent of voters have told pollsters they 
are sure of their choice, that doesn’t mean the campaign has 
thrilled them. As many as a quarter of registered voters may 
not vote, said a BVA poll April 6, which would be the 
second-highest abstention rate in a French presidential 
election.  “With high unemployment and France’s loss of its triple-A
rating, Sarkozy doesn’t have much of a record to run on,”
Boston’s Keylor said. “But Hollande has never even held a
ministerial position. He doesn’t have much charisma. For many
voters, it’s a question of the lesser of two evils.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  