-- Senators Beat Rangers, Penguins, Canucks Avoid Elimination
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-19T05:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/senators-beat-rangers-penguins-avoid-elimination-in-playoffs.html
Kyle Turris got his first goal of
the playoffs to give the Ottawa Senators a 3-2 overtime victory
against the  New York Rangers , while the Pittsburgh Penguins
avoided elimination with a 10-3 win over the Philadelphia Flyers.  The Rangers and Senators are tied at two games apiece in
their best-of-seven National Hockey League first-round series
and the Flyers hold a 3-1 lead against the Penguins.  In last night’s other game, the Vancouver Canucks defeated
the Los Angeles Kings 3-1 to avoid elimination.  At Scotiabank Place in Ottawa, Anton Stralman and Ryan Callahan gave the Rangers a 2-0 lead on power-play goals in the
first period. Milan Michalek and Sergei Gonchar scored to tie it
at 2-2 in the second period. Turris’s winning goal came two
minutes, 42 seconds into overtime.  The Rangers host the Senators in Game 5 on April 21 at
Madison Square Garden.  At Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia, Jordan Staal had
three goals and  Evgeni Malkin  scored two for the Penguins, who
stopped the Flyers from advancing to the second round.  Claude Giroux gave the Flyers a 1-0 lead 76 seconds into
the contest before Malkin tied the game two minutes later. Matt Niskanen, Sidney Crosby and Staal added goals in the first
period for Pittsburgh and Kimmo Timonen and Jakub Voracek scored
for the Flyers.  Penguins Dominate  The Penguins dominated the remainder of the game with goals
by Kris Letang, Steve Sullivan,  Pascal Dupuis , Malkin and two
more from Staal.  The Flyers can reach the second round with a win tomorrow
in Pittsburgh.  At Staples Center in Los Angeles, Kevin Bieksa and Henrik Sedin each scored their first goals of the playoffs for the
Canucks, who stopped the Kings from sweeping the series.
Alexander Edler also scored in the second period for the Canucks.
Anze Kopitar got the Kings’ goal in the first period.  Los Angeles  can advance to the second round with a win in
Game 5 on April 22 in Vancouver.  In tonight’s games, the  Florida Panthers  are at the New
Jersey Devils; the Boston Bruins travel to the Washington
Capitals; the  Phoenix Coyotes  are at the  Chicago Blackhawks , and
the  St. Louis Blues  visit the San Jose Sharks.  The Panthers, Bruins, Coyotes and Blues all lead their
series by two games to one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  