-- Senate Democrats Weigh Vote Plans on Extending Bush Cuts
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-20T14:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/senate-democrats-consider-timing-of-votes-on-bush-tax-cuts.html
Democrats in the  U.S. Senate  are
considering whether they should vote before the November
election on extending income tax cuts that expire at the end of
2012.  Senators have differing views on the timing, said  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the third-ranking Democrat.  “I don’t know,” Schumer told reporters yesterday in
Washington. “Everyone’s thinking about this issue and we’ll
have to wait and see what happens.”  Senate Democrats, who are eager to schedule repeated votes
on the Buffett rule proposal that would set a minimum  tax rate 
for top earners, have a more complicated set of political
calculations on broader  tax policy . Voting before the election
carries political risks -- as does not voting.  The Buffett rule, named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , would impose a minimum 30 percent federal tax rate on
households making more than $2 million a year. Republicans on
April 16 blocked the bill from advancing in the Senate.  Democrats hold a 53-47 Senate majority, giving them control
of the calendar. Republicans can block most legislation, which
in the Senate requires 60 votes to overcome procedural hurdles.  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of the year, income tax
rates in 2013 would return to levels set before the 2001 and
2003 tax cuts took effect during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration. The top rate would increase to 39.6 percent from
35 percent, the  child tax credit  would shrink, capital gains
rates would rise to 20 percent from 15 percent and the estate
tax would affect more families.  Higher Taxes  Eighty-three percent of U.S. households would pay higher
taxes, with the increase averaging $3,701 a year, according to
the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan research group in
Washington.  Most Democrats, including President  Barack Obama , want to
extend the tax cuts for almost all taxpayers. Obama would allow
the tax cuts to expire for married couples earning at least
$250,000 a year and individuals making at least $200,000.  In 2010, when Democrats controlled the House and Senate,
they decided not to hold votes before the election. Afterward,
though control of the House didn’t shift to Republicans until
the start of 2011, Democrats agreed to extend all of the tax
cuts for two years.  Senator Mark Begich, an Alaska Democrat, said the Senate
should wait to vote on the tax cuts until the lame-duck session
after the election, when some defeated or retiring members will
still be in office and automatic budget cuts will be set to take
effect as well.  Tough Calls  “We’ll have to face all the issues: the budgets, the tax
issues, the automatic cuts, all that stuff,” he said in an
interview. “That’s a good time to put it all on the table.
People are going to have to make some tough calls.”  Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, said Democrats
shouldn’t wait for six months to take up the issue when they
have a chance to lead now.  “I want to get as much done before November as possible,”
he said in an interview. “The lame duck is always
unpredictable. You just don’t know. If one side believes that
they won in the elections, they’re going to hold out for better
than they would have gotten during the normal year.”  ‘Context of the Reality’  The decisions will be made “in the context of the reality
of the end of the year,” said Senator  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois , the second-ranking Democrat.  “Unless there is some intervening event, some external
event, I think the reality is we are not going to take up tough
issues involving spending, taxes, Medicare, Social Security
before an election,” Durbin said on Bloomberg Television
yesterday.  The Senate Democrats’ decision mirrors the debate among
 House Republicans  on whether to schedule tax votes this year.  House Republicans held two closed-door, small-group
planning sessions this week, said Representative Pat Tiberi, an
Ohio Republican who is helping lead the decision-making.  Tiberi said in an interview that he and other members of
the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee are trying to bring the
rest of the Republicans up to date on the list of tax issues.  Besides the expiring income tax cuts, dozens of tax breaks
ended last December, including the research and development tax
credit. The 2 percentage-point cut in the  payroll tax  is set to
end Dec. 31, along with an expanded tuition tax credit that
began with the 2009 stimulus law.  Republicans are trying to build support for an overhaul of
the U.S. tax code that would lower marginal rates and remove tax
breaks.  “It’s going to take time to get everyone going in the same
direction,” said Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana
Republican on the Ways and Means panel, in an interview. “We
really need everybody to stick together on this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  