-- Shirakawa Committed to Continuing Monetary Easing
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-19T02:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/shirakawa-says-he-s-committed-to-continuing-monetary-easing.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said he’s “committed” to continuing monetary easing
and the Japanese economy has “stagnated,” even as a report
today showed the fastest  export growth  in a year.  “The Bank of Japan is fully committed to continuing
powerful monetary easing through various measures, including
maintaining the policy interest rate at practically zero and
purchasing financial assets, until the current goal of year-on-
year CPI inflation at 1 percent is deemed to be achievable,”
Shirakawa said in a speech in  New York  late yesterday.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government faces the
challenge of sustaining the nation’s economic recovery once this
year’s boost from earthquake reconstruction work wears off. The
yen’s decline against the dollar after the Bank of  Japan  boosted
monetary stimulus in February aided exporters after the currency
rose to a post World War II record last year.  Japan reported today a smaller-than-expected trade deficit,
boosting prospects that the recovery in the world’s third-
biggest economy will be sustained. Outbound shipments rose 5.9
percent in March from a year earlier, exceeding the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a gain of 0.2 percent.
Comparisons are distorted by the earthquake in March, 2011.  “The Japanese  economy  has stagnated and the rate of growth
is sub-par among the major economies,” Shirakawa said. “The
low aggregate growth and the huge fiscal hole are both largely
the symptoms of the failure to adapt to the demographic reality.
The modest deflation is, in turn, largely attributable to the
lower growth outlook impacting expected future income and hence
current spending.”  Asset Purchases  Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Mizuho Securities Co.
and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. predict that the BOJ will expand
asset purchases at a meeting on April 27 amid pressure from
lawmakers for more aggressive action to counter decade-long
deflation. In February, the central bank set an inflation goal
of 1 percent, expanded asset purchases by 10 trillion yen ($123
billion) and pledged to pursue powerful easing.  “Considering that the Japanese financial conditions are
probably the most expansionary among developed economies, the
failure of Japan to shake off modest deflation can mostly be
explained by its deteriorating growth potential,” Shirakawa said.
“In this sense, if the Japanese economy is to extricate itself
from deflation and return to a path of sustainable growth under
 price stability , it requires both policies aimed at enhancing
growth potential and supporting monetary stimuli.’  Central banks cannot “reasonably” deliver solutions to
structural issues, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  