-- Small-Business Tax Cut Bill Points Up Divide on Economy
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-04-19T19:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/small-business-tax-cut-bill-points-up-divide-on-economy.html
The U.S. House passed a one-time
 tax  break of as much as 20 percent for small businesses in a
vote that mostly served to illustrate the differences between
the parties’ election-year agendas.  The Republican-controlled House  voted  235-173 for Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor ’s proposal to provide the $46 billion tax
deduction. The measure now goes to the Senate where it is
certain to be killed by Democrats.  Republicans say the tax cut would boost the economy by
freeing up cash that companies could use to hire workers,
provide raises or invest in equipment. The plan would allow
companies with fewer than 500 workers in either 2010 or 2011 to
deduct 20 percent of their profits in 2012. Its cost would be
added to the U.S. budget  deficit .  “We should not be taking money out of the hands of those
we are counting on to create jobs,” said Cantor, a Virginia
Republican. “We need to let small-business owners keep more of
their hard-earned money so they can start hiring again.”  Democrats said the  tax cut  would go to companies regardless
of how profitable they are, what they sell or whether they are
hiring.  “This bill provides a windfall tax break to hedge-fund
owners, to big Washington law firms, to the very wealthy even if
they don’t hire a single person,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the Budget Committee.  Vote Breakdown  Eighteen Democrats voted for the plan; 10 Republicans
opposed it.  The vote was the second this week designed primarily to
highlight the differences between the parties’ economic
priorities as jobs and the deficit rank in public opinion polls
among voters’ top concerns.  A Pew Research Center  survey  of almost 2,400 registered
voters released this week showed that voters’ top concerns are
the economy, jobs and the  budget deficit .  More than eight in 10 voters called the economy and jobs
“very important” in deciding how they will vote in the
November election while 74 percent cited the deficit. By
contrast, fewer than 50 percent called abortion, immigration,
 Iran  or the war in  Afghanistan  “very important” concerns.  “This is about the theater of the election year and
everybody knows it,” said Representative Richard Neal, a
Massachusetts Democrat, before the vote.  Buffett Rule  Earlier this week, Senate Democrats demanded a vote on the
Obama administration’s Buffett rule proposal, which would impose
a 30 percent minimum rate for taxpayers earning $2 million a
year. Senate Republicans on April 16 blocked the measure, which
Democrats said showed they are unconcerned with fairness in the
tax code.  Texas Republican Representative Pete Sessions said,
“Democrats think that we can tax our way to improving our
economy.”  Senate Democrats also are pushing a competing plan that
would extend write-offs for  capital investment  and award a 10
percent tax break for companies that add to their payrolls.  “Our plan encourages small businesses to hire new
employees and expand their operations,” Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said at a news conference today.  Some economists said such measures wouldn’t make much
difference in hiring.  ‘Small Potatoes’  “Small potatoes,” said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist
at Englewood, Colorado-based  IHS Inc. (IHS) , a forecasting company.
Businesses are much more concerned about a lack of demand for
their products and services than their tax rates, he said. The
main purpose of the competing small businesses plans is to woo
voters concerned about the economy, he said.  “Both parties in the run-up to the election want to be
able to say: Here’s what we are doing,” Behravesh said.
“That’s what this is really about -- politics.”  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc., said
he is “not a big fan of either proposal. With the economic
recovery on more solid ground and increasingly broad-based,” he
said, lawmakers should focus on simplifying the corporate side
of the U.S.  tax code . “These proposals go in the other
direction.”  House Republicans  last month adopted a budget calling for
an overhaul and simplification of the tax code that would clamp
down on breaks like the one passed today.  Cantor acknowledged the bill isn’t a “panacea” for
unemployment. It would nevertheless boost hiring, he said, while
lawmakers work out their “big differences” on a broader tax
rewrite.  Asked whether the U.S. Chamber of Commerce supports the
House plan, spokeswoman  Blair Latoff  said in an e-mail: “The
bill adds to the debate about  tax reform . The chamber believes
now is the time for comprehensive, fundamental tax reform.”  The bill is H.R. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  