-- Soldiers’ Photostream Must Follow Chain of Command
-- B y   A n d r e w   E x u m
-- 2012-04-19T23:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/soldiers-photostream-must-follow-chain-of-command.html
The most recent scandal to rock
U.S. military forces in  Afghanistan  concerns  photos  published in
the Los Angeles Times depicting U.S. soldiers goofing around
with the body of a dead Taliban fighter.  Clearly, this incident reflects a failure on the part of
whichever commissioned or noncommissioned officer had
responsibility for the men in the picture. Afghans -- most of
whom will never see the pictures -- will probably not be
terribly offended by what U.S. soldiers do to the body of a
suicide bomber. But Americans have a right to expect more from
the men and women in uniform.  Anti-war activists will complain that the soldiers
themselves were victims of the conflict, but most veterans will
point out that officers and noncommissioned officers are
responsible for everything their soldiers do and fail to do, and
that the actions portrayed were clearly out of line. One officer
 told  New York Times reporter Thom Shanker that the photos
reflected a kind of “Lord of the Flies” situation in
Afghanistan. But William Golding’s book was about schoolchildren
who survived a plane crash -- not soldiers who volunteered for
combat service and were then given extensive training in the
duties and standards expected of them.  At the same time, though, veterans will also be the first
to know that these kinds of incidents happen in all wars. As
 Iraq  War veteran and military blogger Alex Horton  tweeted  on
Wednesday night, “If the Athenians had cameras, we’d have photos
of them posing with dead Melians. It’s always going to happen.”  Rules Against Photos  What’s new, as Horton noted, is the ubiquitous presence of
cameras and camera phones on the battlefield. In my last unit,
the Army’s 75th Ranger Regiment, we were under strict orders not
to take any photos lest they compromise operational security.
The few pictures I have of myself in combat in Iraq and
Afghanistan were approved for release by our battalion’s
intelligence officer.  The proliferation of camera phones and social-media
networks has caused problems for the U.S. military as an
institution. Much of this has to do with the generational divide
in understanding technology. Most of the men and women serving
in the lower enlisted and company-grade officer ranks are what
the defense expert  Thomas Rid  identifies as digital natives.
They grew up with e-mail, Facebook and the Internet playing as
much a part in their childhoods as Saturday morning cartoons
did.  The senior ranks of the military, on the other hand, are
populated by digital immigrants. E-mail is something they can
remember using for the first time. As late as 2008, at a
conference at the U.S. Army War College, Rid asked a collection
of senior officers and civilian defense officials how many of
them had a Facebook profile. Only four of about 50 people in the
room raised their hands.  He then asked how many people had heard of Twitter, and
only two people raised their hands. Today, the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff himself has a lively  Twitter feed  -- but
the generational divide remains.  If the older officers and noncommissioned officers are not
always aware of social media’s potential to transform diplomacy
and military operations, the young soldiers are often naive
about the dangers of new technologies. When my younger cousin
Jon deployed to Iraq for the first time a few years back, I made
a point of talking to him about his Facebook profile. Don’t have
anything up there, I warned him -- pictures of relatives,
details about your home or military service -- that you wouldn’t
want an enemy to see. (The Onion, a humor publication, grasps
the  intelligence-collection potential of Facebook  better than
the mainstream media does.)  Digital Prowess  Over time, the military leadership will come to include
people who have a firmer grasp of both the potential and the
dangers of new technologies. For now, though, the importance of
small-unit leadership has never been more vital. If an 18-year-
old paratrooper wants to snap a photo of himself with a dead
Talib, his 21-year-old team leader has to intervene. And that
21-year-old team leader’s 24-year-old platoon leaders and 32-
year-old platoon sergeant have to set clear expectations for
what is appropriate and what is not.  As has always been the case, the most difficult tasks and
decisions in war are left to men and women of a shockingly young
age.  As for the photos themselves, their real effect might be
not in Afghanistan but in U.S. living rooms. Americans -- only a
small number of whom have served in Iraq and Afghanistan --
could stand to see such horrors more often. It is entirely
appropriate to believe, as I do, that an all-volunteer military
is the right answer for the U.S. But by the same token,
Americans should know what their country asks these young men
and women in far-off war zones to do.  (Andrew Exum, a former Army officer who fought in Iraq and
Afghanistan, is a senior fellow at the Center for a New American
Security and teaches a course in low-intensity conflict at
Columbia University’s School of International and Public
Affairs. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on elections in  France,
Germany and  Greece ; Virginia Postrel on the end of  vertical
integration ;  Michael Kinsley  on  Mitt Romney’s success ;  Jonathan
Weil  on the  government’s sketchy accounting ;  Jonathan Alter  on
 health-care reform ; Yukon Huang on  China’s trade surplus .  To contact the writer of this article:
Andrew Exum at  aexum@cnas.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 