-- Sony-Led Group Wins EU Approval to Buy EMI Unit
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-19T16:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/sony-led-group-wins-eu-approval-to-buy-emi-music-publishing-unit.html
A Sony Corp.-led group won European
Union approval for its $2.2 billion purchase of EMI Group’s
music publishing unit after it agreed to sell rights to chart
hits by  Robbie Williams  and  Ozzy Osbourne .  The European Commission approved the deal after the Sony
group offered to sell the global rights to EMI’s Virgin catalogs
and Sony/ATV Music Publishing’s Famous U.K. portfolio, the
regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  Sony and Mubadala Development Co. “have offered to divest
valuable and attractive catalogs containing bestselling titles
as well as works of successful and promising authors,” said EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  in the statement. “I
am therefore satisfied that the competitive dynamics in the
online music publishing business will be maintained.”  The deal will give the Sony group control of EMI’s
publishing rights to classics such as “ New York , New York” and
“Stand By Your Man,” adding to a portfolio of songs by  Elvis Presley , the Beatles and Bob Dylan. Sony/ATV, the joint venture
formed in 1995 that is co-owned by  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Michael Jackson’s estate, will oversee the new business.  The Sony consortium, which includes billionaire David Geffen and Mubadala, an investment unit owned by the Abu Dhabi
government, “is pleased that commission’s issues were addressed
in its initial review period so that the transaction could be
approved,” said Jimmy Asci, a spokesman for Sony/ATV in New
York in an e-mailed statement.  Online Rights  The Sony group’s offer to sell the song catalogs eliminated
antitrust concerns about the company’s control over online
rights for chart hits by British and American artists, the EU
said. “Anglo-American chart hits are an indispensable part of
any online platform offering to consumers,” it said.  Dylan Jones , a spokesman for EMI, and Warner Music Group,
an unsuccessful bidder for EMI, both declined to comment.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed in November to sell EMI Group’s
recorded-music and publishing businesses in separate
transactions for a combined $4.1 billion. Universal will buy
EMI’s record labels, home to Katy Perry and Coldplay, for 1.2
billion pounds ($1.9 billion), according to statements in
November.  Impala, a Brussels-based group of independent record labels
that opposed the deal, is convinced that “the impact of this
merger on the livelihood of authors has been underestimated,
while the ability of the remedies to secure future competition
has been overestimated,” Helen Smith, the group’s executive
chair, said in an e-mail.  Impala also opposes Vivendi’s  Universal Music Group  for
EMI’s recorded music business, on worries of increased prices
and reduced competition in the  music industry . EU regulators
have a deadline of Sept. 6 to rule on the Universal deal. The
group challenged the EU’s 2004 approval for Sony and Bertelsmann
AG to create the Sony BMG record label at the EU courts, forcing
a re-examination by regulators. The deal was eventually approved
in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 