-- Southwest’s AirTran to Keep Fees Three Years After Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-19T20:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/southwest-s-airtran-to-keep-fees-three-years-after-merger.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the only
major U.S. carrier without bag-check and rebooking fees, will
keep those charges at its AirTran Airways unit into 2014, three
years after the two combined.  That’s the target date to fully integrate AirTran into its
Dallas-based parent, and the fees will stay in place until then,
Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said today in an interview.  Retaining the charges means more revenue for Southwest, the
biggest discount airline. AirTran collected $166.6 million in
baggage and change fees in 2011’s first nine months, according
to the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics. The total
doesn’t include  fees  to cancel a flight, secure a specific seat,
upgrade to business class and buy tickets by phone.  “AirTran generates revenue its way; Southwest does
business in a very different way,” Kelly said in an interview.
“Customers understand it is a different brand with a different
package. We have said all that will be converted over time. It’s
not an issue.”  Southwest rose  4.3 percent to $8.23 at the close in  New
York , after posting a first-quarter loss that was narrower than
analysts projected. It was the largest daily gain since Nov. 30.  The $1 billion cash-and-stock acquisition of AirTran
Holdings Inc. in May 2011 eliminated a discount competitor and
offered access to Atlanta, the smaller airline’s biggest hub and
the only major U.S. market that Southwest didn’t serve.  Contrasting Approaches  AirTran’s fee structure, two-class cabins and a jet fleet
with two plane types contrasted with Southwest’s strategy to
shun such charges, offer one class of service and rely on a
single kind of jet --  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s single-aisle 737. AirTran
flies those planes along with the smaller 717 model.  Kelly had said in May that he expected no changes for
“some months” in operations at AirTran. A spokesman,  Brad Hawkins , said today that Southwest expects AirTran’s fees, and
its brand, will have disappeared by the end of 2014. Southwest
has made ridicule of competitors’ fees a staple of its
 television advertising .  “How do you recover the fees AirTran charges with the
Southwest brand? During the transition, it’s with the code
share,” Kelly said today, referring to the industry practice in
which airlines put booking codes on each other’s flights. “In
the meantime, we have purity between the two.”  Excluding certain items, Southwest’s quarterly loss was
$18 million, or 2 cents a share. That compared with a profit
of $20 million, or 3 cents, a year earlier. The deficit was
narrower than an average 5 cent-a-share-loss from 15 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  