-- South Sudan Says It Repelled 4 Sudanese Attacks in Past 24 Hours
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-04-19T13:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/south-sudan-says-it-repelled-4-sudanese-attacks-in-past-24-hours.html
South  Sudan  said Sudan attacked its
troops four times in the past 24 hours, including an offensive
against forces occupying the disputed oil-rich border area of
Heglig.  Soldiers from the two countries also clashed twice in the
South Sudanese border state of Northern Bahr el-Ghazal and once
in Western Bahr el-Ghazal, the south’s military spokesman,
Philip Aguer, told reporters today in the capital, Juba.  Fighting between Sudan and its newly independent neighbor
has itensified since April 10 when southern forces occupied
Heglig. Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir told a rally today
that his army would retake the area in what he said would be
“the decisive battle.”  South Sudan occupied Heglig on April 10 to stop Sudan’s
military from continuing to launch ground and air attacks from
the area, Information Minister Barnaba Marial Benjamin told
reporters in Juba. Southern forces are ready to withdraw
provided that international monitors are sent to Heglig and
Khartoum agrees to international arbitration to determine which
country owns the area, he said.  Sudanese Army spokesman al-Sawarami Khaled didn’t answer
calls seeking comment.  A vote by Sudan’s parliament on April 16 declaring the
government of  South Sudan  an “enemy” amounted “to a
declaration of war,” Benjamin told reporters in Juba. “The
Republic of South Sudan is not in a state of war nor is it
interested in war with Sudan.”  Oil Control  While both countries claim Heglig, Sudan has administered
its  oil fields  since the south seceded in July, assuming control
of about three-quarters of the formerly united country’s
production of 490,000 barrels a day.  Since southern forces occupied the area, oil production of
40,000 barrels a day has been shut down, out of Sudan’s total
output of 115,000 barrels a day, the Sudanese ambassador to
 Kenya , Kamal Ismail Saeed, said in Nairobi yesterday.  Benjamin said South Sudan would be willing to discuss
sharing revenue from the Heglig fields if the governments agree
to go to arbitration.  “Yes, we can talk about oil in that place,” he said.
“Our interest is not oil, our interest is that the land is
ours.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  