-- Spain, Italy Set for Downgrade Amid Slump, Citigroup Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-04-19T15:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/spain-italy-set-for-downgrade-amid-slump-citigroup-says.html
Spain  and Italy will be downgraded
by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s this year as
the recession and debt crisis worsen, economists and strategists
at Citigroup Inc. said.  Their credit ratings, along with those of Ireland and
 Portugal , will be lowered at least one level over the next two
to three quarters, Citigroup said in a report published late
yesterday. “Deficits will overshoot official forecasts in all
the peripheral Economic Monetary Union countries this year and
in 2013,” according to the report.  “Spain will need to enter some form of a Troika program”
this year, Citigroup economists including London-based Juergen Michels wrote, referring to the aid package for  Greece  monitored
by the European Union, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund . Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has
repeatedly said that Spain won’t need a bailout.  The warning comes amid a flare-up of Europe’s debt crisis.
Investor confidence in the debt of Europe’s so-called peripheral
countries has eroded since Spain’s announcement on March 2 that
it won’t meet its deficit target this year, helping to push up
bond yields. Yesterday, Italy also delayed its goal to balance
the budget by one year to 2014.  Previous Action  Both countries were put on negative outlook by Moody’s on
Feb. 13, when the rating firm downgraded six European nations,
including Italy to A3 from A2 and Spain to A3 from A1. A month
earlier,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the ratings of nine euro states,
with Spain lowered to A from AA- and Italy to BBB+ from A, both
with negative outlooks.  Citigroup expects a “two-notch downgrade of the Spanish
sovereign later this year by S&P and a one-notch downgrade by
Moody’s” as well as a further one-level reduction by both
rating companies over the longer term. That would put Spain “at
the lower end of the investment grade spectrum, reflecting the
fact that whatever Troika program enters, it is likely to retain
some form of  market access  for medium- and long-term issuance.”  Spain, which has passed about 40 billion euros of spending
cuts and tax rises since December, is also contracting amid the
highest jobless rate in  Europe . Rajoy’s government forecasts the
economy will shrink 1.7 percent this year with unemployment
holding above 24 percent.  Budget Blow  Last Month, Rajoy announced his government wouldn’t keep a
vow to cut the deficit to 4.4 percent in 2012 and would instead
post a shortfall of 5.8 percent. Under pressure from European
partners, he later agreed to reduce it to 5.3 percent.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond has increased
by about 1 percentage point since March 2 to 5.9 percent at 4:57
p.m. Madrid time. Italy has fared better, its 10-year yield
rising to 5.57 percent from 4.9 percent.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s drive to overhaul  Italy ’s
economy, mired in its fourth recession since 2001, risks
foundering over opposition to his plan to revamp the labor
market. He also faces rising discontent as Italians chaff under
the effects of 20 billion ($26 billion) in austerity measures,
with brought higher taxes and gasoline prices that have reached
a record of almost 2 euros a liter, or $10.50 a gallon.  By year-end, Italy may be downgraded one level to BBB by
S&P and to Baa1 by Moody’s, as the economy probably shrinks more
than the government’s forecasted contraction of 1.2 percent for
2012, the Citigroup analysts said.  “The falling public support for Monti in opinion polls
suggests that the government will have increasing difficulties
in going ahead with the implementation of structural reforms,”
according to the report. Over the next two to three years, “we
expect Italy’s rating by S&P to go down by two notches in total
and to settle at BBB- and its Moody’s rating to go down by three
notches to settle at Baa3.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.ne  