-- Splunk Surges After Pricing Above Range in Web Data IPO
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-04-19T21:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/splunk-raises-229-5-million-in-ipo-on-demand-for-data-analysis.html
Splunk Inc. (SPLK) , a maker of software
that helps companies analyze Web data, more than doubled on its
first day of trading after pricing its shares 70 percent above
the originally proposed range in an initial public offering.  The stock, listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol SPLK, climbed to $35.48 at the close in  New York . The San
Francisco-based company raised $229.5 million in its IPO,
selling 13.5 million shares at $17 apiece, it said in a
statement yesterday. Splunk’s market value of $1.57 billion at
the time of the sale jumped to $3.28 billion.  Splunk is the first of the so-called big data companies to
go public, providing software that helps businesses monitor and
analyze data to improve service, cut operations costs and reduce
security risks. Revenue in the fiscal year that ended Jan. 31
rose 83 percent to $121 million. Splunk’s net loss widened to
$11 million from $3.8 million a year earlier as the company
stepped up spending on sales and marketing.  “Splunk is really taking advantage of this big data trend
and monetizing on that opportunity,” said Dafina Toncheva, a
partner at Tugboat Ventures in  Palo Alto ,  California , which
invests in Web and software startups. “They’re collecting
massive amounts of data every second in the enterprise and
making sense of it.”  Splunk shares were paused for five minutes today after the
first second of trading triggered a volatility circuit breaker.
NYSE Arca later canceled transactions that occurred on its
platform during the mandatory halt, according to  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext.  Orders Voided  The orders were voided because of a “manual error”
related to the suspension, he said, without elaborating. Trades
amounting to about 26,000 shares were canceled, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Most technology companies that have gone public this year
have gained since their offerings. Among the best performers are
 Guidewire Software Inc. (GWRE) , which has more than doubled, and
Millennial Media Inc., which has climbed 45 percent. Infoblox
Inc., a network and data-services provider, and Proofpoint Inc.,
a maker of security software, are also scheduled to start
trading this week.  Splunk said in its filing that it has a variety of
competitors, including some of the world’s biggest software and
Web companies. The company cited  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Adobe Systems
Inc. in the Web analytics market, and business intelligence
vendors  EMC Corp. (EMC)  and International Business Machines Corp.  Rich Valuation  At Splunk’s valuation, the stock is trading at
approximately 27 times reported revenue for its most recent
fiscal year. That compares with a price-to-sales ratio of about
5 for Google, 3.9 for  Adobe (ADBE) , 2.9 for EMC, and 2.2 for IBM.  “It’s indicative of very strong demand across the board
from almost every size institution that the team met with,”
said John Connors, a Splunk board member and partner at Ignition
Partners in Bellevue,  Washington . “Investors think the story is
potentially a big one and the management team was quite good and
seasoned.”  Splunk is backed by venture firms August Capital, JK&B
Capital, Ignition and Sevin Rosen Funds. The company raised $25
million in 2007 to expand sales and marketing, build its
international operations and develop partnerships.  Founded in 2004 by Erik Swan, Rob Das and Michael Baum,
Splunk’s software was used by more than 3,700 customers,
including Bank of America Corp., Zynga Inc. and  Harvard
University , as of Jan. 31.  Price Increases  The company is led by Godfrey Sullivan, who joined as chief
executive officer in 2008. He was previously CEO of Hyperion
Solutions Corp. and helped sell the company for $3.3 billion to
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  in 2007. Sullivan replaced co-founder Baum, who
left Splunk and is now a venture partner at investment firm
Rembrandt Venture Partners.  On April 16, Splunk increased the proposed price range for
its IPO to $11 to $13 apiece, from a prior target of $8 to $10.  Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bank of America Corp. led the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  