-- Sprint Sued for $300 Million by N.Y. Over Alleged Tax Fraud
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-19T16:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/sprint-sued-for-300-million-by-new-york-over-alleged-tax-fraud.html
Sprint-Nextel Corp. (S)  was sued for
more than $300 million by the New York attorney general, who
said the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier deliberately failed
to pay sales taxes for seven years.  Sprint didn’t collect and pay some sales taxes on flat-rate
access charges for wireless calling plans, costing state and
local governments more than $100 million, Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said in a statement today.  “This case represents a new era in tax fraud
prosecutions,” Schneiderman said at press conference today.
“The deliberate failure to collect or pay your fair share of
taxes will not be tolerated in New York state.”  The attorney general said he is taking over a whistle-
blower lawsuit filed in New York in March 2011 and is seeking
three times Sprint’s alleged underpayment of more than
$100 million plus penalties under the state’s false claims act.  John Taylor , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, said in an e-mailed statement that it would fight the
lawsuit.  ‘Every Penny’  “We have collected and paid over to New York every penny
of sales taxes on mobile wireless services that we believe our
customers owe under New York state law,” Taylor said. “The
attorney general’s office is claiming New York consumers, who
already pay some of the highest wireless taxes in the country,
should pay even more.”  Wireless carriers selling a set number of minutes of
calling time for a fixed monthly charge must collect and pay
sales taxes on the entire charge, Schneiderman said. Sprint
treated a portion as nontaxable and withheld about 25 percent of
the taxes it was supposed to collect and remit to state and
local governments, according to the attorney general.  The move arose from a nationwide effort by Sprint to gain
an advantage over competitors including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Wireless , which correctly collect and pay the taxes,
Schneiderman said.  The whistle-blower complaint couldn’t immediately be found
in court records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomber.net  