-- Starbucks to Stop Using Bug Extract to Color Frappuccinos
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-04-19T18:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/starbucks-to-stop-using-bug-extract-to-color-frappuccinos.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s
largest coffee-shop chain, plans to stop using an extract made
of dried insects to color some Frappuccinos and pastries after
an online campaign asked for the ingredient to be removed.  The retailer said today its U.S. stores will phase out by
June use of a red dye derived from cochineal insects, a tropical
bug found in Mexico and  South America . The colorant will be
replaced with lycopene, a tomato extract, the Seattle-based
company said in a  statement  on its website.  More than 6,500 people signed a Change.org  petition  asking
Starbucks to stop using the insects because it isn’t vegan,
kosher, and consumers “don’t want crushed bugs in their
designer drinks.” The extract had been used in the company’s
Strawberries & Creme Frappuccino, Strawberry Banana Smoothie,
raspberry swirl cake, birthday cake pop, mini donut with pink
icing and red velvet whoopee pie, according to the statement.  “We’ve learned that we fell short of your expectations by
using natural cochineal extract as a colorant,” Cliff Burrows,
Starbucks president for the U.S. and the Americas, said in the
statement. “As our customers you expect and deserve better --
and we promise to do better.”  While the initial switch is for domestic products, the
company is “evaluating markets outside the U.S. right now, but
no definitive decision has been made yet,” Jim Olson, a
spokesman for Starbucks, said in a telephone interview.  There is no safety or quality issue with the extract, which
is a widely used ingredient approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, Olson said. Starbucks made the decision to stop
using the coloring because the company “heard from a fair
number of customers that this particular ingredient wasn’t
exceeding their expectations,” he said.  Change.org, a social action website that lets people start
online petition drives for various causes, said in a statement
today that each signature on the Starbucks petition triggered an
e-mail directly to the  company’s headquarters .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  