-- Starbucks to Introduce Verismo Brewers in China Next Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-19T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/starbucks-to-introduce-verismo-brewers-in-china-next-year.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s
largest coffee-shop operator, will introduce instant dairy
products worldwide and bring its Verismo single-serve brewer to
 China  next year as it triples stores in the Asian nation.  Verismo could be a “compelling business proposition to
Starbucks in China,” Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz
said in an interview yesterday in  Shanghai . Starbucks in March
said it will start selling the Verismo, a machine to make brewed
coffee and espresso-based beverages, in the U.S. this year.  Starbucks, based in Seattle, plans to triple outlets to
more than 1,500 by 2015 in China as part of the company’s plan
to grow outside the U.S. and win more coffee drinkers in the
world’s most-populous nation. Single-serve beverages are the
coffee industry’s fastest-growing segment, according to Mitch Pinheiro, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  “We are very intrigued with the possibility of bringing
that to China in 2013,” Schultz said, referring to the Verismo.
“And looking very closely on how and when we will do that
within our stores.”  China’s coffee shop market is forecast to surge 55 percent
to 4.5 billion yuan ($714 million) in 2015 from 2.9 billion yuan
last year, data from Euromonitor International show.  Coffee Consumption  Global coffee consumption will grow about 1.5 percent this
year and the increase in demand will be driven by countries
including  Russia , China,  Indonesia ,  India  and coffee-producing
countries, according to the  International Coffee Organization .  The new dairy products which will be sold globally within a
year will add to the  company ’s Via instant beverage line,
Schultz said, without elaborating.  “We are going to bring tremendous innovation to the dairy
category within Via,” he said. “It’ll be fresh dairy done in a
way that no one has done before.”  Via is now a $300 million business globally, Schultz said.  In 2009, Schultz introduced Via, a single-serve instant
coffee that took 20 years to develop.  Schultz has said Via eventually will become a billion-
dollar brand. The company began selling Via instant coffee in
China,  Hong Kong , Macau and  Taiwan  in April 2011.  The  company  also plans to introduce Refreshers, energy
drinks made with fruit juice and green-coffee extract, in China
this summer, Schultz said. The product is already selling well
in the U.S., he said.  Starbucks dominated China’s coffee shop market with a 66.3
percent share in 2010, according to Euromonitor.  Whitbread Plc (WTB) ,
owner of the Costa Coffee chain, and McDonald’s Corp. trailed
with 8.9 percent and 8 percent shares in 2010 respectively,
according to the London-based researcher.  Last year Starbucks signed an agreement to form a joint
venture with Chinese coffee operator Ai Ni Group to purchase and
export high-quality arabica Yunnan coffee. Starbucks plans to
sell Yunnan-made coffee globally in two to four years, Schultz
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Conley in Shanghai at 
 mconley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  