-- Starwood Leads $350 Million Sheraton Renovation Project
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/starwood-leads-350-million-sheraton-renovation-project.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT)  is leading a $350 million plan to renovate Sheraton hotels,
its largest brand, in cities from  New York  to Beijing in a bid
to lure more travelers seeking high-end lodging.  The work includes the $160 million makeover of the  Sheraton
New York Hotel & Towers , which involved room expansions and a
new air-conditioning system and is the costliest remodel of an
individual property, said Hoyt Harper, senior vice president at
Starwood’s Sheraton unit. The remodel is scheduled for
completion at the end of this month. As much as $60 million is
being spent on the  Great Wall Sheraton Hotel Beijing , and $30
million to $40 million will be used to renovate the  Sheraton Rio
Hotel & Resort , Harper said.  Starwood, the Stamford, Connecticut-based hotelier that
also operates the luxury St. Regis and W brands, and owners of
Sheraton properties have already spent $6 billion in makeovers
and expansion over three years starting in September 2008. They
are expecting the additional improvements, which include
updating fitness facilities and lobbies, to increase demand at
Sheraton hotels, Harper said.  The brand, which contributes about half of Starwood’s
revenue, competes with  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , Hilton
Worldwide and  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) ’s namesake brands.  “By raising the quality and consistency of Sheraton
hotels, we expect to gain more high-end business and leisure
travelers,” Harper said in a telephone interview from  London .  The “overwhelming majority” of both the $6 billion
investment and the extra $350 million was contributed by the
owners of the hotels Starwood operates, Harper said. An
additional $5 billion that’s lined up for the development of 104
Sheraton hotels over the next three years is completely “other
people’s money” rather than Starwood’s, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  