-- Stevens Buys Bananas Again as Price Drops Augur RBA Cut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-04-20T03:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/stevens-buys-bananas-again-as-price-drops-augur-rba-cut.html
At the Fruity Blooms food stall
across the street from Australia’s central bank, the recent
return of one customer may offer the biggest clue that inflation
pressures are easing.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  has
resumed buying bananas at the stand since the price fell to A$1
($1.03) in the past three months from as high as A$3 last year
in the aftermath of crop damage in the nation’s north, according
to the Fruity Blooms owner.  “He used to buy a banana a day off me,” then stopped
coming, said David Bisoglio, who’s run the stall at Martin Place
in Sydney for the past eight years. “In the last three months
he’s come back,” said Bisoglio, 32. “He makes the comment ‘oh,
it’s nice to see bananas are back to the normal price.’”  Across Australia, the breaking of nearly a decade of
drought and a historically mild summer have caused a glut of
fresh fruit and vegetables, driving down market prices by about
25 percent from a year ago. That may help pave the way for
Stevens to cut  interest rates , as the nation’s inflation-linked
bond market underscores the retreat in price pressures.  The gap between 10-year inflation-linked bond yields and
benchmark notes touched 2.46 percent on April 18, the lowest
level in more than three months. The breakeven rate shows
investors’ expectations for consumer price gains over the next
decade are near the mid-point of the RBA’s 2 percent to 3
percent target. The  gap  was 2.59 percent at 12:28 p.m. in Sydney.  Banana Story  “It looks like there’s quite a big fall in fruit and veg
prices coming through in the first quarter and part of this is
the final leg of the banana story,” said Michael Blythe, chief
economist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  who
estimates consumer prices rose 2.1 percent last quarter from a
year ago, and  core inflation  was 2.4 percent. “These numbers
don’t look like they’ll be standing in the way of a rate cut.”  The central bank, in minutes of its April 3 policy meeting
released this week, said the board will review the  inflation 
outlook when it next meets May 1. “If slower growth in demand
could be expected to result in a more moderate inflation outcome,
then a case could be made for a further easing of monetary
policy,” policy makers said. First-quarter consumer price index
data are due April 24.  Stevens declined to comment on visiting the fruit stall, a
spokesman for the central bank said.  Seeking Data  Australia ’s central bank supplements national statistics
data and business surveys by sending staff out to interview
companies across the country to help it form an assessment of
the economy. Unlike most advanced nations, Australian inflation
data are published quarterly, complicating the RBA’s task of
gauging price gains. The bank has pressed for monthly releases.  Wholesalers, farmers and industry analysts say Australia is
harvesting its biggest crops of apples and avocadoes on record
and the largest stock of mangoes in a decade.  “Just about everything has been in oversupply,” said John
Roach, head of an association of wholesalers at  Melbourne ’s
fruit and vegetable market, which sells price data to the RBA
and the  Australian Bureau of Statistics . “The price can only do
one thing in that situation: it crashes.”  Retail prices for potatoes and onions last week had fallen
as much as 40 percent from a year earlier, plums and peaches
were down about 33 percent, and tomatoes were about 20 percent
cheaper, said Roach, chief executive officer of Fresh State Ltd.  ‘Coles Effect’  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and  Wesfarmers Ltd (WES) .-owned Coles, the
nation’s largest retailers, sought to capitalize on the glut
with price-reduction campaigns. Coles announced cuts of as much
as 50 percent in some fruit and vegetables at the end of January
as it battles Woolworths for the nation’s frugal shoppers.  “The one wildcard is the Coles effect,” said Blythe, a
former RBA economist. “While wholesale prices are down, we
might see a bigger impact on retail prices, which is what’s more
relevant for the CPI.”  Fresh produce prices dropped almost 20 percent from a year
earlier during the three months ended April 1, with bananas,
pumpkins and tomatoes “significantly impacted,” Woolworths
said in third-quarter results today.  Food and non-alcoholic drinks, including fresh fruit and
vegetables, meat, dairy, and bread,  make up  16.8 percent of
Australia’s CPI basket, the second-largest category after
housing.  A mile southeast of the city’s Olympic stadium, at Sydney’s
main fruit and vegetable markets that handle about 2.5 million
metric tons of produce valued at A$3 billion a year, traders say
they’re seeing weak demand.  Highest Rates  “When bananas don’t sell at 99 cents a kilo, discretionary
spending has gone,” said Harry Theoharous, 50, checking cartons
of the fruit stacked in ripening chambers at Moraitis Fresh
Australian Bananas Pty.  Australia has the highest borrowing costs among major
developed nations, at 4.25 percent, as the RBA seeks to temper a
rise in  consumer debt  that tripled in the past 20 years and
stood at 149.6 percent of disposable income in the fourth
quarter.  Sixteen months ago, nearly  two months ’ worth of rain fell
in 48 hours near Linton Brimblecombe’s farm in the Lockyer
Valley, a fertile agricultural area west of  Brisbane . Floods
inundated farmland and  killed  nearly two dozen people. Streams
have not dried up since, a circumstance not seen since the early
1980s.  “Our valley’s got abundant supply of water, which means
that there’s an oversupply of produce,” said Brimblecombe, who
farms 400 hectares of sweet corn, mung beans, navy beans and
onions.  Back in Sydney, at his floral and fruit stall across from
the central bank, Bisoglio said it had crossed his mind to ask
 Governor Stevens  whether falling banana prices meant a rate cut
is in the offing.  “I’ve been very tempted,” he said. “I would love to say
something, but I bite my tongue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  