-- Sudanese Fear Return to War as Al-Bashir Threatens South Sudan
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-04-19T09:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/sudanese-fear-return-to-war-as-al-bashir-threatens-south-sudan.html
The escalation of fighting between
 Sudan  and newly independent South Sudan along their disputed
border is deepening fears among residents in the capital,
Khartoum, of a return to full-scale war.  Clashes between the two armies have intensified since South
Sudanese forces occupied the disputed oil-producing region of
Heglig on April 10. Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir today
vowed to retake the area in what he said would be “the decisive
battle.” The fighting is the worst since South Sudan gained
independence in July following a 2005 peace agreement that ended
a two-decade civil war. Both sides accuse each other of arming
rebels fighting to topple their governments.  “The whole scenario reminds me of the dark days of civil
war with  South Sudan ,” Jihan Hassan, a 54-year-old housewife,
said yesterday at her apartment in the affluent Khartoum
district of  Riyadh , as she listened to a state television
anchorman shouting, “we give our lives as the price of glory.”  An oil dispute between the two countries and the occupation
of Heglig have led to a cut in crude production to less than
100,000 barrels a day from the 490,000 barrels a day before the
south’s independence. Most of the crude is pumped by the China
National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  “The story began in Heglig, but will end in Khartoum or
Juba,” al-Bashir told a rally yesterday in Khartoum. “There
are two choices: Either we end up in Juba or they end up in
Khartoum. The old borders cannot take us both.”  Arming Rebels  Al-Bashir’s government has been fighting rebels formerly
aligned to South Sudan’s ruling party in the border states of
 Blue Nile  and Southern Kordofan since the south gained
independence.  The authorities in the southern capital, Juba, as well as
the U.S. and the  United Nations , have accused Sudan of bombing
targets in the south. Sudan says it hasn’t carried out any bomb
attacks.  Andrew Natsios,  George W. Bush ’s former envoy to Sudan,
said the current tensions may lead to full-scale conflict.  “I think there is a high risk of war which would be, if it
takes place, very bloody, with high casuality rates on both
sides,” Natsios said yesterday in an e-mailed response to
questions. “And it would probably mean the collapse of the
Bashir government which is increasingly weak and losing control.
It is, however, not inevitable.”  The Sudanese national assembly on April 16 adopted a
resolution designating South Sudan an “enemy” and vowed to act
with “all means” to end the occupation of Heglig.  Drumbeat of War  State television has intensified the drumbeat of war in
recent days, repeatedly showing a photo montage of al-Bashir,
army troops and scenes of fighting set to Sudan’s national
anthem, Nahnu Jundullah Jundulwatan, or We’re the Army of God
and of Our Nation.  The tension has sent the black-market price for $1 soaring
to 6 Sudanese pounds, double the rate at the central bank of
Sudan.  “I’m shifting my savings into dollars, everyone I know
does,” said Ahmed, a 32-year-old  taxi driver  who refused to
give his second name. “The war is around the corner and you
never know what will happen.”  The UN Security Council on April 17 discussed imposing
sanctions against both countries to force them back from the
brink of war, U.S. Ambassador to the UN  Susan Rice  told
reporters in  New York .  Fuel Shortages  The specter of long lines for food and fuel that occured
during the war years returned to Khartoum last week. Hassan’s
24-year-old daughter Amany said she spent three hours one
morning waiting to fill up her tank.  “During the civil war, we used to see long queues for food
and fuel shortages, and people used to hide their sons to keep
them away from fighting,” Hassan said. “I have two nephews,
and we’re really scared they might take them to fight in
Heglig.”  With the loss of oil revenue and rising prices, the central
bank yesterday said it will take “urgent measures, including
increasing the legal reserve and issuing sovereign bonds to
control inflation, maintain currency stability and increase
foreign reserves.”  Sudan’s annual inflation rate increased to 22.4 percent in
March as food costs climbed, the  Central Bureau of Statistics 
said.  Public Demands Action  Presidential adviser Mustafa Osman Ismail told reporters
yesterday in  Addis Ababa  that the Sudanese public was demanding
action against South Sudan.  Hafiz Ismail, an economist and Sudan director of  Justice
Africa , a London-based human rights roup, said the public
support for al-Bashir’s government is weakening.  “Prices are soaring and imports have become more expensive
due to the loss of oil revenues, shortages of foreign currency,
a devalued currency that hinders international trade,” he said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Khartoum. “With all
these problems why would people trust the regime or support
it?”  Hassan’s daughter Amany says her generation no longer
supports the government’s calls to mobilize young people fight
the “enemy.”  “This is not our war; they can no more fool us with
fighting over oil revenues which directly go into their
pockets,” she said. “They’re playing politics with the regime
in South Sudan, so let them fight over their own interests,
we’re not part of this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  