-- Sungevity Offers Solar at No Upfront Cost in Australia
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-04-19T18:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/sungevity-takes-pay-as-you-go-rooftop-solar-model-to-australia.html
(Corrects financing model in seventh paragraph.)  Sungevity Inc., a closely held
developer of rooftop solar systems, is expanding to  Australia 
through a joint venture it says will be the first to offer
homeowners there panels at no upfront cost.  The company will own a minority stake in the Sungevity
Australia venture it formed with the Australian solar retailer
and installer Nickel Energy, Danny Kennedy, Sungevity’s
president, said in a telephone interview.  This is the Oakland, California-based company’s second step
abroad after acquiring a minority stake in the Dutch solar
company Zonline BV in November. As in that deal, Sungevity is
exporting its model of assuming the costs to install, own and
operate rooftop solar plants, with homeowners paying monthly
fees to buy the power.  “We’re obviously seeing the success of the pay-as-you-go
solar” model, Kennedy said. “This is going to be the first
pay-as-you-go proposition to Australian customers.”  Australian homeowners typically must cover the costs of
installing rooftop solar plants that average about AUD 12,000
($12,400), according to a Sungevity statement today.  Sungevity will fund initial installations planned by the
joint venture and is in discussions with potential partners to
finance future projects, Kennedy said. He wouldn’t say how much
his company is investing in Sungevity Australia, which will
begin offering solar projects to customers late next month.  Sungevity offers a different financing model, known as a
 solar lease , in eight U.S. states.  Some Australians pay utilities as much as 24 Australian
cents a kilowatt-hour for electricity, Kennedy said. “We can
fashion a 20-year power-purchase agreement contract in a way
that delivers energy for less per kilowatt-hour.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  