-- Surgut Earns 4% on $30 Billion Cash Pile, East Capital Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-04-19T13:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/surgut-earns-4-on-30-billion-cash-pile-east-capital-says-1-.html
OAO Surgutneftegas,  Russia ’s
fourth-largest oil producer, “reassured” investors that it has
$30 billion of cash, which is deposited in domestic banks, and
plans to pay preferred dividends, a  fund manager  said.  “They told me that the cash pile is earning at least 4
percent in Russia’s top 10 banks, and not to worry, no exposure
to PIGS bonds,” Aivaras Abromavicius, who helps run East
Capital Asset Management’s $1.5 billion Russian fund, said
today, citing a December visit to the Surgut-based company. PIGS
refers to  Portugal ,  Italy ,  Greece  and  Spain .  Surgutneftegas’s market value is $35 billion, held back in
part by opaque reporting -- it doesn’t disclose the amount of
cash it holds or the identity of its major shareholders. That
may change as early as next year as Russia pushes companies to
report to international financial reporting standards.  Surgutneftegas rose as much as 4.1 percent and traded up
3.2 percent at 28.94 rubles at 4:53 p.m. on the Micex Index in
Moscow.  The introduction of international financial reporting
standards will lead to a re-rating of the stock, Abromavicius
said. The fund holds $200 million in Surgut shares, he said.
East Capital manages a total 4.1 billion euros ($5.4 billion),
according to its website.  Alexey Artemnenko, a spokesman at the Surgut, Siberia-based
oil producer, declined to comment on the cash pile.  Surgut’s senior management has issued assurances internally
that the oil producer will pay out dividends on preferred
shares, which mid-level managers hold, Jacob Grapengiesser, a
portfolio manager at East Capital, said at the same event. The
preferred shares climbed 2.1 percent at 19.431 rubles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  