-- Swan Urges Europe to Boost Growth, Improve Budgets as G-20 Meets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-19T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/swan-urges-europe-to-boost-growth-improve-budgets-as-g-20-meets.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan
said European policy makers need to press ahead with measures to
spur economic growth and strengthen their fiscal positions as he
travels to  Washington  for a Group of 20 nations meeting.  “Key advanced economies are still weak and there remains a
clear threat posed by the European sovereign-debt crisis,” Swan
said in a statement today. “Important reforms are still needed
to minimize the risk of contagion from instability in Europe.”  Swan said G-20 finance ministers will seek to build on
pledges made last year to ensure the International Monetary Fund
“has the resources necessary to help insulate the global
economy from the ongoing problems in Europe.” He will also
attend meetings of the World Bank and IMF.  The Washington-based IMF is seeking to boost its lending
capacity from about $380 billion to shield the global economy
against any deepening of  Europe ’s debt turmoil. Japan, the
world’s third-largest economy, said this week it will provide
$60 billion to the IMF, the largest donor yet outside of Europe.
Swan didn’t indicate Australia’s position in his statement.  The treasurer said he will be reporting to his
international colleagues that the Australian budget will return
to surplus in the fiscal year beginning July 1.  Swan reiterated Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s statement
yesterday that a return to surplus will help give the Reserve
Bank of Australia flexibility to cut its benchmark interest rate
further if it considers that necessary. The country’s key rate
is the highest among major developed nations at 4.25 percent.  A balanced budget will “send a clear message about
 Australia ’s economic strength at a time of global uncertainty,”
Swan said.  The treasurer, named in September as Euromoney magazine’s
finance minister of the year, said he will meet with IMF
Managing Director Christine Lagarde, outgoing World Bank
President  Robert Zoellick  and U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
Bernanke  during the visit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  