-- Swaps-Dealer Defined, Commodity Options, Ads: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-19T12:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/swaps-dealer-defined-commodity-options-fund-ads-compliance.html
U.S. regulators yesterday defined
which companies will face new oversight in the $708 trillion
global swaps market, where largely unregulated trades helped
fuel the 2008 financial crisis.  A rule approved on a 4-1 vote by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission will initially define a regulated dealer as
one that conducts swaps with a notional value of at least $8
billion in a 12-month period. The Securities and Exchange
Commission approved a similar rule by a unanimous vote.
Republican  Scott O’Malia  was the CFTC’s lone dissenting vote.  Companies defined as swap dealers will ultimately be
subject to the highest capital and collateral requirements for
market participants.  The $8 billion threshold will fall to $3 billion within
five years unless new market data persuade regulators to use a
different level. While a lower threshold will capture more
dealers, it still exceeds the $100 million level that was
initially proposed.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said he was confident the rule
would impose new requirements on the dominant players in the
swaps market even though the threshold is higher than initially
proposed.  The SEC and CFTC met separately yesterday to weigh parallel
versions of the rule. The rule was mandated by the Dodd-Frank
Act of 2010 to govern clearing, trading, capital, collateral and
internal compliance standards, as well as swap dealers’
relationships with clients including pension funds and cities.
Dodd-Frank calls for most swaps to be guaranteed by central
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  A CFTC staff member who briefed reporters April 17 didn’t
provide details on how many companies would be subject to the
heightened oversight.  The rule also defines a smaller group of “major swap
participants” that hold large positions in categories such as
currency exchange rates or commodity swaps. One threshold for
“substantial position” would be daily uncollateralized
exposure of $1 billion in any major swaps category except for
rate swaps, where $3 billion will be the mark.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Votes to Treat Commodity Options the Same as Other Swaps  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission adopted rules
yesterday that will treat commodity options the same as all
other swaps.  In a 5-0 vote, the five-member commission removed
regulations that for more than a decade have treated
agricultural swaps and commodity options differently than other
transactions in the swaps market. Those products will now be
subject to the same rules as  interest rate , credit and other
types of swaps.  The rule takes effect 60 days after it is published in the
Federal Register.  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are
implementing rules for the swaps market after unregulated trades
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Banks Urged by FSB to Probe Mortgage Insurance’s Impact on Risk  Banks should carry out “prudent and independent”
assessments of the protection offered by mortgage insurance
policies to avoid making irresponsible loans, the Financial
Stability Board said yesterday in a statement on its website.  Mortgage insurance, which gives holders protection if they
can’t make payments on their home loans, “should not be
considered as an alternative” to due diligence by a bank into
whether borrowers will be able to meet their obligations, the
FSB said. Mortgage insurers should also be subject to oversight
by regulators, it said.  The FSB, which brings together financial ministry
officials, central bankers, and regulators from the Group of 20
nations, made the recommendation as part of a set of guidelines
on responsible mortgage lending.  While national regulators are free to “consider imposing”
limits on the size of mortgage a bank can offer in relation to
the value of the property, such curbs may not be needed if banks
follow “sufficiently prudent” lending policies, the FSB said.  Colleges Could Be Banned From Using U.S. Tax Money for Ads  U.S. colleges would be barred from spending federal
taxpayer money on advertising, marketing and recruiting under a
Senate bill targeting for-profit institutions.  The 15 largest for-profit colleges, including  Apollo Group
Inc. (APOL) ’s  University of Phoenix , spent a combined $3.7 billion, or
23 percent of their fiscal 2009 budgets, on advertising,
marketing and recruiting, according to a summary of the bill
proposed yesterday by senate Democrats. Nonprofit colleges spend
an average of half a percent of revenue on marketing, the
lawmakers said.  Congress, the U.S. Justice Department and state attorneys
general are scrutinizing the marketing practices of for-profit
colleges, which have higher student-loan default rates than
traditional institutions and can rely on federal financial aid
for as much as 90 percent of their revenue.  For-profit colleges cater to working adults and other non-
traditional students who can’t be reached through a high school
guidance counselor, said Steve Gunderson, president of the
Washington-based Association of Private Sector Colleges and
Universities, which represents in the industry.  The bill “is clearly another attempt by some policy makers
to try and put private-sector colleges and universities out of
business,” Gunderson said in a statement. “It also reflects a
fundamental misunderstanding of the students we serve and the
public service we provide.”  The legislation is unlikely to pass this year because of
the approaching presidential election season.  For more, click here.  Fannie Mae Fix By Treasury Said to Preserve U.S. Mortgage Role  U.S. Treasury officials are leaning toward recommending
that  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  be replaced with a government
safety net for the mortgage finance system and continued federal
backing for loans to lower-income homebuyers, according to three
people briefed on the discussions.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said in recent
public appearances that an agency recommendation for winding
down the two taxpayer-owned mortgage companies could be released
in coming weeks. It hasn’t yet been determined whether the plan,
likely to be a broad outline rather than a detailed prescription
for legislation, will be released that soon, the people said.  In timing its proposal, Treasury must balance political and
economic realities. Presidential campaign politics and deep
divisions between Democrats and Republicans in Congress make it
unlikely that mortgage-finance reform will be enacted this year.
At the same time, the lack of a clear blueprint is contributing
to continued weakness in the housing market, said Karen Dynan, a
former economist with the  Federal Reserve Board of Governors .  The two companies, which veered toward bankruptcy when the
housing market collapsed in 2008, were seized by regulators and
have drawn almost $190 billion in taxpayer aid. The debate over
the companies’ future has been complicated by their growing
prominence in the housing market during the recession. That has
prompted the real estate industry to lobby Congress to move
slowly on reducing the government’s role.  Meanwhile, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the
regulator of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , is proceeding with its
own plans for shrinking their footprint, and recommends the
enterprises share the risk on some of their portfolio through
the use of private capital, mortgage insurance and other means.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  U.K. FSA Seeks Faster Asset Return in Wake of MF Global Collapse  Hector Sants, the U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority 
chief, said the agency would seek ways to ensure clients of
failed investment firms get their assets back faster in the wake
of the failure of MF Global Holdings Ltd.  Sants said made the statement in a letter  Andrew Tyrie , a
Conservative lawmaker, dated March 19. The letter is posted on
the U.K. parliament’s  website .  The FSA is working on rules to ensure “the information and
records required by an insolvency practitioner to return a
client’s assets is readily available” in the letter.  About $1 billion of  MF Global (MFGLQ) ’s U.K. client money remains
locked away in other financial institutions after the
brokerage’s collapse, administrators at KPMG LLP said last
month. The figures relate to unsegregated client accounts, which
MF Global mixed with its own funds and have been difficult for
the administrators to recover.  SMBC Nikko May Be Excluded From Japan Air IPO Underwriters  Japan Airlines Co., the carrier planning an initial public
offering this year, may exclude  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  as a
lead underwriter for the sale after regulators said the
brokerage breached domestic securities law.  “We are now carefully considering how to respond,” Ryu
Shimizu, a spokesman for state-backed  Enterprise Turnaround
Initiative Corp. , said when asked by telephone today if SMBC
Nikko would be disqualified following a  Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission  recommendation that the company be
penalized. He declined to comment further.  ETIC, the fund holding about 97 percent of Japan Air’s
voting rights after a government bailout, has said it can
disqualify underwriters from the sale of Japan Air stock as a
matter of policy. SMBC Nikko, a unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316) , was found to have illegally solicited
investors to buy shares prior to the announcement of a client’s
public offering in 2010, the SESC said on April 13.  Kiyoo Kuniyoshi, a Tokyo-based spokesman for SMBC Nikko,
declined to comment. Taro Namba, a spokesman for Japan Airlines,
deferred questions about the offering to ETIC.  The turnaround corporation, which must sell its stake in
Japan Air by January 2013, is seeking an IPO for the airline,
two people familiar with the matter said in January. The
carrier, delisted from the  Tokyo Stock Exchange  in 2010, emerged
from bankruptcy in March 2011.  Japanese regulators have increased scrutiny of trading
surrounding public equity offerings.  For more, click here.  Moody’s Fired by Danish Banks as Investors Support Rebellion  Denmark’s  biggest banks  are firing Moody’s Investors
Service as they win assurances from some of the country’s
biggest investors that the opinions of ratings companies hold
limited value.  Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage lender and
Europe’s largest issuer of covered bonds backed by home loans,
terminated its contract with Moody’s on April 13, citing its
“volatile” views.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s mortgage unit Realkredit
Danmark A/S, the country’s second-largest home-loan provider,
dropped Moody’s in June.  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s second-
biggest listed bank, is looking into ending its dealings with
Moody’s, according to Steen Nygaard, its head of treasury, who
said Moody’s “crossed the line for fairness.”  Moody’s in June criticized Denmark’s $470 billion mortgage-
bond industry, the world’s third largest after the U.S. and
Germany, for failing to curb refinancing risks fueled by a
mismatch in funding and lending maturities. Since then,
 Nykredit’s benchmark index  of Denmark’s most-traded mortgage
bonds has risen 6.3 percent to a record, signaling investors are
disregarding the warnings.  “Moody’s does not comment on its commercial
relationships,” spokeswoman Jessica Sibado said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Moody’s considers Denmark as having one
of the strongest covered bond frameworks in Europe. However,
since 2009, Danish covered bonds have been impacted by the
weakening issuer credit strength” and “increasing refinancing
risks,” she said.  For more, click here.  Courts  FSA Must Destroy E-Mails Used in Keydata Probe, Judge Rules  The Financial Services Authority must destroy privileged
attorney-client e-mails it obtained during its investigation
into collapsed investment firm Keydata Investment Services Ltd.,
a London judge said.  The privileged documents must be deleted or destroyed, and
all references to them redacted, Judge Ian Burnett said
yesterday. Keydata and its founder Stewart Ford won a ruling in
October that the regulator shouldn’t have used the e-mails.  The judge refused requests by Ford’s lawyers to have the
FSA’s 2010 warning notice thrown out, and for any investigator
who had seen the protected e-mails to be removed from the
agency’s probe.  The FSA had to suspend its four-year investigation into
Keydata because of a judicial review into its conduct. Keydata
administered 2.8 billion pounds ($4.49 billion) of assets when
the FSA asked a court to place it into administration in 2009.  The regulator was examining whether Keydata targeted
investors with potentially misleading advertisements, and
potential tax irregularities.  Ford’s lawyer Harvey Knight said in an e-mailed statement
that he is pleased the court recognized the client’s “right to
legal privilege.” The decision not to quash the warning notice,
or remove investigators who had seen the e-mails, may be
appealed, he said.  FSA spokeswoman Cerris Tavinor said: “Our work in this
area remains a priority for us particularly given the public
interest in the Keydata matter.”  Tomra Loses EU Court Challenge to 24-Million-Euro Antitrust Fine  Tomra Systems ASA (TOM) , a Norwegian maker of machines that
collect cans and bottles for recycling, lost a court challenge
to a 24-million-euro ($31.5 million) antitrust fine by European
Union regulators for stifling competition.  The EU’s Court of Justice, in a binding decision, upheld
the fine imposed by the European Commission in 2006.  Tomra’s practice of offering rebates and discounts to
retailers restricted the market for competitors, the regulator
said in 2006. Tomra argued the commission used “misleading”
evidence in deciding to levy such a heavy fine in its appeals to
the EU General Court in 2010 and again in this case before the
Court of Justice.  The case is  C-549/10 P  Tomra Systems and Others v
Commission.  Ex-Goldman Sachs Employee Spared Prison for Aiding Insider Probe  A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  employee who said he gave
away “thousands” of dollars he received from an insider-
trading scheme to  New York ’s homeless was sentenced to probation
instead of prison.  Gautham Shankar, 38, of  New Canaan , Connecticut, who also
worked as a trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC, was ordered
yesterday by U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in New York to
serve three years of probation, including the first six months
confined to his home.  Shankar, who faced as long as 37 months in prison,
collected less than $450,000 in the scheme, his lawyer said. The
judge also fined Shankar $25,000 and directed him to forfeit
$448,437. He was one of more than 20 people charged by the U.S.
in overlapping insider trading cases involving Galleon Group LLC
founder  Raj Rajaratnam .  Shankar pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud
in October 2009. He admitted that while working at Schottenfeld,
he passed and profited from illegal tips he obtained from Zvi
Goffer, a former Galleon Group employee, and Thomas Hardin, a
former analyst at Lanexa Global Management LP.  Shankar assisted prosecutors for more than a year before
the charges were filed, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish told
Sullivan yesterday.  Shankar declined to comment after court.  The case is U.S. v. Shankar, 09-cr-996, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Gould Says JOBS Act to Lift Ban on Hedge Fund Ads  Jay Gould, a partner at  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman 
LLP, talked about the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act and
the outlook for advertising by the hedge fund industry. The JOBS
Act will lift a ban on advertising by hedge funds.  He spoke with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Money Moves.” Bloomberg’s Peter Cook also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Tangent Capital’s Rice Discusses ‘JOBS’ Act  Bob Rice, managing partner at Tangent Capital Partners LLC,
discusses the law formally known as the “Jump Start Our
Business Startups” Act, and its impact on initial public
offerings.  Rice talks with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and Courtney
Donohoe on Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  U.K. SFO Chief Executive Quits as Director Prepares to Leave  Phillippa Williamson, the chief executive officer of the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office, is resigning from the agency as
Director Richard Alderman prepares to step down this week.  Alderman, 59, is leaving the SFO on April 20 after four
years there. Williamson joined Alderman at the SFO in 2008 from
the Revenue and Customs office, where they both previously
worked. David Green, a barrister, will take over as the head of
the SFO next week as it faces a dwindling budget and government
in-fighting over the future of Britain’s economic crime
prosecutors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 