-- Syrian Repression Forces Almost 160,000 to Flee, Group Says
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-04-19T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/syrian-repression-forces-almost-160-000-to-flee-group-says.html
President Bashar al-Assad’s
crackdown on protesters seeking political change forced 156,000
people to flee their homes last year, the Norwegian Refugee
Council’s Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre said.  The conflict is “the most profound social upheaval in
 Syria  since the instability of the 1960s” that subsequently
brought the Assad family to power, according to a report today
from the Geneva-based organization that has been tracking
displacements worldwide since 1998. The estimate includes only
those Syrians who have remained within their homeland.  It did not estimate how many people have been forced to
leave their homes this year, during which Syrian forces have
besieged cities including Homs and Idlib. Neighboring countries
say many more Syrians have sought shelter abroad. Jordan’s
Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh said April 13 that there are about
100,000 Syrian refugees in his country. His Turkish counterpart,
 Ahmet Davutoglu , said at the same event that more than 25,000
Syrians are in refugee camps there.  Syria’s government has responded to opposition
demonstrations that started peacefully in March 2011 with
detentions and attacks on the opposition’s cities. More than
9,000 people have died and 1 million people are in need of
immediate humanitarian aid because of the conflict, according to
the  United Nations .  Kofi Annan , the UN and Arab League’s special envoy to
Syria, brokered a peace plan to halt the violence last month. A
cease-fire went into effect April 12, easing the conflict
without ending the violence.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called on the  Security
Council , where Russia and  China  twice vetoed measures against
Assad, to send as many as 300 unarmed observers to monitor the
cease-fire between government forces and armed opposition
groups. The observers should be “a nimble presence” and visit
as many as 10 locations over “a period of weeks,” according to
a report he sent to the council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  