-- Syria Turmoil’s Spread Risks Spilling Across Borders
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-19T18:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/syria-turmoil-s-spread-risks-spilling-across-borders.html
The spread of  Syria ’s turmoil and
uncertainties over its chemical and biological weapons pose
escalating risks, President  Barack Obama ’s top military adviser
said even as he cautioned against immediate U.S. involvement.  “Spillover into neighboring countries is an increasing
concern,” Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, told the House Armed Services Committee in
Washington today. He cited the flow of refugees and the chance
extremists may try to capitalize on the chaos.  The U.S. has “solid military relationships with every
country on Syria’s border,” Dempsey said. The U.S. must be
“especially alert to the fate of Syria’s chemical and
biological weapons. They need to stay exactly where they are.”  Dempsey’s appraisal highlighted the dangers as the U.S. and
allies in  Europe  and the Middle East look for solutions through
diplomacy and sanctions while demanding that President Bashar al-Assad step down. The  United Nations  estimates more than 9,000
people have been killed in more than a year of fighting as
Assad’s forces cracked down on opposition demonstrations and
rebels formed military units to fight back.  A cease-fire that went into effect on April 12 hasn’t ended
the bloodshed. Syria and the UN today reached agreement on how
cease-fire monitors would carry out their duties, the UN said.
Security forces killed at least 46 people yesterday, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mail.  Syria’s Economy  Syria’s economy has been hit hard by three U.S. executive
orders targeting senior leaders, commerce and the central bank
of Syria, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said, testifying
alongside Dempsey. The executive orders have contributed to 30
percent of the decline in the regime’s revenue, and the oil
embargo by the U.S. and European Union has created further
losses, he said.  “The  exchange rate  has depreciated by more than 50
percent,” Panetta told the committee. “And their GDP has been
in a serious decline, approaching almost minus 8 percent in 2011
and more now.”  Panetta and Dempsey faced little pressure from the
committee to take military action, unlike a Senate hearing last
month, when Arizona Senator  John McCain , the top Republican on
the Armed Services panel, advocated more U.S. involvement.  While humanitarian concerns loom and the temptation is
great to unseat Assad forcibly in a potential blow to his ally
 Iran , the risks are too great, House committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon  said today.  ‘Robust Air Defenses’  “There is much we do not know about the opposition,” said
McKeon, a California Republican. “Syria also maintains robust
air defenses that limit military options. Therefore, I’m not
recommending U.S. military intervention, particularly in light
of our grave budget situation, unless the national security
threat was clear and present.”  Dempsey and Panetta reiterated the caution against U.S.
military involvement that they voiced last month before the
Senate committee.  The U.S. would need “a clear legal basis” and broad
regional and international support to act militarily in the
conflict, Panetta said today in written remarks. He cited the UN
resolution that authorized action in  Libya  last year.  “From every angle, the situation in Syria is enormously
complex,” Panetta said. “Recent days are testing whether the
Assad regime will live up to all of its responsibilities to the
Syrian people and to the international community.”  Conditions for Action  Panetta said he and Dempsey are “unified with regards to
not proceeding with any military action unless there’s clear
objective, unless we know what it’s going to take to achieve
that objective, how long is it going to take, and ultimately do
we have the legal authority to accomplish what we’re being asked
to accomplish.”  On Syria’s chemical and biological weapons, the U.S. is
sharing information with allies in the region, Dempsey said.  “We feel like we have a good understanding of the current
disposition of Syria’s chemical and biological weapons,” he
said.  The defense officials said the U.S. is making contingency
plans, including for a humanitarian corridor, in the event Obama
opts for American military involvement. They said the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s operation in Libya last year
would serve as a template.  Keeping Syria Intact  “The bottom line is that anything that takes the Assad
regime down is a step in the right direction,” Panetta said.
“What the international community has to assure is that, if
that happens, it happens in the context of legitimate reforms
that keep that country together and that serve the Syrian
people.”  Dempsey said people in the region are increasingly restive
for greater economic and political rights, especially as they
see successful revolts around them. Ultimately, that will
provide more stability as authoritarian regimes yield to more
open systems, he said.  “Getting from here to there is going to be a wild ride,”
Dempsey said. “So I think we’re in for 10 or 15 years of
instability in a region that has already been characterized by
instability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  