-- U.K. Joins Spain in Drought as Crop Emerge After Winter
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-19T13:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/u-k-joins-spain-in-worst-drought-for-decades-as-crops-emerge.html
U.K. farmers, Europe’s third-
largest wheat producers, are facing the worst drought in two
decades, joining Spanish growers contending with the driest
conditions since 1947 as crops emerge from winter dormancy.  Parts of the U.K. had the least rain since 1992 in the six
months through March, the U.K. national weather service said.
 Spain  had its driest December-to-February period in 65 years,
the  Agriculture Ministry  estimates. The west part of France, the
region’s top wheat grower, had as little as 42 percent of normal
rain this year, European Union data show. There is also lower-
than-average precipitation in Germany, where a February cold
snap damaged crops, farm lobby Deutscher Bauernverband said.  “The next 10 weeks are going to be the key driving period
for yields,” said Jack Watts, a senior analyst at the Home-
Grown Cereals Authority, an industry funded crop researcher in
Kenilworth, England. “There’s still a long way to go.”  Weather threats to European crops come at a time when the
International Grains Council is forecasting record global
cereals production. Wheat prices tumbled 24 percent and corn 20
percent in the past year on mounting confidence that farmers are
catching up with demand. World  food  prices are now 9.3 percent
below the record in February 2011, United Nations data show.  Milling-wheat traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris, a European
benchmark, climbed 3.6 percent this year as futures on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade declined 4.3 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities retreated 2.7
percent while the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 8.8 percent.  Trading Commission  Money managers have been betting on declining wheat prices
since mid-September, according to data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. They were the most  bearish  in six
weeks as of April 10, the data show.  Farmers across the 27-nation EU will plant a
total of 22.7 million hectares (56.1 million acres) of soft
wheat this season, 2.6 percent less than estimated in January,
according to Paris-based Union InVivo, the largest French wheat
exporter. Soft wheat is used for bread, cookies and cakes. Crops
“emerged under drought conditions in several areas,” said
Christopher Narayanan, the head of agricultural commodities
research at  Societe Generale  in  New York .  Wheat surged 47 percent in 2010 as Russia and  Ukraine 
restricted exports after drought decimated their crops. Prices
tumbled 18 percent last year after those curbs were lifted and
the global harvest expanded to a record. The London-based IGC
estimates world wheat output at 681 million metric tons this
year, 2.2 percent less than the record in 2011. All cereals
output will be a record 1.876 billion tons for 2012-13, it said.  Environment Agency  Southeast and south-central  England , the U.K.’s biggest
 wheat -growing areas, had about 10.9 inches of rain on average in
the past six months, the driest for the period since 1992, said
Sarah Holland, a spokeswoman for the  Met Office , the U.K.’s
national weather service. Dry weather may persist through the
end of December, the Environment Agency said April 16.  Spain’s average rainfall in the three months ended in
February was 2.4 inches, about 30 percent below normal, the
Agriculture Ministry estimates. It is Europe’s third-largest
barley producer and sixth-biggest grower of corn and wheat,
according to Eurostat, the EU’s statistics office. Spain’s soft-
wheat harvest will plunge 23 percent this year as durum-wheat
output falls 20 percent, the ministry said April 17. Durum is
used to make pasta.  Drought damage is extending beyond  Europe , with parched
fields across  South America  driving oilseed prices higher.
Soybeans traded in Chicago rose 18 percent this year, rapeseed
futures gained 11 percent in Paris and  palm oil  advanced 9.5
percent in  Kuala Lumpur . Oil World, the Hamburg-based oilseed
research company, has cut its estimate for South America’s
soybean crop at least seven times since December.  Mexico’s Drought  The worst drought in seven decades in  Mexico  has caused
more than 16 billion pesos ($1.2 billion) in agricultural
losses, led by $710 million for corn, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s  Foreign Agricultural Service  said in a March 30
report. Its corn production for the 2011-12 season that started
in October will drop 11 percent, it said.  France  had an average of 28 percent less rain than normal
since the start of September, the Agriculture Ministry said
April 4. About 89 percent of the country’s water table was
below-normal on April 1, data from government water information
service Eaufrance shows. Soil moisture levels were at record
lows this month from the Pays de la Loire in the west to Alsace
in the northeast, a report from Meteo France showed.  German Freeze  About 660,000 hectares of winter crops, mostly wheat and
barley, were damaged in Germany by freezing temperatures in
February, Deutscher Bauernverband reported April 17. Some
farmers are tearing up and replanting as much as 70 percent of
their fields, and there is concern that dry growing conditions
may cause further damage, the Berlin-based lobby group said.  The country’s winter soft-wheat harvest will probably be
6.8 percent smaller than last year because of the frost damage,
farm organization Deutscher Raiffeisenverband e.V. said April
18.  Germany  is Europe’s second-biggest wheat producer.  “I don’t think you need to worry too much about the U.K.
just yet, but southwest Europe is bad,” Celine Sicard, an
analyst at Union InVivo, said by phone April 16. “The further
south you go, the worse it gets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 