-- U.K. Stocks Close Little Changed; Hargreaves Shares Climb
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-04-19T15:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/u-k-stocks-advance-before-spanish-french-debt-auctions.html
U.K. stocks  closed little changed
as a rally in Hargreaves Lansdown Plc and  Rolls-Royce Holdings
Plc (RR/)  offset worse-than-expected U.S. economic reports.  Hargreaves, Britain’s largest retail broker, jumped 5.6
percent after posting an 11 percent increase in assets under
management. Rolls-Royce, the world’s second-biggest aircraft-
engine maker, rose to its highest since at least 1988.  Cable &
Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  tumbled 8.2 percent after  India ’s Tata
Communications Ltd. decided against making an offer for the U.K.
network operator.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost less than 0.1 percent to 5,744.55
in  London . The benchmark gauge has still  lost 3.7 percent from
its 2012  high on March 16 amid mounting concern that euro-area
policy makers have yet to contain the sovereign-debt crisis. The
 FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  was little changed today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index dropped 0.4 percent.  “Economic data does look like it is showing some
stabilization but it is not the case around the world,” said
Samantha Fitzpatrick, senior investment manager at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc in Glasgow. “Expectations are now getting
higher, and that just means that there is room for further
disappointments down the line. We are still very much focused on
protecting our clients’ capital rather than trying to chase
markets as they rise up.”  U.S. Jobless Claims  A U.S. Labor Department report showed  jobless claims  fell
to 386,000 in the week ended April 14 from a revised 388,000 the
prior period. The  median forecast  of 47 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a drop to 370,000.  A separate report show sales of  previously owned houses 
unexpectedly fell in March. Purchases dropped 2.6 percent to a
4.48 million annual rate from 4.6 million in February. missing
the average forecast of an increase to 4.61 million.  Spain  and France raised 10.54 billion euros ($13.85
billion) in debt in this morning’s auctions, meeting their
maximum plans. The FTSE 100 pared earlier gains, in line with
retreats elsewhere in  Europe , as bond yields in France, Italy
and Spain jumped.  A report this week showed U.K. inflation unexpectedly
accelerated for the first time in six months in March, spurring
speculation the  Bank of England  will pause its stimulus program
next month.  “Today’s good bond auctions from both Spain and France
have somehow helped markets stop yesterday’s bleeding,” said
Stephane Ekolo, London-based chief European strategist at Market
Securities. “But we need more good news in order to see markets
participants take more risk.”  Hargreaves Assets  Hargreaves Lansdown (HL/)  climbed 5.6 percent to 508.5 pence, the
most since November. The company said its assets under
management rose 2.6 billion pounds ($4.2 billion) to 26 billion
pounds in the three months to March 31. Fiscal third-quarter
revenue increased 17 percent from a year earlier to 62.1 million
pounds amid fund inflows and recovering markets.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc rose 3.8 percent to 844 pence, its
highest price since at least September 1988. Saab AB, a Swedish
maker of equipment for the defense industry, reported first-
quarter earnings that beat estimates.  Morgan Stanley today reiterated its outperform, or buy,
recommendation on Rolls-Royce before the world’s second-largest
aircraft-engine maker reports results on May 4.  IMI Target Price  IMI Plc (IMI)  advanced 1.5 percent to 974 pence. The stock was
raised to buy from hold at Jefferies. Analyst Andrew Douglas
wrote in a report that the shares may climb to 1,150 pence in
the next 12 months.  “IMI is a curate’s egg of a stock in some respects,”
Douglas wrote. “It seldom fires on all cylinders and is by no
means a high growth business.” However, returns “are high and
the shares are good value.”  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  rose 0.9 percent to 1,454 pence. The
drugmaker offered about $2.59 billion to buy  Human Genome 
Sciences Inc., its U.S. partner on the lupus treatment Benlysta.
Human Genome rejected the bid.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide tumbled 8.2 percent to 34 pence.
Tata Communications said yesterday it failed to agree on a price
so it won’t bid for the U.K. network operator.  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest publicly traded hedge
fund manager, dropped 6.2 percent to 93.4 pence, the lowest
since November 2000. The stock fell 7.4 percent yesterday as
assets at the firm’s flagship AHL Diversified fund slipped last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  