-- U.K. Police Arrest Three in News Corp. Bribery Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-04-19T11:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/u-k-police-arrest-three-in-news-corp-bribery-probe.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. bribery scandal
led to three more arrests today, including a royal editor at its
Sun tabloid and an ex-member of the armed forces, as prosecutors
consider the first criminal charges in the case.  The arrests were made during early morning raids on two
homes in Kent and Lancashire, both in  England , according to a
statement from the  Metropolitan Police Service  in London. The
three people, whom the police didn’t identify, are still in
custody and their homes are being searched.  Duncan Larcombe, 36, who writes about  Prince William , his
wife  Kate Middleton , now the Duchess of Cambridge, and her
sister Pippa for the Sun, Britain’s best-selling daily paper,
was one of those detained today, according to a person familiar
with the matter. He was arrested at his home in Kent, said the
person, who couldn’t be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the matter.  The arrests come about a week before News Corp. Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch  and his son James, its deputy chief operating
officer, are scheduled to testify at an ethics inquiry triggered
by a related phone-hacking scandal at the News of the World
tabloid. Britain’s Crown Prosecution Service said yesterday it’s
considering the first new criminal charges in the case after the
Met, running parallel probes of hacking and bribery, turned over
files outlining potential claims against as many as four
journalists, a police officer and six members of the public.  Lancashire Arrests  The man in Kent was detained on suspicion of conspiracy to
corrupt and cause misconduct in a public office, the Met said.
Police also arrested a 42-year-old man who was in the military
and a 38-year-old woman at their home in Lancashire, for alleged
misconduct in a public office and aiding and abetting.  The phone-hacking scandal emerged in 2006 with the arrest
of the News of the World’s royal reporter  Clive Goodman  and the
tabloid’s private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who both pleaded
guilty and were jailed the next year. While News International
claimed the practice was contained, civil lawsuits by victims
revealed phone hacking was far more widespread, triggering a new
police probe last year and the closing of the paper.  Police have now made 45 arrests in probes of phone hacking,
computer hacking and bribery by journalists at News Corp.’s U.K.
titles. The bribery probe, called Operation Elveden, which has
the most arrests at 26, was triggered by alleged payments made
to police for stories.  Sun Employee  Mary Kearney, a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K. unit,
News International, confirmed a Sun employee was arrested and
declined to identify the person. Today’s arrests resulted from
information provided by New York-based News Corp.’s Management &
Standards Committee, the Met said.  Phone-hacking victims claim the company covered up the
extent of the practice and a judge in a civil lawsuit said
executives destroyed evidence to hide the scandal.  Rebekah Brooks, who edited the Sun before becoming chief
executive officer of News International, was arrested in July as
part of the probes into phone hacking and bribery. She was
arrested again last month with her husband Charlie, a former
race-horse trainer, on suspicion of conspiring to pervert the
course of justice.  The ethics inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, will begin
probing next week the U.K. media’s relationship with
politicians, to determine how it’s used and whether it’s in the
public’s interest. He previously examined the press’s
relationship with the public and police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  