-- U.S. March Leading Economic Indicators (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-19T14:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/u-s-march-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.3 percent in March to 95.7 (2004 = 100), following a
0.7 percent increase in February, and a 0.2 percent increase in
January.  Says Ataman Ozyildirim, economist at The Conference Board:
“The LEI increased for the sixth consecutive month, pointing to
a more positive outlook despite subdued consumer expectations
and weakness in manufacturing new orders. Moreover, the six-
month growth rate of the LEI continues to improve. The CEI, a
measure of current economic conditions, has also increased in
five of the last six months, with broad based gains in all
components.”  Says  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board:
“Despite relatively weak data on jobs, home building and output
in the past month or two, the indicators signal continued
economic momentum. We expect a gradual improvement in growth
past the summer months.”  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.2 percent in March to 104.2 (2004 = 100), following
a 0.2 percent increase in February, and a 0.1 percent increase
in January.  The Conference Board Lagging Economic Index increased 0.3
percent in March to 114.4 (2004 = 100), following a 0.1 percent
increase in February, and a 0.6 percent increase in January.  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component - primarily because they smooth out some of
the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance  Manufacturers’ new orders, consumer goods and materials  ISM Index of New Orders  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods excluding
aircraft orders  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Leading Credit Index  Interest rate spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal funds  Average consumer expectations for business conditions  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, May 17, 2012 at 10
A.M. ET  SOURCE: The Conference Board 