-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for April 19 to July 31 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-04-19T12:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-april-19-to-july-31-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The Drought Outlook for April 19 -
July 31, 2012 is based on short-, medium-, and long-range
forecasts, initial conditions, past years with similarly-
evolving weather and equatorial Pacific sea surface temperature
patterns, objective weather and climate model output, and
climatology. Since the release of the previous Drought Outlook
issued on April 5, 2012, warm and dry weather caused drought to
intensify and expand from the  Gulf Coast  and the south Atlantic
states northward along the Eastern Seaboard. Farther west,
conditions intensified to drought status in relatively small
sections of western  Kentucky , central  Illinois , and the central
High Plains. Overall, the current Drought Outlook is not
optimistic. Substantial improvement is expected only in southern
 Maine , the southern half of Florida with the onset if its rainy
season, and western North Dakota. Meanwhile, limited surface
moisture improvement is anticipated in the rest of the
Northeast,  North Carolina , the immediate southern Atlantic
coastline, northern Florida and adjacent  Alabama , and the upper
Midwest. In addition, late-period monsoonal rains could bring
limited improvement to southern sections of  New Mexico  and
 Arizona . Drought should persist where it exists elsewhere
(including  Hawaii ) and may expand to cover the central Rockies.
It should be noted that the Drought Outlook is hampered by
uncertainty regarding the track and intensity of a storm system
that could drop heavy precipitation on part or all of the
Atlantic Seaboard during April 21-23. This Drought Outlook
assumes, as a compromise, a storm of moderate strength that
affects the entire East Coast.  Discussion for the Seasonal Drought Outlook  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for May 2012
and the long lead forecast for May through July 2012, various
medium- and short-range forecasts and models such as the 6-10
day and 8-14 day forecasts, the most recent 384-hour GFS total
precipitation amounts, the soil moisture tools based on the
Constructed Analog on Soil (CAS) moisture, the Climate Forecast
System (CFS, versions 1 and 2), the four-month Palmer drought
termination and amelioration probabilities, climatology, and
initial conditions.  Along the eastern tier of states, the forecast is based
primarily on initial conditions and climatology. In the first
few days of the period, there is the potential for a strong
storm system to develop and spread heavy precipitation across
most of the areas currently affected by drought. A large part of
this area could receive a few inches of rain; however, there is
an unusually large degree of uncertainty regarding the evolution
of this system, and less-widespread light to moderate
precipitation could easily be the result. This outlook is based
on a compromise solution that assumes moderate precipitation
will fall on most of the region. The rest of April should be
drier than normal, and the longer-range outlooks for May - July
2012 favor neither drier- nor wetter-than-normal conditions.
Climatologically, rainfall increases markedly for the latter
half of the period across peninsular  Florida , and increases
slightly along other parts of the immediate Atlantic and Gulf
coastlines in the Southeast. Given all of the uncertainties, the
outlook boils down to two factors: First, improvement is
expected in southern Florida where there is a significant
climatological increase in rainfall and summer progresses;
Second, all other things being equal, drought has the best
chance of persisting where the intensity and duration are
currently the greatest and where there is no sharp
climatological increase in rainfall - along the Delmarva
Peninsula, and across  South Carolina ,  Georgia , and adjacent
areas away from the immediate Atlantic and Gulf Coasts. The
limited improvement expected elsewhere is a reflection of the
fact that extant drought is of lesser intensity and shorter
duration in these areas, and not the result of a wetter
forecast. Forecast confidence for the Southeast is moderate, and
for the Northeast is low.  In the upper Midwest and northern Plains, May - July is
climatologically one of the wettest times of the year. Typically
35 to 45 percent of annual precipitation falls during this 3-
month period from the eastern Dakotas eastward through Iowa and
 Minnesota , climbing to between 45 and 60 percent in the northern
Plains. Near- to above-normal precipitation is expected for the
remainder of April - especially along the northern tier - and
the sum of indicators does not lean significantly toward dryness
or wetness for May - July. However, both constructed analogs and
CFS output leans wet in the northern and eastern tiers of the
region, especially in western  North Dakota , and toward dryness
across western  Nebraska . All of this synthesizes into a forecast
for improvement in western North Dakota (where indicators and
climatology lean the wettest) and for persistence in western
Nebraska (where forecasts on all time scales lean drier) and
northeastern Minnesota (home of the region’s most entrenched
drought conditions). Limited improvement is anticipated in other
drought areas. It should be noted that since this is a wet time
of year for the region - particularly in the western reaches -
the lack of a convincing preponderance of indicators implies a
large range of possible outcomes by the end of the period.
Forecast confidence for the upper Midwest and northern Plains is
low.  For most of the southwestern and western part of the country,
drought is expected to persist in most locations and expand into
the central Rockies. This is a relatively wet time of year for
the southern High Plains and neutral to dry farther west,
especially in the desert Southwest and  California . Some
precipitation is expected in northern parts of the region in
late April, but thereafter the odds lean toward a drier-than-
normal May - July through the northern half of the area. There
is no discernible tilt of the odds farther south. Surface
moisture is depleted in late spring and summer across this
region due to the frequency of hot, dry, and windy weather. In
addition, mountain snowpack, the source of a lot of the region’s
moisture, is starting off below normal, and as a result summer
streamflows are expected to be abnormally low. In addition, May
- July is expected to be warmer than normal, potentially
enhancing the typical surface moisture depletion that always
happens during this time of year. The result is a forecast for
persisting drought that could expand into the central Rockies if
there is sufficiently enhanced seasonal surface moisture draw-
down. The only exception is in southern sections of New Mexico
and Arizona, where the onset of monsoonal rains in July should
bring some surface moisture back. Forecast confidence across the
southwestern and western parts of the nation is high.  Finally, Hawaii is transitioning into its drier time of the
year, and there is little chance for any lasting drought
improvement. Forecast confidence in Hawaii is high.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  