-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending April 17 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-04-19T12:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-april-17-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/./   The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Precipitation continued to
bypass most of the region during the past week. Over the last
90-days, 25 to 50 percent of normal precipitation (PNP) has
fallen from northern Virginia northward into coastal  Maine , with
deficits generally between 4 and 8 inches, with 8-12 inch
deficits in southern New England and Long Island. The early
green-up of trees and vegetation was slowed by the cooler air of
recent weeks, but yet many plants have begun to grow, extracting
moisture from the soil. According to the USGS, stream flow
levels were at near- or record lows for April 17 at 1-, 7-, 14-,
and 28-day averages in much of New England and the mid-Atlantic.
Most reservoirs, however, were near or at capacity due to the
early-season snow melt and thaw, and to wetter conditions in the
past (9-12 months ago). Based on considerations above, the AHPS
30-day precipitation deficit map, and local expertise, abnormal
dryness (D0) was expanded westward across west-central
 Pennsylvania , as far as Elk and Jefferson Counties.  The Southeast: Very little precipitation was reported over the
Southeast during the past week. AHPS 30-day precipitation
deficits of 3 to (as much as) 5 inches are indicated over much
of Georgia, Alabama, the  Florida Panhandle , and southern
Tennessee. One-category degradations were made in much of  South
Carolina , portions of eastern and southwestern Georgia, and both
east-central and far southern Florida. Rainfall deficits of 8-12
inches over the past 180-days are prevalent across Florida,
along with Keetch Byram Drought Index (KBDI) values in excess of
550-600 (700 in west-central parts of Florida). Abnormal dryness
(D0) was expanded across both northern and northeastern  Alabama .
An exception to the widespread dryness was an area of moderate
to heavy showers and storms (1.5-2.0 inches) along the southeast
coast of Florida during the period.  Midwest: Substantial rains (generally 0.5 to 2 inches, locally
up to 3 inches) fell across a large portion of the drought area
across the upper Midwest/upper Mississippi Valley region during
the past week. One-category improvements were made across
northern Minnesota (D1 conditions giving way to D0). Minor
changes in the direction of improvement were also made in
western and southeastern  Iowa .  A severe weather outbreak last
weekend was accompanied by strong, damaging straight-line winds,
severe hail, and tornadoes, primarily concentrated across
southern Iowa. Temperatures across the region during the past 7-
days averaged 2 to 6 degrees above-normal, with the warmest
anomalies over Wisconsin. According to the USDA, percent topsoil
moisture rated short-very short compared to the 5-year mean was:
Illinois (27 current / 7 for 5-yr mean), Minnesota (48/11), and
Iowa (27/6). Slight improvements were made to the drought
depiction in western Illinois due to recent rains, but abnormal
dryness (D0) was expanded northward into northern Illinois amid
rainfall deficits over the past 90 days (AHPS) of 1-4 inches and
local reports of dusty fields. One-category downgrades have also
been made in western and central sections of  Kentucky .  Northern and Central Plains: Precipitation amounts varied widely
across the region, with amounts generally up to a half-inch
observed over the High Plains, and up to 3.5 inches over the
lower Plains. Recent heavy rains (up to 3 inches) in
southeastern North Dakota justified removal of lingering D0
conditions, with 1-category improvements made over much of
eastern  South Dakota . In contrast, an expansion of moderate
drought (D1) conditions was made in southwestern North Dakota,
due to persistent dryness especially over the past 6-months.
Moderate drought conditions were also expanded across western
portions of Nebraska.  Southern Plains: Moderate to heavy showers and thunderstorms (1-
4 inches, locally heavier) fell across portions of northern and
central  Oklahoma  and southeastern Kansas, related in part to a
severe weather outbreak which also affected portions of the
Mississippi Valley during the past weekend. In northeast
Oklahoma, Birch Lake is now slightly into its Flood Pool, while
Skiatook Lake has risen by two feet (though capacity is still
near 78 percent). The short-term wetness likely outweighs the
long-term reservoir deficit in this case, and therefore the
D0(L) area in Osage County in northeastern Oklahoma was
eliminated. Slight improvements were made in western Oklahoma,
though D2 conditions were maintained in extreme southwest parts
of the state which are still contending with serious water
supply and soil moisture issues. Beneficial wetness in western
and southern sections of  Texas  warranted a number of slight
alterations to the drought depiction in those areas.  The West: In  Colorado , D1 and D2 conditions were expanded across
north-central parts of the state, and a small area of severe
drought (D2) was added to Crowley County in the southeast. In
contrast, the area of D2 over extreme southeastern Colorado was
trimmed back, indicating slight improvement. Severe drought was
also expanded from western Colorado into eastern  Utah , and from
eastern  Nevada  into western Utah. Little to no precipitation has
fallen over these portions of Utah. During the past 30 and 60-
days, PNP values range from 10-25 percent of normal. Central
Utah is faring much better, having received 0.5-3.0 inches of
precipitation in the past 30 days. In  California , beneficial
late-season precipitation has resulted in a general 1-category
improvement across the northern half of the state, and western
sections of the southern half of California. Precipitation
amounts of 1-4 inches (locally heavier) in the past week have
been observed over most of the state. Dryness and drought has
been increasing in coverage and intensity across portions of the
Southwest. As a result, moderate drought (D1) was expanded
across northeastern  Arizona  into northwestern New Mexico, while
severe drought (D2) was expanded from northeastern Arizona to
the New Mexico border.  Hawaii , Alaska and Puerto Rico: In Hawaii, some windward
locations on Maui, the Big Island, Oahu, and southern Kauai
received 1-2 inches of rain, with most other locations reporting
less than a half-inch of rain. Fortunately, most of the islands
(except the Big Island) received surplus March rainfall, easing
any further deterioration there. On the Big Island, however,
many northern and leeward locations have reported less than 25
percent of normal rainfall since January 1. Kona coffee growers
indicated that leaves are starting to shrivel on their trees and
berries are starting to fall. The main hope for the Kona coffee
belt is that it is the only area in the state with a summer
rainfall maximum. No changes to the drought depiction for Hawaii
were deemed necessary this week. There were no drought
conditions noted in Puerto Rico and Alaska.  Looking Ahead: Over the next five days (April 19-23), a frontal
system is expected to move across the central and eastern US,
with an area of low pressure forming along the southern portion
of the front over the central Gulf Coast. As the low pressure
center tracks northeastward into the Carolinas and  Virginia , it
is forecast to intensify. As a result, heavy rain (2.0 to 3.5
inches) is expected to significantly mitigate the current
drought situation over the East Coast states. To the northwest,
across the Great Lakes and Midwest, moderate to heavy rain (1.5
to 2.0 inches) will help alleviate some of the dryness/drought
over the Midwest and upper Great Lakes region. Frontal activity
is also forecast for the West Coast, though most of the
associated precipitation is likely to fall across the coastal
portions of the Pacific Northwest, which are currently not
experiencing drought problems.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (April 24-28) has favorable odds of
above-normal precipitation across much of the northern border
states, and across western sections of southern California.
Chances for subnormal precipitation are likely for most other
areas of the lower 48 states. Wetter than normal conditions are
likely for most of mainland Alaska, with near-normal
precipitation amounts expected elsewhere. Temperatures are
forecast to be above-normal for most areas in-between the
Intermountain West and the Appalachians, as well as for eastern
Alaska. Odds favor below-normal temperatures across the West
Coast, peninsular  Florida , and western Alaska.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  