-- U.S. Existing-Home Sales Probably Rose
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-19T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/u-s-existing-home-sales-probably-rose.html
Sales of previously owned U.S.
homes probably increased in March as a drop in  mortgage rates 
propelled demand to its strongest quarter in almost two years.  Purchases climbed 0.7 percent to a 4.62 million annual rate
from 4.59 million in February, according to the median estimate
of 72 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Sales in the first
three months of the year would average 4.61 million at an annual
pace, the best since April through June 2010. Jobless claims
declined last week, other data may show.  An improved labor market, mortgage rates near historic lows
and cheaper properties are shoring up an industry that’s been
the economy’s soft spot. At the same time, further progress in
residential real estate is being challenged by distressed
properties and the threat of more foreclosures.  “Better jobs, better income, better affordability and
lower mortgage rates mean you will sell more homes,” said
 Stuart Hoffman , chief economist of PNC Financial Services Group
in Pittsburgh.  The National Association of Realtors’ data are due at 10
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates range from 4.5 million
to 4.75 million.  Existing-home sales, tabulated when a contract closes,
climbed to 4.26 million last year, from 4.19 million in 2010.
Demand peaked at 7.1 million  in 2005  during the housing boom. In
2008, sales totaled 4.1 million, the least since 1995.  Warmer Weather  Purchases in the first three months of 2012 may have
benefited from warmer weather, which put more Americans in the
mood to go house-hunting. The average temperature was 51.1
degrees Fahrenheit (10.6 degrees Celsius) last month, 8.6
degrees warmer than the 20th century average for March,
according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration . The first quarter of 2012 was the warmest since
record-keeping began in 1895.  Lower borrowing costs are doing their part as well. The
average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 3.88 percent
last week, close to the record-low of  3.87 percent  reached in
February, according to data from  Freddie Mac .  Mortgage revenue helped  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the two most-profitable banks last year, top first-
quarter estimates, the companies reported this month.  “On the housing side, we’re seeing improvement, and we’ve
been seeing that for some time, but we’re seeing it more,”
Wells Fargo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf 
said in an April 13 earnings call.  Seeing Improvement  “When you have the dynamics of higher rental rates and
lower home values at great financing rates, there’s a point in
time where the market’s going to clear and you’re going to see
improvement,” Stumpf said. “We’re getting very close to that
tipping point.”  Homebuilder shares have outperformed the broader stock
market this year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
 Homebuilder Index (S15HOME)  of 11 builders has gained 21 percent, compared
with a 10 percent increase for the broader  S&P 500 .  A report at 8:30 a.m. may show the labor market is also
conducive to stabilization in housing. First-time filings for
 unemployment benefits  dropped to 370,000 last week from 380,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey before
the Labor Department’s figures.  The improvement in real estate has been uneven as recent
reports have shown. More than three years after the 2008
subprime credit collapse drove many lenders from the mortgage
market, home loans remain difficult to get for some.  Home Starts  Home starts slowed in March to a five-month low, the
Commerce Department said this week. Beginning construction
dropped 5.8 percent during the month.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders decreased to a three-
month low in April. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index fell to 25 from 28 in March, the
Washington-based group said on April 16. Readings below 50 mean
more respondents said conditions were poor.  To help hold down borrowing costs like mortgage rates,
Federal Reserve policy makers last month said they will continue
to swap $400 billion in short-term securities with long-term
debt to lengthen the average maturity of the central bank’s
holdings, a move dubbed Operation Twist. The program is
scheduled to come to a close by the end of June.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 