-- U.S. Stocks Decline as Economic Reports Offset Earnings
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-04-19T20:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/u-s-stock-futures-gain-as-spain-meets-bond-sale-target.html
U.S. stocks  retreated for a second
day as disappointing economic data and concern over Europe’s
debt crisis overshadowed better-than-forecast earnings from
companies including  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and Morgan Stanley.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and DuPont Co. slid at least 1.2 percent, as
investors sold shares of companies most tied to economic growth.
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  declined 6.6 percent after projecting sales and
profit that fell short of estimates. EBay Inc. rallied 13
percent, the most since 2005, as earnings were helped by growth
in its PayPal payments business.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  rose 2.9
percent after regular trading as it reported third-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.6 percent to
1,376.92 at 4 p.m. New York time, after yesterday’s 0.4 percent
decline. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped 68.65 points,
or 0.5 percent, to 12,964.10. About 7.4 billion shares changed
hands on U.S. exchanges, 9.7 percent above the 30-day average.  “The market is in a data-driven holding pattern,”  Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which oversees about $370 billion, said in a
phone interview. “You’ve got a lot of counter-balancing points.
We got some soft economic data, while earnings are beating
expectations. Investors are looking at each incremental data
point trying to draw conclusions.”  The  S&P 500  fell after reports showed sales of previously
owned U.S. homes in March unexpectedly fell, while more
Americans than forecast filed applications for unemployment
benefits last week. Another report showed manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region expanded at a slower pace in April as orders
and sales cooled.  European Bonds  Global equities also declined as yields on French and
Spanish 10-year bonds climbed at least six basis points,
reviving concern about the sovereign debt crisis. Spain sold
2.54 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of two-year and 10-year debt
today, compared with a maximum target of 2.5 billion euros.
France auctioned 8 billion euros. Citigroup Inc. economist
 Michael Saunders  said in a note that Moody’s Investors Service
is likely to place France’s Aaa rating on review for possible
downgrade by the fall.  Investors sold shares of companies most tied to economic
growth, sending the  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical Index down 0.6
percent.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, erased 1.9
percent to $9.76. DuPont, the most valuable U.S. chemicals
producer, slid 1.2 percent to $52.61 after reporting sales
volume fell 2 percent in the first quarter, led by declines in
the electronics unit and in the Asia Pacific region.  Technology Shares  Technology stocks had the biggest drop among  10 groups  in
the S&P 500, as Qualcomm led losses, declining 6.6 percent to
$62.57. The largest maker of mobile-phone chips projected third-
quarter sales and profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates
as it increases spending to improve the output of chips.  EMC Corp. (EMC)  fell 3.6 percent to $28.10. The world’s biggest
maker of storage computers said it will “meet or potentially
exceed” its prior full-year 2012 of profit excluding some items
of $1.70 a share. Analysts, on average, estimated $1.75.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s largest company by market value,
lost 3.4 percent to $587.44. The Cupertino, California-based
company has erased 7.7 percent since April 9, when it reached an
all-time high of $636.23.  The chief financial officer of Verizon Communications Inc.
said today that the second-largest U.S. phone company activated
3.2 million of Apple’s iPhones in the first-quarter. That’s down
25 percent from the prior quarter, reducing investor
expectations for sales in the full year, according to  Gene
Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  Stanley Falls  Industrial stocks had the second-biggest drop in the S&P
500.  Stanley Black & Decker (SWK)  Inc. fell 7.1 percent to $72.91. The
producer of power tools reported first-quarter earnings that
trailed analysts’ estimates for the first time since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  declined 4.8 percent to $55.85 after
cutting its revenue projection for 2012.  Danaher Corp. (DHR)  retreated
3.1 percent to $53 after forecasting second-quarter earnings
that fell short of analysts’ projections.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  slid 1.7 percent to $8.77 after
earlier rising as much as 2.8 percent. The second-largest U.S.
lender said  first-quarter profit  rose amid a rebound in trading
and better  credit quality .  Morgan Stanley climbed 2.3 percent to $18.07. Stock- and
bond-trading revenue rose more than at any other major U.S.
bank. Profit was 71 cents a share excluding accounting charges,
topping the 44-cent average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Volcker Rule  Financial stocks extended declines, falling as much as 1.1
percent, after U.S. regulators said  Wall Street  banks will have
two years to implement the so-called Volcker rule so long as
they make a “good faith” effort to comply with the ban on
proprietary trading. The rule, named for its original champion,
former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , attempts to reduce the chances
that banks will make risky investments with their own capital
and put depositors’ money at risk.  Travelers Cos. advanced 3.8 percent,  the most  in the Dow,
to $61.70 as earnings beat analysts’ estimates and the company
boosted its dividend 12 percent.  EBay rose 13 percent to $40.62, the highest level since
February 2006. The world’s largest Internet marketplace reported
sales and profit that topped analysts’ estimates, led by growth
in its PayPal online-payments business.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, reported
after the market close that fiscal third-quarter profit topped
estimates on better-than-expected corporate software sales. The
shares rose 2.9 percent to $31.90 at 4:48 p.m. New York time.  Earnings Season  Profits of the companies listed on the S&P 500 are forecast
to rise 1.7 percent in the first quarter and 2 percent in the
next, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
About 84 percent of the 83 companies that have  reported earnings 
since April 10 have exceeded analysts’ projections. The S&P 500
has gained 9.5 percent in 2012, boosted by better-than-estimated
economic and corporate data.  Abby Joseph Cohen, senior U.S. investment strategist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said equities will give better returns
than bonds in the mid-to-long term as companies look to emerging
markets for growth.  “You need to go back to the late 1950s to see a situation
which equities were priced as attractively as they are now
relative to bonds,” she said in a Bloomberg Radio interview
today with Tom Keene. “1958-1959 was a period in which
investors were very concerned about the economy and the yields
on many equities exceeded the yields on fixed income at that
point and -- as you know -- we moved into a multidecade bull
market in equities.”  President  Barack Obama ’s re-election probably would push
the S&P 500 lower this November because investors see his
policies as “anti-business,” according to Steven Leuthold,
chief executive officer and founder of the Leuthold Global Fund.  “Obama is leading to some degree, and I think if Obama is
re-elected it would be somewhat of a negative for the market,”
Leuthold said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “He’s kind of viewed still as
anti-business. He has a lot of support from Wall Street in terms
of money. I’m a social liberal but I’m a fiscal conservative.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  