-- Tubby Clown Prances Through Funny ‘Guvnor’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/tubby-clown-prances-through-funny-guvnor-jeremy-gerard.html
If the sight of a bug-eyed ancient waiter
tottering upstairs with a scalding soup tureen clutched
precariously in his palsied hands doesn’t move you to laughter,
you have my condolences.  You’d better stay clear of “ One Man, Two Guvnors ,” the
irrepressibly funny update of a hoary old farce stuffed with
pratfalls, slamming doors, invented languages, pneumatic young
women triumphing over lecherous old men, and the odd hummus
sandwich.  You may recognize the title as a variation on Carlo
Goldoni’s “The Servant of Two Masters,” a commedia dell’arte
greatest hit of 1746 that no one’s actually ever seen.  For this  National Theatre  production, Richard Bean has
updated the time to the early ‘60s and moved the action to
Brighton -- Britain’s Coney Island, with a pier instead of a
boardwalk, along with a surfeit of tattoo parlors and dubious-
looking watering holes.  The play is about Francis Henshall, a cunning, hungry
rascal who finds himself juggling the demands of two shady
bosses -- one a sister impersonating her murdered twin brother,
the other her lover and, as it happens, brother’s killer.  Big Eater  Each is, of course, unaware of the other’s presence in
Brighton, and as played by Jemima Rooper and Oliver Chris,
they’re irresistible.  James Corden , a pudgy beignet of a man, plays Francis,
though roars may be the better verb. Whether egging on an
audience member (“In your own time,” he says to one a bit slow
on the uptake) or stuffing his mouth with the goodies meant for
his bosses, Corden tends to shout his lines with contagious
glee.  The endearing parade of characters includes an over-the-top
actor (played to the hilt by Daniel Rigby), that over-endowed
hanger-on (Suzie Toase) and the waiter (Tom Edden) whose bones
clatter as much as the dishes he carries.  Boy Band  In one of several genius strokes that make the evening such
a pleasure, scene changes are given over to a 60s-style skiffle
band. The lead singer, Jason Rabinowitz, looks uncannily like
 John Lennon  when he and  Paul McCartney  fronted a similar group
in the pre-mop top era. The smart pastiche songs are by Grant
Olding.  “One Man, Two Guvnors” is comic chaos, channeled and
released with elegant precision. With a nod to the fine design
team ( Mark Thompson , sets and costumes; Mark Henderson,
lighting), it’s unmistakably the work of director  Nicholas Hytner , whose equally memorable National Theater exports to
Broadway have included “Carousel,” “The Madness of George
III” and “History Boys.”  “One Man, Two Guvnors” is as welcome as crocuses in
spring.  At the Music Box Theatre, 239 W. 45th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Maya Lin  and the  Lexus
Sport .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 