-- UBS Uses IPad to Let Clients Design Trading Algorithms
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-04-19T20:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/ubs-uses-ipad-to-allow-clients-to-help-design-trading-algorithms.html
(Corrects to remove algorithms from reference to U.S.
equity commissions in paragraph after ‘Credit Suisse’ subhed.)  UBS AG (UBSN)  will let clients design
trading algorithms on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, putting tailor-made
tools in their hands more quickly in an effort to improve
performance and capture equities market share, according to
executives at the Zurich-based bank.  The move extends a trend toward customization that began
about five years ago. Algorithms, used by U.S. asset managers to
trade 19 percent of their volume, according to Greenwich
Associates, are automated tactics that break larger buy or sell
orders into hundreds or thousands of smaller pieces over a
specified period to mute price impact and mask activity.
Customization allows traders to fine-tune automated strategies.  “We can now build an algorithm in days and we won’t have
the lost-in-translation problem about what will ultimately be
built -- what’s lost in phone calls and e-mails,” Owain Self,
global head of algorithmic trading at UBS, said in an interview.
“We’re eliminating the slippage and improving execution.” The
electronic strategies will be “more client-centric, more
scientific and ultimately more scalable,” Self said.  UBS’s Direct Execution trading group, the 100-person unit
in the bank’s global equities division, will extend technology-
driven tools to customers as part of a new service called Quant
on Demand, said Self, who co-runs the electronic group with
Charles Susi. The first product is the QUOD Studio offering of
individual algorithms in equities and futures, available today
to clients in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Europe . It will be accessible
to customers in the Asia-Pacific region later this year.  ‘Way Less Scary’  The bank has offered individualized algorithms to clients
for several years. The iPad system is more visual and intuitive,
Susi said. “It is super-powerful and way less scary,” he
added.  “It allows clients to have the perfect algorithm for
them,” Susi, managing director in equities, said in an
interview in UBS’s New York office. “They get the benefit of
our research lab. We make clients happy and the ultimate goal
for us is to get more clients and market share.”  The bank’s electronic trading group has built 25 to 30
algorithms using the QUOD Studio tools for at least 20 clients
in the U.S., excluding UBS’s own trading desks, since late 2011,
Self said. Until now customers haven’t been able to use the iPad
application to help devise their own algorithms and the bank has
done it for them to make sure the process worked, he said.
Managers and quantitative analysts will begin visiting clients
in the U.S. and Europe today to show them the product, he said.  Performance Targets  Traders use different algorithms to achieve varying
performance targets, denoted by the average price per share,
based on factors such as the stock’s daily volume, market
capitalization, volatility and moves during the day. They often
adapt the strategies based on how aggressively they want to buy
or sell, broader market conditions that affect individual stock
behavior, and activity in the shares.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , Barclays Plc and others offer algorithms that can
be customized or built to clients’ specifications. Others such
as Orc Group AB and Tbricks AB, both in  Stockholm , and Actant AG
in Zug,  Switzerland , are specialist firms that allow asset
managers and professional traders to develop their own tactics.  Asset managers traded 19 percent of the dollar value of
their U.S. equity orders through algorithms in the year ending
mid-February 2011, according to data from Greenwich Associates.
Institutions paid their brokers an average commission of 2.69
cents per share across all types of orders, the Stamford,
Connecticut-based research firm said in a June report. The
average commission rate for algorithms was 1.3 cents.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse (CS)  won the most U.S. equities trading among
institutional investors surveyed based on total commissions
spent, followed by  Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to Greenwich
Associates. UBS, which wasn’t among the top five U.S. brokers,
was second in European equities, an August report from the
research company showed.  The iPad algorithm-development application allows UBS
clients to see simulations of how fast and at what prices
standardized or custom algorithms will process an order, such as
the purchase of 500,000 shares of  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , based on
the automated behavior and parameters chosen and limits on
acceptable prices or the volume-based rate of trading. The
system uses data from quiet or volatile days, based on what the
trader wants to test.  Building Blocks  Mutual fund traders and others can use building blocks from
UBS’s current list of algorithms to construct the strategy they
want. They can tailor standardized algorithms and cobble
together multiple tactics, switching between them when a
condition such as the stock falling below a certain level is
met, and reverting to a strategy used earlier in the day once
the number of shares left to purchase declines to a specified
number. Any tweak can be inserted into the instructions to
replicate decisions a trader would make.  Customers can create algorithms they’ll use for a few weeks
during the corporate earnings season or in the run-up to the
 rebalance  of Russell indexes, an event in June when the
constituents of the benchmark gauges and their weightings are
revamped, Susi said. The day of the rebalance is among the
busiest of the year because of the volume that funds must trade.  When a customer finishes constructing an algorithm with a
UBS employee, he presses a button and sends it to the bank’s
development team so it can be vetted and tested. Risk filters
are applied before the user can employ it a day or two later,
Susi said. Clients pay the same amount they do for other UBS
algorithms, although rates differ among customers, Self said.  Goldman Sachs  The top algorithm providers based on the frequency with
which they were cited by asset managers in a Tabb Group LLC
study on U.S. institutional equities in November were Credit
Suisse, Goldman Sachs,  Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) , Bank of
America and UBS, the company said in a report. UBS had been
fourth in 2010, the New York-based firm said.  “Coupled with a strong broker relationship, longstanding
algorithms act as strong magnets for order flow and make it
harder for traders to dislodge the broker,” the Tabb report
said. Still, the firm said novel products could gain traction.
“It is possible for a firm -- through a powerful idea and well-
thought go-to-market strategy -- to obtain market share even in
a crowded and commoditized sector,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  