-- Tullow Says African Wells Encounter Water-Bearing Reservoirs
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-04-19T15:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/tullow-oil-says-african-wells-encounter-water-bearing-reservoirs.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , a U.K.-based oil
and gas explorer, said two wells in Sierra Leone and Ivory Coast
encountered water-bearing reservoirs.  The Mercury-2 well in Sierra Leone intersected more than
270 meters of reservoir quality sandstones which were water
bearing with oil shows, the company said in a statement today.
The Kosrou-1 well in Ivory Coast encountered 90 meters of
reservoir quality sandstones.  “The existence of thick sandstone fairways and a working
hydrocarbon system, proven by every well in our exploration
campaign, mean that our West African Transform Margin acreage
remains highly prospective,” Tullow Exploration Director Angus McCoss said in the statement.  Tullow is trying to add reserves after unlocking new oil
provinces in Uganda, Ghana and French Guiana, where it has found
about 4 billion barrels since 2007. The explorer’s shares fell
in February when it announced that its Jupiter-1 well in  Sierra
Leone  might not be commercial.  “While today’s results at Kosrou and Mercury-2 have not
yielded commercial discoveries, these further indications of a
working hydrocarbon system help us see upside in nearby
exploration targets,” Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst Oswald
Clint said in a note to investors. “Momentum is clearly
building for Tullow in its East African exploration campaign.”  The  stock  retreated 1.1 percent, or 16 pence, to close at
1,502 pence in London.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp (APC)  operates and controls 55 percent of
the Mercury offshore block and 50 percent of the Kosrou acreage,
according to the statement. Other owners include Repsol  YPF SA. (YPFD)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  