-- Multinationals May Be Moving Spanish Deposits, Roldan Says
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-04-19T14:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/multinationals-may-be-moving-spanish-deposits-roldan-says-2-.html
Multinationals may be moving
deposits out of  Spain , said Jose Maria Roldan, head of banking
regulation at the  Bank of Spain .  The decline in deposits is partly due to greater use of
commercial paper among retail clients and competition with
Treasury bills, Roldan said in a  presentation  to analysts in
 London  that was posted on the Bank of Spain’s website today.
Deposits fell 4.1 percent in February from a year earlier, the
regulator’s data showed yesterday.  “There has also been an observable increase in investment
in deposits in the rest of the world, especially by companies,
foreseeably multinationals, that would explain around 15 percent
of the decrease,” he said.  Spain is trying to restore investor confidence in the
nation’s banks amid concern the cost of cleaning up the collapse
of a property boom will overburden  public  finances. The European
Union said today Spain doesn’t need to seek help to recapitalize
its banks, and there are no plans to tap rescue funds.  Roldan also raised the possibility of lenders separating
bad assets into different vehicles once losses have been
recognized and written down. He didn’t give details and a
spokesman for the Bank of Spain declined to comment.  Ring Fencing  “After recognition of problematic assets and valuation
adjustments,” the presentation said, a third step “would be
ring fencing,” or separating bad assets, whose value has been
written down, from the healthy banking business.  Such a move would “increase clarity with respect to
external shareholders” and allow for “a better alignment of
managers’ incentives to concentrate their efforts on the going-
concern part of the balance sheet,” the presentation said.  The government, in power since December, has repeatedly
rejected the idea after two people with knowledge of the matter
said in November that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  had asked for
academic papers on how to create such a bank.  The Bank of Spain is “not keen on the idea of a national
bad bank,” analysts at Barclays said in a note after Roldan’s
presentation.  “This is more about disclosure and visibility,” Barclays
said in an e-mailed note. “One option to be considered is banks
providing separate disclosure on ‘going concern’ and run-off
assets.”  Roldan also said that doubtful loans will probably continue
to rise, even as defaults in the retail mortgage portfolio
remain “low.” Provisioning in the industry means that banks
are protected against an 87 percent decline in land prices and
an 82 percent drop in values for housing under development, the
presentation showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  