-- Hulu Announces Four Original Series in Advertiser Meeting
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-04-19T20:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/hulu-announces-four-new-original-series-in-advertiser-meetings.html
Hulu LLC, the online video service
owned by Fox, ABC and NBC, announced four new original series in
meetings with advertisers as the website seeks to offer shows
that can’t be found on television.  “We Got Next” and “The Awesomes,” an animated series by
“Saturday Night Live” member  Seth Meyers , will start this year
and in 2013, Los Angeles-based Hulu said today in an e-mailed
statement. Airdates for “Don’t Quit Your Daydream,” from
“Entourage” star  Adrian Grenier , and “Flow” weren’t
provided.  Hulu is building on its roster of original programs to
persuade its marketers to make bigger commitments and attract
new ones. The site is offering ad buyers the ability to target
viewers by demographics, geography and by viewing device.
 Earlier  this week Hulu said advertisers would only pay for ads
that had been viewed start to finish.  “This is an opportunity for advertisers to come in and
take an ownership stake in the real estate across the site and
take advantage of compelling targeting and content
opportunities,”  Jean-Paul Colaco , senior vice president of
advertising, said in an interview.  “We Got Next” and “The Awesomes” will be produced and
distributed by Hulu, while “Don’t Quit Your Daydream” and
“Flow” will be produced by others and appear only on the site,
Colaco said.  Unassuming Superhero  From “The Game” creators Kenya Barris and Hale Rothstein,
“We Got Next” follows four friends who butt heads on the pick-
up basketball court and in everyday life. “The Awesomes” is an
animated series about an unassuming superhero and his cohorts
who battle villains, paparazzi, and a less-than-ideal reputation
as crime fighters.  In “Don’t Quit Your Daydream,” a cast of famous musicians
travel across the U.S. in search of collaborators for a new song
that could give them a second-chance at stardom. “Flow”
follows a  hard-working kid from the wrong-side of the tracks as
he tries to prove he was framed for a crime.  Hulu said “Up to Speed,” a previously announced series
from Richard Linklater, will start this summer. The site posted
its first original series “Battleground” in February and
season two of the “Day in the Life” documentary series from
Morgan Spurlock in March.  Earlier this week Hulu said its $8 a month Hulu Plus
service, which allows users to watch an expanded library of
shows on video-game consoles and mobile devices, had more than 2
million subscribers.  ABC parent  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  fell about 1 percent to $42.08
at the close.  News Corp. (NWSA) , the New York-based owner of Fox, slid
2 percent to $18.89 and NBC parent  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  declined 1.3
percent to $29.48. Disney is based in  Burbank ,  California , and
Comcast is headquartered in Philadelphia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  