-- Glaxo’s $2.6 Billion Cash Offer Rejected by Human Genome
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-19T21:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/human-genome-gets-unsolicited-offer-from-glaxo-for-13-a-share.html
Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  almost
doubled in trading as the biotechnology company put itself up
for sale after rejecting a $2.59 billion acquisition bid from
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Human Genome, the partner with London-based Glaxo on the
lupus treatment Benlysta, rose 98 percent to $14.17 at 4 p.m.
 New York  time. Glaxo’s $13-a-share cash offer, an 81 percent
premium to yesterday’s closing price of $7.17, doesn’t reflect
the drug developer’s value, Human Genome said today in a
statement that indicated the company may shop itself to others.  The bid was rejected partly out of concern for Human Genome
 stockholders  who bought shares at an average price that’s higher
than the offer, said two people with knowledge of the matter.
All but three of the 25 largest shareholders acquired stock at a
higher average price, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private.  Glaxo’s interest “makes real sense,” said  Sven Borho , a
partner with OrbiMed Advisors in New York, by telephone. “Glaxo
has the inside track on the pipeline,” sharing in development
of Benlysta and two other drugs in final-stage testing. “Nobody
is going to go into a bidding war with them.”  Borho, whose company owns 1.7 million shares of Rockville,
Maryland-based Human Genome shares, said he supports a sale.  Human Genome decided to go public with Glaxo’s offer and
put itself up for sale, anticipating interest from large
pharmaceutical companies may drive up the price, the people
said.  Glaxo’s Move  By moving to try to acquire Human Genome now, Glaxo is
taking advantage of a  76 percent slide  in the biotech’s shares
from their 2011 peak. Sales growth for Benlysta, Human Genome’s
first drug on the market, has disappointed investors, and the
company may not become profitable for years.  “We are disappointed that Human Genome Sciences has
rejected our offer without discussion and are confident that our
offer is in the best interest of shareholders of both
companies,” Glaxo Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  said in
a follow-up statement. shares traded between $20 and $30 until
about August of 2011.  Glaxo first learned of Human Genome’s rejection of the
$2.59 billion offer through a phone call earlier today, another
person familiar with the situation said. Human Genome Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Watkins called Glaxo’s Witty at about 5
a.m. New York time, saying that the offer didn’t reflect Human
Genome’s value and that the company would be making a public
statement shortly, the person said. The statement was released
at 5:12 a.m.  A “Good Deal”  Liisa Bayko, an analyst with JMP Securities who has an
outperform rating on Human Genome, called the $13 offer a “good
deal,” given Glaxo’s agreements with the company and the likely
lack of a competing bidder.  “It’s not that appealing to anyone other than Glaxo,” she
said in a phone interview from Barcelona. “I could see $15 a
share. Given where the stock is, I was happy when I saw $13 a
share. Anything above that I’d be even more happy with,” Bayko
said.  The offer by Glaxo, which gained less than 1 percent to
1,454 pence in London trading, values  Human Genome  at 11 times
estimated 2012 sales. Acquirers paid a median of 20.3 times
sales for biotech companies in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on acquisitions of $100 million or more.  Three Drugs  Jerry Parrott, a spokesman for Human Genome, declined to
comment by telephone beyond today’s statement. A Glaxo
spokeswoman also declined comment beyond the drugmaker’s
statement.  The two companies collaborate on three drugs, the lupus
treatment Benlysta, approved for sale last year, and
experimental medicines for diabetes and hardening of the
arteries that are in late-stage testing.  “When you have so many projects together in late-stage
development, it makes sense to want to integrate 100 percent of
their value,” said Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst at Bryan,
Garnier & Co. in Paris, by telephone. “It means Glaxo thinks
these projects have a potential.”  Investors had high hopes for Benlysta, the first drug to
combat lupus in more than 50 years and Human Genome’s first
product to market. Analysts in 2010 estimated the drug could
reach $1.5 billion in annual sales.  Benlysta Forecasts  Instead, sales got off to a “slow start” after winning
approval last year, Deutsche Bank analysts said, leading the
bank to cut forecasts for the drug. Benlysta probably will
generate $234.4 million in 2012, based on the average of 19
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, and Human Genome is likely to
report its first annual profit in 2015.  The experimental diabetes therapy being jointly developed,
called Syncria, is a “very, very promising” new treatment,
Glaxo’s Witty said during a call in February. “And we’ll see
when the full data comes in before we can really articulate the
full picture to you.”  The U.S. biotechnology company has hired Goldman, Sachs &
Co. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC as financial advisers
and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and DLA Piper LLP as
legal counsel.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are acting as financial
advisers to Glaxo, and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton and
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz are providing legal advice.  “There can be no assurance that any transaction will
occur,” Human Genome said. “HGS does not intend to discuss the
status of its evaluation unless and until a specific transaction
has been approved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  