-- Tumi Surges After Raising $338 Million in Expanded IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-04-19T15:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/tumi-surges-after-raising-338-million-in-expanded-ipo-1-.html
Tumi Holdings Inc. (TUMI) , the luggage
maker owned by  Doughty Hanson  & Co., surged more than 50 percent
after raising $338 million in its initial public offering,
pricing higher than the proposed range.  Tumi and Doughty Hanson sold 18.8 million shares at $18
apiece, according to a statement yesterday, after offering them
for $15 to $17. The stock rose as high as $27.85 by 11:11 a.m.
in New York, giving South Plainfield, New Jersey-based Tumi an
enterprise value of $2.2 billion, which includes debt.  That’s about 31 times 2011  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, compared with the 13 times
leather-handbag maker Coach Inc. traded at yesterday, Bloomberg
data show. Tumi’s strong brand recognition and ability to
command consistently high product prices -- such as $895 for
expandable carry-ons -- were attractive qualities for investors,
said Brian McGough, an analyst with Hedgeye Risk Management LLC.  “Investors are looking past troubling global macroeconomic
factors like housing,  Spain ,  Japan , toward micro stories like
this,” McGough said in an e-mail today. “There are company-
specific factors that will allow the company to grow outside of
powerful macro cross-currents.”  Hedgeye is an independent equities research firm in  New
Haven ,  Connecticut .  Doughty Hanson bought a majority stake in Tumi for $276
million in 2004. The firm, co-founded in 1985 by Richard Hanson,
has owned its Tumi stake for more than seven years, longer than
private-equity firms typically keep investments, based on
figures from Seattle-based researcher PitchBook Data Inc. The
firm’s previous investments in retail include Umbro Plc, the
maker of sportswear, and watchmaker TAG Heuer International SA.  Sale Plans  Sales of high-end goods may climb 10 percent in 2012, half
last year’s rate, and 9 percent in 2013, according to  Antoine Belge , an analyst at HSBC in Europe.  China , which generated 10
percent of 2011 sales, will account for a third of this year’s
increase as growth slows in Europe, he estimates.  Tumi plans to use proceeds from the sale to repurchase
outstanding stock from London-based Doughty Hanson. The company,
led by Chief Executive Officer Jerome Griffith, planned to offer
17.56 million shares, while stockholders including Doughty
Hanson and HVB Capital Partners AG planned to offer 1.22
million.  The shares began trading today on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol TUMI. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. led the offering.  Nick Bastin, a spokesman for Doughty Hanson, declined to
comment, as did an outside spokeswoman for Tumi.  Luggage Market  Luggage industry sales in 2011 returned to pre-recession
levels, with U.S. consumers spending an estimated $21.2 billion
on travel goods, up 14 percent from 2010, according to the
Travel Goods Association. Luggage unit sales last year grew 4.4
percent by volume and 17 percent by value, as prices kept
recovering from discounting during the previous few years,
according to the Princeton, New Jersey-based trade group.  Tumi, whose suitcases and bags are sold at about 1,600
locations in more than 70 countries, is focusing on expansion in
 Asia , Eastern  Europe  and  South America . Net income probably
amounted to as much as $1.7 million in the three months through
March 25, compared with a loss in the year-earlier period, as
sales in  North America  and Asia picked up and profit margins
improved, according to a regulatory filing. Sales increased 31
percent to $330 million in 2011 from a year earlier.  Brand Name  “It’s known, it’s a brand, it’s an opportunity to
invest,” said Christopher Casey, a managing director at
SuttonBrook Capital Management LP, the New York-based hedge
fund. “You’re not getting in on the ground floor, but you can
still get in early enough that you can get a pretty nice ride
over the next couple of years if they execute.”  The IPO follows the successful offering of  Michael Kors
Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  in December and a share sale by Tumi’s biggest
rival, Samsonite International SA, last year. Kors stock has
more than  doubled  since that offering, while Samsonite jumped 25
percent this year through yesterday.  As of yesterday,  Michael Kors  had an enterprise value of
about $8.2 billion, or 33 times Ebitda of $251 million in the 12
months through Dec. 31, Bloomberg data show.  Tumi sees an opportunity to increase revenue by building a
bigger presence online, the source of 10 percent of net sales
last year, according to its filing. To generate growth in the
future, Tumi will need to add more fashion-focused products
beyond its signature black luggage, McGough said.  “The Tumi bag I’m looking at right now next to my desk was
bulletproof six years ago when I bought it, and it’s still
bulletproof today,” he said. “Balancing exceptional durability
with a fashion infusion will be an interesting exercise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  