-- Municipal Rates Drop to Six-Week Low as U.S. Treasuries Rally
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-04-19T17:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/municipal-rates-drop-to-six-week-low-as-u-s-treasuries-rally.html
Yields on tax-exempt municipal
bonds fell to their lowest level in six weeks as Treasury
interest rates dropped on concern the European debt crisis is
worsening and the U.S. economic recovery is moderating.  Benchmark 10-year tax-exempt yields fell more than one
basis point to  1.96 percent  at 1 p.m. today in  New York , the
lowest since March 6, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The yield reached a record
low of 1.74 percent on Feb. 2.  While local-government borrowing costs have been falling
this month, they are still higher than comparable-maturity
Treasuries, making them more attractive to investors, Fred Yosca, head of fixed-income trading at BNY Mellon Capital
Markets LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Municipals due in 10 years yielded  100.2 percent  of
similar-maturity Treasuries on average during the past month,
Bloomberg data show. That’s higher than the 97 percent average
for the year.  “As the crossover ratio improves, it’s a comparative
advantage for the muni product,” Yosca said. “And Treasuries
have done nothing to hurt us in the last month.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries have dropped  25 basis points 
in April while those on municipals have fallen 17 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. Today, the 10-year Treasury  yield  fell two
basis points to 1.95 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  States and cities are set to borrow $8.7 billion this week,
down from  $10.4 billion  during the second week of March, the
busiest seven-day period this year.  “The calendar isn’t overwhelming by any means,” Yosca
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  