-- Unilever Losing to Fakes Selling to Illiterate Indians: Retail
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-04-19T21:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/unilever-losing-to-fakes-selling-to-illiterate-indians-retail.html
Sunita Kumar, a factory worker’s
wife in the Indian village of Hazratpur, has added talcum powder
and face cream to her little make-up box for weddings and
festivals. She doesn’t know they are fake.  Sitting cross-legged on the rough cement floor of her home,
head covered by a red and green sari, Kumar said she’s
illiterate. She can’t read the label on her tube of Fairy Love
lotion, an imitation of a popular brand called Fair & Lovely
from  Unilever (ULVR) ’s Indian subsidiary.  The village of Hazratpur, where open drains flow near
poorly paved roads and informal retailers sell under trees, is a
symbol of rural  India , where high illiteracy allows imitations
to siphon sales from companies such as Unilever and its Indian
competitor  Emami Ltd. (HMN)  About a  third  of India’s villagers can’t
read even though rising incomes are expected to boost rural
consumer goods sales  tenfold  to $100 billion by 2025.  “It’s a huge loss to the companies in the sense that they
spend so much of money building these brands,” said Saroj Kumar
Mohanta, a partner at  MART , a consulting firm in New Delhi.  As rural shoppers spend more, companies such as  Hindustan
Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian subsidiary of the London- and
Rotterdam-based company, are marketing more facewash,
conditioners and lipstick in villages. Low familiarity with
brand names and illiteracy are allowing fakes to get in the way.  Between 10 percent to 30 percent of the cosmetics,
toiletries and packaged food products sold in India are fake,
the  Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry 
estimates.  High Illiteracy  Winning over rural India is important to Unilever,  Procter
& Gamble Co. (PG)  and Emami because about  69 percent  of India’s 1.2
billion people live in villages. Hazratpur, population 2,500,
home to farmers, electricians and masons in the North Indian
state of  Uttar Pradesh , shows how illiteracy is hurting big
brands even as rural shoppers become more aspirational in their
spending.  Kumar, who veils her face when men pass by and doesn’t go
to the market herself, relies on her husband, Satish, to buy her
beauty products. Satish, who has never been to school and can’t
read, said he intended to get her the Unilever skin cream brand
and didn’t know he was being sold a fake.  His wife’s vanity case included a misspelled version of
Kolkata-based Emami’s  BoroPlus  powder, another copy the factory
worker wasn’t aware of. Satish, who earns 5,500 rupees ($107) a
month from the factory and some farming on the side, said he
likes “good company” brands and doesn’t mind paying up for
them. “Even if it is more expensive, I get a good product,” he
said of Unilever and its branded competitors.  Increase in Lookalikes  Imitation products “impact revenue of genuine companies,”
Hindustan Unilever said in an e-mailed statement. The company,
which has seen an increase in lookalikes of its leading brands,
conducts market surveillance and provides information to
authorities, helping them seize fake goods valued at 560 million
rupees in 2011, according to the statement.  Hindustan Unilever, one of the earliest multinationals to
enter India in 1888, dominated the beauty and personal-care
market with a 33 percent share in 2010, according to Euromonitor
International figures.  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  had a 6.8 percent
share, compared with 5.4 percent for Procter & Gamble, 4.9
percent for  Dabur India Ltd. (DABUR)  and 1.5 percent for Emami, the data
show.  Informal Manufacturers  Rural shoppers like brands because of advertising they see
on television, said Ankur Bisen, associate director of retail at
New Delhi-based consultancy Technopak. A fake version of
Hindustan Unilever’s Fair & Lovely brand can get sold despite
that marketing because of the illiteracy of the rural consumer,
Bisen said.  About 69  percent  of the rural population is literate,
according to the Indian government’s census.  MART’s Mohanta said he has seen fake toothpastes sold under
the name of “Colagate” and imitation versions of herbal
tablets made by Dabur. Small, informal manufacturers and sellers
usually create the fake goods, he said. “Even if they close
down by one name, they open up by another,” Mohanta said.  Mom-and-pop stores have an incentive to sell fake goods. The
counterfeits are made at a lower cost even though they sell at
the same price as the regular brand, offering retailers and the
manufacturer selling fakes higher profit, according to Anil
Rajput, chairman of the FICCI’s Committee on Anti-Smuggling and
Counterfeiting.  ‘Major Concern’  On a recent Friday afternoon in Hazratpur, women crowded
around a small temporary shop set up under a tree, where a man
laid out merchandise that included creams, earrings, hairclips
and lipsticks on a faded blue sheet.  The salesman, who wouldn’t answer questions, offered his
customers “Voroline,” an imitation of Unilever’s Vaseline
brand. Also laid out on the sheet were tubes of “Fair &
Gomarks” cream that, like Sunita Kumar’s tube, is an imitation
of Fair & Lovely.  Dabur said it has helped Indian authorities conduct raids
on makers of fake products in several parts of the country.  Counterfeits in India are a “major concern” for the
 consumer-goods  industry, Emami said in a statement. The company
keeps innovating on packaging and tries to educate retailers on
identifying fakes, it said.  Of course, not all rural shoppers are buying fakes, and
increased spending in villages is helping to drive up corporate
profits. Rural demand for so-called fast-moving consumer goods
will grow to $100 billion in 2025 from $9 billion in 2010,
according to Nielsen Co.  Rising Affluence  Hindustan Unilever’s net profit, including that of units,
is estimated to rise 12 percent to 25.8 billion rupees in the
year ended March 31, according to the median of 16 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company will announce its
financial results on May 1.  To reach more villages, the company started hiring rural
women in 2000 as brand ambassadors who travel to sell directly
to nearby villages. Its spending on advertising and promotions
rose 16 percent to 28 billion rupees in the 12 months ended
March 2011.  Some effects of rising incomes can be seen in Hazratpur,
where large, modern houses stand next to tiny, dingy homes. One
family proudly pointed to the washing machine for which they use
Unilever’s Surf detergent. Kumar, the factory worker’s wife,
wore maroon lipstick even as she covered her face when men
passed by.  “The generation that is now coming into the consuming
class no longer sees austerity as a virtue,” Hindustan Unilever
Chief Executive Officer Nitin Paranjpe said in a February
interview. “Self indulgence is all right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  