-- UnitedHealth Raises Profit Forecast on Higher Enrollment
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-04-19T20:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/unitedhealth-profit-rises-as-medical-costs-lag-behind-recovery.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
biggest U.S. health insurer, increased its 2012 earnings
forecast after reporting that first-quarter profit beat
analysts’ estimates for higher enrollment and low medical costs.  Full-year earnings will be $4.80 to $4.95 a share, the
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company said in a statement today.
UnitedHealth’s shares climbed, along with other health insurers,
after Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hemsley said he expects
only a “gradual” rise in health spending this year.  UnitedHealth had  35.6 million people  enrolled in its
medical plans, an increase from 34 million a year earlier, with
gains in both commercial plans and government-backed Medicare
and Medicaid coverage. The insurer has also benefited from
lower-than-projected costs as Americans cut back on health care
and opted for higher deductibles amid the weak economy.  “Bottom line, it’s a pretty decent report,” said Thomas A. Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst in Baltimore, in a
telephone interview. “To the extent they made positive comments
about cost trends,” the results will boost sentiment for all
health insurers, he said.  UnitedHealth, the first major insurer to report first-
quarter earnings, rose 2.4 percent to $58.71 at the close in New
York. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Managed Care Index (S5MANH) , consisting
of the six biggest publicly traded carriers, climbed 1.9
percent, while the broader  S&P 500  declined 0.6 percent.  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest health plan, is due to
announce its results on April 25.  Previous Forecast  UnitedHealth on Feb. 9 had  forecast  full-year profit of
$4.60 to $4.80 a share. Analysts had estimated an average $4.87
for 2012.  First-quarter  net income  rose 3.1 percent to $1.39 billion,
or $1.31 a share, UnitedHealth said in its statement. The
results beat the $1.17-a-share average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed to $27.3 billion from
$25.4 billion a year earlier.  UnitedHealth spent 81 percent of premiums collected on
medical care, down from 81.4 percent a year earlier.  “This tells you your margins are looking solid for this
year, too,” said  David Windley , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in
Nashville,  Tennessee , in a telephone interview. “We’ve been
experiencing some very moderate increases in medical costs but
so far it looks benign.”  Insurer’s Efforts  UnitedHealth deserves credit for helping to keep that
spending low, through plans that steer customers toward lower-
cost doctors or better coordinate care, Windley said.  Hemsley, on a conference call with analysts, said it’s
difficult to say how much of the lower costs were due to
permanent changes in insurance coverage and how much were the
temporary result of the economy.  “We know from our health-care affordability programs that
we are getting traction on those, and those are fundamental
improvements,” he said.  The earnings included some one-time benefits that may
concern investors, said Stifel Nicolaus’s Carroll. The company
booked a $530 million gain from overestimating medical costs in
prior quarters, a boost that might not be repeated, he said.  Hemsley has been bulking up with acquisitions of smaller
 health plans  as President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law puts
pressure on profit margins. UnitedHealth completed its $2
billion  purchase  of XL Health Corp. in February, gaining
membership in plans administered for Medicare, the U.S. backed
program for the elderly. Last month, the Pentagon announced it
had chosen the company for a $20.5 billion, five-year contract
to provide benefits to military personnel and their families.  The higher enrollment and lower medical spending helped
overcome an increase in operating costs elsewhere. UnitedHealth
said in November that it plans to invest $115 million in the
pharmacy-benefits unit this year, as it brings in-house business
it had been outsourcing to Medco Health Solutions Inc.  “They’re adding staff; they’ve expanded their mail-order
operation,” Windley said. “They’ve talked explicitly about
spending quite a bit of money to convert” the Medco contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  