-- Murdoch Ties to U.K. Politics Face Ethics Pane Scrutiny
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-04-19T14:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/murdoch-ties-to-u-k-politics-face-ethics-pane-scrutiny.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s influence over British
politics since  Rupert Murdoch  entered the U.K. media market in
the 1960s will be dissected at an ethics inquiry reviewing the
ties between journalists and politicians.  The News Corp. chairman and his son, Deputy Chief Operating
Officer  James Murdoch , will testify at the inquiry prompted by
the phone-hacking and bribery scandals at their U.K. tabloids.
James Murdoch is scheduled to testify April 24, while is father
will appear the following two days, according to the inquiry’s
website. The Murdochs will appear in person instead of using a
video link and are the only witnesses scheduled for those days.  The review began last year after evidence emerged that
voice-mail interception at News Corp.’s News of the World title
was rampant and not limited to a “rogue” reporter as the
company claimed. Some victims and lawmakers have said Murdoch’s
connections to politicians helped protect New York-based News
Corp. during police probes in 2006 and 2009 that failed to
uncover the extent of the scandal.  “The public are going to be gobsmacked by the closeness”
between News Corp. executives and Britain’s politicians, said
 Duncan Lamont , a lawyer at Charles Russell LLP who represents
some News Corp. competitors in the inquiry. The Murdochs, in
what could be their last public appearance in the matter, “are
determined to go out with a bang -- not a whimper.”  Biggest Daily  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , a Conservative, said
last month he rode a horse loaned by London police to Rebekah
Brooks, the former CEO of News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit who
has been arrested twice by police probing misconduct at the
company. He did so before becoming prime minister in 2010.
Murdoch’s Sun newspaper, nation’s biggest-selling daily, in 2009
said it would back the Conservative opposition in Britain’s
general election after then-Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  promised
to promote programs popular with unions.  Two police investigations and a probe by a committee of
lawmakers failed to uncover the extent of phone-hacking until
civil lawsuits forced evidence into the open. U.K. prosecutors
said yesterday that are considering criminal charges against as
many as four journalists, a police officer and six members of
the public in probes triggered by phone-hacking. Police arrested
three more people today, including a royal editor at the Sun
tabloid and an ex-member of the armed forces, as part of their
probe of bribery at News Corp. titles.  Rupert Murdoch and James, who had been considered his heir
apparent before the scandal, testified before Parliament in July
after allegations in civil cases that News Corp. executives
conspired to cover up the scandal. James Murdoch’s testimony at
the time was contradicted by former subordinates.  Leveson, Ofcom  Their appearance at the inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, comes as media regulator Ofcom considers whether News
Corp. is “fit and proper” to hold a stake in  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV company. The
scandal prompted Rupert Murdoch to abandon a 7.8 billion-pound
($12.5 billion) bid to buy the 61 percent of BSkyB that he
didn’t already own, and James Murdoch resigned as the
broadcaster’s chairman three weeks ago.  Ofcom has said it won’t make a decision on Murdoch’s stake
in BSkyB until three parallel police investigations into News
Corp. are completed and separate reports are issued by the
ethics inquiry and a new Parliamentary probe of the scandal.  ‘Very, Very Wrong’  “This is one of the few things that he’s going to have to
do before he can put the whole thing behind him,” Tim Bale, a
professor at the  University of Sussex  in  England , said of James
Murdoch’s testimony next week. “He was a very important part of
something that went very, very wrong over a number of years and
you can’t extract yourself from that immediately.”  Leveson will examine the extent of Murdoch’s political
influence and its effects on public policy. While other media
executives are expected to give similar testimony, Rupert
Murdoch has been singled out by victims’ lawyers for abusing his
power.  “There’s going to be dramatic cross-examinations and some
very high-profile journalists and politicians involved -- this
is going to re-engage the public,” said Lamont. The Murdochs
will “forcefully” defend their relationships with politicians,
he said.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for London-based News
International, declined to comment on the inquiry.  Cameron, who called for the ethics inquiry, is also
expected to testify, said the person familiar with the matter.
The prime minister’s former press chief,  Andy Coulson , edited
the News of the World until one of its reporters,  Clive Goodman ,
was jailed for phone hacking in 2007. He resigned as Cameron’s
press chief in January 2011 after the scandal emerged again and
was arrested in July.  The first phase of Leveson’s probe dealt with the press’s
relationship with the public, interviewing high-profile victims
of phone hacking such as the British actors  Hugh Grant  and
 Sienna Miller , Welsh pop singer Charlotte Church and the parents
of a murdered schoolgirl whose phone was hacked. The
relationship with police was also examined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 