-- Turkish Speaker May Broker Imprisoned Lawmakers’ Release
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-04-19T09:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/turkish-speaker-may-broker-imprisoned-lawmakers-release.html
Turkish parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek met with opposition lawmakers to help broker the release
of eight politicians who were elected to the assembly while in
jail awaiting trial on charges of terrorism and plotting coups.  Deputies from the main opposition  Republican People’s
Party , the Nationalist Action Party and the pro-Kurdish Peace
and Democracy Party convened at the speaker’s office today in
Ankara to submit proposals that would allow the politicians,
elected June 12, to join the National Assembly pending their
trials, a spokesman for Cicek said in a telephone interview.
Since the vote, the opposition and the government have clashed
over the issue of freeing the six men and two women.  The speaker said yesterday that while he is working to
release them, other assembly members must get serious about the
issue, stop politicking and find solutions. The governing
 Justice and Development Party , which controls 326 seats in the
550-member parliament, “respects” Cicek’s initiative and will
review opposition suggestions to end the 10-month standoff,
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said.  “This is not Justice and Development’s problem, it’s their
problem,” Erdogan told reporters yesterday, referring to the
opposition. “Never forget that leading up to the elections they
tried back-door methods, knowing full well that these people
couldn’t become lawmakers. These aren’t democratic ways.”  The jailed politicians include republicans Mustafa Balbay
and Mehmet Haberal, and nationalist Engin Alan, who are
imprisoned in connection with the so-called Ergenekon and
Balyoz, or Sledgehammer, cases of defendants charged with
plotting to overthrow Erdogan. The main opposition leader,  Kemal Kilicdaroglu , says the prosecutions are a “witch hunt” against
the government’s opponents.  Pro-Kurdish Politicians  The pro-Kurdish politicians are in jail in connection with
an investigation of the Union of Communities in Kurdistan, or
KCK, which prosecutors say is the urban arm of the Kurdistan
Workers’ Party. Known as the PKK and listed as a terrorist
organization by  Turkey , the U.S. and the European Union, the
party’s fight for autonomy in the southeast has cost more than
40,000 lives since 1984.  During their meeting with Cicek, republicans proposed a
two-year cap on lawmakers’ jail time, nationalists suggested
freeing all deputies except those charged with separatism, and
pro-Kurdish parliamentarians promoted legislation barring the
imprisonment of elected representatives, the NTV news channel
reported. Under the nationalists’ proposal, pro-Kurdish
lawmakers wouldn’t be released, the Istanbul-based channel said.  Cicek will meet with opposition lawmakers for follow-up
discussions after April 23, his office said, according to the
state-run Anatolia news agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  