-- Verizon First-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates on Smartphones
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-04-19T20:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/verizon-first-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-smartphone-sales.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, posted earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates as smartphone demand boosted subscriber
count and slowing sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone helped margins.  First-quarter earnings rose to 59 cents a share from 51
cents a year earlier, New York-based Verizon said today.
Analysts projected 58 cents, the average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales gained 4.6 percent to $28.2 billion,
compared with the $28.1 billion analysts predicted.  Verizon Wireless  added 501,000 contract customers, compared
with the 497,285 average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. New sales of the iPhone, which Verizon and rivals
such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  sell at a loss to attract subscribers, fell to
3.2 million from the fourth quarter’s 4.3 million.  “To gain half a million new subscribers in a seasonally
weaker quarter without a blockbuster device is very
respectable,” said  Roger Entner , an analyst with Recon
Analytics in Dedham,  Massachusetts .  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. wireless carrier, is
gaining users even as the market nears saturation. Wireless
penetration in the U.S. is 105 percent when including mobile
devices like tablet computers, said Bob Roche, a statistician
with CTIA, a wireless industry trade group.  Verizon, which co-owns its wireless business with  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , added 1.3 percent to $38.15 at the close in New York.
The stock has risen 2.4 percent in the past year.  IPhone Sales  The slowing market is forcing Verizon Wireless into more
intense competition with AT&T and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , with the
carriers trying to attract customers with price promotions,
faster network speeds and new mobile-device models. Verizon sold
6.3 million smartphones, such as the iPhone, in the period.  New sales of the iPhone hurt carriers’ profit margins
initially, because they pay Apple an estimated $600 for each
phone and sell it at a loss to lure subscribers into two-year
contracts. Users of iPhones and other smartphones are lucrative
because they spend more each month browsing the Web, sending e-
mail and watching video.  Verizon said 47 percent of mobile customers have
smartphones, up from 44 percent in the fourth quarter. About 8
million customers, or 9 percent of the total, are using long-
term evolution, or LTE, devices -- the latest wireless standard,
Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said on an conference call.  Data Revenue  Carriers are trying to fuel the use of such services, as
the stagnating market forces them to attempt to squeeze more
revenue out of existing customers. Average monthly revenue from
contract users at Verizon Wireless rose to $55.43. Analysts
projected $54.41, the average of six estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It was a mixed bag overall,” said Mike McCormack, an
analyst at Nomura Securities in  New York . While the average
revenue per user was “pretty positive,” people choosing
costlier data plans will probably look elsewhere to cut back,
like on the voice part of their service plans, he said. This
could eventually slow the growth rate of monthly bills, said
McCormack, who has a “neutral”  rating  on the stock.  Service  revenue  in the wireless unit increased 7.7 percent
to $15.4 billion, led by data. Wireless operating income margin,
a measure of profitability, widened to 28.6 percent of sales
from 25.8 percent a year earlier. The division’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expanded to 46.3
percent from 43.7 percent.  Data-Share Plan  In a bid to win more smartphone customers, the company
plans to introduce a shared-data plan in a few months, Shammo
said in an interview today. Under the plan, which will come in
different price tiers, several family members and devices could
be included in the same contract, said Shammo, who declined to
offer specifics on prices or timing.  The plan may reduce the data costs of family members who
are heavy mobile-device users. Still, revenue growth won’t
suffer because such plans will encourage people to add more
devices and use more data, Shammo said.  “Increased usage will get people to pay more for higher-
tiered plans,” he said.  Verizon’s fixed-line business added 180,000 FiOS TV
customers, compared to 192,000 added in the year-ago period. New
FiOS Internet customers rose by 193,000, compared with 207,000 a
year earlier. Verizon has stopped expanding the FiOS fiber-optic
network into new areas to help control costs. The company has
been working to sell more of the bundled phone, Internet and TV
services to customers already within the reach of its network.  First-quarter net income rose 17 percent to $1.69 billion
from $1.44 billion a year earlier. Capital expenditures were
$3.57 billion, compared with $4.36 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  