-- Wall Street’s First Panic Shows Wisdom of Bagehot Rule
-- B y   R o b e r t   E .   W r i g h t
-- 2012-04-19T17:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/wall-street-s-first-panic-shows-wisdom-of-bagehot-rule.html
On April 19, 1792, a  Manhattan 
securities speculator named William Duer sought protection from
his creditors. Literally. A mob of several hundred of them
formed, seeking a rough form of justice.  “We will have Mr. Duer,” they chanted. “He has gotten our
money.” Not very catchy, even by the standards of the day. But
the mob dispersed only after the sheriff appeared and made clear
that he would protect Duer, with force if necessary.  In the days that followed, some creditors threw stones at
the walls of the debtors’ prison where the infamous speculator
was held. One creditor eventually made it inside with a brace of
pistols and challenged Duer to duel. Duer repaid the challenger
in cash on the spot.  Unable to satisfy his other creditors, whom in aggregate he
owed between $500,000 and $3 million (or roughly between $33
billion and $196 billion in 2012 dollars), Duer remained in
debtors’ prison almost until his death in 1799.  Duer was a victim of a classic asset bubble and his own
hubris. In the second half of the 1770s and the first half of
the 1780s, Americans had paid dearly for their independence from
 Great Britain  in both blood and treasure. By 1787, the national
government and most state governments were bankrupt, either in
outright default or making interest “payments” with IOUs.
 Interest rates  were high, the economy was in shambles and
government bonds were below investment grade.  Ratification and Reform  But ratification of the Constitution and the financial
program put into place by Treasury Secretary  Alexander Hamilton 
shifted sentiment and conditions 180 degrees.  By the early 1790s, the credit of the national government,
which had bailed out the states by taking over their wartime
debts, was rising fast. Interest rates plummeted as the entire
economy hummed for the first time since the French and Indian
War.  Before long, some investors were borrowing heavily from
banks to finance speculation in  government bonds  and the shares
of the nation’s new (and mostly private) central bank, the Bank
of the United States.  Sensing the opportunity of a lifetime, Duer resigned from
his post as assistant to the Treasury secretary and joined the
game. He tried to gain control of the Bank of New York (now the
 Bank of New York Mellon ) by buying shares, apparently intending
to pilfer it to fund an attempt to corner the U.S. bond market.  It was a bold plan, but it was ultimately thwarted by other
speculators and a change in monetary policy.  As government-bond and equity markets soared in early 1792,
Hamilton and Thomas Willing, president of the Bank of the United
States, encouraged banks to curtail lending -- especially to
known speculators, of which Duer was the most notorious.  Suddenly crimped for cash and still a long way from
controlling the Bank of  New York , Duer began to sell IOUs at
steep discounts to just about everybody, including, according to
a contemporary observer, “merchants, tradesmen, draymen, widows,
orphans, oystermen, market women, churches and even common
prostitutes.”  When Duer soon defaulted, visitors to Manhattan reported
that they “scarcely entered a house” in which they “did not find
the woman in tears and the husband wringing his hands.”  As panic rippled through the money centers of New York,
Philadelphia and  Boston , the ill effects of Duer’s failure were
called “beyond all description.”  Pall of Uncertainty  With the prices of government bonds dropping by up to 25
percent in just a few days and bank stocks also falling rapidly,
many investors were hurt. Confident that stock and bond prices
would hold firm if not continue to rise, some had borrowed to
buy and now faced crippling losses when their loans fell due.
Because some 95 percent of retail transactions in early America
were on “book account,” storekeepers and other retailers worried
that many of their customers’ accounts would turn into “bad
debts.”  A pall of uncertainty began to hang over the entire
economy.  Yet, instead of considering Duer too big to fail or bailing
out his creditors, the government applied what would later be
called Bagehot’s Rule: It induced the banks to lend freely, but
at a penalty rate, to anyone who could post good collateral. It
did so by asking nicely, making promises and sharing its cash.  There were only a handful of banks in operation and
Hamilton was on especially good terms with two of them, the Bank
of the  United States  and the Bank of New York, both of which he
had helped to found. Willing had close ties to the Bank of  North
America  in Philadelphia, where he had served as president for a
decade. When the Bank of New York wavered, Hamilton, fearful
that it was extending itself too far, deposited government funds
and promised not to withdraw them until the panic subsided. He
also extended credit to merchant importers for the tariffs and
other duties they owed.  Solvent people and firms quickly resumed business as usual
and bankruptcies were dealt with as prescribed by law. In other
words, prudent business practices were encouraged and those that
posed systemic risks punished. Not surprisingly, more than 20
years passed before a crisis of similar magnitude struck again.  The  Federal Reserve  acted as a lender of last resort during
the scary days of 2008 and thereafter. It didn’t follow the
Hamilton-Bagehot rule when doing so, however. History suggests
that as a result it may have increased moral hazard -- and
perhaps the chances of another financial meltdown.  (Robert E. Wright is the Nef Family Chair of Political
Economy at Augustana College in  South Dakota  and the author of
numerous books, including, with David Cowen, “Financial Founding
Fathers: The Men Who Made America Rich.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To read more online from Echoes, Bloomberg View’s economic
history blog,  click here .  To contact the writer of this post:
Robert E. Wright at  robert.wright@augie.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  