-- Herz Billionaires Enriched by Puma Said to Eye WMF Pots and Pans
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-04-20T13:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/wmf-said-to-draw-interest-from-kkr-germany-s-herz-billionaires.html
Guenter and Daniela Herz, the
German billionaire siblings who amassed a fortune with coffee
and sneakers, are back investing at home as they weigh a bid for
one of the country’s most popular makers of pots and pans.  The pair are competing with bidders that include buyout
firms  KKR & Co. (KKR) , CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Bain Capital LLC
for  WMF Wuerttembergische Metallwarenfabrik AG (WMF) , according to
people familiar with the plan. WMF, whose lineup includes
wholesale coffee machines, cutlery and kitchen utensils, is
being sold by Swiss private-equity firm Capvis Equity Partners
AG, which owns 52 percent.  “WMF is a strong brand and they make an enormous margin
with professional coffee machines for hotels and businesses,”
said  Klaus Kraenzle , an analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie, who
doesn’t rate the company. “WMF would fit the Herz family well
should a brand philosophy be part of their strategy.”  A purchase by the Herz siblings, whose combined fortune of
$4.8 billion originated with German coffee and retailing chain
Tchibo GmbH, would return the pair to owning a well-known brand
name in  Germany  after they sold their stake in sporting
shoemaker Puma SE for a profit of more than half a billion euros
in 2007. Attempts to buy a stake in clothing retailer  Esprit
Holding Ltd. (330)  were unsuccessful.  Family Dispute  A sale of the Capvis stake in WMF will probably value the
German company at more than 500 million euros ($659 billion),
said people familiar with the matter, who declined to be
identified because talks are private.  Buying WMF would be the siblings’ most visible return to
the domestic investment scene after their Puma exit. Their only
purchase since has been a 40 percent stake in restaurant chain
Vapiano SE last year.  Guenter and Daniela Herz were bought out of Tchibo in 2003
by the rest of their family for about 4 billion euros. The pair
bought Germanischer Lloyd AG, a certifier of ships based in
Hamburg, in 2006. Their holdings are run out of Hamburg by the
Mayfair Vermoegensverwaltungs AG.  The five Herz siblings inherited the fortune of Tchibo
founder Max Herz before breaking up over different views on the
strategy for the family firm. Guenter, the oldest brother, who
led the company after his father’s death in 1965, joined his
sister Daniela.  The remaining siblings, Michael and Wolfgang and Joachim,
who died in 2008 in a motorboat accident, built the other axis
of the clan with the patriarch’s wife, Ingeburg, and their
holdings include a majority of  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the maker of Nivea
skin cream, as well as Tchibo.  Puma Windfall  Guenter and Daniela Herz parted ways with Tchibo in 2003,
and the two invested in Puma in 2005. They reaped proceeds of
more than half a billion euros two years later selling their
stake to French retailer  PPR (PP)  SA.  The remaining pair, Wolfgang and Michael, have also put
some of their money into coveted German brands, buying a stake
in luxury fashion house Escada AG. The foray failed after Escada
filed for bankruptcy in 2009, and the company is now owned by
Megha Mittal, the daughter-in-law of steel magnate Lakshmi.  WMF, based in Geislingen, said last month that Capvis may
seek an exit via a sale of its stake on the stock exchange or to
a third party. Fiba Beteiligungs & Anlage GmbH holds 37 percent,
and 11 percent is freely traded. Capvis gained a holding in WMF
in 2006, buying shares held by Deutsche Bank AG,  Munich Re  and
insurer  Wuerttembergische Lebensversicherung AG. (WLV)   The household goods company was founded in 1853, and WMF
had revenue of about 980 million euros last year and earned 44
million euros. When Capvis bought its stake, WMF had sales of
about 732 million euros. WMF employs about 6,000 people, who
make products including 299-euro all-steel kitchen knives and
Premium One cooking pots for 184 euros.  Zurich-based Capvis has hired Commerzbank AG,  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG)  and Lilja & Co. to manage the sale. Bids are due in
early May. Joerg Hass, a spokesman for WMF, declined to comment
on bidders, as did a spokesman for Mayfair.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  