-- World’s Richest Worth $1 Trillion on Billionaire List
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n
-- 2012-04-19T17:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/world-s-richest-worth-1-trillion-on-billionaires-index.html
The 40 richest individuals on Earth
lost a combined $6.2 billion yesterday as stocks dropped amid
disappointing U.S. earnings, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, a daily ranking of the wealthiest people.  Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal joined the index, which
doubled the number of billionaires it tracks yesterday.
Alwaleed’s fortune has increased 18.2 percent, or $3.2 billion,
this year, as shares of his  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , a diversified
investment group that is planning to build the world’s tallest
tower, rose 36 percent. The 57-year-old ranks 24th on the index
with a net worth of $20.5 billion.  “There is no secret to success,” Alwaleed said in an e-
mail sent from Saudi Arabia. “It is based on a sound investment
strategy, commitment and long-term vision.”  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York . The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  The expanded list was published with the release of new
billionaires profile pages in the Bloomberg Professional
service. The profiles feature a transparent analysis of how each
billionaire’s fortune was calculated.  Alwaleed’s fortune makes him richer than Google Inc. co-
founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin. Page ranks in 29th place
with $18.9 billion, while Brin ranks 32nd on the list compiled
by Bloomberg News. He is worth $18.7 billion.  Buffett, Zuckerberg  The combined wealth of the index is $1.1 trillion. The 40
billionaires have gained a combined $88.2 billion since the
beginning of the year.  Mexican telecommunications magnate  Carlos Slim , 72, remains
the richest person in the world, with a fortune of $68.8
billion, down $572.3 million for the day. Second is  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates , 56, with $62.7 billion, followed by
Warren Buffett, who’s worth $44.6 billion.  Buffett, 81, the chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said
in an April 17 letter to investors that he has been diagnosed
with stage 1 prostate cancer that is “not remotely life
threatening.”  Mark Zuckerberg , the 27-year-old founder of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
the world’s largest social-networking company, is 25th on the
ranking. Based on a roughly $100 billion valuation the Menlo
Park, California-based company was trading at in the private
market when it ceased trading April 3, Zuckerberg may be worth
$20.5 billion, or about 25 percent less than previous estimates,
once Facebook holds its initial public offering.  Tax Obligations  The reason: Facebook will issue more than 500 million
shares of its Class B stock at the offering, diluting
Zuckerberg’s ownership to 21 percent after he exercises 120
million options and sells about 42 million shares to cover the
tax bill associated with the gain from those options.  Lee Shau Kee, who has said he would swap 99 percent of his
wealth for 30 years of time, ranks 26th in the world and second
in  Hong Kong  with a net worth of $19.8 billion. Lee, 84, has
gained $2.6 billion this year after shares of Henderson Land
Development Co., the developer he founded, rose 17 percent.  Cheng Yu Tung, the third-richest person in Hong Kong, has a
net worth of $18.8 billion. The owner of  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery
Group Ltd. (1929)  and property company New World Development Co. Ltd.,
60, is ranked 30th in the world. His net worth is down 6.2
percent so far this year.  India, Australia  Lakshmi Mittal, the India-born chairman of  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,
the world’s biggest steelmaker, is in 28th place with $19
billion. In addition to his 41 percent stake in ArcelorMittal,
the 61-year-old London resident owns hundreds of millions of
dollars in U.K. real estate.  Gina Rinehart, the Australian mining heiress, is worth
$18.7 billion, putting her in 31st place on the index. Rinehart,
58, the daughter of the man who discovered the mines that made
Australia the world’s biggest iron ore exporter, owns perpetual
royalty rights to some of  Rio Tinto Ltd. (RIO) ’s Hamersley mines in
addition to other iron-ore and thermal coal deposits throughout
the country.  Three of her four children have taken legal action in an
effort to remove her as guardian of the family trust. Last
month, she lost a bid to keep details of the family litigation
private. Newly released documents indicate her four children may
have a stake worth as much as $4.7 billion in the trust.  Li Ka-shing , 83, ranks as the richest person in Asia with a
net worth of $23.9 billion.  Usmanov Tops Akhmetov  Ukrainian tycoon  Rinat Akhmetov , 45, ranks 36th. His $18
billion fortune is derived from closely held metallurgy, mining
and energy holdings owned through System Capital Management JSC.
In government auctions held between November 2011 and March
2012, Akhmetov’s DTEK Holdings Ltd. acquired control of
significant Ukrainian state coal and energy assets at prices
that helped push up his net worth up by more than $3.5 billion
since the auctions began.  Alisher Usmanov, the 58-year-old Muscovite who controls the
Metalloinvest metals and mining company and Digital Sky
Technologies, became Russia’s richest person after lucrative
technology investments in Facebook, Groupon and Zynga pushed his
fortune to $19 billion, up $1.6 billion this year.  Gennady Timchenko, who controls a portfolio of
international energy and oil trading assets, the largest of
which is a 45 percent stake in Gunvor Group Ltd., is worth an
estimated $12.1 billion. He became acquainted with Russian
President-elect Vladimir Putin in the early 1990s when Putin was
serving as deputy mayor of St. Petersburg. Putin also was
chairman of a judo club Timchenko co-founded.  Chocolate Empire  Michele Ferrero, who owns the closely held Ferrero SpA
chocolate empire, is Italy’s richest citizen with $21.9 billion.
Since 1949, he has been the family leader of the global
chocolate and confectionery company that makes Nutella, Tic Tac
and Ferrero Rocher.  Alberto Bailleres, the second-richest man in Mexico behind
Slim, is worth $18.5 billion. His net worth has soared $1.3
billion this year. While his most-valuable asset, Industrias
Penoles SAB, Mexico’s largest silver producer and a miner of
gold, has only gained 1 percent in 2012, Bailleres, 80, has
benefited from a strengthening currency. The Mexican peso is the
best performer among major currencies this year, up 5.7 percent
against the dollar.  Iris Fontbona, the matriarch of Chile’s richest family,
ranks 34th. Fontbona, her three children and two heirs from the
late Andronico Luksic’s previous marriage, control a combined
fortune of $18.4 billion. The family owns copper producer
 Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  and, through holding company  Quinenco SA (QUINENC) ,
interests in banking, beer and shipping.  40th Place  Jorge Paulo Lemann is the second-richest man in Brazil with
a net worth of $15.9 billion. He ranks last on the ranking.  The 72-year-old tripled his latest investment after he and
his partners at 3G Capital Inc. sold a 29 percent stake in
Burger King Holdings Inc. this month for $1.4 billion, valuing
the fast-food chain at $4.8 billion. As part of their 2010
leveraged buyout, 3G put up $1.5 billion in equity and loaded at
least $2.5 billion of debt onto the company’s balance sheet.  Carl Icahn didn’t make the cut. The activist investor, 76,
has a net worth of $15.6 billion based mostly on his stakes in
Icahn Holdings, a hedge fund he closed to outside investors in
2011, and publicly traded  Icahn Enterprises LP. (IEP)   Icahn last week sued  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , in which
he is the third-largest shareholder, demanding records related
to a $3.5 billion takeover offer by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. as
he seeks to start a proxy fight against Amylin’s board.  Ricardo Salinas , 56, also fell short. His stake in Grupo
Elektra SA plunged 25 percent in the past week, leaving him with
a net worth of $15.8 billion. The retail and banking
conglomerate posted its biggest two-day drop since at least 1994
as new Mexican stock-exchange rules threaten to cut the
company’s weight in the benchmark index. Salinas’s stake in the
company has dropped $4.4 billion since April 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Devon Pendleton in New York at 
 dpendleton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  