-- Myanmar Seeks Japan Debt Forgiveness in Tokyo Trip
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-20T10:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/myanmar-seeks-japan-debt-forgiveness-in-thein-sein-s-tokyo-trip.html
Myanmar President Thein Sein today
begins his first visit to  Japan  as head of state seeking a debt-
forgiveness deal that opens the way for his nation’s biggest
creditor to resume financing roads, bridges and ports.  Thein Sein and Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  will
discuss a “comprehensive solution” to resolving Myanmar’s debt
when they meet in  Tokyo  tomorrow, said Masaru Sato, assistant
press secretary at Japan’s foreign ministry. Japan pledged 403
billion yen ($4.9 billion) in loans to Myanmar between 1967 and
1987, according to foreign ministry data.  The nation of 64 million between  India  and  China  wants a
share of the investment that Japanese exporters have poured into
neighbor  Thailand , with Honda Motor Co. among companies
expressing interest. Thein Sein has overseen a shift toward
democracy over the past year that’s boosting the odds of re-
engagement with developed nations that limited trade with
Myanmar during five decades of military dictatorship.  “This is a first step” for strengthening business ties,
said Yoshito Asano, director of the government-affiliated  Japan
External Trade Organization  in Bangkok, referring to Thein
Sein’s trip and the debt talks. “Many companies have an
interest in Myanmar but so far there are not many concrete plans
to establish factories.”  Japan will aim to finance infrastructure projects in
Myanmar if the debt issue is cleared, Kimihiro Ishikane, a
deputy director of Asian affairs at the foreign ministry, said
on Nov. 16. Sato declined to comment on an Asahi newspaper
report that Japan will forgive 300 billion yen ($3.7 billion) in
yen-denominated loans.  Debt Compromise  Such an agreement would amount to about 60 percent of
Myanmar’s debt, according to Kei Nemoto, a professor
specializing in Myanmar at  Sophia University  in Tokyo. Cheap
wages, natural resources, historical ties and concern over
China’s influence in Myanmar makes the country important for
Japan, he said.  Policy makers “are now thinking that the time is right to
deepen engagement with Myanmar, otherwise Japan may lose in the
competition with other countries,” he said, noting that China,
India and South Korea have increased ties with the Southeast
Asian nation.  European Union governments will probably suspend most
sanctions against Myanmar to reward the country for progressing
from military rule toward democracy, an EU official said. The
decision will be confirmed by EU foreign ministers on
April 23, the official told reporters in Brussels today on
condition of anonymity.  The U.S. has announced that it will ease trade and
financial restrictions on certain sectors, without providing
details.  Regional Summit  Thein Sein plans to meet Noda after a regional summit
involving leaders from  Cambodia ,  Vietnam , Thailand and Laos. On
April 22, Thein Sein will visit  power plants  run by  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501)  and Electric Power Development Co., known as
J-Power, according to Japan’s foreign ministry.  Yangon, Myanmar’s largest city, had the cheapest wages
among 31 cities in  Asia , according to a Jetro survey last year.
Workers in the former capital earned less than $2 per day on
average, compared with $4 in Cambodia, $5 in Vietnam and $14 in
Thailand, it said.  Italian-Thai Development Pcl (ITD) , Thailand’s biggest
construction company, is pushing Japan to provide financing for
an $8.6 billion deep sea port and industrial estate in Dawei, a
Myanmar coastal town less than 300 kilometers (186 miles) from
Bangkok. The company has named Mitsubishi Corp. and Mitsui & Co.
as potential investors.  Top Investors  Japan, which occupied Myanmar during World War II, has
invested about $10 million in the country since 2008, compared
with more than $13 billion in Chinese outlays, according to the
Naypyidaw-based Central Statistical Organization. China,  Hong
Kong , Thailand and South Korea account for nearly all the $26
billion in foreign investment in Myanmar in that time, the data
show.  Honda is interested in building a motorcycle plant in
Myanmar, Hiroshi Kobayashi, president and chief executive
officer of Asian  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , told reporters in Thailand on
March 31. NTT Data Corp., the Tokyo-based provider of network-
system services, said yesterday it plans to form a subsidiary in
September that will have as many as 500 employees by 2017.  Japan initiated regular meetings with leaders of nations
along the Mekong River in 2009. The Mekong River runs through
Laos, Myanmar, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam from its source in
China’s Tibetan plateau, providing food, water and
transportation to more than 60 million people.  China has overtaken both the U.S. and Japan in trade with
the Mekong River nations over the past decade. Commerce between
China and the Mekong countries increased to $90 billion in 2010,
compared with $73 billion for Japan and $55 billion for the
U.S., according to United Nations  statistics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  