-- Ex-Wallabies Rugby Captain Michael Lynagh Is Stable After Stroke
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-19T03:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/lynagh-in-stable-condition-after-stroke-queensland-rugby-says.html
Michael Lynagh,  Australia ’s leading
points scorer in elite international rugby, is in a stabilized
condition in a Brisbane hospital after suffering a stroke, the
Queensland Rugby Union said.  Lynagh, 48, a World Cup winner in 1991, is undergoing tests
at the Royal Brisbane Hospital “in an effort to discover the
cause of the illness,” the union said in a statement today. He
was taken ill while visiting family.  Former Australia captain Andrew Slack, who wrote Lynagh’s
biography, said his former teammate and friend was being
monitored after having a “few visual issues.” Tim Horan,
another ex-teammate, said on his Twitter account that Lynagh was
to undergo a scan today and is “up and walking.”  “From what I understand he’s talking away and there’s
things we can be hopeful for,” Slack said in an interview with
Australia’s Fox Sports News. “It’s sad that it’s happened, but
we’re all looking for a good outcome.”  Former fly-half Lynagh, who made his debut for Australia at
age 20 in 1984, scored a record 911 points in 72 Tests for the
Wallabies before retiring in 1995 as the sport’s leading scorer.
His world record tally lasted until 1999, when it was surpassed
by Neil Jenkins of Wales.  At the 1991  World Cup , Lynagh scored a late try in a
quarterfinal against Ireland to give Australia a one-point
victory and kicked eight points in the Wallabies’ 12-6 win over
host  England  in the final.  He signed for Saracens in England in 1996 after the sport
went professional and retired two years later. He captained
Saracens to victory in the 1998 Tetley Bitter Cup, the club’s
first trophy in its 122-year history.  In April 2002, Lynagh joined the International Rugby Board
to assist with the global development and promotion of the sport,
though resigned in September that year. He’s since worked in
marketing and as a rugby analyst for U.K. broadcasters including
 Sky Sports .  “This is a bolt from the blue,” Slack said. “He’s a
popular man. He’s a great person and was a great rugby player.
Because he’s got such a wide circle of friends it is a great
shock and a lot of people are very concerned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  