-- Lynas Counts Costs as World’s Largest Rare-Earths Plant Held Up
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-04-19T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/lynas-counts-costs-as-world-s-largest-rare-earths-plant-held-up.html
Lynas Corp. (LYC) , an Australian miner,
said it’s been “very seriously” impacted by delays in being
issued with a refining license in Malaysia where the first phase
of the world’s biggest rare-earths plant is nearing completion.  “We are ready to fire in about a fortnight,” Mashal Ahmad,
Lynas Malaysia Sdn.’s managing director, told reporters touring
the refinery in Southeast Asian nation’s eastern Pahang state
yesterday. “We cannot delay our production because our
customers are waiting for our product.”  The Sydney-based company, which Mashal said has already
spent 1.5 billion ringgit ($489 million) on construction and
equipment, can’t start importing raw materials from its Mount
Weld mine in  Western Australia  until it’s issued with a permit
by  Malaysia ’s Atomic Licensing Energy Board. The authority
agreed to grant a temporary operating permit in February subject
to certain conditions, though this has been held up due to
appeals by protestors to government and in court.  Malaysia won’t let Lynas operate if there is scientific
proof that it’s hazardous, the Malaysian Insider reported on
March 22, citing Prime Minister Najib Razak on the Chinese-
language radio station 988FM. Opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim 
said on Feb. 26 that his People Alliance coalition would scrap
the project if it wins the country’s next general election, due
by early next year.  “Yes, we will scrap the plant,” Fuziah Salleh, an
opposition member of parliament for Pahang’s capital Kuantan,
said in a text message to Bloomberg News. “We have the
political will to do so.”  iPod Players  Rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements, are used in
Apple Inc.’s iPod music players, flat-screen televisions,
magnets and hybrid cars.  Lynas’s Pahang plant would be the world’s largest refinery
of the minerals with total capacity of 22,000 tons per year
should a second phase be approved and completed, the company
said on Nov. 16. The miner, which has seen its  shares slide  50
percent in Sydney over the past year, plans to spend a total 2.5
billion ringgit on the two phases, Mashal said.  “For phase one, we have sold out 100 percent for the next
10 years,” he said. “This delay has impacted Lynas very
seriously.”  It wanted to start production in September last year. This
was delayed after the government imposed extra safety standards
recommended by an international review panel after residents
expressed fears over possible radiation and contamination.  Ministerial Review  Maximus Ongkili, Malaysia’s minister of science, technology
and innovation, heard an appeal this week by protestors
concerned over health and safety issues. The minister said on
April 17 he would announce the results of his review “as soon
as possible” after consulting experts and relevant authorities.  The miner maintains that the plant is safe. It doesn’t plan
to permanently store waste on site and has found a way to
commercialize it by turning into hard-core for use in  road
construction  and car parks, Mashal said.  The licensing board said in February that a temporary
license would be subject to certain conditions, including a plan
for permanent waste disposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Hong Kong  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 