-- Yuan Band May Challenge Companies, China Academic Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-19T04:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-19/yuan-band-may-challenge-companies-china-academic-says.html
The wider yuan trading band may
challenge Chinese companies trying to hedge against currency
risks amid “extremely easy” monetary policy in developed
nations, a senior government researcher said.  “ China  is determined to push forward market reform on the
 exchange rate ,” Zhang Yansheng of the National Development and
Reform Commission, the country’s top economic-planning agency,
said April 17 in an interview in Beijing. “On the other hand,
the reform also raises a big question: how to help companies,
banks, and the state find more tools to manage the foreign-
exchange risks.”  The People’s Bank of China doubled the yuan’s daily
floating band against the U.S. dollar as of April 16 in the
first widening since 2007, giving markets a bigger role in
deciding the exchange rate. Chinese officials have complained
that record monetary stimulus in the U.S. and other countries
has stoked excessive capital inflows to  emerging markets .  Volatility in the yuan’s exchange rate will increase as it
will now be more closely linked to a basket of currencies
instead of the  U.S. dollar , said Zhang, secretary-general of the
agency’s Academic Committee who previously headed the NDRC’s
institute for international economics.  “That means greater risks for companies” as they hedge
against currency fluctuations, he said. Companies are also
coping with “rampant” speculation in global foreign-exchange
markets, Zhang said.  The yuan weakened less than 0.1 percent today to 6.3065
against the dollar at 11:28 a.m. in  Shanghai .  Free-Trade Reversal  Some signs of reversal in global free-trade efforts may
also complicate China’s attempts to introduce market-oriented
changes in the yuan and the nation’s financial system, Zhang
said.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has indicated interest  rates  will
stay close to zero through at least late 2014, while the
 European Central Bank  cut its benchmark rate to a record low of
1 percent in December.  Overseas sales from China rose 8.9 percent in March,
compared with a 35.8 percent rise a year earlier, as fiscal woes
in  Europe  and a slowdown in U.S. job growth hurt demand for
Chinese products. The Asian nation in February registered the
biggest monthly trade  deficit  since at least 1989, easing
speculation for appreciation in the yuan.  China chose to widen the band when market expectations for
appreciation have eased, Zhang said. The decision came even as
exporters face increasing trade barriers from other nations and
shows the government’s commitment to slow  growth  and reduce
reliance on foreign trade, Zhang said.  Two-Way Volatility  Qu Hongbin, HSBC Holdings Plc’s chief China economist, said
the “appreciation story is over” and predicted greater two-way
volatility in the yuan following the April 14 announcement on
the trading band’s widening. The currency gained 4.7 percent
against the dollar in 2011 and about 24 percent in the five
years through December.  U.S. policies to encourage domestic manufacturers to return
to their home market are an example of growing protectionism as
countries try to keep jobs amid slow economies, Zhang said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has expanded on his proposals
for encouraging manufacturing and energy production, saying
companies must be rewarded for bringing jobs back from nations
including China. Obama has proposed requiring companies pay a
minimum tax for profit earned overseas.  Zhang said such steps “cannot go too far” and represent a
reversal from opening up markets. The U.S. should focus on
boosting services and high-technology production rather than
manufacturing things like textiles, he said.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Scott Lanman, Shiyin Chen  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  