-- L’Oreal Maintains Annual Targets as First-Half Profit Rises
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-08-29T17:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/l-oreal-maintains-full-year-targets-as-first-half-profit-rises.html
L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, said first-half earnings rose 7.7 percent and
confirmed its full-year targets as stronger sales in  emerging
markets  fueled improved profitability.  Operating income climbed to 2.04 billion euros ($2.7
billion), Paris-based L’Oreal said today in a statement after
markets closed. The median of eight estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was 2.03 billion euros.  Operating profit as a percentage of sales reached 17.4
percent, a record for a six-month period. The maker of
Maybelline is benefiting from growth in developing regions such
as Asia-Pacific and  Latin America . The company this month agreed
to buy  Magic Holdings International Ltd. (1633) , the top-selling
facial-mask brand in China, where Euromonitor estimates beauty
and personal-care product sales will expand 8 percent this year.  “We expect a modest positive share price reaction” to the
earnings, said Eamonn Ferry, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in
 London  with an outperform recommendation on the stock.  L’Oreal fell 0.4 percent to 122.4 euros in Paris today.  L’Oreal is confident in its ability “to once again
outperform the market and to achieve a further year of growth in
sales, results and profitability,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Paul Agon said in the statement.  The company said last month that global beauty-market
growth is slowing to about 3.5 percent to 4 percent annually.  Margin Expansion  Profitability widened in all divisions in the first half,
the company said. Margin expansion was led by gains in the
consumer-products unit, whose operating profit was 20.8 percent
of sales compared with 19.9 percent a year earlier.  “The mass cosmetics business had such a good margin, which
is pretty exceptional in staples,” said Rahul Sharma, managing
director of Neev Capital in London. Beauty is a category “where
you still have some pricing power,” while L’Oreal is benefiting
from its exposure to fast-growing markets, he said.  First-half  sales  rose 4.7 percent to 11.7 billion euros,
L’Oreal reported July 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  