-- A Post-Yucca Plan for Spent Fuel
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-29T16:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/a-post-yucca-plan-for-spent-fuel.html
During the half century that nuclear
energy has been in use, U.S. reactors have produced some 70,000
tons of spent fuel, most of which lies cooling in pools of water
at  power plants  across the country.  This is far from the end of the road for the used fuel
rods, which will remain radioactive for thousands of years. The
plan is to put them into enormous steel-and-concrete casks that
can eventually be entombed in a deep, sturdy repository --
specifically, as Congress decreed in 1987, Yucca Mountain in
Nevada.  That plan has long been delayed, however, as Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has led Nevadans in a fight against
having the burial site 100 miles northwest of  Las Vegas . In
2009, President  Barack Obama  lent them a hand by halting the
project, then cutting funding for it. Yucca Mountain is “not a
workable option,”  Obama declared , despite taxpayers having
already invested $15 billion in it, and despite the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission ’s safety review being incomplete.  A federal court has now ordered the NRC to finish that
review. Good idea. However, it’s hardly a guarantee that Yucca
Mountain will be developed into a nuclear-waste repository.
There’s a chance that the review will find the site unsafe.
Plus, Nevada will no doubt maintain its intransigence. And even
if it’s approved, Yucca wouldn’t open for 15 more years. The
problem will remain, with stores of spent fuel continuing to
soak in water at U.S. power plants.  Fortunately,  bipartisan legislation  just introduced in the
Senate by Democrat  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon  and Republican  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska  addresses these issues. Based on the work of
a  White House panel , it would create a better, more coherent
strategy for handling spent nuclear fuel. For one, it would
build one or more short-term storage facilities for “priority
waste” -- the fuel still left at plants that have closed or are
about to, such as the  Vermont Yankee  facility -- and start the
search for another permanent disposal site. This is critical
regardless of whether Yucca Mountain is developed: The growing
inventory of spent fuel will soon amount to more than could fit
inside Yucca.  What’s more, it would make site selection follow a
“consent-based” approach. Communities would be encouraged to
volunteer to host a site, perhaps in return for generous federal
funding for local public works and public services related to
nuclear waste storage. Such a voluntary approach has worked in
 Europe , and also in Carlsbad,  New Mexico , home to a  storage
place  for largely low-level radioactive waste from nuclear
weapons. Suffice it to say that this was not the approach taken
with the Yucca development.  The legislation would also ensure that funding be set aside
for fuel storage. Right now, the $750 million a year that the
 Department of Energy  collects from nuclear-plant operators for
the purpose of dealing with spent fuel gets tossed into the
federal pot, where politicians can direct how it is spent. (Reid
has used this tactic to stall work on Yucca Mountain.) The
Senate bill would create a separate fund in the Treasury for the
money -- as well as a separate agency for overseeing the
management of nuclear waste.  There is room for improvement. Three-fourths of all spent
fuel rods are still in water. The legislation could do more to
specify their care and treatment. In an ideal world, most of the
fuel would be placed in 20-foot-tall  casks  that are protected
from fire and easily transported. This is an expensive job --
each cask costs about $1 million -- but it’s one that the
federal government should undertake, particularly because it has
already collected $35 billion from the nuclear industry to deal
with spent fuel.  It’s a good thing that the Yucca Mountain saga appears to
be inching toward resolution. For those who believe, as we do,
that nuclear power is an essential component of America’s energy
future, this chapter’s close will be wasted if it doesn’t mark
the beginning of a wider effort to devise a sound strategy for
nuclear waste.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 