-- Abe Ally Favors Company-Tax Cut to Ease Sales-Levy Rise: Economy
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-08-29T03:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/abe-ally-favors-company-tax-cut-to-ease-sales-levy-rise-economy.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
coalition partner sees corporate-tax cuts as a way to counter
any economic fallout from a planned increase in a sales levy
aimed at shoring up the nation’s finances.  “A corporate-tax reduction is one method” of offsetting
the impact from a two-stage plan to double the  consumption tax ,
Tetsuo Saito, deputy secretary general of the New Komeito party,
said in an interview yesterday in  Tokyo . “The effective
corporate-tax rate needs to be lowered at some point, so an
early implementation is one option.”  Nomura Securities Co. says the corporate levy should be
cut, while the industry ministry this week said a reduction was
an “important issue.”  Bank of Japan  board member Yoshihisa Morimoto said today that  growth  will exceed its potential rate
even with a sales-tax increase, and  Japan  needs to maintain
trust in its finances to avoid higher yields on government  debt .  “It’s important for the government to raise the
consumption tax as scheduled to show its resolve in tackling
fiscal reconstruction,” said Saito, who heads Komeito’s tax
commission. “The government will also compile and submit an
extra budget to parliament at the start of the next session in
January to prop up the economy.”  Saito didn’t provide details about what other stimulus
could be included in a supplementary budget.  On coming to power in a landslide election victory in
December, Abe inherited a plan to raise the  sales tax  to 8
percent in April from the current 5 percent, followed by a bump
to 10 percent in October 2015.  Urging Caution  Abe advisers Etsuro Honda and Koichi Hamada have urged
caution on lifting the sales tax. Hamada this week called for an
incremental rise by 1 percentage point a year.  Both aides are appearing this week on panels to discuss the
effects of boosting the rate. Sixty people including economists,
executives and consumer advocates will give opinions to the
government on the panels sitting through Aug. 31.  Abe will make the final decision on the tax by early
October and plans to take into account both views of the panels
and data including revised gross domestic product for the second
quarter, due Sept. 9. A preliminary report on Aug. 12 showed the
economy expanded an annualized  2.6 percent  in that three-month
period.  Data released by Japan’s trade ministry today showed  retail
sales  fell 1.8 percent in July from the previous month, compared
with economists’ median estimate for a 1 percent decline. A
drop in auto sales contributed to the slide, the ministry said.  Auto Sales  “Auto sales have been on a slight negative trend over the
last few months as people are waiting to see what will happen
with the sales tax and what measures the government introduces
for the  auto industry ,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Tokyo and a former Bank of
Japan official.  She said that while the indicator is volatile,
consumption is still on a “mild recovery trend.”  Azusa Kato, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo, said
economic growth may slow this quarter.  “The recovery in consumption may lose momentum and exports
are looking a bit weak because demand in the emerging economies,
especially  China , is weakening,” she said. “Still, consumption
may rebound in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of next
year due to last-minute buying before the planned sales-tax
increase.”  Elsewhere in  Asia , the Philippine economy expanded above 7
percent for a fourth straight quarter, defying a regional
slowdown to cement its role as  Southeast Asia ’s best performer.  Europe  will see reports on French  business confidence ,
 unemployment in Germany  and  Denmark  and inflation in  Germany .
The U.S. government is likely to revise its estimate of second-quarter growth to a 2.2 percent annualized pace from a
previously reported 1.7 percent, based on the median projection
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  For Related News and Information:
Japan Sales-Tax Decision Due by Early October, Amari Says
Moody’s Ignored as Abe Tax Outlook Cuts Bond Risk: Japan Credit
Japan’s Below-Forecast Growth Fuels Sales-Tax Debate: Economy  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  