-- Lacker Says Fed Stimulus Will Remain After Bond Buying Slows
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-08-29T21:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/lacker-says-fed-would-still-be-boosting-stimulus-after-qe-taper.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy
this year, said the Fed would still be boosting stimulus even
after reducing its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  “I don’t view tapering as cutting back on  stimulus ,”
Lacker said today in response to audience questions after a
speech in Newport News, Virginia. The Fed is merely “reducing
the pace at which we are adding stimulus.”  The Federal Open Market Committee is considering whether
the U.S. labor market has improved enough to warrant scaling
back the monthly purchase of $45 billion in Treasuries and $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities. It should dial down its
buying of mortgage bonds before Treasuries so as not to favor a
specific part of the economy, Lacker said to reporters today
after his speech at Christopher Newport University.  If “we begin reducing purchases all the reduction should
come out of the MBS,” Lacker said to reporters. He voted
against stimulus at every FOMC meeting last year.  “I just don’t think it’s appropriate for us to be
channeling credit to one particular market,” he said.  Lacker said he doesn’t expect a significant pickup in the
economic expansion. Gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter, up from an initial
estimate of 1.7 percent, the Commerce Department said today.  “I just don’t see where an acceleration of growth is going
to come from,” he said. “I think growth is going to average
about 2 percent going forward.”  Stimulus Reduction  The labor market has shown sufficient improvement to meet
the FOMC’s criteria for a reduction in stimulus, Lacker said.
The committee began its third round of so-called quantitative
easing in September with the mortgage bond purchases, and added
the Treasury purchases in December. The committee has pledged
since then to continue the purchases until the labor market has
improved substantially.  “We’ve seen a substantial improvement in labor market
conditions since last September when we originated the
program,” Lacker said to reporters. “A good case can be made
that that condition has been met.”  Payroll growth during the past six months has averaged
200,000, compared with a 141,000 average in the six months
before September, when the FOMC announced a third round of bond
buying. Also, jobless claims fell to 320,000 in the week ended
Aug. 10, the least since October 2007.  The FOMC next month will probably reduce its bond buying,
according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The committee’s first step may be small, with monthly
purchases tapered by $10 billion to a $75 billion pace,
according to the median estimate in a survey of 48 economists
conducted Aug. 9-13. The Fed will probably end the buying by
mid-2014, they said.  Lacker, 57, dissented on FOMC decisions at all eight
meetings last year and doesn’t vote again until 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  