-- Alamos Thriving in Gold’s Rout Ready for Value Buys
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-03T12:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/alamos-thriving-in-gold-s-rout-ready-for-value-buys.html
(Corrects state in 13th paragraph, type of approval in
18th paragraph in story originally published Aug. 29.)  Alamos Gold Inc. (AGI)  is the best-performing gold stock since the metal entered a bear market in
April as the company benefits from low costs at its Mexican mine
and a cash pile that positions it to buy assets.  Alamos announced two acquisitions last month to add
projects in Mexico and the U.S. The company with a market value
of C$2.2 billion ($2.09 billion) has capacity for more deals and
is focused on assets it can buy, build and operate at low cost,
said Chief Executive Officer John McCluskey.  “We’re always looking, but we’re very much a value
player,” McCluskey, 54, said in an Aug. 26 telephone interview.
“We tend to be active when there’s more market uncertainty and
we tend to be active when others are less active.”  Alamos has risen 40 percent since April 11, the day before
gold entered a bear market, the most among 37 global gold miners
bigger than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Toronto-based company’s low production costs, strong balance
sheet and ability to pay for its growth internally make it a
“preferred name” among precious metals stocks, Dan Rollins, an
analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a note Aug. 12.  Twelve  analysts  including Rollins recommend buying the
stock, while there are five hold and no sell ratings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Alamos rose 1.1 percent to
C$17.30 at the close today in Toronto.  Mulatos Mine  Alamos forecasts output of 180,000 to 200,000 of gold
ounces this year from its only operating mine, Mulatos in
 Mexico . So-called all-in sustaining costs are expected to be
$785 to $825 an ounce, about 23 percent less than the average
$1,046 forecast by the three biggest Canada-based producers.  The company’s low costs mean it’s less affected by lower
gold prices, which probably helps Alamos’ share performance,
said David West, a Vancouver-based analyst at Salman Partners
Inc. Alamos has also avoided the writedowns that have rippled
through the sector, he said.  “Even in a situation where we had a falling gold price,
things were not really going to be affected at Alamos, Mulatos
is a low-cost producer,” West said by phone on Aug. 27. “I
think that investors really woke up to that fact: when
everything was hitting the fan it was steady as she goes at
Alamos.”  Gold miners including  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and Greenwood
Village, Colorado-based  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the two largest
producers by sales, have announced at least $26 billion of
writedowns in the past two months because assets became less
valuable as the price of the metal fell.  Production Boost  To be sure, companies including  Centerra Gold Inc. (CG) , also
based in Toronto, have risen more than Alamos as gold began to
climb again, West said. Gold, which reached a 34-month low of
$1,179.40 an ounce on June 28, has gained 15 percent in the
second half of the year. Gold futures in New York fell 0.4
percent to settle at $1,412.90 today.  McCluskey said he’d like to keep average all-in sustaining
costs close to $800 an ounce as Alamos adds production from new
mines.  “A good aim is to ramp the company’s production level up
into a range between 500,000 and 600,000 ounces and to be able
to sustain that from a number of operations,” he said. “I
would rather be a highly profitable medium-sized producer than a
very high-cost large producer.”  Esperanza Purchase  Alamos said July 12 it agreed to buy  Esperanza Resources
Corp. (EPZ)  to gain control of the company’s project in Mexico’s
Morelos state. The purchase for 85 cents a share valued
Esperanza’s equity at C$69.4 million, Alamos said. Esperanza
shareholders will also be issued Alamos warrants. The mine may
produce more than 100,000 ounces of gold a year, at average all-in sustaining costs of less than $900 an ounce.  The acquisition appeared uncertain after the state
government published a new law this month that refers to
restrictions on the use of cyanide, which is needed for the
processing plan at Esperanza.  Alamos, which initially said it was discussing the
implications with its advisers, is well-positioned to manage the
risks because it operates safely and successfully in Mexico
already, McCluskey said. The use of cyanide is regulated by the
federal government in Mexico, which is supportive of mining, he
said.  Alamos will probably need two years to prepare and submit
an environmental-impact assessment study for approval for
Esperanza, and would only expect to start production from the
mine in four or five years, he said.  Turkey Projects  The company is moving forward with development of projects
in  Turkey  that it acquired from  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  and Fronteer
Development Corp. in early 2010.  Alamos received final environmental-impact assessment
approval for the first mine, Kirazli, this month and expects the
operation will start production in the first half of 2015,
McCluskey said. Kirazli and the second project, Agi Dagi, have
the potential to raise annual output to more than 400,000 ounces
a year, he said.  The company expects to finance both Turkish mines and
Esperanza internally, he said. Alamos had  cash  of $466.4 million
at the end of June and no debt.  Since the purchase from Teck, Alamos went three years
without a deal before announcing an unsolicited offer of about
C$780 million for Aurizon Mines Ltd. in January this year. The
bid failed after Aurizon agreed to support an offer from  Hecla
Mining Co. (HL)  instead.  Alamos is focused on development projects rather than
producing assets, McCluskey said. He declined to comment further
on what he’s looking for in potential deals. The company, which
also said July 23 it agreed to buy Orsa Ventures Ltd. for about
C$3.5 million, still has room to add more assets, he said.  “We haven’t in any way filled our pipeline, stuffed it so
full that we can’t accommodate anything further,” McCluskey
said. “It’s just that finding projects that meet our hurdle
rates is not easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  