-- Malaysia Plans Projects-to-Subsidy Curbs to Contain Budget Gap
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-08-29T08:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/malaysia-plans-projects-to-subsidy-curbs-to-contain-budget-gap.html
Malaysia  said it plans to delay
infrastructure projects, cut subsidies and may start a
consumption tax, seeking to contain the  budget deficit  and
bolster a shrinking current-account surplus.  Public building projects with high import content are most
likely to be rescheduled,  Idris Jala , a minister in the Prime
Minister’s Department, told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. The
government may unveil plans to adjust subsidies as early as next
week and is trying to include a goods and services tax in its
2014 budget, said Mohd Irwan Serigar Abdullah, secretary general
at the  finance ministry .  Asia ’s policy makers are working to regain investor
confidence as the prospect that the U.S. will reduce stimulus
spurs outflows from the region, with  Indonesia ’s central bank
holding an unscheduled board meeting today. The ringgit has
fallen 7.9 percent this year, and  Fitch Ratings  cut Malaysia’s
rating outlook to negative last month, citing the Southeast
Asian nation’s rising debt levels and lack of budgetary reform.  “The market expects us to manage our  deficit  and balance
of payments in a way to ensure the market will have confidence
in the macro and fiscal management of this country,” Prime
Minister Najib Razak told reporters in Putrajaya, outside  Kuala
Lumpur . “The details relating to that will be announced when
appropriate.”  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has fallen 5.9
percent from a record on July 24.  Construction of a subway in Kuala Lumpur, the country’s
biggest infrastructure project, won’t be among those projects
held up, said Jala, who heads the government’s Performance
Management & Delivery Unit.  Rebates, Exemptions  Dialogues on the implementation of a goods and services tax
have been underway, said Najib, who is also finance minister.
“Whether this is included in the budget or not, we’ll have to
wait for the budget,” said the premier, who is due to deliver
his 2014 fiscal plans on Oct. 25.  GST would take 14 months from next year to implement if the
government goes ahead, Irwan said. To ease the public’s burden,
rebates would be given to some people and smaller companies, and
some essential items like rice and baby milk could be zero-rated,
he said.  A  consumption tax  is “a must, not an option,” said Irwan.
“We are trying our best to include it in this year’s budget.”  Malaysia is on target to lower its budget  deficit  to 4
percent of gross domestic product this year and to 3 percent in
2015, Irwan said. It aims to achieve a surplus in 2020, he said.  “The steps announced are reassuring and will help calm
fears about the large fiscal deficit and debt, and worsening
current-account position,” Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based
economist at Bank of America Corp., said by e-mail. “What will
probably help are also steps to address ballooning  government
spending  and operational costs, and not just tax increases.”  Current Account  The  current-account  surplus fell to 2.6 billion ringgit
($784 million) last quarter from 8.7 billion ringgit in the
previous three months as exports slumped, a decline that could
pressure the ringgit.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a report this month the
country had a “narrow” revenue base and “relatively high”
government deficits, state subsidy bills and debt.  The government spent 24 billion ringgit last year on fuel
subsidies for consumers and industries, Abdul Wahid Omar,
minister in the Prime Minister’s Department in charge of
economic planning, said in an Aug. 20 interview. He called this
“not sustainable.” It also ensured some food items were
available below market price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  