-- Alberta Urges Conservation as Hot Weather Boosts Power Prices
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-08-29T23:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/alberta-urges-conservation-as-hot-weather-boosts-power-prices.html
Alberta  power prices spiked to the
highest level in almost two months on above-average
temperatures, a drop in wind-generated power and the planned
outage of a transmission line from British Columbia.  The Alberta Electric System Operator asked citizens of the
Canadian province to voluntarily reduce electricity usage over
the Labor Day holiday weekend, when temperatures are expected to
be higher than normal, increasing demand for power to run air
conditioners. Labor Day falls on Sept. 2 this year.  Posted pool prices for Alberta  electricity  spiked to the
 maximum  C$999.99 (US$949.03) per megawatt hour in the early
afternoon hours from a low of C$11.76 in the early morning
hours. It last hit that level on July 2, according to data
posted on the Alberta Electric System Operator’s website.  Temperatures in  Calgary  in southern Alberta have been
higher than normal over the last few days, reaching a high of
27.5 degrees Celsius (81.5 degrees Fahrenheit) yesterday,
compared with a historical average of 20 degrees for this time
of year, according to Environment Canada.  “Our forecasts are indicating that supply on the grid will
be tight, and we anticipate that electricity consumption will be
high,” AESO Vice President of Operations Mike Law said in a
statement. “We are asking Albertans to help decrease overall
demand on the grid by voluntarily reducing their use of
electricity.”  A combination of warm weather, lack of wind and an outage
on the intertie from British Columbia that provides Alberta with
its largest source of imported electricity helped to reduce the
supply of power, AESO said.  Demand for power exceeded the operator’s forecasts for most
of the day, with consumption exceeding the estimate by as much
as 225 megawatts during the 7 a.m. hour local time, according to
AESO  data .  Environment  Canada  expects maximum temperatures to cool
into the low-20s tomorrow and Saturday before returning to the
mid-to-high-20s into next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  