-- Alberta Lifts Oil Price Forecast in Budget Update
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-08-29T17:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/alberta-revises-oil-forecasts-higher-in-provincial-budget-update.html
The province of  Alberta  raised its
forecast for the price of oil, which may help to narrow its
annual  budget deficit , Finance Minister Doug Horner told
reporters today.  West Texas Intermediate crude will average $94.81 a barrel
in the fiscal year that began April 1, budget update documents
show. The price of Western Canada Select, the benchmark heavy
crude exported from Alberta to the U.S., will average C$74.51 a
barrel ($70.89), up from an earlier forecast of C$68.21. Alberta
 predicted  its deficit will range between C$1.2 billion to C$2
billion this year, from a previous estimate of C$1.98 billion.  “First-quarter operational revenue was up thanks to rising
energy prices,” Horner told reporters on a call from  Edmonton ,
referring to the three months that ended June 30.  Higher rail shipments of oil are mitigating a shortage of
export pipelines that reduced Alberta crude prices and helped
widen the spread between WCS and WTI crudes to a record $42.50 a
barrel in December. The  spread  has averaged $21.51 a barrel this
year, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  The provincial government is still assessing the budget
impact of reconstruction spending from record June flooding in
southern Alberta and has spent C$148 million to date of an
initial C$1 billion it committed for relief, according to
documents. The government estimated the total bill to the
province, federal government and insurance companies from floods
at about C$5 billion.  Alberta gets about one-third of its revenues from royalties
and taxes on oil and natural gas production.  The province did C$494 million of direct borrowing in the
first three months of the fiscal year, compared with the C$798
million forecast in the budget.  Economic growth in 2013 will be 3.1 percent, the government
projects, up from the prior 2.9 percent outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  