-- AMR Regional-Jet Order Delayed as Suit Imperils Financing
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-08-29T21:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/amr-regional-jet-order-delayed-as-suit-imperils-financing.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ) ’ pending order for
larger regional jets has been delayed by a U.S. lawsuit seeking
to stop the merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  that would allow
the carrier to exit bankruptcy.  An agreement to buy a “substantial” number of planes was
near when the U.S. Justice Department sued to block the US
Airways deal on Aug. 13, AMR Corp.’s American said in a court
filing, which didn’t specify its supplier.  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  said in
July that it was in talks for an order of 76-seat jets.  Bigger, more-fuel efficient regional aircraft are part of
Fort Worth, Texas-based American’s plan to cut operating costs
by shedding models with 50 or fewer seats. Backstop financing
from the manufacturer and favorable export credit funding are
only available upon leaving court protection, the airline said.  “Any alternative financing for a company still in
bankruptcy would almost certainly be under considerably less
favorable terms, and would result in additional costs to
American,” the airline said yesterday in the filing.  Michael Trevino , an American spokesman, declined to confirm
a pending order with Sao Paulo-based Embraer. Calls left with
Embraer after regular business hours in Brazil weren’t
immediately returned.  American and Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways expected to
close their merger by the end of September before the U.S.
challenge was filed.  The case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  