-- Mantega Fails to Commit to Fiscal Tightening Amid S&P Alert
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2013-08-29T20:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/mantega-fails-to-commit-to-fiscal-tightening-amid-s-p-alert-1-.html
 Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega  failed to commit to tightening fiscal policy when
presenting the 2014 budget, overlooking a warning by  Standard &
Poor’s  that deteriorating government accounts may result in a
downgrade.  Mantega said it was too early to define the government’s
primary surplus goal, a gauge for the level of spending. The
minister said he could cut as much as 58 billion reais ($24
billion) from the primary budget surplus target, which excludes
interest payments and could fluctuate from 2.1 percent of gross
domestic product to 3.2 percent for 2014. The government may
reduce the target if states and cities failed to meet their
share, he said.  “We will come up with the best possible fiscal result,”
Mantega said when asked by reporters whether he could ensure
primary surplus of at least 2.1 percent of GDP. “We are
committed with the best possible primary.”  Standard & Poor’s put  Brazil ’s BBB credit rating on
negative outlook in June, saying the move was triggered by a
third year of “modest” economic growth, “weaker” fiscal
policy and a deterioration in the government’s credibility.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has reduced taxes,
granted off-budget loans to state banks to boost lending, and
increased public works in a bid to buoy a slowing economy. GDP
expanded 0.55 percent in the first quarter from the end of 2012,
down from 0.64 percent growth in the fourth quarter.  Last year, the government tapped dividends of state
companies and its sovereign wealth fund and discounted some
investments from its fiscal goal to meet its target. Mantega was
called to appear before Congress to explain the use of so-called
creative accounting.  Lack of Transparency  Mantega’s 2014 budget forecast displays the same lack of
transparency as the past, showing the government is not
responding to the threat of a sovereign ratings downgrade,
according to Mansueto Almeida, an economist at the government
institute for applied economics, IPEA.  “The government’s maintaining the exact same measures, and
not reacting at all,” Almeida said by phone from Brasilia.
“Absolutely nothing changed. I’d prefer a clear, credible goal
rather than giving 3.2 percent and saying they could discount.”  The central bank in the minutes to its July meeting said
 government spending  was expansionary.  Policy makers are implementing the biggest interest rate
increase among major economies tracked by Bloomberg in a bid to
slow inflation that twice this year has breached the 2.5 percent
to 6.5 percent target range. Policy makers lifted borrowing
costs by 50 basis points to 9 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  