-- Asian Stocks Rise From 2-Month Low as Oil Explorers Gain
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-08-29T11:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/asian-stocks-rise-from-two-month-low-led-by-raw-material-shares.html
Asia’s  benchmark stock index  rose
from a two-month low as energy shares increased after concern
that military action against  Syria  will disrupt global oil
supplies fueled gains in crude prices this week.  Inpex Corp., Japan’s biggest energy explorer, advanced 5.2
percent after oil climbed to a two-year high yesterday.  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  jumped 14 percent as Australia’s biggest carrier
doubled profit. China Mengniu Dairy Co., the country’s largest
dairy producer, soared 6.4 percent after increasing first-half
earnings by 16 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent to 129.91 at
7:53 p.m. in  Tokyo  as eight of gauge’s 10 industry groups
gained. The measure lost 2.4 percent this month through
yesterday,  wiping out  its 2013 advance. Investors are also
awaiting a report on U.S. economic growth that may give signs on
when the  Federal Reserve  will start paring stimulus.  “I suspect we will see some stabilization today, but
there’s still a lot of caution because the problem is not just
Syria,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment
strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which oversees $131
billion. “There’s a combination of fears that the U.S. Federal
Reserve will start paring monetary stimulus and at the same time
underlying fundamentals in Asian countries are looking less
attractive than they have for many years.”  Syrian Concern  Investors are watching the  Middle East  after the U.S. and
the U.K. yesterday said they are prepared to take military
action against Syria, without authorization from the  United
Nations Security Council , after the concluding the regime was
responsible for a chemical weapons attack against its people.  West Texas Intermediate oil for October delivery gained 1
percent to $110.10 yesterday, the highest close since May 3,
2011, before retreating today. Inpex gained 5.2 percent to
454,500 yen. China Oilfield Services Ltd., a contractor for the
nation’s offshore energy industry, added 3.1 percent to
HK$19.70.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.2 percent
after the measure rebounded 0.3 percent yesterday from an eight-week low as energy shares surged. A report today on second-quarter U.S. economic growth is expected to show 2.2 percent
expansion in the second quarter, according to a Bloomberg
survey. The government had earlier estimated a 1.7 percent gain  “We’re looking toward the U.S. GDP number to gauge the
mood for tapering,” said Evan Lucas, a market strategist at IG
Ltd. in  Melbourne . “A positive read would suggest tapering is
coming, but a bad number will hold it off, and that’s why at the
moment there’s isn’t a huge direction coming out of the macro-economic data to suggest what will happen at the September
meeting.”  Regional Gauges  Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  index rose 0.2 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
Index gained 1.2 percent as a report showed the nation’s current
account surplus narrowed in July. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
gained 0.2 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.1
percent.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.8 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.2 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index
increased 1.2 percent. Singapore’s Straits Times Index added 1.1
percent, halting its longest losing streak since 2002. India’s
S&P BSE Sensex advanced 2.3 percent.  Qantas Earnings  Qantas surged 14 percent to A$1.40 in Sydney after it
doubled profit in the year through June as its Emirates tie-up
and cancellation of some unprofitable international routes cut
long-haul losses. The share advance was the  biggest  since 2006.  China Mengniu Dairy advanced 6.4 percent to HK$31.75 in
Hong Kong after increasing first-half earnings as tie-ups with
foreign milk producers helped reassure customers its products
were safe.  PetroChina Co. and  Kunlun Energy Co. (135)  rebounded from
yesterday’s plunge after PetroChina said it would ensure its
subsidiary’s stability amid antigraft investigations. PetroChina
gained 1.8 percent to HK$8.42 and Kunlun rose 2.6 percent to
HK$11.16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  