-- Maurel Sees Gabon Output Rising After Operating Income Jumps
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-08-29T10:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/maurel-sees-gabon-output-rising-after-operating-income-jumps.html
Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA (MAU) 
reported a 29 percent jump in first-half operating profit due to
higher output in Gabon, where the French explorer is planning
new wells to raise production by year-end.  Operating income climbed to 111 million euros ($147
million) compared with 86 million euros a year earlier, the
Paris-based company said in a statement. The explorer had a net
loss of 8.5 million euros, compared with 32 million euros profit
previously, because of a provision on its stake in Tuscany
International Drilling, exploration well failures in the
Republic of Congo, and after it relinquished two permits.  Gabonese output, which rose 36 percent to 27,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day in the period, should surpass 30,000
barrels a day next year, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Henin said on a conference call.  Maurel is moving into riskier exploration and
unconventional projects in  Canada , Myanmar and  Iraq  in a bid to
boost reserves, Henin has said. The explorer, in which he has a
24 percent stake, has struggled to raise output and make new
discoveries since selling Congolese fields to  Eni SpA (ENI)  in 2007.
Henin has tried to sell or find partners to bolster Maurel’s
size.  “We have worked on this for three years and we have not
been able to reach a conclusion,” Henin said today about a
potential tie up with another company. “One difficulty we have
is being listed in Paris. We are undervalued  compared  with our
peer companies listed in  London . We are still discussing with
potential partners.”  Shares Rise  The shares rose as much as 1.9 percent and were trading 18
cents higher at 12.58 euros at 12:05 a.m. in Paris.  Maurel expects to have ‘significant’ free cash flow at the
end of 2014, according to Henin. About 15 percent of  cash flow 
from production will be invested in exploration.  “A sizeable increase of the dividend is more for 2015 than
for 2014,” Henin said.  Over the past three months, Maurel has announced the
acquisition of stakes offshore Myanmar, the Alberta oil sands in
Canada and a deal to explore and develop unconventional reserves
in the Gaspe region of  Quebec . Maurel may also get permits in
Iraq through investment unit, Saint-Aubin Energie, it said.  Maurel confirmed an output target in Gabon of 27,500
barrels a day for this year and plans to add production wells at
the Ombg and Omko fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  