-- Austerity Test Looms in Australia as Abbott Pledges Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-30T00:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/austerity-test-looms-as-abbott-pledges-cuts-in-slowing-australia.html
Tony Abbott  as health minister gave
an “iron-clad” guarantee not to reduce government assistance
for medical bills before the 2004 election. Soon after the vote,
he buckled when the Cabinet dumped his pledge as too costly.  Nine years later, as front-runner heading into  Australia ’s
Sept. 7 election, Abbott’s policy resolve soon may be challenged
again, this time across the world’s 12th biggest economy. His
Liberal-National coalition’s plan to cut taxes and red tape,
outlined in a telephone interview yesterday, will run up against
11-year high unemployment and record sovereign debt.  “Politically, it’s always good to do the cutting at the
beginning of a government,” said Bob Gregory, a professor at
 Australian National University  in Canberra and central bank
board member from 1985 to 1995. “But unfortunately the timing
of this is really bad because it will be happening as the
economy is starting to slip.”  The global austerity debate is playing out locally as two
decades of  growth  are threatened by  China ’s slowing and the
resulting cooling of Australia’s mining-investment boom. Abbott
and Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , both 55, have embraced similar
policies on issues including education, disability care and
immigration, leaving economic management as the defining
difference.  Whether Abbott as prime minister proves to be an economic
rationalist committed to smaller government or a policy
pragmatist prepared to ditch ideology as needed could define the
nature of his government, should polls prove accurate.  Economic Divide  The coalition leads Labor 53 percent to 47 percent on a
two-party preferred basis, according to a Newspoll published in
the Australian newspaper Aug. 26, which factors in preference
votes. The swing to the opposition from the 2010 election -- if
uniform across the nation -- would deliver about 12 additional
seats, giving it 84 in the 150-member parliament.  Labor has lost support in its traditional heartland of
Western Sydney, with a Newspoll conducted Aug. 23-28 of five
electorates in the region showing the coalition leading 57
percent to 43 percent on the two-party preferred measure. Abbott
leads as the better prime minister, 46 percent to Rudd’s 40
percent. The poll of 800 voters has a margin of error of 3.5
percent.  While “wary of tags,” Abbott said yesterday he’s a
pragmatist who believes values must be tested in the real world.  ‘Conservative Incrementalist’  “I have described myself as a pragmatist, but I’ve talked
about pragmatism based on values,” Abbott said in the interview
from  Melbourne . “I’ve described myself as a conservative
incrementalist. The free market has been the best engine for
generating wealth that mankind has yet devised. It’s possible to
think that we have to be pragmatic and at the same time be a
strong supporter of markets.”  The coalition has promised to abolish Labor’s carbon and
mining levies and lower the business-tax rate while funding a
A$5.5 billion ($4.9 billion) per year maternity-leave program.
It plans to reduce the civil service by at least 12,000
positions, lower subsidies for automakers and cancel handouts to
parents of school children.  Rudd says Abbott’s cutbacks could tip Australia into
recession. Labor has promised additional assistance for the
nation’s floundering car industry, proposed a lower tax zone for
northern Australia and a high-speed rail network linking
Australia’s most populous cities.  Wider Deficit  The Treasury said Aug. 13 the  budget deficit  will widen as
growth slows and unemployment rises to 6.25 percent by mid next
year, from 5.7 percent in July. Government debt will peak at
A$370 billion in April 2016, the Treasury projected.  Australia’s 2013-14 deficit will amount to 1.9 percent of
gross domestic product, according to the Treasury. That compares
with a U.S. deficit equivalent to 5.4 percent of the economy in
2014,  Japan ’s shortfall of 7 percent and the euro area’s gap of
2.6 percent of GDP in the period, according to the International
Monetary Fund’s fiscal monitor in April.  The coalition has pledged a budget surplus equal to 1
percent of GDP within a decade.  John Hewson, who led the Liberal party from 1990 to 1994
and employed Abbott as a media adviser at the time, said the
coalition leader “will be more on the austerity end of the
spectrum” and expects he’ll stick to his policy proposals.  Abbott has shown “discipline, not a flighty capacity to
bounce some issues and make policy on the run,” Hewson said.
“I think it’s that discipline that will probably be his
defining characteristic.”  ‘Golden Age’  The lack of wealth flowing from the mining boom to
Australia’s eastern seaboard and impact of the currency’s
sustained strength on service and manufacturing companies there
has led to rising job insecurity. Abbott has sought to tap that
malaise with pledges he would return to the type of policies
advocated during former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s “Golden
Age” of 1996 to 2007.  In its final six years, Howard’s coalition recorded  budget
surpluses  totaling A$81.6 billion as the nation’s mining boom
gathered pace. The Labor government’s six consecutive deficits
total A$221.8 billion for the period encompassing the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and global recession. Australia
was alone among major developed economies in avoiding recession
as Rudd delivered a A$42 billion stimulus package of cash
handouts, building programs and homebuyer incentives.  The government has turned its inherited surplus “into
deficits stretching out as far as the eye can see,” Abbott said
in Brisbane on Aug. 25, starting the party’s formal election
campaign. “We can’t afford another three years like the last
six.”  Cabinet Experience  It was in his time in Howard’s Cabinet that Abbott, a
practicing Catholic, made his back-down on the threshold at
which government assistance for medical bills kicked in.  “I had to decide what was more important, the repudiation
of my statement before the election or the continued political
cohesion of the government,” he said in July 2007, according to
the Sydney Morning Herald. “I concluded that, given there was
nothing intrinsically wrong with the change in policy except
that it made me look like a goose, for me to resign would be a
dummy spit rather than a statement of principle.”  The coalition’s parental leave plan, which offers a new
parent earning less than A$150,000 as much as A$75,000 over six
months, shows Abbott doesn’t follow Howard’s market-liberal
stance, said Haydon Manning, a politics professor at Flinders
University in Adelaide.  Ruffling Feathers  “The question ultimately, is the degree to which he will
ruffle the feathers of the economic rationalist members of his
cabinet and party room,” Manning said. “He’s come out of the
notion of Catholic social justice, which of course is skeptical
of full-blown markets and capitalism.”  Abbott stands to take office with the  benchmark interest
rate  at 2.5 percent, the lowest on record. In minutes of this
month’s meeting released in Sydney on Aug. 20, the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia said the currency’s direction will be important in
setting policy and signaled further rate cuts remain a
possibility. The Australian dollar traded at about 89.20 cents
in Sydney.  One of the key differences between the typically pro-business coalition and union-affiliated Labor has historically
been industrial relations. At the 2007 election, Labor
campaigned against Howard’s “Work Choices” policy that
scrapped some worker safeguards. Upon forming government, it
legislated the “Fair Work Act,” which gave unions more power.  Cost Blowouts  Executives including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Chairman Jacques Nasser say the policy has tilted too far in the favor of unions,
causing cost blowouts on resources projects.  The coalition plans to re-establish a watchdog for the
building industry, the Australian Building and Construction
Commission, which could help overcome union resistance at
projects like  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s A$52 billion Gorgon project.  Abbott hasn’t released full costings of his promises as he
seeks to make himself a small target to keep voters’ attention
on the government, a strategy followed by opposition leaders
since Hewson’s 1993 campaign on  tax reform  backfired. Former
ministerial colleagues including  Peter Costello , the nation’s
longest serving treasurer, have questioned Abbott’s resolve on
policy areas such as workplace reform.  “The interesting issue is whether Abbott is really a
right-wing conservative,” said ANU’s Gregory, who has studied
the nation’s economy for almost half a century. “There is a
view around that he’s a populist. That when it comes to the
crunch, he’ll back off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  