-- Australia’s NRL Suspends Player for Peptide Use, Trafficking
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-29T14:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/australia-s-nrl-suspends-player-for-peptide-use-trafficking.html
The National Rugby League said it
suspended Canberra Raiders winger Sandor Earl and issued him
with an infraction notice in regard to an investigation into the
use of performance-enhancing drugs in the sport.  Earl, 23, made admissions about the use and trafficking of
the peptide CJC-1295, an amino acid peptide that can function as
a growth hormone, and other prohibited substances when
interviewed by the Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority this
week, NRL Chief Executive Officer Dave Smith said yesterday.  “Sandor has accepted an immediate provisional suspension
for breaches of the league anti-doping policy,” Smith said in a
televised news conference in Sydney. “We’ll work through the
charges with Sandor and his lawyers over the next 10 days.”  New Zealand-born Earl, who can elect to go to a tribunal or
accept a penalty handed down by the league, is the first NRL
player to be charged since the probe began in February and faces
a minimum four-year ban if found guilty of trafficking. He has
signed to play for French rugby union team Pau in 2014.  Smith said Earl had agreed to continue to assist the ASADA
investigation and was seeking the benefit of substantial
assistance provisions for doing so, meaning he could get a
reduced ban if he supplies information implicating others.  ASADA’s rugby league probe has centered on the Cronulla
Sharks and their 2011 supplements program, though investigators
have also interviewed players and officials from other teams
following an Australian Crime Commission report in February that
found common use of prohibited substances including peptides and
illicit drugs across multiple sports in  Australia .  “Everyone should be in no doubt that ASADA is continuing
its investigations and that we will continue to work closely
with them,” Smith added. “We do not have evidence at this
stage that would warrant any further action against any
individual or club.”  Three days ago, the Australian Football League banned the
Essendon Bombers from this year’s finals series and handed the
club an unprecedented A$2 million ($1.8 million) fine over a
supplements program that was also investigated by ASADA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  