-- Inspections Target Fracked U.S. Crude Shipped by Rail
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-08-29T16:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/bakken-blitz-crude-inspections-target-oil-by-rail-safety.html
U.S. rail-safety regulators began a
“Bakken blitz” of inspections of crude oil tank cars this week
as they seek to prevent a railroad disaster in the U.S. similar
to July’s fatal inferno in Quebec.  Inspectors from the U.S. Federal Railroad Administration
and Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration are
examining rail cars moving crude from North Dakota’s Bakken
region, Cynthia Quarterman, PHMSA administrator, told reporters
today during a break in a  Washington  meeting to discuss U.S.
rail safety risks.  Crude produced by hydraulic fracturing in the Bakken was
being hauled by a train that rolled away while parked overnight
and crashed into Lac-Megantic, triggering an explosion that
killed 47 people July 6. U.S. regulators are carrying out the
inspections to make sure shippers are properly identifying the
cargo in the rail tank cars from the region.  Hazardous materials regulations require tank cars to carry
placards telling railroads and emergency responders what’s
inside.  “We believe there’s risk,” Federal Railroad Administrator
Joseph Szabo said. “Most grades of crude would not be that
volatile.”  Known internally as “Operation Classification,”
regulators began planning the surprise inspections in March,
before the  Quebec  accident, after employees in the field noticed
“inconsistencies with crude oil classification,” PHMSA said in
an e-mailed statement.  Volume Doubled  The volume of crude oil moved by large U.S. railroads more
than doubled in the second quarter from the same period a year
earlier, the Association of American Railroads said today. U.S.
railroads originated 108,605 carloads of crude in the quarter
ended June 30. That’s a U.S. record for rail shipments in a
quarter as oil production increases in North America and rail
gains in popularity over pipelines as a means of transport.  The association, based in Washington, estimates railroads
carry 11 percent of U.S. crude oil production. The group’s
members include Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  LLC, owned by
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , and  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. railroad by track miles.  The inspection blitz will continue as long as regulators
deem it necessary, Quarterman said. Examinations are occurring
where crude is loaded and at its destinations, she said.  “Our big concern is that what is in the tank car is what
they say is in the tank car,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  