-- Bank Crackdown in Sweden Frustrates Payout Hopes: Nordic Credit
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-08-29T13:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/bank-crackdown-in-sweden-frustrates-payout-hopes-nordic-credit.html
Investors will need to reverse bets
that  Sweden’s banks  -- among  Europe ’s best-capitalized -- will
have enough spare cash to dish out bigger dividends or buy back
shares.  “The expectations of share buybacks and special dividends
have clearly come down,” Johan Ekblom, a bank analyst at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, said in a phone interview. “The
rhetoric by politicians shows they don’t want to see” such
payouts. “They want to put pressure on the banks,” he said.  Sweden ’s government this week unveiled the biggest
clampdown on banks since November 2011, when it told lenders to
target some of the world’s strictest capital standards. After an
Aug. 26 announcement that banks will need to hold more core Tier
1 capital of risk-weighted assets than the 12 percent due to be
enforced by 2015, Financial Markets MinisterPeter Norman
yesterday criticized lenders for targeting a 15 percent return
on equity, a level he said encouraged risk-taking.  Bank shares sank this week.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Sweden’s
biggest bank by market value, fell for three consecutive days,
and had lost 5.3 percent as of yesterday’s close since the
government made its announcement on Monday.  Capital Uncertainty  Five-year credit-default swaps on Nordea’s senior unsecured
debt rose to 70 basis points for the first time since July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference in the
bank’s default swaps relative to similar contracts on the
Swedish government widened to 53 basis points from 47 earlier in
the month.  “All these comments once again show that uncertainty
regarding bank  capital requirements  will remain for a while
more,” Ekblom said. “It’s nothing that will disappear this
year.”  Norman argues stricter bank controls are necessary to
protect Swedes from a financial industry that’s grown to four
times the size of the $540 billion economy. The measures will
target banks that investors in bonds,  credit derivatives  and
shares have treated as some of Europe’s safest.  Nordea Bank AB,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and
SEB AB already hold more than 12 percent core Tier 1 capital.
Handelsbanken reported core equity at 17.8 percent of its risk-weighted assets, under Basel III rules, at the end of June. That
prompted speculation the banks would have enough reserves to
step up dividend payments.  Dividend Guidance  Norman and Swedish Finance MinisterAnders Borg warned
banks last year not to raise dividend payments and instead focus
on increasing capital buffers further. Norman in January revised
that guidance and told banks they were free to raise payouts
after building reserves that exceeded regulatory minimums.  “We had the discussions about dividends when the banks had
very low capital,” Norman said yesterday. “The banks have now
done what we wished, in other words, stashed away above the
thresholds we ourselves have established, so the situation is
somewhat different.”  Nordea is seen increasing its  dividend for 2013  by 18
percent to 0.4 euro while Swedbank is expected to raise its
payout to shareholders by 5.1 percent to 10.4 kronor, according
to Bloomberg dividend forecasts. Handelsbanken and SEB are
projected to raise their payouts by 4.2 percent to 11.2 kronor
and by 3.6 percent to 2.85 kronor, respectively.  Buffer Levels  Nordea’s core Tier 1 capital ratio was 13.1 percent under
Basel III at the end of the second quarter, allowing
Scandinavia’s biggest bank to target a dividend payout in excess
of its current target of 40 percent of net income, Chief
Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said on July 17. The bank
will “most likely” pay a higher dividend for 2013, he said.  Swedbank on Jan. 30 raised its dividend payout ratio to 75
percent of profit, citing low demand for credit and a capital
base that already fulfills Sweden’s 2015 capital requirements.
The bank said then it plans to present new capital objectives by
the end of this year.  Nordea Chairman Bjoern Wahlroos said in March he was
“sure” his bank would look into raising the payout ratio
because the lender is generating more capital than it needs.
Raising the 2012 payout “was the first step in a process where
we will eventually repatriate capital to our shareholders,
either through dividends or share buybacks,” Wahlroos said in
March.  Offshore Funding  Yet since then the list of government efforts to curb
banks’ risk-taking has grown. Lenders have this year had to
triple the risk weights they apply to their mortgage assets.
Norman said on Aug. 26 that Sweden’s biggest banks, which the
government has criticized for relying too much on short-term
offshore funding, also face costs to help finance foreign
reserves at the Riksbank.  While Sweden’s banks have weathered Europe’s debt crisis
better than their European peers, the government has repeatedly
argued in favor of ever stricter rules, citing the size and
importance of the financial sector.  “To the extent that the market has been expecting higher
dividends and/or capital repatriation from the Swedish banks in
the short term, we think that the likelihood of this has
substantially decreased,”  SEB AB (SEBA)  analystMasih Yazdisaid in a
note to clients. “In the longer term, we think the higher
capital requirements should lead to better margins, supporting
earnings growth ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net  