-- Indonesia Raises Interest Rate as India Aids Rupee
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-08-29T12:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/bank-indonesia-raises-reference-rate-to-7-in-unscheduled-move.html
Bank  Indonesia  raised its benchmark
interest rate by half a percentage point in an unscheduled move,
joining  India  in implementing measures to shore up slumping
currencies. The rupiah rose.  The central bank increased the  reference rate  to 7 percent
from 6.5 percent, it said, after a meeting in Jakarta today that
came before the next scheduled policy review. It also raised the
deposit facility rate by half a point to 5.25 percent, and
extended a bilateral swap deal with the Bank of Japan valued at
$12 billion that will allow the two to borrow from each other’s
foreign-exchange reserves.  Indonesia joins Brazil,  Turkey  and India in taking steps to
support their currencies this month as the prospect of reduced
U.S. monetary stimulus prompts investors to sell emerging-market
assets. A record current-account deficit last quarter for the
Southeast Asian nation, and worse-than-estimated economic growth
and inflation data have led to a stock-market slump and helped
push the rupiah to its weakest level since April 2009 yesterday.  “What they can do now is to limit the collateral damage
from the potential U.S. policy shift,” said Wellian Wiranto, a
Singapore-based investment strategist at the wealth management
unit of Barclays Plc. “The Fed’s previously abundant fountain
of liquidity is turning into a black hole pulling everything in.
BI can only try to anchor things as much as they can.”  Rupiah Advance  The rupiah advanced for the first time this week after the
rate increase, rising 0.1 percent to close at 10,935 per dollar,
after reaching a four-year low of 10,955 yesterday, prices from
local banks show.  Brazil ’s central bank raised its key interest rate by a
half-percentage point for a third straight meeting yesterday,
and signaled the world’s most-aggressive tightening cycle will
continue at the current pace to keep a weaker real from fueling
inflation. The combined 175 basis-point surge in borrowing costs
over the past four central bank gatherings is the fastest
expansion among 49 major economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank of India said yesterday it will supply
dollars to top oil importers after the rupee plummeted to a
record low of 68.8450 per dollar. India’s rupee jumped more than
3 percent against the dollar today, the biggest gain since 1986.
Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci said this week he will
use “surprise” tools to fight a deepening slump in the lira
and will defend the currency “like lions.”  Coordinated Response  “What the market is looking for is more comprehensive and
coordinated policy response from both central banks and also the
government, particularly for countries with deficits, who need
to show that they have a strong plan for reducing the current
account deficit,” said Khoon Goh, a senior currency strategist
at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Singapore .  Local stocks and government bonds extended gains, with the
Jakarta Composite Index of shares closing 1.9 percent higher.
The yield on sovereign debt due May 2023 fell 14 basis points,
or 0.14 percentage point, to 8.73 percent, after earlier
touching the highest level since February 2011, according to
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  Indonesia raised the key rate by a combined 75 basis points
in June and July before keeping it unchanged at its meeting on
Aug. 15 as slowing growth deterred a third consecutive increase.
The rupiah’s more-than-5 percent slump in the past two weeks may
have pressured the central bank to increase borrowing costs
again before a scheduled policy review on Sept. 12.  Market Pressure  “The central bank is finally responding to the market
pressure,” Jemmy Paul, a Jakarta-based equity fund manager at
Sucorinvest Asset Management, said in an e-mail. If the rupiah
remains weak, there will be more tightening measures, he said.  Bank Indonesia today reduced the holding period for its SBI
debt certificates to one month from six months, in a move aimed
at drawing funds back to the instrument. It had extended the
holding period in May 2011.  Market losses accelerated after data this month showed the
current-account deficit reached a record in the second quarter.
Indonesia’s government said on Aug. 23 it will allow more
mineral exports this year and increase a luxury goods tax to
narrow a trade deficit, while the central bank said it is
increasing foreign-currency supply.  The central bank ordered lenders to set aside more funds in
government and central bank bonds earlier this month as
officials used policy tools other than benchmark rates to rein
in liquidity and cool inflation expectations.  Growth Slowdown  Economic expansion has slowed in the last four quarters,
dipping below 6 percent in the three months through June for the
first time since 2010. In neighboring  Malaysia , where the
central bank has lowered its estimate for GDP growth this year,
the government said today it plans to delay infrastructure
projects, cut subsidies and may start a consumption tax, as it
seeks to contain the budget deficit and bolster a shrinking
current-account surplus.  Indonesia’s consumer prices rose 8.61 percent in July from
a year earlier, the fastest pace in more than four years.
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in June raised domestic fuel
prices for the first time since 2008 to cut subsidy costs. The
inflation rate may climb to between 9 percent and 9.8 percent by
the end of 2013, the central bank said today.  “We believe further rate hikes are needed to restore
market confidence amid Indonesia’s deteriorating economic
fundamentals,” analysts at Standard Chartered Plc led by Eric Alexander Sugandi wrote in a note today. “Although rate hikes
may help to ease inflationary pressures and strengthen the
Indonesian rupiah, we also note the side effects of such policy
on real GDP growth.”  Indonesia’s bilateral swap deal with the Bank of  Japan , in
place since 2003, was due to expire Aug. 31, said Peter Jacobs,
director of communications at Bank Indonesia. It has been
renewed every two years, he said.  “The outlook for monetary policy depends largely on what
happens to the currency,” Gareth Leather, a London-based Asia
economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in a note after the
Indonesian rate decision. “We believe that the current bout of
currency volatility will prove short-lived and that a prolonged
reversal of capital flows is unlikely. In such circumstances,
further aggressive rate hikes in Indonesia are unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  