-- Barcelona, Milan, Ajax, Celtic Drawn in Champions League Group
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-29T22:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/barcelona-to-meet-ac-milan-ajax-celtic-in-champions-league.html
Barcelona will play Celtic for the
second straight year in the Champions League, where the duo is
joined by AC Milan and Ajax in a group featuring four former
winners of European soccer’s top club competition.  The clubs, who’ve combined to win the European Cup 16
times, were placed in Group H during yesterday’s draw in  Monaco .
AC Milan’s seven titles rank second to Real Madrid’s nine, while
Barcelona and Ajax have four victories each.  Celtic won its only European title in 1967 when the final
was last played in Lisbon, the site of this season’s
championship match on May 24. The Scottish champion beat
Barcelona 2-1 at home in last season’s group stage en route to
reaching the final 16.  “We are going to see our old friends Barcelona again,”
Celtic manager Neil Lennon, whose head dropped when his team’s
draw was announced, said on the club’s website. “We are going
to come up against three wonderful footballing teams and putting
our wits against them is what we all want to do.”  Bayern Munich, which claimed its fifth title by beating
Borussia Dortmund in last season’s all-German final, heads Group
D with Manchester City, CSKA Moscow and Viktoria Plzen.  The German champion is the favorite to lift the trophy
again with all 17 bookmakers listed on the  oddsmaker.com 
website, ahead of Barcelona, Real  Madrid  and Chelsea.  “It is by no means a foregone conclusion,” Bayern
Chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge said on the website of tournament
organizer UEFA. “We have to be focused from the start and go
into the competition with a lot of respect. Our aim is to reach
the knockout stages.”  Dortmund, Arsenal  Dortmund will be in Group F with Arsenal, Marseille and
Napoli. Real Madrid will play in Group B with Italian champion
Juventus, Galatasaray and Copenhagen.  Three-time winner Manchester United heads Group A with
Shakhtar Donetsk, Bayer Leverkusen and Real Sociedad. Chelsea,
which won the second-tier Europa League last season after
capturing the Champions League in 2012, will take on Schalke,
Basel and Steaua Bucharest in Group E.  Benfica, whose Estadio da Luz will host the Champions
League final, was drawn in Group C with French title holder
Paris Saint-Germain, Olympiacos and Anderlecht. Porto, the other
Portuguese club in the draw, will meet Atletico Madrid, Zenit
St. Petersburg and Austria Vienna in Group G.  Group play runs from Sept. 17 to Dec. 11 with the top two
teams in each advancing to the round of 16. Teams in the group
stage are guaranteed a minimum of 8.6 million euros ($11.4
million) from UEFA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 