-- Blackstone Said Near Takeover of Dutch Developer Multi
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-08-30T16:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/blackstone-said-near-takeover-of-dutch-developer-multi.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s real estate
unit is close to completing a restructuring of Multi Corp. that
would give it full ownership of the debt-laden European mall
developer, said two people with knowledge of the situation.  Blackstone, the biggest manager of private-equity property
funds, has amassed more than 90 percent of Multi’s 900 million
euros ($1.2 billion) of corporate debt and a similar share of
its equity in the past 15 months, according to the people, who
asked not to be named because the discussions are private. The
New York-based firm is in talks to buy the rest of Multi’s loans
and stock from a German lender, one of the people said.  Once the purchase is complete, Blackstone plans to forgive
the debt and use Multi to snap up shopping malls and other
retail properties across Europe. Blackstone believes Multi is in
a position to capitalize on a wave of retail-property sales
triggered by Europe’s economic woes, the person said.  Peter Rose, a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment on
Blackstone’s investment in Multi. Multi representatives didn’t
respond to an e-mail sent after regular business hours
yesterday.  Multi, based in Gouda, the Netherlands, owns and manages
real estate throughout Europe, and the bulk of its assets are in
 Turkey . The largest Turkish mall landlord, Multi owns the
country’s two largest retail centers, both in Istanbul, along
with six malls in other cities, according to this person.  Approval Won  Blackstone last month won approval from the European
Commission and Turkish antitrust authorities to take over Multi,
and no additional government support is needed for the deal to
go through, the person said. After it gains control of the
company, Blackstone would merge Multi’s properties with three
Turkish malls it bought last year from Dutch real estate owner
Redevco BV. It paid about 200 million euros for those
properties, the person said.  Blackstone also would fold into Multi a 500 million-euro
portfolio of retail properties it owns in  Poland . If a pending
deal for Blackstone to buy a group of Italian malls goes
through, Multi would absorb those too, according to the person.  Blackstone has paid about 500 million euros for the Multi
debt and equity, the person said.  It’s the second restructuring for Multi in less than two
years. In December 2011, a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  real estate fund that
had acquired the company in 2006, at the peak of the market,
agreed to cede its equity stake to Multi’s lenders. The accord
kept Multi’s 900 million euros of corporate debt and almost 1
billion euros of property loans intact.  Blackstone, which began to acquire Multi’s corporate loans
in June 2012, has now bought out the stakes of 10 of the 11
banks that financed the 2006 buyout, the people said. Those
lenders included NIBC Bank NV and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  of the
Netherlands,  Germany ’s Hypo Real Estate Holding AG and U.K.
banks  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  and Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  