-- Blackstone Group Said in Talks to Increase Irish Hotels Bet
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-08-29T14:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/blackstone-group-said-in-talks-to-increase-irish-hotels-bet.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is in talks to
buy a 25 percent stake in what was once Ireland’s most expensive
real estate from the U.K. unit of failed Icelandic lender
 Kaupthing Bank hf , two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander Ltd.’s administrators EY are
selling the interest in three hotels once owned by now-bankrupt
developer Sean Dunne in Dublin’s embassy belt in Ballsbridge,
said the people, who asked not to be named as the matter is
private. EY declined to comment on the transaction. In an e-mail, a spokesman for Blackstone, the biggest manager of
private-equity real estate funds, declined to comment.  Dunne bought the former Berkeley Court, the Towers and
Jurys Hotel in 2005 for about 380 million euros ($503 million).
At the time it was the highest price per acre paid for sites in
Ireland. His banks,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s Ulster
Bank, Rabobank Groep NV and Kaupthing, took control of the
hotels in 2009 after planning authorities  refused  Dunne
permission to redevelop the 6.8-acre (2.8-hectare) site amid a
real-estate market collapse.  The U.K. Treasury put Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander into
administration in the U.K. in 2008 as it went into default.
Dunne was declared bankrupt in Ireland’s  High Court  last month.  Blackstone is among a wave of U.S. investors, including
 Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc. (KW)  and  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , to
snap up Irish real-estate assets in the past two years.  Blackstone, based in New York, bought the 501-bedroom
Burlington Hotel in the same district in November for 67 million
euros from  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  That’s less than a quarter
of the 288 million euros an Irish real-estate developer Bernard McNamara paid for the property in 2007. McNamara was declared
bankrupt in the U.K. last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  