-- BlackRock Wins Dismissal of Securities Lending Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/blackrock-wins-dismissal-of-securities-lending-suit.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, persuaded a judge to dismiss a lawsuit brought by
two pension funds that accused the company of collecting
“grossly excessive” compensation from securities-lending
returns linked to iShares Inc.  U.S. District Judge Aleta Trauger in Nashville,  Tennessee ,
said the law governing securities lending doesn’t authorize
investors, like the pension funds, to sue.  “Without congressional intent expressed in a statute, a
cause of action does not exist and the courts may not create
one,” Trauger wrote.  The suit was filed in January by Laborers Local 265 Pension
Fund, based in Cincinnati, and Plumbers and Pipefitters Local
No. 572 Pension Fund, of Nashville.  Investment funds with holdings in stocks or other
securities can earn more by lending out their holdings to
borrowers, including short sellers, those betting the value of a
security will fall. Investors who lend out the securities divide
the proceeds with a  securities lending  agent. Some funds,
including BlackRock, use their own securities-lending operation.  “We are pleased with the court’s decision,” Christine Hudacko, a spokeswoman for New York-based BlackRock, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The pension funds alleged that BlackRock affiliates
collected 40 percent of revenue earned from securities lending
transactions as compensation.  Trauger gave the pension funds until September 17 to file
an amended complaint.  Davia Hayward, a spokeswoman for Robbins Arroyo LLP, the
pension funds’ law firm, didn’t immediately reply to a phone
message requesting comment.  The case is Laborers Local 265 Pension Fund v. iShares
Trust, 13-cv-00046, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Tennessee (Nashville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  