-- Boeing Cargo-Jet Sales Head to Post-2009 Low
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-09-03T14:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/boeing-cargo-jet-sales-at-post-2009-low-on-global-slump.html
(Corrects second paragraph of story published Aug. 29 to
specify first shipments of Airbus A330 freighters.)  Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s largest
maker of air freighters, is headed toward its fewest cargo-jet
orders since the 2009 recession as demand wanes for the
overnight shipments that once drove purchases.  With 13 sales through July, Boeing’s tally was just one-fifth the total of six years earlier. Airbus SAS, which didn’t
begin shipping A330 freighters until 2010, has no orders this
year, and the market for secondhand passenger aircraft being
converted to fly cargo has dried up.  Airfreight operators are deferring acquisitions and parking
older planes after worldwide shipment volumes were unchanged in
this year’s first six months, according to the International Air
Transport Association trade group. A persisting order drought
may threaten the $240 billion in industrywide freighter sales
that Chicago-based Boeing predicts over the next 20 years.  “Who wants to go out and buy an expensive freighter right
now?” said  Kevin Sterling , senior vice president with BB&T
Capital Markets in Richmond,  Virginia , in a phone interview.
“Can that change when the economy comes roaring back? Maybe.”  The global air-cargo fleet is 6 percent smaller than a year
ago and has shrunk almost 14 percent from a pre-recession peak,
according to Air Cargo Management Group, a Seattle-based
consultant. Freight haulers such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  have reduced
flights to  Asia , parked older jets and are shipping cargo in the
bellies of wide-body passenger jets like Boeing’s 777.  Growth Returns  Boeing describes the slump as an anomaly in a business that
it projects will increase 5 percent annually through 2032 as
world economic growth recovers and cargo airlines swap older
jets for fuel-sipping models. The company expects industrywide
sales of 850 new freighters over the next two decades while
1,450 passenger airplanes will be converted to haul cargo.  “It’s our belief and our analysis that once trade turns
around, we’ll see growth again in the cargo market,”  Randy Tinseth , Boeing’s vice president for marketing, said in an
interview. “We don’t think it’s a question of if, it’s a
question of when.”  The slump hasn’t hurt  shares  of Boeing, which have advanced
39 percent this year, more than double the gain of the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. The stock rose 1.6 percent to $104.93 at the
close in  New York .  For now, demand remains weak as Boeing and Airbus deliver
freighters ordered before the market slumped on  Europe ’s debt
crisis and lower sales of Chinese-made electronics, Robert Dahl,
managing director with Air Cargo Management, said in an
interview. He expects air-cargo traffic to eventually rebound,
growing at a 3 percent to 4 percent clip.  Most Expensive  Boeing delivered 20 freighters this year through the end of
July, 5.6 percent of its total commercial jet output, according
to its website.  The company’s 13 freighter sales this year compared with 65
orders placed over the same stretch in 2007. The aircraft are
among its most expensive with list prices ranging from $188
million for a 767-300 freighter to $300.5 million for a 777
freighter and $357.5 million for a 747-8 jumbo variant. Carriers
typically negotiate discounts from planemakers’ published rates.  Airbus, based in Toulouse,  France , didn’t receive any
orders for the A330-200 freighter, its only model, from January
through the end of July. The plane has 44 orders against 23
deliveries.  Converting Jumbos  “This is not a surprise given the current state of the
airfreight market,” Martin Fendt, an Airbus spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “Despite this, our operator base grew in the first
half of 2013 with the addition of Avianca Cargo and Qatar
Airways Cargo, thus enforcing the A330-200F’s position as the
only modern day solution for mid-size freighters.”  With the planemakers delivering 40 to 50 large cargo jets
annually, “older aircraft have to be retired to keep things
relatively in balance,” Dahl said. “With all the new capacity
coming in, there’s very little demand for conversions of a
similar type.”  Carriers haven’t converted any Boeing 747-400 passenger
planes into cargo jets this year, after transforming seven of
the jets last year and 17 jumbos in 2008, according to Ascend
Worldwide data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Air-cargo companies favor buying new freighters in this
market over retrofitting old passenger jumbos for cargo because
the 747-8 freighter’s range is greater and operating and fuel
costs are lower than older 747s, Boeing’s Tinseth said.  Passenger Counterparts  Narrow-body conversions are still appealing to some air-cargo carriers, especially those seeking a low-cost foothold
within  emerging markets  such as China or  Africa , Dahl said.  FedEx has agreed to buy 27 Boeing 757 passenger jets from
United Continental Holdings Inc. this year and convert them into
freighters as it replaces old three-engine Boeing 727s with
newer planes that burn one-third less fuel. FedEx declined to
comment on aircraft plans, said Jenny Robertson, a spokeswoman
for the Memphis, Tennessee-based company.  Another drag on Boeing and Airbus freighter sales is the
competition they face against their hot-selling passenger
counterparts such as the A330 and 777, which have ample cargo
holds. Boeing’s 777-300ER, in addition to carrying 386
passengers, boasts a 7,120-cubic-foot (201.6 cubic meter) cargo
hold. That gives airlines about one-third the capacity of the
freighter version.  “The exact factors that are driving jetliner sales to such
heights are also clobbering freight,” said  Richard Aboulafia ,
vice president with Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based
consultant.  Trimming Capacity  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. is among carriers trimming
capacity and shipping more cargo in passenger jets as it sizes
operations to a smaller market, said George Ferguson, a senior
aerospace analyst for Bloomberg Industries based in Skillman,
 New Jersey . The Asia-Pacific market has been hardest hit by the
freight slump, contracting 2.3 percent during the first half of
2013 from a year ago, according to IATA data.  The Hong Kong-based carrier, which Ferguson describes as a
bellwether for Asian freight transporters, agreed in March to
buy three Boeing 747-8 freighters for delivery this year and
acquired options to purchase five Boeing 777-200 freighters. In
exchange, Cathay Pacific canceled a 2011 order for eight Boeing
777-200 freighters and struck a deal to sell Boeing four
converted 747-400 freighters.  “These arrangements are in line with our reduced
expectation for future cargo growth and enable us to reduce
future cargo capacity,” Elin Wong, a spokeswoman for Cathay
Pacific, said in an e-mail. “If the cargo market rebounds at a
quicker pace than we expect, then we could add capacity in a
timely manner by exercising our purchase options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  