-- BP Win on Spill Insurance Withdrawn by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-08-29T17:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/bp-win-on-spill-insurance-withdrawn-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
A U.S. appeals court withdrew its
decision finding  BP Plc (BP/)  had access to $750 million in  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG) ’s insurance to pay costs from the 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil
spill , in order to ask the Texas Supreme Court a question on
coverage.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  in March reversed
a decision by U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  barring BP from
using the policies. Barbier had ruled that the drilling contract
between the companies for the Macondo well precluded BP from
seeking coverage under the Transocean policies for pollution-related liabilities.  The appeals court, agreeing with BP, found that the company
was “entitled to coverage under each of Transocean’s policies
as an additional insured as a matter of law.” The court
withdrew the opinion today, saying the Texas Supreme Court
needed to interpret how ambiguities in insurance provisions
should be considered.  “The Texas Supreme Court has never recognized a
sophisticated insured exception to the general rule of
interpreting insurance coverage clauses,” in favor of the
insured, the federal appeals court said today.  “However, it is possible that such an exception may be
deemed appropriate in a case like this, where all the parties
involved are highly capable contractors,” the three-judge panel
said.  ‘Not Involved’  The panel asked the Texas Supreme Court to determine
whether an earlier decision by that court “compels a finding
that BP is covered for the damages at issue,” and whether the
doctrine of interpreting contracts in favor of the insured
applies, given the facts of the BP case.  “The facts here indicate insurers were not involved in
drafting the drilling contract, and thus construing ambiguities
in that contract against them might be inappropriate,” the
court said.  BP filed claims with Transocean’s carriers in 2010, seeking
access to a $50 million primary policy issued by Ranger
Insurance and to $700 million in excess coverage from Lloyd’s of
London and other underwriters.  Barbier found that the carriers
owed no duty to pay claims or defense costs for BP.  The Macondo blowout and the explosion that followed killed
11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors. The lawsuits over
economic losses and personal injuries have been combined before
Barbier.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment on the court’s withdrawal.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  