-- Brazilian Swap Rates Rise After Central Bank Signal; Real Falls
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-08-29T21:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/brazilian-swap-rates-rise-after-central-bank-signal-real-falls.html
Brazilian swap rates climbed the
most in a week after the central bank raised borrowing costs by
a half-percentage point and signaled that it will maintain the
pace of increases.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2015 rose 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 10.41 percent. The
real slid 0.6 percent to 2.3595 per dollar after dropping Aug.
21 to a four-year low of 2.4543.  Policy makers voted unanimously to lift the target lending
rate to 9 percent yesterday as forecast by swaps traders in the
third straight 50 basis-point increase. The statement
accompanying the decision said the move will help “put
inflation on a decline and assure that this trend will persist
next year.” The statement was almost identical to the one
issued July 10.  “The only thing we can read is that they will maintain the
pace of hikes,”  Pedro Tuesta , a senior economist at 4cast Ltd.
in  Washington , said in a telephone interview.  The central bank rejected all bids after offering as much
as $1 billion in foreign-exchange credit lines in two rollover
auctions today. The offering was in addition to a $60 billion
intervention program announced last week to support the
currency. The Treasury sold 3 billion reais of zero-coupon bonds
due in 2014, 2015 and 2017.  To curb inflation, policy makers have raised their
benchmark lending  rate  by 1.75 percentage points since April
from a record low 7.25 percent, more than any other central bank
tracked by Bloomberg.  Annual Inflation  Annual inflation slowed to 6.15 percent in the month
through mid-August after surpassing the 6.5 percent upper limit
of the central bank’s target range earlier this year.  The real has tumbled 10.6 percent in the past three months,
undermining the goal of curbing inflation while promoting
growth. Since Aug. 22, when the bank announced its intervention
program, the currency has rallied 3.2 percent, the best
performance among all dollar counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  Analysts following the economy have cut their 2013 and 2014
median growth forecasts by more than a percentage point since
January, according to a central bank survey published Aug. 26.
Finance Minister Guido Mantega rolled back 2013 economic growth
estimates to about 2.5 percent from a forecast of 3 percent to 4
percent expansion earlier this year.  “The central bank used to have a double mandate: inflation
and economic growth,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at
Banco Mizuho do Brasil SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo before
yesterday’s meeting. “Now we are seeing the central bank focus
more exclusively on inflation control.”  Brazil ’s monetary policy seeks to mitigate inflation risk,
central bank president Alexandre Tombini said in a statement on
Aug. 19. Inflation is under control and officials will work to
avoid currency pass-through to consumer prices, Mantega said a
week later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  