-- Bumi CEO Offers No Guarantee Bakries Can Fund Exit Plan
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-08-29T11:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/bumi-ceo-offers-no-guarantee-bakries-can-fund-exit-plan.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the coal producer at the
center of an ownership dispute, said it can’t guarantee that
 Indonesia ’s Bakrie Group can fund a planned $501 million exit
from the London-listed company.  “I don’t have any guarantees for you on that,” Chief
Executive Officer Nick von Schirnding told reporters today on a
conference call from London. “I can’t speak for the Bakrie
financing,” he said, adding that the two parties are working on
a revised arrangement to have the full amount placed in escrow
before a planned shareholder vote on the deal this year.  For 18 months Bumi has been at the heart of a battle for
control between the Bakries and Nathaniel Rothschild, 42, scion
of a centuries-old British banking dynasty, as waning coal
prices, board infighting and probes in the U.K. and Indonesia
weighed on the stock. The shares plunged 69 percent last year as
each made rival proposals to unwind the $3 billion deal that
brought them together in 2010.  Bumi, owner of stakes in two Indonesian coal suppliers,
last month agreed to sell its 29.2 percent stake in PT  Bumi
Resources (BUMI)  to the Bakrie Group as part of a two-step plan to
separate from one of Indonesia’s wealthiest families. Bumi
Chairman Samin Tan has agreed to buy the Bakries’ 23.8 percent
holding in Bumi Plc for $223 million.  The timing of a completed separation is “highly
uncertain,” JPMorgan Cazenove analyst Fraser Jamieson wrote in
a report today. “We remain very cautious on Bumi ahead of
finalization of the separation agreement with the Bakrie
Group.”  Takeover Panel  A formal document outlining the plan will be submitted to
regulators in the U.K., including the Takeover Panel, before
being sent to investors within 10 days, von Schirnding said
today.  The Bakries said in June they had the full amount
available. A spokesman couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment today. The separation was first announced in October
before being revised.  “There is no plan B and so we think this is the best deal
that we have on the table,” von Schirnding said. “We would
hope that shareholders support this and allow us to then move to
the next stage which is really a focused coal mining company
with a significant amount of cash.”  Separately, von Schirnding said the company was still
working to recover the majority of $201 million in missing
assets at unit PT Berau Coal Energy. In June, Bumi said it had
struck a deal with former company director Rosan Roeslani to get
back most of the money. The company has yet to recover any of
the missing funds, von Schirnding said.  ‘Making Progress’  “It’s a mixture of assets and cash that we are looking
at,” he said. “This is an agreement that was signed by both
parties and we’re making progress certainly on the assets in the
very near term and hope to announce progress on that over the
next few weeks.”  Bumi swung to an underlying loss in the first half after
prices for power-station coal declined. The loss was $45
million, compared with a $7 million profit a year earlier, the
company said today in a statement.  The stock gained 1.6 percent to 214 pence by 12:24 p.m. in
 London  trading, valuing the company at 516 million pounds ($801
million).  Bumi plans a “substantial” cash return to investors from
the proposed sale of its PT Bumi stake to the Bakries for $501
million, it said last month.  Rothschild, who owns a 14.8
percent stake in Bumi, has criticized the handling of the
separation from the Bakries and repeatedly called for Chairman
Tan to resign.  ‘Self-Help Story’  “Bumi remains an interesting self-help story,” Liberum
Capital Ltd. analyst Richard Knights wrote today in a note. The
coal producer could pay about $400 million to investors from the
Bumi Resources stake sale and still have enough cash to pay down
 debt , he said.  Net debt fell to $389 million from $514 million at Dec. 31,
Bumi said. Production at Berau for the half-year rose 19 percent
to 11.5 million metric tons and the company expects output of 23
million tons this year, it said.  The near-term outlook for thermal coal prices “remains
challenging,” Bumi said. The company’s average sale price was
$61.40 a ton, down from $76.60 a year earlier, it said. Costs
fell 10 percent to $37.10 a ton.  Bumi said it has appointed Paul Fenby as chief financial
officer and Keith Downham as chief mining officer, with both men
based in Jakarta.  “If you look at the coal environment today it is very
challenging,” von Schirnding said today. “The sector is under
huge pressure. We’re under huge pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  