-- California Gay Conversion Therapy Ban Upheld in Appeal
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-08-29T17:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/california-gay-conversion-therapy-ban-upheld-in-appeal.html
California’s first-in-the-nation law
barring licensed therapists from counseling minors to change
their sexual orientation from gay to straight was upheld by a
federal appeals court.  The law “does not violate the free speech rights of
practitioners or minor patients, is neither vague nor overbroad,
and does not violate parents’ fundamental rights,” a three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  said
in an opinion published today.  California’s ban on “sexual-orientation change efforts”
was passed by lawmakers in August 2012 and signed by Governor
 Jerry Brown  in September. The law states that being gay “is not
a disease, disorder, illness, deficiency or shortcoming” and
cites findings by an American Psychological Association task
force urging patients and parents to avoid the counseling
because it can pose “critical health risks” including
depression and suicidal thoughts.  The law bars doctors, psychologists, family therapists and
social workers from providing sexual-orientation conversion
therapy to patients under 18. Violators are subject to
discipline by state licensing entities.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who has
opposed same-sex marriage, signed a bill this month banning
therapy that tries to change a minor’s sexual orientation.  Nick Pacilio, a spokesman for California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris , and the press office at Liberty Counsel, a legal
group representing plaintiffs that sued to overturn the
California law, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment on the ruling.  The California cases are Pickup v. Brown, 13-15023, and
Welch v. Brown, 13-15023, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  