-- California’s Brown Signs Law to Strengthen Local Fiscal Controls
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-08-29T22:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/california-s-brown-signs-law-to-strengthen-local-fiscal-controls.html
California’s controller will develop
fiscal controls for cities and counties to avert bankruptcies by
detecting signs of financial trouble under a bill signed today
by Governor Jerry Brown.  Audits of four cities, including bankrupt Stockton,
revealed misuse of redevelopment and other restricted funds,
poor financial reporting and mismanagement of state and federal
grants, Controller John Chiang said in a statement.  Three California communities filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy
last year. Stockton was the biggest U.S. city to seek court
protection before  Detroit ’s record $18 billion filing in July.
No municipality in the state has sought protection since then.  “Poor checks-and-balances can sap communities of their
fiscal health to the point where a downturn in the economy can
be catastrophic,” Chiang, a 51-year-old Democrat, said.  The  bill  requires the controller to develop standards by
2015 for local governments to “prevent and detect financial
errors and fraud.”  Jacob Roper, a spokesman for Chiang, said the law contains
no explicit requirements for local governments to follow the
controller’s guidelines.  While it’s not a mandate, Assemblyman Ken Cooley, the
bill’s author, said he expects newly elected officials like city
council members will incorporate the guidelines in their
management practices.  “Part of the issue is educating council members and
educating the public,” said Cooley, a former Rancho Cordova
city council member.  The  California  Taxpayers Association backed the measure,
according to a legislative  analysis . The League of California
Cities, the lobbying group for municipalities, didn’t take a
position, a spokeswoman, Eva Spiegel, said by e-mail. The bill
won unanimous support in the state Assembly and Senate.  Last August, lawmakers declined to act on a bill backed by
organized labor intended to limit municipal bankruptcies by
strengthening protections for creditors including employee
unions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  