-- Canary Wharf’s East London Skyscraper Receives Approval
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-08-30T08:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/canary-wharf-s-east-london-skyscraper-receives-approval.html
Canary Wharf  Group Plc won local-government approval to build a  London  tower as high as 190
meters (620 feet) that it redesigned after the financial crisis
to exclude the large trading floors typically used by banks.  Tower Hamlets Borough Council gave the company preliminary
permission yesterday for Heron Quays West, a project in London’s
Canary Wharf financial district that includes 130,000 square
meters (1.4 million square feet) of offices and 785 square
meters of retail and leisure space.  Canary Wharf rewrote the plans first approved in 2007 after
the financial crisis hit and banks cut jobs. Job vacancies at
London’s financial-services companies fell by more than a third
last month as firms continued to cut costs and the summer
holidays curbed hiring plans, recruitment consultant Morgan
McKinley said Aug. 12. The number of professionals seeking jobs
increased 63 percent in July from a year ago.  “Following the downturn in the economic climate, the
format for this permission no longer met the demands of many
tenants,” the company said in a filing with the council. “This
was primarily due to the ‘mega floorplate’ arrangement which is
targeted at a limited number” of potential occupants.  The tower would still be the seventh-tallest in London,
according to building-data provider Emporis.  Canary Wharf, which is 69 percent owned by  Songbird Estates
Plc (SBD) , has been expanding outside the business district of the
same name to gain from London’s recovering property market. The
company along with Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund,  Qatari Diar ,
in May won local-government approval to build 877 homes in eight
towers near the London Eye Ferris wheel on the  River Thames .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  