-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Telecom, Banks Gain Amid Taper
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-08-29T20:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/canadian-stocks-rise-as-telecom-banks-gain-amid-taper.html
Canadian stocks  rose  for a second
day, as bank shares advanced on better-than-estimated earnings
and phone companies rallied on dimmed prospects of competition
from U.S.-based Verizon Communications Inc.  Royal Bank of  Canada  and Toronto-Dominion Bank gained at
least 1.2 percent after raising their dividends and posting
third-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Rogers
Communications  Inc.  surged  3 percent to lead phone stocks
higher. Dundee Precious Metals Inc. jumped 10 percent after
suggesting it may expand a gold and silver mine in Armenia.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 97.51
points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,704.73 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
gauge added 0.1 percent yesterday and has  gained  1.8 percent
this month.  “Given that so many people own Canadian banks, it’s good
news and that will set the tone on the macro for Canadian equity
markets,”  Irwin Michael , portfolio manager with ABC Funds in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. His firm manages C$800
million ($774 million). “With the higher U.S. GDP, it gives us
more comfort that the economy is slowly but surely improving.”  Investors are weighing data that showed the  U.S. economy 
grew by more than expected in the second quarter and that claims
for  unemployment benefits  declined last week. The U.S. is
Canada’s biggest trading partner.  Eight of 10 industries in the S&P/TSX  rose , with phone,
bank and health-care stocks rising at least 1.2 percent. Trading
volume in the benchmark gauge was 4.6 percent below the 30-day
average.  Bank Rally  The S&P/TSX Commercial Bank Index  jumped  1.6 percent to a
record high, as all eight members increased. Royal Bank, TD Bank
and Canadian Imperial Bank each reported today third-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest lender by assets, gained 1.2
percent to C$65.24, the highest in a month. Toronto-Dominion,
the second-biggest bank,  climbed  2.7 percent to a record
C$89.93. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce rose 2.8 percent to
C$82.66.  The three Toronto-based banks posted record profit in
Canadian personal and commercial banking and wealth management
even as near record-low  interest rates  and tight net interest
margins proved challenging for lenders.  Phone stocks rallied 2.4 percent on speculation that a
Verizon bid for Vodafone Group Plc’s stake in  Verizon Wireless 
will reduce the U.S. carrier’s appetite for Canadian expansion.
Vodafone confirmed it’s in talks to sell its stake, in a deal
that may be worth $130 billion, according to people familiar
with the matter.  Verizon Entry  “If negotiations between Verizon and Vodafone are really
heating up, we believe that the prospects of a Verizon entry
into Canadian wireless could decline significantly,” Dvai Ghose , head of research at Canaccord Genuity said in a note to
clients dated yesterday.  Rogers Communications, Canada’s largest wireless carrier,
climbed 3 percent to C$42.01. Telus Corp. rose 2.5 percent to
C$33.10.  Health-care companies jumped 1.6 percent, led by a surge in
Catamaran Corp. of 1.7 percent to C$58.19.  Shares in producers of raw materials erased earlier losses
of as much as 1.3 percent even as metals prices slumped. The
S&P/TSX Materials Index advanced 0.5 percent, halting two days
of declines.  Dundee Precious Metals surged 10 percent to C$6.80 after
saying an internal study of its Kapan mine in Armenia most
likely will result in expanding operations there.  Energy stocks were little changed as a group. Shares in
commodities producers have been roiled in recent days, amid
growing speculation the U.S. and its allies will take military
action against  Syria .  The prospect of imminent strikes receded today as U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron , the U.S.’s top ally, struggled to
win parliamentary backing for military action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  