-- Canadian Dollar Slides to Lowest This Week Before Report on GDP
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-29T21:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/canadian-dollar-falls-before-forecast-u-s-gdp-upward-revision.html
Canada ’s dollar fell to its lowest
this week before a report tomorrow that may show the nation’s
economy shrank in June the most since 2009, while a gain in U.S.
growth boosted the case for that country to slow stimulus.  The Canadian currency weakened for a second day as data
showed U.S. gross domestic product accelerated more than
initially estimated in the second quarter, bolstering bets the
 Federal Reserve  will slow bond purchases that are considered
negative for America’s currency. Canada’s dollar headed for a
monthly loss. Crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, fell from
the highest level in more than two years.  “The Canadian dollar is on its back foot and poised for
more losses,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at forexlive.com,
said by phone from  Montreal . “The market has concluded the  U.S.
economy  is good enough to taper in September.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is nicknamed for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4 percent to
C$1.0532 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0541, the weakest level since Aug. 23, and has lost 2.4
percent in August. One loonie buys 94.95 U.S. cents.  Implied volatility for three-month options on Canada’s
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart fell for a third day,
dropping to 7.69 percent. The measure is used to set option
prices and gauge the expected pace of currency swings. The
average for this year is 6.8 percent.  The Canadian dollar lost 1.6 percent in the past month in a
basket of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. Currencies of other
commodity-exporting countries such as Australia, Norway and  New
Zealand  also sank, while the  U.S. dollar  gained 0.9 percent.  Bonds Rise  Government bonds  rose, reversing earlier losses and pushing
yields on Canada’s benchmark  10-year securities  down two basis
point, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.60 percent. The yields
increased earlier to 2.68 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent
debt due in June 2023 added 15 cents to C$90.57.  Ten-year yields reached 2.78 percent on Aug. 22, the
highest level since July 2011, before declining. They touched a
two-week low of 2.56 percent on Aug. 27.  The nation’s  economy  shrank 0.4 percent in June in its
first monthly contraction this year, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 21 economists before tomorrow’s report. The drop would
pare Canada’s  second-quarter  growth to an annualized 1.6
percent, economists forecast, after it expanded 2.5 percent from
January through March.  U.S. GDP rose at a 2.5 percent annualized rate from April
through June, up from previous reading of 1.7 percent, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 2.2
percent gain.  ‘Relatively Slow’  “We have a period where there is a gradual pickup in U.S.
growth and a relatively slow underlying trend in Canadian
growth,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., by phone from  New York . “The
dollar-Canada cross is already responding to those changes, but
we think that process has more to run.”  The Fed buys $85 billion of bonds a month to put downward
pressure on borrowing costs and spur growth in the world’s
biggest economy. The purchases have spurred concern they’ll lead
to inflation and debase the U.S. dollar. Investors are betting
that a reduction in bond buying as the world’s largest economy
improves will cause the greenback to strengthen against its
Canadian peer.  “It is just the fears of QE tapering,” Christian Lawrence, a foreign-exchange strategist in  London  at Rabobank
International, said today of the Canadian currency’s decline.
“Whatever pace they start tapering QE in the U.S., the
writing’s on the wall and it certainly has to be a dollar-positive story.”  Crude Falls  Futures on crude oil, the country’s largest export, dropped
1.7 percent to $108.20 a barrel in New York as the prospect of
an imminent attack on  Syria  faded. U.K. Prime Minister  David
Cameron , the U.S.’s top ally, struggled to win parliamentary
backing for military strikes to retaliate for the Syrian
government’s alleged use of chemical weapons on its own people.
Crude reached $112.24 yesterday, the highest since May 2011,
amid speculation military strikes would disrupt the supply of
oil from the  Middle East .  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials declined
0.8 percent in its first drop in six days.  Canada’s  current-account deficit  widened in the second
quarter as the previous period’s figure was revised downward.
The C$14.6 billion ($13.9 billion) gap compared with the revised
shortfall of C$13.4 billion in the first quarter. The current
account is the broadest measure of trade because it includes
investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  