-- Carl Icahn Increases Nuance Stake, May Seek Board Seat
-- B y   J e r e m y   R .   C o o k e   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-08-30T15:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/carl-icahn-increases-nuance-stake-may-seek-board-seat.html
Billionaire investor Carl Icahn
boosted his stake in  Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN)  and may seek to
put a representative on the board of the speech-recognition
software maker.  Funds controlled by Icahn, including Icahn Partners LP and
Icahn Onshore LP, reported a combined 16.9 percent stake in
Nuance, up from 16.4 percent, according to a  filing  with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.  Icahn uses holdings to seek change in companies he deems
undervalued or ill-managed. When Icahn fist took a stake in
Nuance, the investment was seen as a move to push the company to
sell itself or shed some businesses. Nuance Chief Executive
Officer Paul Ricci is seeking to revive growth as the
Burlington, Massachusetts-based company expands in voice-recognition tools that can be used over the Web and on mobile
devices.  The Federal Trade Commission also granted Icahn approval of
a Nuance-related transaction yesterday without providing further
details. Nuance adopted a stockholder rights plan, which went
into effect yesterday, designed to reduce the likelihood that a
shareholder can gain control of the company by buying up shares
on the open market.  If he gets a board seat, Icahn could push Nuance to sell
some of its businesses, or the entire company. Potential suitors
for Nuance could include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , International Business
Machines Corp. or  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , according to Shyam Patil, an
analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. It’s also possible that Apple
Inc. or  Google Inc. (GOOG)  would be interested in Nuance’s mobile
technology, he said on Aug. 8.  Profit Outlook  Shares in Nuance rose 2.1 percent to $18.69 at 11:33 a.m.
in New York, after reaching $19 for the biggest intraday gain
since May 21. The stock had declined 18 percent this year
through yesterday.  Nuance  plunged  the most in more than six years on Feb. 8
after cutting full-year sales and profit forecasts, citing
shifting demand for software. The company said at the time that
transcription volume was falling as health-industry customers
switched to electronic medical records and its new Dragon
Medical speech-to-text software.  “We remain committed to maintaining greater price
discipline and to driving towards a focus on recurring
revenues,” Ricci said on an Aug. 6  conference call  with
investors. “For these reasons, and being mindful of recent
execution issues, we’ve taken a guarded approach” to guidance.  Carl Icahn  didn’t respond to a request for comment. Richard Mack, a spokesman for Nuance, said the company “welcomes
communications with stockholders and values input toward the
goal of enhancing stockholder value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy R. Cooke in Boston at 
 jcooke8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  