-- Carrefour French Earnings Jump 75% on Pricing Turnaround
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-08-29T12:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/carrefour-turnaround-continues-as-first-half-profit-increases.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s largest
retailer, reported a 4.9 percent increase in first-half profit
as a revival in its domestic market more than offset the
economic difficulties of southern  Europe .  Recurring operating income advanced to 766 million euros
($1.02 billion), Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour
said today. The median of 11 estimates was 767 million euros.  Earnings in France rose 75 percent, beating estimates, with
all formats showing “good profitability,” Carrefour said. The
revival at home, inspired by lower prices and refurbished
stores, came as profit slumped in the rest of Europe.  Asia  and
Latin America trailed the prior-year performance.  “The improvement in France gives much credibility to the
bull case that a great deal of self-help is available to the
business and swift recoveries in earnings possible,” Alastair Johnston, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a note.  Carrefour  rose  as much as 6 percent in Paris trading, the
steepest intraday gain since Jan. 17. The stock was up 4.4
percent at 23.78 euros at 1:31 p.m.  First-half operating income in  France  was 482 million
euros, surpassing Citigroup’s estimate of 325 million euros and
BNP Exane Paribas’s prediction of 339 million euros.  To revive business in the retailer’s home market, where
sales have barely grown in the past decade, Chief Executive
Officer Georges Plassat has pledged to give more control to
store managers and maintain low prices on food. His plan also
includes renovating outlets, putting more non-branded goods on
shelves and adding so-called drives, or pick-up points for
online orders.  Domestic Margins  Carrefour, which gets almost half of sales from France, has
said it can sustain its domestic margin without damaging
competitiveness.  An increase in French profit margins in the first half “is
evidence to us that the Georges Plassat’s action plan is working
and France is coming back to a more normal level of
profitability,” Credit Suisse analysts wrote in a note today.  The stronger performance at home compensated for weakness
in other regions, particularly the rest of Europe, where
earnings fell 76 percent. Operating profit declined 13 percent
in Asia and 6 percent in  Latin America , where growth was wiped
out by the weakness of local currencies against the euro.  “Amid toughening consumption trends worldwide and
exchange-rate volatility, Carrefour is staying the course,” the
company said in the statement.  Currency Impact  The weakness of Brazilian real and the Argentine peso point
to a slight reduction in the company’s guidance for full-year
recurring operating profit, Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon said on a call with reporters.  Carrefour expects earnings for the year to be in line with
analyst estimates of 2.185 billion euros, the executive said.
Sivignon said last month that estimates of about 2.2 billion
euros were reasonable as long as the real and peso didn’t
depreciate further against the euro.  The Brazilian and Argentine currencies have each lost about
13 percent against the euro this year.  Carrefour, which has dispensed with assets in  Colombia ,
 Malaysia ,  Singapore  and  Greece , doesn’t envisage further
disposals, Plassat said at a presentation in Paris. The grocer
may explore acquisitions and partnerships, he said.  Expansion Plans  “There will be things that come up for sale and we shall
be observing all this,” Plassat said. “Once we’ve worked out
the cost, then we can see in what form we could make an
acquisition or a partnership so as not to once again create
difficulties on our balance sheet.”  That may include in  China , where Plassat said the grocer
needs to improve local ties as it steps up expansion. Tesco Plc,
the U.K.’s biggest retailer, last month agreed to merge its
Chinese business with the country’s second-biggest hypermarket
chain as sales decline.  “We do not know exactly what the various stages will be,”
Plassat said of Carrefour’s plans in China. “China is a big
country where many things are going to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  