-- Cheap Corn Deters Buyers in U.S. Sugar-for-Ethanol Plan
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-08-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/cheap-corn-deters-buyers-in-u-s-sugar-for-ethanol-plan.html
A glut of corn has damped interest
by biofuel makers in a U.S. government program to sell surplus
sugar for ethanol, potentially decreasing its effectiveness in
propping up sugar prices.  With the U.S. harvest of corn, the nation’s biggest crop
and the source of most of its ethanol, expected to set a record
this year, ethanol producers don’t see sugar as a competitive
substitute, said Todd Becker, chief executive officer of the
Omaha, Nebraska-based  Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc. (GPRE) , the
fourth-largest maker of ethanol in the U.S., which decided not
to participate.  The price of corn has plunged 43 percent since reaching a
record $8.49 a bushel during last year’s U.S. drought. The
government said this month that farmers will boost production by
28 percent to an all-time high of 13.763 billion bushels. The
grain closed yesterday at $4.8075 a bushel in Chicago trading.  “You don’t just open a fermentation tank and put some
sugar in there,” Becker said today in a telephone interview.
“We’re not at $8 corn anymore. Sugar isn’t a game-changer for
anyone in the industry.”  Bids to the government were due yesterday for buyers and
sellers of sugar under the program in which the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  will match companies that want to rid themselves
of surplus sugar with businesses interested in acquiring the
sweetener to process into biofuels.  Feedstock Flexibility  The initiative is meant to prop up sugar prices --
depressed by a record surplus -- and dispose of supplies used as
collateral for government loans from the Commodity Credit Corp.,
staving off expensive forfeitures of those loans required under
government rules. The value of outstanding loans using raw sugar
as collateral stood at  $81.53 million  earlier this week.  The Feedstock Flexibility Program, created by Congress in
2008, has never before been activated. On Aug. 15, the USDA
solicited bids from companies interested in purchasing sugar to
covert into biofuel.  Meanwhile, record domestic sugar output in the current
season and increased imports, especially from  Mexico , pushed
U.S. prices to the lowest since 2008 earlier this year, below
the loan-default level, or about 21 cents a pound.  Sugar Prices  Domestic sugar on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  closed
yesterday at 20.95 cents a pound, up 1.6 percent to the highest
closing price since April 16. World prices closed at 16.44
cents, down 0.1 percent. The U.S., which for decades has
artificially raised market prices by limiting imports under
international agreements, already is using export credits to
reduce the surplus.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the third-biggest ethanol producer,
also declined to participate in the USDA program, spokesman  Bill Day  said yesterday in a statement. Poet LLC, the nation’s
biggest ethanol producer, didn’t respond to requests for comment
on whether it will participate.  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
second-biggest producer, declined through a spokesman to reveal
its plans.  Even with limited participation by buyers, the sugar-for-ethanol initiative still may push prices up enough to avoid some
forfeitures, meeting the government’s goal, Tom Earley, an
economist with  Agralytica , a food and agriculture consulting
firm in Alexandria,  Virginia , said in a telephone interview.  Viable Option  “What the USDA is doing with the flexibility program is
going to have a positive influence on prices within the next
month,” Earley said, noting that sale prices may be below
market. “The price that ethanol producers will have to pay for
the sugar may make it a viable option.”  For ethanol producers, the program will mean little, said
Bob Dinneen, chief executive and president of the  Renewable
Fuels Association , an industry trade group based in Washington.  “I don’t anticipate many companies will take advantage of
it,” said Dinneen, who predicted any participation will
probably come from producers in states like Mississippi or
 Georgia , where corn is less plentiful and sugar is nearer.  The USDA is “trying to save the taxpayer money because
they don’t have much else they can do,” he said. “This isn’t
about ethanol. The USDA is awash in sugar, and they’re trying to
get rid of it.”  Monitor Bidding  Becker said Green Plains would monitor future bidding to
see whether sugar cheap enough to justify extra transportation
costs becomes available. Running sugar through a corn-ethanol
plant isn’t particularly difficult, he said, since making the
biofuel involves converting grain into a sugar anyway. A bigger
problem is creating new supply chains for a product that in the
end would add only marginally to the industry’s bottom line, he
said.  “I dump 1,000 trucks every day” filled with corn, he
said. “I’m not going to do anything that would mess with
this.”  Ethanol is blended with gasoline as part of a 2007 U.S.
energy law, known as the Renewable Fuels Standard, which calls
for refiners to use 13.8 billion gallons of the fuel this year
and 14.4 billion in 2014. Ethanol is typically sold in a
combination known as E-10, with 10 percent of the mix made up of
the biofuel and the rest gasoline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  