-- Chelsea Signs Striker Samuel Eto’o From Russian Club Anzhi
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-29T15:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/chelsea-signs-striker-samuel-eto-o-from-russian-club-anzhi.html
Chelsea signed striker Samuel Eto’o,
the record four-time African soccer player of the year, from
Russian club Anzhi Makhachkala.  Eto’o signed a one-year contract, Chelsea said on its
 website  without disclosing financial terms. The Independent
reported that he’ll make 7 million pounds ($11 million), down
from his 17 million-pound salary at Anzhi.  The move reunites the 32-year-old Cameroonian with Blues
manager Jose Mourinho, whom he played under at Inter Milan.  “It wasn’t a hard decision,” Eto’o said. “I saw the
qualities Chelsea have, and I was very happy with Jose Mourinho
before, so when the opportunity came, I was very happy to take
it.”  Eto’o joins a Chelsea strike force that includes Demba Ba,
Fernando Torres and Romelu Lukaku. The signing comes after the
Blues had two bids rejected for Manchester United’s Wayne Rooney.  Eto’o began his career in Spain with Real Madrid and also
had loan spells at Leganes, Espanyol and Mallorca. He went to
Barcelona in 2004 and scored 152 goals over five seasons,
helping the team win two Champions League titles.  He moved to  Italy  in 2009, joining Mourinho’s Inter Milan
in a deal which saw Zlatan Ibrahimovic go to Barcelona. Inter
went on to win the Champions League that season, giving Eto’o
back-to-back European titles with two different clubs.  Eto’o joined Anzhi in 2011 as the club’s Russian
billionaire owner Suleiman Kerimov went on a spending spree that
also included the signings of former Brazil World Cup-winning
defender Roberto Carlos and ex-Chelsea defender Yuri Zhirkov.
Kerimov earlier this month said he was cutting funding, which
forced the club to part ways with some of its biggest names.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 