-- China to Expand Asset-Backed Securities Trial
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-29T04:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/china-to-expand-asset-backed-securities-trial.html
China  pledged to expand the
packaging of loans into securities to dissipate financial risks,
part of efforts to increase the use of markets and sustain
economic  growth .  The trial will be expanded as a way to “activate” the use
of credit, China’s State Council said in a statement late
yesterday. The People’s Bank of China has told the country’s
lenders to securitize their good-quality assets and to sell the
resulting securities to investors in the interbank market and
exchanges, according to a statement from the central bank today.  “The expansion of the trial shows the government wants to
make better use of existing credit to help support the
economy,” said Xu Wenbing, an analyst in  Shanghai  at Bank of
Communications Ltd., the nation’s fifth-biggest lender. “Not
only the nation’s biggest banks but also smaller banks, and even
non-bank financial institutions, may be allowed to securitize
their loans.”  Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  is liberalizing parts of the
country’s financial markets after economic growth slowed to 7.8
percent last year, the least in more than a decade. Authorities
will seek to prevent the securities from causing dangers in the
financial system by excluding relatively risky assets in the
trial, according to the State Council statement. The difficulty
of assessing risk in bonds backed by loans was a major
contributor to the global financial crisis.  The PBOC said China has come to a stage at which it “must
accelerate credit asset securitization” as selling off some
bank assets will help lenders better allocate their capital.  “It will permit the banks to manage their balance sheets
better,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “Given that bank balance sheets have
expanded tremendously over the past several years, this is a
positive, and a step forward.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  