-- China Stock-Index Futures Rise After Agribank, China Life Profit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-29T01:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/china-stock-index-futures-rise-after-agribank-china-life-profit.html
China’s stock-index futures  rose
after  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  to  China  Life Insurance
Co. reported profit increases in the first half of the year.  Futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  expiring in September gained
0.1 percent to 2,331.20 as of 9:19 a.m. local time. Developers
may move after the Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday the
government will expand the scope of an individual property tax
trial.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co. ,
China’s second-biggest maker of construction equipment, may
decline after first-half profit dropped 48 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.1 percent to
2,101.30 yesterday, paring this year’s loss to 7.4 percent. The
CSI 300 Index declined 0.6 percent to 2,328.06. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 2.2 percent. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index added 0.5 percent in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite is valued at 8.4 times its projected
12-month earnings, compared with the five-year average of 12.7
times, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volumes
in the index were 60 percent higher than the 30-day average
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 194 Shanghai-listed companies that reported first-half  earnings  that Bloomberg tracks, 87 beat analyst estimates,
95 trailed and the rest were in line. Chinese publicly traded
companies are required to release first-half reports by the end
of August.  China Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, may rise after
saying profit jumped 68 percent from a year earlier in the first
six months on higher investment income and lower impairment
losses. AgriBank, China’s third-biggest lender by market value,
may gain after reporting a 22 percent profit increase in the
first half.  Upcoming Data  The statistics bureau is scheduled to release results of
its official manufacturing index for this month on Sept. 1. The
reading is estimated to be 50.6, up from the previous month’s
50.3, according to the median estimate of 29 economists. A
preliminary reading by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit’s Purchasing
Managers Index last week was 50.1, resuming expansion from July.
The 50 level that divides expansion and contraction.  China will expand a credit asset securitization trial
according to a report on a State Council meeting presided over
by Premier  Li Keqiang , posted to the central government website.
The expansion provides financial support for economic
restructuring, transformation and upgrading, the report said.  Sohu.com Inc. led gains among Chinese equities in New York
yesterday on speculation Qihoo 360 Technology Co. is a step
closer to buying a stake in its Sogou online search engine unit.  Online news portal Sohu jumped the most since May 20, while
Qihoo, China’s second biggest search engine, slid for the first
time in a week on concern its sale of convertible bonds will
sink its stock value. Digital map provider AutoNavi Holdings
Ltd. tumbled 14 percent, the most on record, on plans to offer
free navigation applications.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  