-- China Minzhong Posts 11% Profit Gain
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-08-29T15:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/china-minzhong-posts-11-profit-gain.html
China Minzhong Food Corp. (MINZ) , the
vegetable processor whose accounts were questioned by short-seller Glaucus Research Group this week, said full-year profit
rose 11 percent.  Net income advanced to 755.1 million  yuan  ($123.4 million)
in the 12 months through June from 679.6 million yuan a year
earlier, the Putian, China-based company said today in a
statement. Sales jumped 26 percent to 3.25 billion yuan.  Minzhong is preparing a response to Glaucus’s report, which
it expects to release by the end of this week. The company will
seek to allay concerns as more Chinese businesses trading in
Hong Kong, Singapore and New York become short-seller targets.
Minzhong is among 143 China-based firms listed on  Singapore ’s
S$967.4 billion ($758.3 billion) stock market, according to the
latest data from the exchange.  Minzhong, a grower and processor of vegetables in  China  for
local and international customers, has reported higher profit
every year since fiscal 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Glaucus said in a  report  on Aug. 26 that Minzhong had been
“significantly deceiving” regulators and investors, sending
the stock 48 percent lower in Singapore in less than two hours
before trading was suspended. Minzhong said earlier today that
the short-seller misunderstood its business.  Glaucus Report  Glaucus was set up to probe companies that appear “too
good to be true” using experiences from accounting, law and
capital markets, according to its  website .  Minzhong may have fabricated sales and payments to its
largest supplier, doctored historical accounts and overstated
capital spending, Glaucus said in the report. It also questioned
the vegetable processor’s reported receivables and cash balance.
Minzhong said it will show its financials are sound and address
specific issues raised by the short seller.  Glaucus, which has an office in Newport Beach, California,
has also issued reports on  China Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. (773) ,
China Medical Technologies Inc. and SouFun Holdings Ltd.  Provisional liquidators were appointed to China Metal in
July and its Hong Kong-traded stock has been suspended since
January. China Medical filed for Chapter 15 foreign-firm
bankruptcy protection in New York last year.  SouFun (SFUN) , China’s
biggest real-estate website owner, has surged 70 percent since
the April report by Glaucus, compared with the 6.1 percent gain
in the  Bloomberg China-US Equity index .  Stock Suspended  Shares of Minzhong were halted at 53 Singapore cents after
tumbling the most since the company’s listing in April 2010. The
stock will remain suspended until the end of trading tomorrow.
Short interest in the vegetable processor rose to a record 7.2
percent of the outstanding stock on Aug. 19 from this year’s low
of 3.8 percent in March, according to the most recent data from
research company Markit Group Ltd.  Minzhong’s biggest  investor , PT Indofood Sukses Makmur, the
parent of  Indonesia ’s largest instant-noodle maker, said this
week it’s comfortable with its investment.  Indofood, which doubled its stake in Minzhong to 29.3
percent in March, conducted due diligence on the company before
making its investment, Director Thomas Tjhie said Aug. 26,
adding that he had spoken to Minzhong’s chief financial officer
about the Glaucus report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  