-- China Auto Rental Leaning Toward Hong Kong IPO, Chairman Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-29T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/china-auto-rental-leaning-toward-hong-kong-ipo-chairman-says.html
China Auto Rental Holdings Inc. (CARH) , the
country’s biggest car-rental provider, is leaning toward an
initial public offering of its stock in  Hong Kong  within the
next three years, the company’s chairman said.  “I personally prefer Hong Kong over the U.S. because
investors in  Asia , especially in Hong Kong, are more familiar
with and interested in our business,” Charles Lu, 43, chairman
and founder of China Auto Rental, said in an interview
yesterday. Still, he hasn’t ruled out a U.S. IPO, he said.  A sale would help the company, which counts  Hertz Global
Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  and Lenovo Group Ltd.’s parent as investors, raise
funds to expand its fleet in the world’s largest auto market.
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s biggest e-commerce company,
is discussing a Hong Kong listing, a person familiar with the
matter said this week.  Beijing-based China Auto Rental withdrew its application
for a U.S. IPO last year as accounting scandals and share
declines since 2010 caused investor appetite for mainland
Chinese companies to dwindle.  Hertz, which in April agreed to buy about 20 percent of
China Auto Rental, may increase its holdings in the Chinese
company when the IPO occurs, Mark Frissora, chairman and CEO of
Hertz, said in a separate interview, though he declined to
specify by how much.  Bigger Than France  “This market has grown a lot faster than I ever would have
imagined,” Frissora said in reference to China. “It’s already
sized as about a $4 billion rental car market. It’s actually a
little bigger than  France , which is the biggest rental car
market in  Europe .”  Demand for vehicle leases is projected to rise in China as
more cities impose ownership restrictions, taxi fares increase
and the government cuts spending on official cars, Lu said.
Hertz estimates the car-rental market to expand more than 15
percent annually through 2017.  China Auto Rental, which operates the zuche.com website,
had about 700 outlets spread across 66 cities and 52 major
airports in the country as of the end of last year, according to
Lu. It plans to double the fleet of about 55,000 vehicles to
100,000 units in three years, Lu said.  The Chinese company will turn profitable for the first time
this year, with profits of “tens of millions” of  yuan  while
revenue will increase more than 50 percent to about 2.5 billion
yuan ($410 million), he said.  Legend Holdings Ltd., parent of  Lenovo (992) , owns 41 percent of
China Auto Rental, according to Brian Zang, vice president of
the car-rental provider. The Chinese company also received a
$200 million investment from Warburg Pincus LLC in July 2012.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  