-- China Swap Rate at One-Week High on Month-End Cash Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-29T09:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/china-money-rate-drops-as-central-bank-injects-funds.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
climbed to the highest level in a week on speculation lenders’
cash demand to meet month-end requirements will persist even
after the central bank’s fund injections.  The cost to lock in borrowing costs for a year climbed for
a second day even after the People’s Bank of China  added  a net
41.5 billion  yuan  ($6.7 billion) to markets this week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with an addition of
72 billion yuan last week. The PBOC issued 26 billion yuan of
14-day reverse-repurchase agreements today at 4.1 percent, the
same rate as an Aug. 22 auction, according to a statement on its
website. On Aug. 27, it pumped in 29 billion yuan via seven-day
reverse repos at 3.9 percent.  “The limited amount of reverse repos indicates the PBOC
doesn’t want to add too much money,” said Guo Caomin, an
analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in  Shanghai . Still, “liquidity
isn’t particularly tight now after the central bank injected
funds over the past couple of weeks.”  The cost of the one-year swap contract, the fixed payment
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 4.15 percent as
of 4:35 p.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest level since Aug. 21.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability, increased five basis points to 4.35 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The overnight repo rate dropped 15
basis points to 2.95 percent.  The yield on the government’s 3.38 percent bonds due May
2023 climbed two basis points to 4.03 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  China will strictly control new local government debt and
push provinces to gradually reduce borrowings, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing Finance Minister
 Lou Jiwei .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  