-- CIBC Has C$6 Billion of Aerogold Card Loans as TD Talks Continue
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-29T15:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/cibc-has-c-6-billion-of-aerogold-card-loans-as-td-talks-continue.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce 
has about C$6 billion ($5.7 billion) of outstanding receivables
for its CIBC branded Aerogold Visa credit cards, part of which
may be sold to  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   The Aerogold card portfolio generated approximately 95
cents of earnings per share for the 12 months ended July 31,
Toronto-based Canadian Imperial said today in a statement. CIBC
wants to keep half of the portfolio, primarily cardholders that
are also bank customers, as it negotiates a deal with Toronto-Dominion and loyalty program operator  Aimia Inc. (AIM) , the bank said.  “CIBC continues to be in discussions on a potential
agreement with TD and Aimia that will allow both CIBC and TD to
offer clients access to the Aeroplan travel rewards program,”
Chief Executive Officer Gerald McCaughey, 57, said in a
conference call with analysts.  Canadian Imperial has been in talks to sell part of the
credit-card portfolio since Aug. 12, when Toronto-Dominion was
chosen as the primary card partner of Montreal-based Aimia. The
lenders had set Aug. 26 as a deadline for reaching an agreement.  CIBC was the country’s largest credit-card issuer last year
with C$15.5 billion of outstanding balances, followed by
Toronto-Dominion with about C$15.4 billion, according to an
April issue of the Nilson Report, a credit-card industry
newsletter.  The lender’s two-decade partnership with Aimia made the
CIBC Aerogold Visa its most popular card. The bank buys Aeroplan
miles from Aimia to give to cardholders on purchases, including
flights with  Air Canada (AC/B) , the country’s biggest carrier.  Canadian Imperial retains its rights to pursue legal
options if it’s unable to reach a deal with Toronto-Dominion and
Aimia, the company said today.  Canada ’s fifth-biggest lender
said it will offer an enhanced travel card “over the coming
months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  