-- Co-Operative Bank Says It May Fail If Bondholders Reject Swap
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-08-29T07:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/co-operative-bank-first-half-loss-widens-amid-bondholder-talks.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc said it risks
failing unless bondholders approve a debt exchange to plug a
capital shortfall as it posted a wider loss in the first half.  The lender is in talks with bondholders to swap some debt
for equity to plug the 1.5 billion-pound ($2.3 billion) deficit
and expects to make a formal offer at the end of October, Co-Operative Group Chief Executive Officer Euan Sutherland told
reporters on a conference call today.  “The execution of the exchange offer is vital,” the
lender, which traces its roots to Britain’s 19th-century
industrial north, said in a statement. “We will not remain a
going concern without it.”  Co-Operative Bank is being pushed by regulators to bolster
capital after the failure of its bid for 632  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  branches exposed the shortfall, which stems from the
Manchester, England-based company’s purchase of Britannia
Building Society in 2009. The lender today posted a 496 million-pound writedown, mainly due to souring loans from Britannia.  Co-Operative Bank is trying to raise the money by asking
existing bondholders to exchange subordinated debt for new
equity and senior debt. The lender has said it needs holders of
about 1.1 billion pounds of the 1.3 billion pounds of debt
outstanding to approve the plan. The bank has 7,000 bond
investors with holdings of less than 25,000 pounds.  “There is no Plan B,” Sutherland told reporters on a
call. “Plan A is the recapitalization of the bank; it’s
being done in conjunction with the  Bank of England .”  Parent Co-Operative Group is standing “firmly” behind the
bank, making a 1 billion-pound contribution, he said. Co-Operative Group won’t pledge additional money, he said.  The bank’s loss after tax increased to 781.5 million pounds
from 45.3 million pounds in the year-earlier period. The company
also wrote down its computer systems by 148.4 million pounds and
set aside 61 million pounds to compensate customers mis-sold
products including payment-protection insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simone Meier at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net  