-- Hedge Funds Seek Insight Into What Summers Would Do at Fed
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-08-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/contemplating-summers-drives-investors-to-seek-beltway-expertise.html
Investors are increasingly seeking
advice on how the potential nomination of Lawrence Summers as
chairman of the Federal Reserve instead of Vice Chairman Janet Yellen might influence monetary policy and financial markets.  Inquiries about Summers’s chances “are picking up a lot,”
said Matthew Benjamin, an analyst at Medley Global Advisors LLC
in  Washington , a firm that provides political intelligence to
hedge funds. “Wall Street is very interested in this, and there
is a perception that there is a difference between Yellen and
Summers” in their approach to monetary stimulus.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s term ends in January, and his
successor may take over as the Fed pares back its monthly bond
purchases of $85 billion, a prospect that has rocked financial
markets from New York to Jakarta. Some investors say Treasury
yields have risen in reaction to the possibility of a Summers
nomination and could go higher.  “The market was comfortable with a Yellen appointment and
is needing to grow comfortable with what a Larry Summers
appointment might mean,” said  Leo Grohowski , chief investment
officer of New York-based BNY Mellon Wealth Management, which
oversees more than $175 billion. “It’s one of the uncertainty
factors that the market has to deal with that many, a few months
ago, didn’t think we had to deal with.”  Interest rates on Treasury debt and mortgages have climbed
since May 22, when Bernanke told the Joint Economic Committee of
Congress that the central bank may begin tapering the pace of
asset purchases, known as quantitative easing, at one of the
Fed’s “next few meetings.”  Yields Rise  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.75 percent
yesterday from 1.63 percent on May 2, the lowest level of the
year. The national average 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage  has risen
to 4.51 percent from 3.35 percent in early May, according to
Freddie Mac.  The U.S. bond market is facing its worst losses in at least
37 years. Through Aug. 28, the Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
U.S. Broad Market Index was on pace for a 4.8 percent annual
decline, the biggest loss since the index began in 1976.  The possibility of a Summers chairmanship has contributed
to the increase in borrowing costs because he is seen as likely
to end the Fed’s quantitative easing sooner than Yellen would,
said Krishna Memani, New York-based chief investment officer of
fixed income at Oppenheimer Funds Inc., with about $208 billion
under management.  “Tapering with the prospect of a Summers Fed chairmanship
clearly are the two big drivers of rates rising and the yield
curve steepening,” said Memani.  Clients ‘Troubled’  Tony Fratto, a U.S. Treasury assistant secretary in the
George W. Bush administration and the founder of consultants
Hamilton Place Strategies in Washington, said some clients “are
troubled at the prospect. Some are just curious and trying to
figure out the future.”  “Clients have been asking for about three months whether
Summers can be confirmed,” he said.  While former Treasury Secretary Summers, 58, has no record
making monetary policy, he expressed skepticism about the
effectiveness of QE in an April conference hosted by Drobny
Global Advisors.  By contrast, Yellen’s views are well known after more than
a decade at the central bank. Yellen, 67, was a Fed governor
from 1994 to 1997, president of the San Francisco Fed from 2004
to 2010 and vice chairman since 2010.  She has been an architect of the current stimulus campaign
and Fed communication strategy and has never dissented from a
monetary policy decision under Bernanke.  “We know with Yellen that she will continue with their
current program,” Memani said. “With Summers it’s a lot less
certain.”  Paring Purchases  Bernanke has assured investors that paring purchases
doesn’t signal an increase in the benchmark  interest rate , which
policy makers forecast will remain near zero until 2015. As the
Fed begins to move away from bond purchases to boost the
economy, it will rely on more on guidance on the future path of
interest rates as a policy tool.  The increase in borrowing costs “serves to weaken the
Fed’s message when there’s a question about continuity, just
when the Fed is moving to rely more on that particular tool” of
rate guidance, said Laura Rosner, a U.S. economist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York and a former researcher at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York.  Rosner and colleagues at BNP Paribas, including former Fed
economist Julia Coronado, estimate that the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note would rise about 50 basis points if Summers were
nominated instead of Yellen. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point. That would cause the firm to lower its forecast of gross
domestic product growth over the next two years by 0.5 to 0.75
percentage point and would mean 350,000 to 500,000 fewer jobs,
they wrote in a note published yesterday.  Economists’ Pick  As recently as an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey of economists,
Summers was seen as unlikely to be selected to lead the Fed.
Twenty-five percent of economists said Summers would be
President  Barack Obama ’s choice, compared with 65 percent for
Yellen. Ten percent of the 63 economists in the survey thought
Summers would be the best pick, compared with 53 percent for
Yellen.  Fratto said Summers is an “impressive economist and can be
a successful Fed chair.” At the same time, Fratto said, Summers
may arouse opposition from members of both parties, with some
Democrats viewing him as a proponent of financial deregulation.  When he was deputy Treasury secretary in 1998, Summers
helped thwart an effort by Brooksley Born, then-chairman of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to consider regulating
over-the-counter derivatives. That market ballooned to a
notional value of almost $600 trillion in 2007 from about $28
trillion at the time of Born’s proposal. Largely unregulated
trades of those contracts helped fuel the 2008 financial crisis.  Political Independence  Fratto is also trying to debunk the idea for clients that
Republicans will easily vote for Summers. Many are concerned
about his independence from the White House, he said.  If Republicans thought “Bernanke was carrying water for
the White House, then what are they going to think of Summers?”
said Fratto.  Bernanke’s confirmation for a second four-year term in 2010
prompted the most opposition of any nominee for the post in the
100-year history of the central bank. Twelve Democrats joined 18
Republicans in opposing Bernanke amid anger over the central
bank’s role in bailing out large banks during the financial
crisis.  This time, 20 members of the Senate Democratic caucus
endorsed Yellen for chairman in a letter to the White House on
July 26. The letter described Yellen as willing “to challenge
conventional wisdom regarding deregulation,” an implicit
criticism of Summers, who wasn’t mentioned in the letter.  Served Obama  Summers, who was Treasury secretary from July 1999 to
January 2001, returned to government in 2009 as National
Economic Council director during Obama’s first term.  “If it is Summers, he has some work to do,” Norman Ornstein, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute,
a free-market group in Washington, said in an interview earlier
this month. Yet he said Summers probably would get confirmed in
the Senate, which Democrats control 54-46.  “You may see some grumbling,” Ornstein said, “but I
think they get the votes.”  Summers may encounter difficulty in the Senate Banking
Committee, where Democrats dominate 12-10.  Committee member Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, led the
campaign to send the Senate Democrats’ letter to the White
House. Another Democrat on the panel, Jeff Merkley of  Oregon ,
signed the letter and questioned whether it would be
“appropriate” for Obama to nominate Summers, whom he described
as “a life-committed deregulator.”  Endorsed Yellen  A third Democrat on the committee, Elizabeth Warren of
 Massachusetts , signed the letter endorsing Yellen. A group of 37
House Democratic women, led by California Representative Maxine Waters, also sent a letter to the White House July 31 urging
Obama to appoint Yellen. The House has no role in confirmation.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said
after a July 31 meeting between Obama and Senate Democrats that
party members in his chamber would support the president’s
choice for the Fed “no matter who it is.”  Joseph Engelhard, a former Treasury Department official who
is now senior vice president at Capital Alpha Partners LLC, also
predicted that few, if any, Senate Democrats would go so far as
to vote against Obama’s eventual nominee.  “I can’t imagine whoever Obama nominates wouldn’t have the
full support of all Senate Democrats -- maybe you lose one or
two,” Engelhard said. “This is all trying to influence the
process rather than raising a red flag.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  