-- Cooler Rules From U.S. to Save $28 Billion Over 30 Years
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-08-29T21:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/cooler-rules-from-u-s-to-save-28-billion-over-30-years.html
The U.S. Energy Department proposed
new efficiency standards that would cut expenses and emissions
from commercial refrigerators and coolers, ending months of
delay by the White House.  The requirements for  equipment  used in restaurants,
 convenience stores  and ice-cream shops will require less use of
electricity, reducing costs and greenhouse-gas emissions. The
department issued similar guidelines this month for the lights
used in big-box retail stores.  “These critical steps bolster the energy productivity of
our economy, cut energy costs for American families and
businesses, and leave a healthier planet for future
generations,”  Heather Zichal , the White House’s top energy
adviser, said today in a  blog  post.  The two proposals, if unchanged when issued as final rules,
would reduce electricity use by as much as $28 billion and cut
350 million tons of carbon-dioxide emissions in the next 30
years, according to the White House.  The rule for supermarket walk-in coolers and freezers would
cut costs by $24 billion and trim carbon dioxide emissions by
298 million tons. The remaining $4 billion would be saved from a
rule aimed at restaurant refrigerators and convenience-store
coolers, according to the White House.  The proposals were issued after  environmental  groups and
state governments pressed for action from the administration of
President  Barack Obama . The draft rules were sent to the Office
of Management and Budget for review more than a year ago, and
missed the 90-day deadline for release.  Because of those delays,  New York  State Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman led 10 states in threatening legal action
unless the rules were issued. Early this month, the
administration settled with the states, and agreed to issue the
proposals now and final rules in early 2014.  A separate standard for electric motors will be proposed in
November, according to the settlement schedule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  