-- Cotton Fibonacci Signaling Slump to June Low: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   M a r v i n   P e r e z
-- 2013-08-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/cotton-fibonacci-signaling-slump-to-june-low-technical-analysis.html
Cotton futures that rallied as much
as 10 percent this month are headed to the lowest price since
June, after erasing all those gains, according to a technical
analysis by KCG Futures.  Since reaching a five-month high of 93.72 cents a pound on
Aug. 16, prices plunged as much as 11 percent on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York . On Aug. 21, the contract for December delivery
dropped below 84.55 cents, the 23.6 percent Fibonacci
retracement from this month’s high, signaling further declines,
said  Sharon Johnson , a senior market specialist at KCG Futures.  “Since we have retraced more than three quarters of the
run-up from June, the technicals would suggest that you’re more
likely to see a complete retracement” to 81.72 cents,  Johnson
said in a telephone interview from Roswell,  Georgia . “We should
take out 80 cents,” which would be the lowest for a most-active
contract since June 3, she said.  Global production will exceed demand for a fourth straight
year in the 12 months that began Aug. 1, expanding the record
global surplus, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Aug. 12.
Prices had rallied earlier this year on concern that production
is dropping in the U.S., the largest exporter, and that  China 
would continue to expand government stockpiles.  On Aug. 12, the USDA forecast a 46 percent drop in Chinese
imports. The agency said on Aug. 26 that crop conditions
improved last week, with 47 percent of the crop in good or
excellent condition, up from 46 percent a week earlier. Futures
slumped 9.9 percent last week, the biggest plunge since May
2012.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. Fibonacci analysis is based on the
theory that securities tend to rise or fall by specific
percentages after reaching a high or low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  