-- Crude Falls From Two-Year High as Syria Concern Eases
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-08-29T19:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/crude-falls-from-two-year-high-as-syria-concern-eases.html
West Texas Intermediate fell from a
two-year high as the prospect of imminent attacks on  Syria 
receded and as better-than-expected U.S. economic data raised
speculation that the Federal Reserve will taper its stimulus.  Prices dropped 1.2 percent as the U.K. and  France  said they
favor waiting for the results of a United Nations investigation
into Syria’s alleged use of chemical weapons. The U.S. economy
expanded at a faster pace in the second quarter and first-time
jobless claims fell more than forecast last week, adding to
concern the Fed will reduce its $85 billion monthly bond buying
in September.  “Oil is taking out some of the immediate attack-risk
premium in the market,” said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst
at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The market is
recalibrating when that attack may happen. The U.S. economy is
getting better and that increases the odds of a September
tapering.”  WTI for October delivery declined $1.30 to settle at
$108.80 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The volume
of all futures traded was 22 percent below the 100-day average
for the time of day at 2:33 p.m. The contract climbed to $110.10
yesterday, the highest close since May 3, 2011. Prices are up
3.6 percent this month.  Brent for October settlement dropped $1.45, or 1.2 percent,
to $115.16 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Trading was 21 percent above the 100-day average. The
European benchmark’s premium to WTI narrowed for the first time
in four days, to $6.36.  Backing Away  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, the U.S.’s top ally,
struggled to win parliamentary backing for military strikes on
President Bashar al-Assad’s military capacity. He bowed to
opposition demands to await a judgment by on-site United Nations
inspectors.  The Obama administration is laboring to marshal conclusive
evidence backing its assertions that Assad was directly
responsible for the attack, said three intelligence officials
familiar with the situation. The U.S. won’t act without allies,
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said today.  Crude surpassed $110 yesterday on concern the conflict in
Syria will spread and threaten Middle East oil supplies.  “The idea that nothing is going to occur imminently is
pushing prices down,” said Tom Finlon, the Jupiter, Florida-based director of Energy Analytics Group LLC. “It takes a while
for these countries to get their act together.”  Iraq, Iran  Syria borders  Iraq  and is near  Iran , countries that
together hold almost a fifth of the output capacity from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg
estimates show. Syria produced less than 1 percent of the 28.3
million barrels a day pumped in the Middle East last year,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil
production in the first quarter of this year, International
Energy Agency data showed.  “The oil markets are seeing some minor profit-taking as
traders await further news regarding a possible military strike
against Syria,” said Tim Evans, an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York, in an e-mail. The timetable for
military strikes is “slipping,” he said.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter, up from an initial
estimate of 1.7 percent, Commerce Department figures showed
today. The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected a 2.2 percent gain.  Jobless Claims  Jobless  claims  in the week ended Aug. 24 dropped 6,000 to
331,000 from a revised 337,000 the week before that was higher
than initially reported, the Labor Department said. The median
forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
drop to 332,000.  Minutes of a July Fed meeting published Aug. 21 show that
most central bank members were “broadly comfortable” with a
plan to trim stimulus in 2013. About 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13 anticipated tapering in
September.  “With a GDP number like that, is the likelihood of a
slight reduction clear in September?” Finlon said. “I think
so.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index gained 0.5 percent to
1,033.69 at 2:50 p.m., which would be the highest closing level
since Aug. 1. A stronger dollar reduces oil’s investment appeal.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 25.8 percent, down from 28 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 424,572
contracts as of 2:35 p.m. It totaled 669,695 contracts
yesterday, 3.8 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.85 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  