-- DeMark Signals Dollar Strength Against Franc: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-29T17:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/demark-signals-dollar-strength-against-franc-technical-analysis.html
The dollar may be poised to rise to
a six-week high versus the Swiss franc as an indicator of
turning points from Tom DeMark’s Market Studies LLC signals a
bottom in the pair, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The dollar is forming a base above its June 2013 low of
91.30 centimes after completing a daily DeMark Sequential
pattern, David Sneddon, global head of technical analysis at
Credit Suisse in  London , wrote today in a note to clients. A
move above 92.91 has opened a target at the 200-day moving
average of 93.44, offering tests of resistance at 93.97 and
94.49, which would be its strongest level since July 19.  “We have a daily DeMark momentum buy signal, and the
dollar should continue to rally up,” Sneddon said in a
telephone interview. “We’re expecting a further upside move in
the cross.”  The U.S. currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 93.02 centimes
today after rising as much as 1.1 percent, the most since Aug.
1. The franc has fallen 1.6 percent against the greenback this
year.  DeMark’s Sequential indicator is designed to predict
potential price “exhaustion” and likely reversals. It becomes
progressively less bearish as a price declines and, conversely,
less bullish as a price advances. DeMark, the creator of the
indicator who correctly called the stock market’s low in 2011,
wasn’t available to comment.  The dollar has strengthened 5.7 percent this year, the best
performer after the euro among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The franc has
gained 3.8 percent.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index. Resistance refers to an
area on a chart where sell orders may be clustered, and support
is an area where there may be buy orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  