-- Destroy Assad’s Regime, or Hold Your Fire
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-08-29T19:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/destroy-assad-s-regime-or-hold-your-fire.html
Syria  is the moral and strategic
test that U.S. President  Barack Obama  neither sought nor wanted.
He had done his best to avert his gaze from its horrors. He, the
self-styled orator, had said very little about the grief of
Syria and the pain of its children. When he spoke of Syria, it
often sounded as though he was speaking of  Iraq  -- the prism
through which he saw the foreign world and its threats.  In his first term, his four principal foreign policy
advisers -- the secretaries of state and defense, the director
of the Central Intelligence Agency, and the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff -- supported arming the rebellion in
Syria: He overrode them. Earlier this year, he himself promised
the rebels weapons that were never delivered.  History will record for Obama that it was Bashar al-Assad
who dragged him into this fight. Obama had made much of the
distinction between wars of choice and wars of necessity. He is
said to have pondered theories of just and unjust wars. To this
Syrian ordeal, he came late in the hour, after the barbarisms,
after the veritable destruction of Syria’s nationhood, after the
jihadis had carved out their emirates. It doesn’t matter much
whether this entanglement is one of choice or of necessity. This
is only partly a hand that Barack Obama was dealt. To a greater
extent, he has shaped the conflict with the passivity he opted
for in a standoff with a petty dictator who should have been
thwarted long before.  Lawyerly Response  Obama now makes his stand the lawyerly way, on very narrow
grounds -- the use of chemical weapons in the Ghouta, east of
Damascus. True, the use of chemical weapons was a transgression
all its own, the first since  Saddam Hussein ’s campaign of death
and ruin in Kurdistan a quarter-century ago. But Assad had
sacked and reduced to rubble ancient, proud cities. He had
ignited a religious war between Sunni and Shiite Islam; he had
sent vigilante squads to maim and kill across a volatile fault-line between Sunni and Alawite towns, with the transparent aim
of “cleansing” whole communities. The peace and fabric of an
old, settled country has been torn to shreds as its people have
fled in terror into neighboring states. A million children,
740,000 of them younger than 11, the United Nations  estimates ,
have been made refugees.  Why indict Assad on the chemical weapons attack on the
Ghouta alone? One would think that the use of airpower against
civilian populations would have sufficed as a trigger for
military intervention.  Pablo Picasso  immortalized Guernica for
the bombing it suffered in the Spanish Civil War. But  Guernica 
was a small market town of 7,000 people, and it was attacked by
German and Italian bombers; Aleppo, which endured the brutality
of the regime’s fighter planes, is a city of more than 2
million.  The Obama administration has already announced an intended
strike of limited duration and magnitude, and done even this
with an air of doubt and irresolution. The dictator has already
been told that his regime is off-limits. From the very beginning
of this terrible war, Assad has been smugness itself. He had
warned the rebels that no foreign cavalry would ride to their
rescue. Borrowing a page from the book of his late father, Assad
has openly proclaimed that America did not have the stamina for
tests of strength in the Levant.  Unfaltering Heroes  It is an unfortunate fact of Arab political life that
adventurers can walk out of the wreckage of bitter defeats and
claim victory before the gullible. Consider the trail: In 1991,
the U.S. inflicted an overwhelming defeat on the regime of
Hussein, but the Iraqi despot was spared, and the “Arab
Street” that had rallied to him was never convinced that their
hero had faltered.  Seven years later, during the presidency of  Bill Clinton ,
it was time to go at Hussein again.  Operation Desert Fox , an
Anglo-American campaign, was meant to punish the Iraqi despot
for his defiance of UN inspectors looking into his weapons
programs. After four days of strikes, the thing came to an end,
and Hussein took it as evidence of the weakness of Western
powers.  In 2006, the leader of Hezbollah ignited a war on the
Israeli-Lebanese border. He spun his own legend about the
“divine victory” that his militia had secured. There had been
death and economic ruin in Lebanon, but it was enough that
Hezbollah was left standing after the fight.  The Syrian regime must then be denied the dividends of an
inconclusive military campaign. The regime itself -- its barons,
its secret police, its elite military units and its air bases --
ought to be legitimate targets, and the same is true of Assad’s
presidential palace. There should be conviction and courage in
this fight with the Assad dictatorship.  The truth of it is that the (Sunni) Arab world is now full
of animus toward the Syrian ruler and his cabal. No tears will
be shed for Assad. The vast majority of Arabs must dream of an
end for him similar to the macabre fate that befell  Muammar Qaddafi . The unwillingness of the League of Arab States to
support a military effort against Assad’s regime is a piece with
the moral abdication of that group. That body is a league of
despots that has never acknowledged truths known to practically
all Arabs. No attention ought to be paid to the  Arab League  and
its pieties. The classic Obama concern about antagonizing the
sensibilities of the region can be set aside. This is “the
East” and Western deeds play out under watchful eyes, in full
view of people with a scent for the resolve and weakness of
strangers. Obama has proudly proclaimed that he does not bluff.
In his bunker, that petty Syrian dictator has called his bluff.  (Fouad Ajami, a Bloomberg View contributor, is a senior
fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution. He is the
author of “The Syrian Rebellion,” published by Hoover Press.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney@bloomberg.net . 