-- Dollar Seen Casting Off Euro Shackles as Fed Tapers
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-29T14:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/dollar-seen-casting-off-euro-shackles-as-fed-tapers-currencies.html
The euro, more than any other
currency, is responsible for the drop in the U.S. Dollar  Index (BEUR) 
since March. Derivatives traders are betting that’s about to end
as the  Federal Reserve  reduces stimulus as soon as next month.  Traders are paying the biggest premium since September for
options giving the right to buy the dollar versus the euro over
those allowing for sales. The  Dollar Index , which is 58 percent
weighted toward the shared currency, will climb almost 5 percent
to 85.8 by Dec. 31 from 81.936, according to the median forecast
of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The dollar is already the second best-performer this year
of major currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, rising 5.6 percent compared with the euro’s 6 percent
advance. Further gains may be in store if the Fed reduces its
$85 billion of monthly bond purchases, stemming the flow of cash
to the 17-nation region.  “Tapering will eventually support the dollar against the
euro,”  Robert Lynch , a currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in  New York , said in an Aug. 26 phone interview. “It will put
some downward pressure on currencies that have been otherwise
supported by the liquidity the Fed has been pumping into the
economy.”  Risk Reversals  Futures traders are betting that the dollar will keep
gaining versus major peers including the British pound, Japanese
yen and the Canadian and Australian dollars, CFTC data show.  The premium on one-year options granting the right to buy
the dollar against the euro, compared with those allowing for
sales, increased to 2.1 percentage points, according to so-called 25-delta risk reversal rates. That’s the most since Sept.
11 and up from a premium of 0.98 percentage point on Feb. 1,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “From the U.S. side of the story, in terms of the
prospects of new positions, the risk-reward doesn’t favor a
higher euro,”  Paresh Upadhyaya , the Boston-based director of
currency strategy at Pioneer Investment Management, which
oversees $210 billion, said in an Aug. 27 phone interview. “But
we still need the  U.S. economy  to surprise to the upside.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the euro, yen, pound and the
currencies of three other major U.S. trading partners, has
fallen 1.3 percent since the end of the first quarter.  Euro Strength  In the same period, the dollar climbed versus 11 of its 16
most-traded peers tracked by Bloomberg, while weakening 3.9
percent against the euro.  Europe ’s common currency touched
$1.3452 on Aug. 20, the highest level since Feb. 14, before
dropping to $1.3239 as of 9:57 a.m. in New York.  Global monetary easing has boosted European assets as the
economy improves and investors speculate that the chance of a
euro-region breakup has receded.  The Bloomberg Eurozone Sovereign Bond  Index (BGSV)  has rallied 19
percent from a low in November 2011, while the Bloomberg Global
Developed Sovereign Bond Index has fallen 1.8 percent.  Futures traders increased bets that the dollar will weaken
against the euro in the week ending Aug. 20, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the
greenback versus those on a gain -- or  net shorts  -- rose to
36,746, the most since Feb. 8 and up from 16,057 the prior week.  Dollar ‘Upside’  “Now that speculators are a bit long the euro, it creates
a short-term opportunity for a squeeze that would work in the
dollar’s favor,” HSBC’s Lynch said. “If economic conditions
were to warrant it, this suggests upside for the dollar.”  The euro-area economy  emerged  from a record six quarters of
recession in the April to June period, with  gross domestic
product  growing 0.3 percent.  Citigroup’s Economic Surprise Index for the euro region has
exceeded an  equivalent measure  for the U.S. since June 26, with
the difference reaching a peak at the end of last month.  The European gauge rose to 50.2 on Aug. 27, the highest
level since March and up from minus 81.6 on April 29. Positive
readings suggest economic releases have been generally better
than analysts’ forecasts in Bloomberg surveys.  “This data is a big part of why the euro is doing well
against the dollar,” Dan Dorrow, the head of research at Faros
Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an Aug. 27 phone
interview. “The market has already priced in tapering in
September. I just can’t see the Fed surprising the markets on
the hawkish side.”  Policy Split  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on May 22 that
the central bank could dial back the money printing it has used
to boost growth should the economy improve.  Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting
published Aug. 21 show that most members were “broadly
comfortable” with a plan to trim stimulus in 2013, while 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13
anticipated tapering in September.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said in July
that he won’t raise the region’s benchmark interest rate from a
record-low 0.5 percent for an extended period, and reiterated
the statement this month.  “The ECB is still biased, in contrast to the Fed, to
providing a bit more stimulus or remaining in the camp of saying
rates will be low for longer,”  David Tulk , the chief macro
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said
in an Aug. 26 phone interview. “That relative divergence in
policy will play a role in dollar strength.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  