-- Yen Gains Versus Majors on Emerging-Market Concern; Krone Slides
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-08-30T21:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/dollar-touches-4-week-high-versus-peers-on-september-taper-bets.html
The yen gained against the majority
of its 16 most-traded peers as investors bet the financial
turmoil that has weighed on emerging-market assets in August has
longer to run, fueling demand for  Japan ’s currency as a haven.  The yen strengthened versus all but one of its major
counterparts this week amid the threat of U.S.-led military
action against  Syria . The euro fell to a one-month low versus
the dollar. Norway’s krone weakened for third day against the
U.S currency after retail sales fell last month and unemployment
climbed in August. India’s rupee recorded its biggest monthly
loss in 20 years on concern a deepening economic slowdown will
deter investors.  “Given the situation in Syria, a lot of people are on the
sideline,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“But there’s an interest in turning more bullish on dollar-yen.
We’re seeing rebuilding in dollar-yen positions.”  The yen rose 0.3 percent to 129.80 per euro at 5 p.m. in
New York, having appreciated 1.8 percent this week. Japan’s
currency advanced 0.2 percent to 98.17 per dollar after earlier
gaining as much as 0.5 percent. The dollar climbed 0.1 percent
to $1.3222 per euro after touching $1.3174, the strongest level
since July 25.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, rose 0.1 percent to 1,034.28.
It gained 0.8 percent in August, the largest monthly gain since
May.  U.S. financial markets will be shut Sept. 2 for Labor Day.  ‘Obviously Risk-Off’  The currencies of  India ,  Mexico  and  Turkey  have all slid
more than 2 percent against the dollar this week as speculation
the U.S. Federal Reserve will dial back its monetary stimulus
sapped demand for higher-yielding assets, and the prospect of
expanded conflict in the  Middle East  damped risk-taking.  Fed policy makers are debating whether the economy is
strong enough to allow them to pare monthly purchases of $85
billion in Treasuries and mortgage debt, which tend to debase
the dollar. Officials will reduce the amount at their next
meeting on Sept. 17-18, according to 65 percent of economists in
an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey.  “This week has been obviously risk-off, calibrated by a
stern speech in regards to Syria,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of
U.S. currency sales in New York at  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
said in a phone interview. “Demand for yen was higher earlier
in the week.”  Rupee, Krone  India’s rupee gained 1.3 percent to close at 65.705 per
dollar in Mumbai after slumping to a record 68.8450 on Aug. 28.
The currency has declined 8.1 percent this month, the most since
March 1992. The Indonesian rupiah fell 8.3 percent, the biggest
decline among 31 most-traded currencies, while Turkey’s lira
dropped 5.1 percent and Mexico’s peso fell 4.8 percent.  India is liaising with other  emerging markets  on a plan to
coordinate offshore currency interventions, Reuters reported,
citing Dipak Dasgupta, India ministry’s principal economic
adviser. Brazil central-bank’s press officer Gustavo Paul later
said “there is no initiative of that sort.”  The krone dropped versus all except two of its 16 major
counterparts today after  Statistics Norway  said retail sales
excluding motor vehicles slumped 1.3 percent in July.  Seasonally adjusted unemployment climbed to 70,210 this
month from 69,284 in July, according to the Norwegian Labor and
Welfare Service.  The krone weakened 0.2 percent to 8.0856 per euro and
dropped 0.4 percent to 6.1158 per dollar.  Euro Forecast  Europe ’s shared currency, which dropped 1.2 percent to the
greenback this week, may weaken to a nine-month low,  MacNeil Curry , New York-based chief rates and currencies technical
strategist at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a
report today.  “While we have been and remain U.S. dollar bulls, we have
NOT been euro-dollar bears,” Curry wrote. “That is changing.”  A close below $1.3206 would target in the next few weeks a
range of $1.2760-$1.2680, a level last reached in November. At
the same time, the dollar may strengthen to as high as 109.8
yen, Curry said.  A U.S. intelligence assessment has concluded with “high
confidence” that the Syrian regime carried out a chemical
attack that killed 1,429 people earlier this month in a Damascus
suburb, Secretary of State  John Kerry  said at the State
Department as the four-page report was released.  France  signaled it might act as the principal U.S. ally in
an attack against Syria, filling a hole left after British
lawmakers pulled the U.K. out of military action.  ‘Still Burning’  “The general concerns about emerging markets haven’t gone
away,” said  John Hardy , head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Saxo Bank A/S in  London . “As long as risk is off, the yen could
strengthen further on unwinding of short positions. The fire is
still burning and it appears that the cycle is not over yet.”  The yen strengthened 1.7 percent this week, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 1
percent, while the euro slipped 0.3 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $15 billion, from $17 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $2.6 billion, the largest share of
trades at 18 percent. Options on the U.S.-Singapore dollar rate
totaled $1.9 billion, or 13 percent.  Short Yen  Dollar-yen options trading was 43 percent less than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
and Singapore dollar-greenback trading was 583 percent more,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-Indian rupee options
trading, at $478 million, was 926 percent above average.  Traders  increased bets  the yen will weaken, according to
data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the currency compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 78,353 on Aug.
27, compared with 71,721 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  