-- Dubai Stocks Gain First Day in Four Amid Cheapened Valuations
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-08-29T16:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/dubai-stocks-gain-first-day-in-four-amid-cheapened-valuations.html
Dubai’s benchmark  equity gauge  rose
for the first time in four days as investors speculated the
worst plunge since 2009 amid concern over Syria was overdone.  The index rose 0.3 percent to 2,523.13 at the close in
Dubai, after dropping 8.4 percent in the previous three days,
the most over such a period since December 2009. Islamic
mortgage company  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL)  jumped the most in more than a
week while  Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co. (DU) , the phone
company known as Du, added the most in more than a month.  Share prices in Dubai, one of seven sheikdoms that make up
the United Arab Emirates, have surged 69 percent this year until
Aug. 26 as the economy recovered from the impact of a property
crash that was sparked by the global credit crisis. Dubai’s
benchmark measure trades at an average price-to-book ratio of
1.01 compared with 2.02 in neighboring Saudi Arabia and 1.7 for
Qatar. France and the U.K. backed off today from a military
strike on Syria.  After the strong selloff “some names became cheap and
investors were tempted to cherry pick,” Montasser Khelifi, the
Dubai-based senior manager for global markets at Quantum
Investment Bank Ltd., said by e-mail today. Politically, “the
situation remains risky, but Dubai’s rise this year has been
backed by a strong economic recovery and by good results from
the companies in the first half,” he said.  Syria Strike  Prime Minister  David Cameron  backed down from asking
lawmakers for immediate support today for possible U.K. military
strikes on Syria after the Labour opposition demanded a delay
until  United Nations  inspectors report on the alleged use of
chemical weapons. France needs proof before acting on Syria,
Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, cabinet member and spokeswoman for the
French government, said today on I-tele.  Tamweel, majority owned by  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , rose
5.4 percent to 1.18 dirhams. Du advanced 2.2 percent to 6.4
dirhams.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , Dubai’s biggest publicly traded
developer, climbed 0.9 percent to 5.75 dirhams after falling by
8.4 percent over the past two days.  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark index was little changed, Oman’s
measure added 0.8 percent and Egypt’s EGX30 increased 0.8
percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index added 0.2
percent. Kuwait’s measure fell 1 percent, Bahrain’s index
declined 0.1 percent, while Qatar’s gauge rose by 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  