-- ECB Pledges More Female Managers After Mersch Fight
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-29T14:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/ecb-pledges-more-female-managers-after-mersch-fight.html
The  European Central Bank  plans to
double the share of women in management roles, after a political
spat last year over gender diversity almost scuppered the
appointment of Yves Mersch to the executive board.  “By end of 2019, 35 percent of middle management positions
and 28 percent of senior management positions should be held by
women,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in an e-mailed statement
today. “In order to reach the gender targets, the ECB is
implementing a gender diversity action plan.”  Only two women, Sirkka Haemaelaeinen of  Finland  and
Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of  Austria , have ever sat on the ECB’s
six-strong executive board, and at present only 14 percent of
senior managers are female. That imbalance prompted European
Parliament lawmakers to refuse approval of the appointment of
Mersch to the board last year, leaving the central bank’s top
management panel understaffed for more than six months.  “This is better than nothing,”  Sharon Bowles , chair of
the parliament’s Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee who led
protests over Mersch’s appointment last year, said in a
telephone interview. “There is however something wrong in the
ECB because even the rate of promotion of women is much lower
than that of the men. These targets represent quite slow
progess.”  Striking Absence  All 17 central bank governors in the euro area are male, as
are the other current members of the ECB executive board. The
ECB added a female senior official in October when it hired
Christine Claire Graeff as director general for communications
and language services. Graeff and Director General of Payments
and Markets Infrastructure, Daniela Russo, are the only two
women at the top level of management below the executive board.  The ECB is following the example of  Mark Carney ,  Bank of
England  governor since July 1, who raised pressure on the
British government this month to appoint more women to the
bank’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee.  Carney, the former  Bank of Canada  governor, told the  BBC  on
Aug. 8 that the absence of women on the MPC since mid-2010 is
“striking.” Since the central bank was granted operational
independence from government in 1997, only four of the 33 people
who have served on the panel have been women.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  acknowledged the lack of female
managers even before he took office, calling it a “very
important general problem” in a European Parliament hearing in
June 2011. Still, last year he denied that women were being
deliberately held back at his own institution.  “There isn’t any gender discrimination in the ECB,” he
said on Oct. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  