-- Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood Gears Up for Rallies Amid Crackdown
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-29T14:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/egypt-s-muslim-brotherhood-gears-up-for-rallies-amid-crackdown.html
The embattled Muslim Brotherhood
called on Egyptians to take to the streets tomorrow in protest
against the military-installed government, looking to regain
footing amid a crackdown on the group.  The interim government is going after the Brotherhood as it
tries to move ahead with plans to return to elected rule.  It
has arrested hundreds of its members and killed hundreds of its
supporters, and warned today that it would use live fire if
protests against the military’s July 3 toppling of Islamist
President Mohamed Mursi turn violent.  In a recorded statement aired late last night, Essam El-Erian, one of the few top Brotherhood leaders yet to be
arrested, called for protests against what he described as “the
bloody, brutal, fascist military coup that has hijacked people’s
will and halted the path of democracy.”  “We will continue the fight, jihad and struggle in a
peaceful protest,” El-Erian said in the message aired on
Jazeera Mubasher Misr, the local arm of the Qatar-based pan-Arab
Jazeera channel. The “so-called war on terrorism is staged” by
the current government to justify the crackdown on the
Brotherhood, he said.  Senior Muslim Brotherhood member Mohamed El-Beltagy was
arrested in Giza, state TV reported. Earlier in the day, the
military, on an affiliated Facebook page, branded him “the head
of terrorism and strife.”  Live Fire  Ministry of Interior spokesman Hany Abdel Latif warned that
security forces have been authorized to open fire and would
respond with “utmost firmness” to subdue riots or attacks on
public, security or religious installations. “Live ammunition
will be used in the case of legitimate self-defense,” he said
in a televised statement on state TV.  Egypt  has put antiquities sites and museums on alert ahead
of tomorrow’s planned protests, the state-run Middle East  News
Agency  reported, citing Antiquities Minister Mohamed Ibrahim.
The threat of looting at these sites during large gatherings
typically rises.  Chronic unrest since the 2011 ouster of longtime leader
 Hosni Mubarak  has battered Egypt’s economy. Egypt’s benchmark $1
billion of 5.75-percent Eurobonds due in 2020 advanced for the
third time in four days, pushing the yield down nine basis
points to 8.83 percent at 4:11 p.m. in Cairo. That’s the lowest
level on a closing basis in two weeks.  Five-year credit default swaps, contracts that insure the
nation’s debt against non-payment, tumbled 41 basis points to
749, according to data provider CMA.  Pledged Aid  Yet flush with $12 billion in pledges from  Saudi Arabia ,
the  United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait , the government said
yesterday it would drop its bid for a $4.8 billion International
Monetary Fund loan that has been delayed about two years by the
political turmoil.  Planning Minister Ashraf El-Arabi told reporters today the
time was not right to resume talks with the IMF, and stressed
that much had changed in the country since Mursi’s departure. A
day earlier, Samy Khallaf, the head of the  Finance Ministry ’s
debt management unit, said there were expectations of additional
funding from the three Gulf Arab nations.  With expectations of more help from those states, the
interim government has distanced itself from some of Mursi’s key
backers. Qatar, which had pledged $8 billion in aid and funds to
Egypt under Mursi, is facing a public backlash on Egypt’s
streets from citizens who saw it as working to prop up its
Brotherhood allies.  Hours after Al-Jazeera aired the message from the
Brotherhood’s El-Erian, the ministers of investment,
communication and information technology issued a statement
saying the channel, owned by the Qatari government, represented
a threat to Egypt’s national security. It also said the channel
was operating without a license and ordered authorities to take
action, the state-run Ahram Gate website reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  