-- El-Erian Says Emerging Market Woes to Create U.S. Headwinds
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-08-29T14:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/el-erian-says-emerging-market-woes-to-create-u-s-headwinds.html
Weakening emerging-market growth and
spiraling currencies risk creating headwinds for a recovering
 U.S. economy , according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian.  “Longer term, we should care due to the feedback loop to
the U.S.,” El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer of the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a
radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “You will see a tightening of financial conditions to
markets. You will see growth more challenged and the ability of
U.S. companies to get topline growth from  emerging markets  is
going to be less going forward.”  Global stocks, bonds and commodities have been whipsawed
since May, when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled the prospect of cuts to monetary stimulus should the
U.S. economy and job market continue to improve. The Fed will
probably pare its $85 billion a month in bond purchases at its
Sept. 17-18 meeting, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13.  Benchmark equity indexes in China,  South Korea ,  Turkey  and
Russia are down this year and about $1.4 trillion has been
erased from the market value of emerging-market equities since
Bernanke said May 22 that policy makers may scale back bond
buying. Stocks in  Southeast Asia  are tumbling at the fastest
pace in 12 years relative to global equities, with the MSCI
Southeast Asia Index dropping 11 percent this month and 21
percent from this year’s peak on May 8.  Investor Flows  Foreign investors have sold a net $2.2 billion of Thai,
Indonesian and Philippine shares this month amid signs of
slowing regional economic growth and speculation that the U.S.
central bank will soon cut stimulus.  For many emerging nations “capital is reversing, flowing
out and putting these countries under tremendous pressure,” El-Erian said from Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,
California. “There are certain countries that learned the
lessons from the previous crisis and have self-insured
tremendously. There are a second set of countries that
maintained twin deficits, whose growth dynamics are low and have
limited reserves. Turkey is an example of that and there are
others.”  Investors need to consider when the Fed will start to pare
asset purchases and how they will taper, as well as the global
implications, El-Erian said on Aug. 27 in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  The central bank will probably reduce its Treasury
purchases rather than mortgage bonds, he said.  The U.S. economy expanded at a faster pace in the second
quarter as a smaller trade deficit and gains in inventories
overshadowed the effects of  federal budget  cutbacks.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent annualized
rate, up from an initial estimate of 1.7 percent, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 2.2
percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  