-- El Paso Ballpark-Bond Delay Costs $17 Million Extra: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/el-paso-ballpark-bond-delay-costs-17-million-extra-muni-credit.html
El Paso,  Texas , which is cutting
police overtime and holding some jobs vacant, will have to spend
an extra $17 million on bonds to finance a minor-league baseball
stadium after an initial attempt to sell the debt failed.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  took over marketing of the debt
this month after the mayor said  Morgan Stanley (MS)  couldn’t find
buyers when  interest rates  were lower in June and July. The
delay, during a period when local-debt yields reached the
highest since 2011, means higher interest costs for the
municipality of about 673,000 across the  Rio Grande  from  Mexico ,
William Studer Jr., deputy city manager, said in an interview.  El Paso plans to use a higher hotel tax and general funds
to help pay the debt. It joins localities from North Carolina to
 Oregon  building sports venues to spur their economies. The
ventures don’t always pan out, leading buyers to penalize the
issuers. The city-formed development agency last week sold 25-year tax-exempt bonds to yield 5.95 percent, compared with about
5.05 percent on 30-year  revenue debt  with a similar rating, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a lot of money they are having to pay out due to the
risk involved,” said Lin Elliott, who oversees about $1 billion
as investment manager at Texas Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Co.
in Waco. The bureau prefers holding bonds to maturity and
wouldn’t buy debt for a minor-league franchise that may not last
30 years, he said.  Yield Shock  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, confirmed the change in underwriters and declined to
comment further. Morgan Stanley had no comment, said Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman in New York. Maria Urbina of First
Southwest Co., El Paso’s financial adviser, didn’t respond to
calls seeking comment.  The holdup in pricing the debt may have resulted from a
jump in yields in the weeks before the first attempt to borrow,
said David Jaderlund, who manages $500 million of bonds as
president of Jaderlund Investments LLC in Santa Fe,  New Mexico .  Since the end of May, yields on benchmark 30-year munis
have climbed almost 1.5 percentage points to 4.75 percent, the
highest since April 2011.  Muni Flight  Investors yanked more than $27 billion from muni mutual
funds in the 10 weeks from early May through mid-August,
according to Municipal Market Advisors, a research firm in
Concord,  Massachusetts .  The withdrawals occurred amid speculation a growing economy
will lead the  Federal Reserve  to curb its bond buying and as
Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy in July.
Detroit’s emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, sought to impose losses
on some bondholders as part of a plan to avoid bankruptcy.  “This debt is subject to appropriation by the city council
and that presented some discomfort on the part of some investors
in light of Detroit,” said Studer, the deputy city manager.  The deal was also roiled by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
May comments that the central bank may slow bond purchases,
Studer said. Officials received authorization to sell the debt
two days before those remarks, Studer said.  City Council on Aug. 2 approved interest rates as high as
6.5 percent for the tax-exempt debt and 7.25 percent for taxable
bonds, up from 5 percent and 5.75 percent, respectively, in the
offering that failed to sell.  High Time  “We hadn’t sold the bonds and it was time we needed to
sell them,” Mayor Oscar Leeser said by telephone. He said he
didn’t know why the offering failed in the first attempt.  “Because of the hiccups in the market, we lost out on a
better interest rate,” said Councilman Larry Romero. He said
the council wasn’t told why Goldman Sachs replaced Morgan
Stanley.  The added cost over the life of the debt amounts to about 5
percent of the city’s general-fund budget for the fiscal year
starting Sept. 1.  El Paso leveled city hall in April to create a downtown
home for a team currently playing in Tucson,  Arizona . The
affiliate of the  San Diego Padres  will take up residence at the
9,000-seat ballpark in El Paso next year, under the city’s plan.  Investors demand higher yields from projects such as the El
Paso stadium that don’t involve basic infrastructure and rely on
hotel taxes, leases, fees and annual appropriations by
politicians, said  Rob Williams , income-planning director at
Charles Schwab & Co.’s Center for Financial Research in San
Francisco.  Tax Backing  Repayment of the El Paso bonds hinges on a 2 percentage-point increase in a local hotel tax that voters passed in
November. Revenue from the project, such as parking fees, ticket
surcharges and team rent, will also be used.  Because receipts may fall short of what’s needed for debt
service, the city expects to draw about $1 million in total from
its general fund over six years, subject to annual approval,
sale documents show.  “We don’t typically like appropriations-backed debt,”
Williams said. “There’s been more than a few stories of a city
backing an enterprise that runs into trouble and the city is
less willing to appropriate payments.”  Harrison, New Jersey, lost its investment-grade status in
2011 after a $200 million venue for Major League Soccer’s Red
Bulls failed to generate as much revenue and related activities
as projected. Vadnais Heights,  Minnesota , built a $25 million
sports complex that didn’t meet financial expectations,
prompting the city to default on debt payments this year.  Doing Deals  El Paso is rated AA,  Standard & Poor’s  third-highest level.
The ballpark bonds were graded a step lower at AA-.  Even as yields rose in the past few months, deals were
getting done nationwide. About $52 billion in municipal
securities were  issued  from June 1 to Aug. 2, according to
Bloomberg data.  Other Texas cities and agencies haven’t delayed new issues
in recent months, said  Thomas Nolan , senior managing director of
Estrada Hinojosa & Co., a Dallas-based investment bank. He is
former chairman of the Municipal Advisory Council of Texas, an
industry group in Austin that provides information on bond
transactions.  “We’re not happy with the pricing levels, but we’re
getting deals done,” said Garry Kimball, managing director of
Specialized Public Finance Inc. in Austin, which advises Texas
municipalities.  Vote Skipped  The stadium project has stirred controversy since local
business leaders Paul Foster and Woody Hunt bought the team with
plans to bring it to El Paso. Foster is chairman of  Western
Refining Inc. (WNR) , with oil operations in Texas and New Mexico. Hunt
is chairman of Hunt Companies Inc., which manages $16 billion in
real estate, according to its website.  The city skipped a feasibility study and a public vote on
tearing down  city hall  because Hunt and Foster said any delay
might cost El Paso the team, Studer said in May. In mayoral
elections in June, Leeser, owner of a car dealership, defeated
former Councilman Steve Ortega, who had championed the project.  “The ballpark was a big part of the election,” Leeser
said. “The voters wanted to be part of the decision and when
they weren’t involved, they weren’t happy.”  In the market for Texas debt, Austin plans to sell tax-exempt bonds as soon as today, part of $4.7 billion issuers
nationwide are offering this week, Bloomberg data show.  At  3.09 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
close to the highest since April 2011, and compare with about
 2.77 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields is about  112 percent , after
reaching the highest since July 2012 this week. The greater the
figure, the cheaper munis are relative to Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  