-- Helicopter Crash Risks Delaying Work at North Sea Oil Platforms
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-08-29T13:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/helicopter-crash-risks-delaying-work-at-north-sea-oil-platforms.html
Work at  oil fields  in the  North Sea 
will be delayed following the suspension of helicopter services
after a crash that killed four workers.  An AS332L2 Super Puma was transporting workers from  Total
SA (FP) ’s Borgsten Dolphin platform when it ditched near the Shetland
Islands on Aug. 23. After the crash, operators grounded four
models of helicopter, taking about half the fleet servicing the
North Sea out of action.  “We obviously can’t move people around at the moment as
easily as would normally be the case,”  Brian O’Neill , a
spokesman for Total SA in the U.K., said yesterday in an e-mail.
“We are therefore looking at deferring certain non-essential or
low priority work programs in order to limit the number of
people we need to move.”  The Helicopter Safety Steering Group is meeting today to
decide what steps should be taken next.  “The immediate knock-on effects” of the suspension “are
delays and flight backlogs with considerable inconvenience to
the workforce and their families, and potential adverse effects
on offshore activities,” the Sumburgh Helicopter Accident
Response group said in a press release today.  BP Plc (BP/)  is looking to reduce non-essential activity to cut
the number of people offshore and may use marine vessels to
transport workers,  Matt Taylor , a company spokesman, said by
phone. It’s also trying to secure additional Sikorsky
helicopters, he said.  Maintenance, Leave  Maintenance being carried out in the North Sea during the
summer months may be extended as companies try to find
alternatives for getting workers home. Health and safety
regulations require offshore employees to work no more than 21
days at sea, Taylor said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said it mainly uses the S92 Sikorsky
helicopters for transferring workers and is “closely
monitoring” developments.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  is also monitoring the
situation. Shell will consider any changes to “operational
plans as necessary,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  Helicopter accidents have raised concerns over safety with
unions.The Super Puma plunged into the sea carrying 16 oil
workers and two crew members.  The cause of the crash is yet unknown as the aircraft’s
black box hasn’t been found and it is unclear how long the
suspension will last, an official at CHC said, declining to be
named because she’s not authorized to talk publicly about the
matter.  The accident may have been due to weather conditions, human
error or mechanical failure, CHC said in a statement on Aug. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  