-- Emerging Stocks Advance as Rupee Gains Most in 27 Years
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-08-29T21:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/emerging-stocks-rise-as-philippine-shares-rally-rupee-surges.html
Emerging-market stocks rose as oil
slumped on easing prospects for an imminent military attack on
 Syria . Indonesia’s rupiah gained after a surprise  interest-rate 
increase, while India’s rupee jumped the most since 1986.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index advanced 1.2 percent to
920.84, capping the biggest increase in more than a month.
Philippine stocks climbed from an eight-month low as economic
growth exceeded estimates. The rupiah rebounded from a four-year
low after  Bank Indonesia  raised its benchmark interest rate in
an unscheduled move, while India’s rupee strengthened 3.4
percent. Mexico’s IPC index declined for a seventh consecutive
day in the longest slide since January 2009.  Crude oil, which had jumped 4 percent in two days, slid as
the U.K. and  France  said they favor waiting for the results of a
United Nations investigation into Syria’s alleged use of
chemical weapons. The  U.S. economy  grew at a faster pace and
jobless claims fell, dimming prospects for Federal Reserve bond
purchases. The benchmark measure for developing nations has
plunged 12 percent since May 22, when the Fed signaled stimulus
could be trimmed if the economy showed sustained recovery.  “Risk in the emerging markets is trying to find a floor,
and they finally caught a bid,” Sean Lynch, the Omaha,
Nebraska-based global investment strategist for Wells Fargo
Private Bank, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees
about $170 billion. “You have some comments and actual policy
maneuvers overnight and that maybe injected a little confidence
into these markets.”  Biggest Gains  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose
today, led by technology shares. The gauge of developing nations
trimmed this year’s plunge to 13 percent, compared with an 11
percent advance for a measure of developed markets.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.8 percent to $37.73. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
retreated 0.7 percent to 28.01.  “This is a relief rally,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in London, said by e-mail. “ Oil prices  are lower, which is an indicator of
geopolitical tensions going down.”  Most Brazilian stocks rose as Cia. Hering led consumer
companies higher after a report eased concern that inflation
will hurt Brazil’s recovery, outweighing losses by OGX Petroleo
e Gas Participacoes SA. The oil producer tumbled 12 percent,
extending a three-day plunge to 38 percent.  The Mexican IPC index fell 0.2 percent, led by Minera
Frisco SAB, billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s gold and silver mining
company. The gauge extended this year’s drop to 10 percent.  Russia, Turkey  The Micex Index added 0.2 percent in Moscow, after tumbling
to the lowest level since Aug. 8 yesterday. OAO Rosneft climbed
after Chief Executive Officer Igor Sechinraised his stake in
the nation’s biggest oil producer.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index gained as Otokar
Otomotiv ve Savunma Sanayi AS, a Turkish producer of civilian
and military vehicles, jumped the most in more than two months
after it won a defense contract. The lira rebounded from a
record low. Benchmark gauges in the  Czech Republic  and  Poland 
advanced, while Hungarian shares retreated.  India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  jumped as Reliance Industries Ltd.,
owner of the world’s largest refining complex, increased the
most in three months. The rupee rose as the central bank said it
will sell dollars to the state oil importers after the currency
sank the most in two decades yesterday.  Central Banks  Indonesia joined Brazil,  Turkey  and India in taking steps
to support their currencies this month as the prospect of
reduced U.S. monetary stimulus prompts investors to sell
emerging-market assets. The rupiah advanced 0.1 percent, after
reaching a four-year low yesterday.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index climbed 3.6 percent,
the most since June 26 and ending a  two-day slump  that sent the
measure yesterday to the lowest since Dec. 18. SM Investments
Corp., owner of the nation’s top shopping mall operator, and
International Container Terminal Services Inc., the country’s
biggest port operator, jumped more than 4 percent.  China’s  stocks  fell for a second day, led by metal and
energy companies, after the nation’s biggest copper producer
reported slumping profits and commodity prices dropped. Jiangxi
Copper Co. slid for the first time in five days, losing 3.5
percent as UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. advised selling the
shares. PetroChina Co. declined after senior managers were
removed amid a government probe into corruption.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  gained one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 358 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  