-- Merkel Warns Change of Crisis Course Would Crush Recovery
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-08-30T13:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/merkel-warns-change-of-crisis-course-would-crush-recovery-signs.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  laid down a
marker for Sunday’s televised election debate with a warning
that shoots of economic recovery risk being uprooted unless
 Germany  sticks with her prescription for the euro-area crisis.  Merkel, addressing a campaign rally in the western town of
Minden late yesterday, said that voters face a choice in the
Sept. 22 ballot between “very different concepts” of how to
overcome the crisis that emerged in  Greece  in late 2009. At its
core is too much debt and too little competitiveness, and “that
must change,” she said.  The chancellor and her Social Democratic challenger  Peer Steinbrueck  are honing their stances on the debt crisis as they
prepare for the Sept. 1 debate. With polls showing the SPD
trailing Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc by 14-19 percentage
points and both candidates coming out today against military
engagement in  Syria , the onus is on Steinbrueck to sway voters
if he is to take over the helm of Europe’s biggest economy.  “Steinbrueck will try to find a weak point to attack
Merkel, but even on the core Social Democratic terrain of social
justice Merkel can point to record low  unemployment ,” Joachim
Trebbe, a professor of media analysis at the Free University in
Berlin, said in a telephone interview. “That’s a crucial plus
for her and her party.”  Merkel, who routinely omits to mention Steinbrueck by name
during her campaign rallies, has prepared thoroughly in advance
of the debate, according to a person familiar with her tactics
who spoke on condition of anonymity. She is ready to confront
Steinbrueck over her handling of the euro-area crisis, the
person said.  TV Rehearsals  Steinbrueck rehearsed his performance in a professional
television studio over two days in the middle of this month,
Spiegel Online reported.  Both sides have agreed to the discussion fields “labor and
social matters,” “security” and “money and finances.”
Steinbrueck will have the first word and she will have the last.  Merkel’s crisis course received a fillip today as figures
showed economic confidence in the 17-nation euro region rising
to a two-year high in August. That adds to German economic
growth of 0.7 percent in the second quarter that helped haul the
bloc out of its longest-ever recession and unemployment of 6.8
percent, near a two-decade low even after an increase in August.  The German-led path of aid in return for reforms and debt
cuts “is showing the first signs of success,” Merkel said
yesterday. “But if we go about it wrongly then this success can
be destroyed.”  Crisis Crucible  Germany’s crisis policy has become the crucible in which
the election may be decided, as Steinbrueck and Merkel trade
barbs over its impact on Europe. Steinbrueck says Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s remarks last week that Greece will
need more aid shows Merkel’s strategy isn’t working and needs to
be recalibrated to focus on bolstering jobs and growth.  Steinbrueck promised a change of course to policies of
“content” rather than “nothing” yesterday, as he laid out
his priorities for the first 100 days in office if he were to
become chancellor. They include a flat-rate minimum hourly wage
of 8.50 euros ($11.28), reform of the pensions system and equal
pay for men and women working in the same job.  Germany under Merkel “is at a standstill,” Steinbrueck
told reporters in Berlin. “No-one knows where this coalition
wants to take Germany or  Europe .”  Merkel says her approach of offering conditional aid is
yielding results, and rejects opposition proposals to pool euro-area debt.  German Solidarity  “That’s why we don’t want euro bonds or a common
redemption fund but say everyone must make an effort and then
they will get help from us for a certain time,” Merkel said.
“Germany has and does show solidarity. But I’ve always followed
the path with my colleagues in the Bundestag and with my caucus
that says solidarity and help is one side of the coin and self-help, self-responsibility and self-improvement is the other.”  Support for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union , dropped a
percentage point to 41 percent in an Infratest poll yesterday,
while her Free Democratic coalition partner held at 5 percent.
Their combined tally of 46 percent would probably be enough for
a rerun of the current coalition if repeated on Election Day.  Steinbrueck’s SPD gained two points to 26 percent while its
Green party ally dropped a point to 11 percent. The Left Party
had 8 percent, down one point. Infratest polled 1,500 voters on
Aug. 27-28. No margin of error was given.  On Syria, Steinbrueck today aligned the  Social Democrats 
behind the U.K. Parliament, which voted late yesterday against
military action. Syria was effectively removed as an election
topic after Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, told
reporters that German military participation wasn’t being
considered nor had it been sought.  “In terms of big issue politics -- the handling of the
debt crisis and now Syria -- Merkel and Steinbrueck are not
sufficiently far apart for the debate Sunday to make a
difference,” said Trebbe of the Free University. With the polls
firming up, it shows “there’s little appetite for a change of
government,” he said. “That’s a terrific advantage for Merkel
on Sunday.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  