-- Merkel Ally Says Letta Risks Erasing Italy Progress Under Monti
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-08-29T10:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/merkel-ally-says-letta-risks-erasing-italy-progress-under-monti.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
is endangering the stability that his predecessor,  Mario Monti ,
returned to the euro region’s third-biggest economy, one of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s senior lawmakers said today.  “Instead of further stabilization progress with structural
reforms and fiscal consolidation, Italy faces setbacks under the
Social Democrat Letta,” Michael Meister, deputy chairman of
Merkel’s Christian Union caucus in parliament, said in response
to an e-mailed request for comment. “Letta must responsibly
recognize the importance of Italy for the stability of the
entire euro zone.”  Letta passed cuts to an unpopular property tax in a deal
that may mend relations with  Silvio Berlusconi , his partner in a
fragile coalition government. The government plans to cancel a
tax on primary residences this year and replace it in 2014 with
a municipal levy, Letta told reporters late yesterday after a
cabinet meeting in Rome.  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive
arm, is waiting for Letta to specify how he’ll offset lost
revenue to keep public finances in line with Italy’s EU
commitments, Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters today in Alpbach, Austria.  “In terms of public finances, for the last few years,
Italy has done a lot to stabilize the situation,” Rehn said.
“Now it’s important that this achievement is maintained and the
sustainability of public finances is ensured.”  Stocks Slip  The property-tax debate pitted Letta’s commitment to budget
discipline against Berlusconi’s demands for tax cuts. Italian
stocks have slipped since Aug. 19 as talks stalled and
Berlusconi’s allies, who spearheaded the tax-cut campaign,
threatened to topple the government.  “Instead of continuing to work on the necessary structural
reforms in the interest of Italy and the entire euro zone, he
seems to be enjoying a break,” Meister said of Letta and his
policies.  Support for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union , was unchanged
at 41 percent in an FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television today,
while her Free Democratic coalition partner held at 6 percent.
Their combined tally of 47 percent would probably be enough for
a rerun of the current coalition if repeated on Sept. 22
Election Day.  Opposition challenger  Peer Steinbrueck ’s  Social Democrats 
gained one percentage point to 26 percent while the SPD’s Green
party ally dropped a point to 12 percent. FG Wahlen polled 1,348
voters on Aug. 26-28. The results have a margin of error of as
much as 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  