-- EU Says Greece Must Keep Control of Privatization Effort
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-08-29T12:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/eu-says-greece-must-keep-control-of-privatization-effort.html
Greece  “absolutely must” retain
control of efforts to privatize government-owned real estate
assets and raise cash to pay back its debts, according to the
European Union’s executive arm.  “The ownership of this process rests with Greece,”
European Commission spokesman Simon O’Connor told reporters in
Brussels today. “In the next review mission, which will take
place in the coming weeks, we will clearly discuss the state of
play of the privatization process and look at how that can be
taken forward more effectively.”  The so-called troika that oversees Greece’s bailout program
hasn’t taken a stand on proposals from the European Stability
Mechanism on how to manage the sales, O’Connor said. Euro-area
and International Monetary Fund officials are planning to return
to Greece next month to assess the progress of Greece’s 240
billion-euro ($318 billion) rescue program.  The ESM, the euro area’s 500 billion-euro firewall fund,
presented a report to the troika and creditor countries on a
plan to reshape the privatization program so that it might
generate more money in the long run. The report, which has been
discussed at the technical level only, examines ways to work
with private investors to make assets more attractive to buyers.  “The report is a background paper that is supposed to feed
the discussion at the occasion of the troika mission in Greece
in September,” the Luxembourg-based ESM said in a statement
today. “The main point of the report is to maximize the value
of state-owned real estate assets by making them more attractive
for investors.”  The ESM paper was first reported by Greek newspaper  Proto
Thema  on Aug. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  