-- Ex-BBC Host Faces Sexual-Assault Charges in Savile Investigation
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-08-29T12:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/ex-bbc-host-faces-sexual-assault-charges-in-savile-investigation.html
Rolf Harris, an Australian
entertainer, was charged as part of a U.K. police probe into
sexual-assault allegations.  Harris, 83, faces nine counts of indecent assault with
girls as young as 14 and four offenses of making indecent images
of children, the  Metropolitan Police Service  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The alleged assaults took place from 1980
through 1986, while the images were made last year, police said.  Harris was arrested in March by officers investigating
child abuse by people in the entertainment industry. The
investigations began last year with accusations against the late
British Broadcasting Corp. television star Jimmy Savile, which
triggered a scandal at the world’s largest public broadcaster.  “We have determined that there is sufficient evidence for
a realistic prospect of conviction and that a prosecution is in
the public interest,” Alison Saunders, chief prosecutor for the
 Crown Prosecution Service , said in a separate e-mail.  Lawyers at Harbottle & Lewis LLP, who have represented
Harris in the past, didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment. He is scheduled to appear in court in Lonon on Sept.
23.  Harris, who has been honored three times by  Queen Elizabeth
II , was the host of U.K. television programs including “Animal
Hospital” on the  BBC  in the 1990s and wrote songs such as “Tie
Me Kangaroo Down, Sport” in the 1960s.  Police have made more than a dozen arrests in Operation
Yewtree, a probe targeting people who may have engaged in abuse
with Savile or acted on their own during the same period. Other
people charged in the investigation include publicist  Max Clifford  and former BBC disc jockey Dave Lee Travis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  