-- Ex-Siemens Executive Chapero Said to Attempt Hearing-Aids Deal
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A n g e l a   M a i e r   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-08-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/ex-siemens-executive-chapero-said-to-attempt-hearing-aids-deal.html
Valentin Chapero, the former chief
executive officer of  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s hearing-aids  business ,
approached the company to broker a sale of the unit to a
private-equity firm, said people familiar with the matter.  Chapero, who left the company in 2002 to run Swiss hearing-aid maker  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  and then went on to start investment
company Valamero last year, is trying to persuade Siemens to
sell the unit, the people said. The Munich-based company ended
talks with buyout firms in 2010 because bids didn’t meet a
target for least 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion), people familiar
with the matter said at the time.  The former Siemens executive would offer to take a
leadership role and the private-equity partner would provide
most of the money, the people said, asking not to be identified
as the talks are private. Siemens spokesman Alexander Becker and
Chapero yesterday declined to comment.  Siemens, which last month appointed former Finance Chief
Joe Kaeser as new CEO, first wants to complete already announced
disposals for assets in water treatment, parcel automation,
airport logistics and air freight, before considering another
attempt to dispose of the hearing-aid division, the people said.
A potential sale of the hearing-aid business is therefore
unlikely to happen this year, they said.  ‘Attractive Multiples’  “The company failed to sell its hearing aids unit in 2010,
but we believe that it may once again consider a divestment,”
Commerzbank analyst Ingo-Martin Schachel said in a note to
clients this month. “The hearing aids segment is the only
remaining business-to-consumer activity of the company.
Additionally, the hearing aids sector trades on attractive
multiples, which would make a divestment appear even more
attractive.”  Schachel said the unit may have an enterprise value of 1.7
billion euros, based on estimated annual sales of 800 million
euros and earnings before interest and taxes of 136 million
euros.  Siemens may also consider an initial public offering or a
spin-off of the unit, one of the people said.  “We regard the listing of the unit as the most likely
option, which could involve either an IPO or as a spin-off,”
Schachel said.  Siemens shares yesterday reversed losses in Frankfurt
trading and ended up 0.3 percent at 81.46 euros after earlier
declining as much as 0.8 percent. The stock has gained 2.3
percent this year, valuing the company at 72 billion euros,
while the German DAX index rose 7.7 percent.  Independent Unit  During the 2010 process, the asset drew interest from
buyout firms including Permira Advisers LLP,  KKR & Co. (KKR) ,  Nordic
Capital , Hellman & Friedman, Cinven Partners,  Bain Capital  and
 BC Partners , people familiar with the matter said at the time.  In addition to private-equity firms, makers of medical
equipment such as Hansaton GmbH and Cochlear Ltd. were also
interested, the people said. Other competitors of the Siemens
unit include Sonova and William Demant of  Denmark .  Siemens,  Europe ’s biggest engineering company, is revamping
its health-care unit to focus more on cheaper clinical products
such as x-ray and ultrasound that are in higher demand in
 emerging markets . After the failed 2010 sale, the company said
it will run the hearing-aid division as an independent unit
within the healthcare sector.  Siemens, which also makes high-speed trains and power
grids, has been making the hearing products for more than 100
years, and the business is based in Erlangen in southern
 Germany , home to some of the company’s largest production sites.  Insider Probe  Chapero this year has been in contact with private-equity
companies to see if they would be interested in the asset, two
of the people said, adding that he has also approached senior
Siemens managers several times, including as recently as this
month.  Chapero resigned as CEO of Sonova in March 2011 along with
the chief financial officer and chairman amid an investigation
of insider sales at the Staefa, Switzerland-based hearing-aid
maker. The Zurich prosecutor later determined the executives
didn’t use insider knowledge to earn money.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  