-- Expanding U.S. Drought, Excessive Heat Hurt Iowa Corn, Soy Crops
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-08-30T00:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/expanding-u-s-drought-excessive-heat-hurt-iowa-corn-soy-crops.html
High heat and little rain during the
past week led to an unusual, quick expansion of drought
conditions in  Iowa  and  Illinois , damaging crops in the biggest
U.S. corn- and soybean-growing states.  About 25 percent of  Iowa  had a moderate drought on Aug. 27,
up from 7.9 percent a week earlier, while  Illinois  jumped to 20
percent from none, the U.S. Drought Monitor said yesterday in a
report. Parts of Iowa received less than 25 percent of  normal 
rain during the past 60 days, and much of Illinois got less than
half of normal since June 30, data from the High Plains Regional
Climate Center show.  After a wet May and June delayed planting, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture cut its soybean-crop forecast by 4.8
percent on Aug. 12 and reduced its corn estimate for a third
straight month. July was the 20th coldest in 119 years in
 Minnesota ,  Wisconsin ,  Michigan  and Iowa, National Weather
Service data show. Soybean futures are up 17 percent from an 18-month low on Aug. 7 on forecasts for dry weather, and corn rose
7.5 percent from a 35-month low on Aug. 13.  “The heat and drought are speeding crop development and
reducing yield potential daily,” Roger Elmore, an agronomist at
Iowa State University in Ames, said in a telephone interview.
“We are skipping over critical stages of development that
probably can’t recover even if temperatures cool and a little
rain falls.”  While the crops need hot weather to develop, temperatures
that approached 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius) from
 Nebraska  to  Indiana  in the past five days can cut corn yields at
least 3 percent a day while reducing the number of seeds and
seed weight in soybeans, Elmore said.  Yield Loss  Cool weather during the first 19 days of August masked the
stress that the dry spell was causing to crops over most of the
Midwest, Planalytics Inc. said in a  report  yesterday. The
epicenter of the crop damage is in Iowa, based on the vegetative
growth index that the forecaster constructs biweekly from
satellite images.  Corn yields in Iowa probably are down to about 150 bushels
an acre, compared with an estimate of 165 bushels a week ago,
said Kent Jessen, the director of merchandising for West Des
Moines, Iowa-based Heartland Cooperative, which has 52 grain
terminals across 17 counties. Soybean yields will be 35 bushels
an acre at best in his area, compared with 48 a year ago. The
average yield in the region where drought is most severe in Iowa
was 52 bushels from 2007 to 2011, he said.  “The flash drought has caused severe and irreversible
damage very quickly,” Jessen said. “The beans are going
downhill much quicker than the more mature corn. There are some
soybean fields that have received only 2 inches (5 centimeters)
of rain since they were planted in June.”  Less Rain  The Midwest will get less rain because there will be a
large ridge of high pressure over the region in the next 10 days,
increasing stress on about 45 percent of U.S. crops,  Commodity
Weather Group LLC  said in a report yesterday. Soybean-crop
conditions declined in 14 of the top 18 producing states as of
Aug. 25, and corn ratings declined in 11 states, the USDA said
in a report this week.  Crop conditions will fall again in next week’s USDA update,
according Randy Mittelstaedt, the director of research for R.J.
O’Brien & Associates in  Chicago . Based on this week’s weather
and crop conditions, Mittelstaedt forecasts a U.S. corn harvest
of 13.53 billion bushels, 1.7 percent less than the USDA’s Aug.
12 forecast of 13.763 billion. Soybean will be 3.218 billion
bushels, he said, or 1.1 percent less than the government’s
estimate of 3.255 billion.  “The crops are still going backward,” Mittelstaedt said.
“The crops won’t get any bigger and probably will have to be
reduced more if rains miss the Midwest again next week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  