-- Facebook Seeks to Clarify How It Uses Member Data for Ads
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-08-29T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/facebook-seeks-to-clarify-how-it-uses-member-data-for-ads.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is proposing to
clarify how it manages user data for advertisements, as part of
an agreement stemming from a settlement of a class-action
lawsuit.  The Menlo Park, California-based company, owner of the
world’s largest social-networking service, said today it is
working to provide simpler language on how it may use a member’s
name, profile picture and other data for ads. Facebook also
plans to add a provision that says minors will verify that a
parent or guardian has consented to them being part of such ads.  “The goal here is to be very clear with people about how
advertising works on Facebook,” Erin Egan, chief privacy
officer for policy, said in an interview.  Facebook is seeking to reassure its 1.15 billion users
about how it manages and protects member information amid
efforts to retain its consumer base and sustain revenue growth.
The company has faced multiple privacy flaps over the past few
years, which it has taken steps to address. In late 2012,
Facebook unveiled new privacy tools that provided shortcuts for
managing settings, including what members can see on user
accounts.  The new proposals reflect some of the agreements laid out
in the lawsuit settlement for the company’s “Sponsored
Stories” ads, which access users’ names and other data to help
create ads.  Sponsored Stories  The 2011 lawsuit accused Facebook of appropriating the
names, photographs and identities of users to advertise products
without their consent. “Sponsored Stories” was a “misleading
advertising scheme” using material posted by Facebook users on
their profile pages, according to the complaint. The company
said the claims were “meritless” in a court filing.  The settlement called for better explanations of the
company’s advertising policies and new requirements for minors’
data.  Facebook is proposing changes to two legal documents, its
“Data Use Policy” and the “Statement of Rights and
Responsibilities.” The updates include more information on how
outside applications may use data; how the company gathers
information on members from mobile devices; and how advertisers
may be able to reach users from the details they already have on
them. Facebook is seeking member comments on the proposals.  Facebook, which makes most of its  revenue  from ads,
reported last month that second-quarter sales rose 53 percent to
$1.81 billion, topping estimates of $1.62 billion. The company’s
 shares  recently rose above their $38 initial public offering
price, amid investor optimism that Facebook is making headway in
mobile advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  