-- Fed’s Lacker Says Central Banks’ Future Hinges on Role as Lender
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-08-29T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/fed-s-lacker-says-central-banks-future-hinges-on-role-as-lender.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said the future of global central banks
will be shaped partly by a debate over the extent of their role
as a lender of last resort.  Lacker said central banks should avoid channeling credit to
specific segments of  the economy  through rescues or asset-purchase programs. Still, “some writers” say central bank
mandates provide a large role in financial stability, “in which
all available tools, both monetary and credit policy, are used
to minimize financial system ‘disruptions,’” he said.  “Aggressive use of a central bank’s asset portfolio to
channel credit to particular economic sectors or entities
threatens dragging the central bank into distributional politics
and places that governance arrangement at risk,” Lacker said
today in Newport News, Virginia.  Lacker, 57, dissented on FOMC decisions at all eight
meetings last year and doesn’t vote again until 2015.  Credit policies are distinct from monetary policy in that
they channel cash to specific segments of the economy. The Fed’s
purchase of the assets of Bear Stearns Cos. to facilitate its
merger with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in 2008 is one example, and its
recent quantitative easing programs involving the purchase of
mortgage-backed securities is another, Lacker said.  “Buying agency MBS channels funds to mortgage borrowers,”
Lacker said in prepared remarks.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues orchestrated
the most aggressive easing in the central bank’s 100-year
history to help secure the Fed’s explicit mandate to achieve
stable prices and full employment.  Deepest Recession  Four years after the U.S. emerged from the longest and
deepest recession since the Great Depression, more than 12
million Americans are unemployed even after the Fed inflated its
balance sheet to a $3.65 trillion and held the main interest
rate near zero since December 2008.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee began its
third round of quantitative easing in September with $40 billion
in monthly mortgage bond purchases, adding $45 billion in
monthly Treasury purchases in December.  Lacker spoke at Christopher Newport University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  