-- FIFA Says World Cup Drug Testing Facility Closing Is a Problem
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-08-29T23:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/fifa-says-world-cup-drug-testing-facility-closing-is-a-problem.html
Soccer’s governing body FIFA said
it’s concerned about drug testing at next year’s World Cup after
the  World Anti-Doping Agency  revoked the accreditation of the
Brazilian laboratory chosen to carry out the analysis.  Rio de Janeiro ’s LAB DOP-LADETEC/IQ-UFRJ Doping Control
Laboratory, known as LADETEC, will from Sept. 25 no longer be
authorized to carry out any anti-doping activities for WADA, the
agency said Aug. 27.  Brazil  has no other accredited facility.  “This is a problem,” Michel D’Hooghe, the head of FIFA’s
medical committee, said in an interview.  “We look now what
WADA will decide. I think there are other possibilities, perhaps
 Sao Paulo  or perhaps an adaptation of the lab in Rio but for the
moment, yes, this is a problem for us.”  WADA didn’t disclose why the lab’s accreditation was
revoked, other than saying it didn’t meet the requirements of
the International Standard for Laboratories. It’s the second
time that LADETEC has fallen below those standards, according to
WADA, and the lab was suspended for nine months in January 2012
before being reinstated.  The closing of the drug-testing laboratory is the latest
problem for organizers of the  World Cup , which is scheduled for
June 12-July 13, 2014.  Several of the 12 stadiums being built or modified for the
32-team competition have faced delays and cost overruns, while
June’s Confederations Cup, a warm-up tournament for the World
Cup, was marred by street protests. Demonstrators complained
about a range issues, including the amount of public money being
spent on staging soccer’s four-yearly championship.  Solution Sought  D’Hooghe said FIFA will know more about the drug-testing
situation when its executive board meets in October.  “I’m never shocked after 42 years in football,” he said.
“I was a little bit disappointed, but I think you can find a
solution.”  Montreal-based WADA’s decision came three weeks after it
announced the lab’s accreditation was suspended. WADA’s
executive committee made the decision to revoke the
accreditation after a review by its disciplinary panel.  LADETEC can appeal the decision to the Court of Arbitration
for Sport. It can also choose to reapply for accreditation
through a fast-track process from the executive committee.  The only remaining South American  WADA-accredited lab  for
doping control analysis is based in Bogota. There are 32
worldwide, excluding LADETEC.  According to D’Hooge, testing samples in  Colombia  is not an
option.  “I think we have to find a solution in Brazil,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Monaco at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  