-- First Strut Chairman Murder Suspect May Face Trial Next Year
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-08-29T11:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/first-strut-chairman-murder-suspect-may-face-trial-next-year.html
Thulani Cele, the man accused of
killing First Strut (Pty) Ltd. Chairman Jeff Wiggill in June
ahead of the company’s collapse, may wait months to face trial
after being released on bail six weeks ago, his attorney said.  “The trial won’t start until next year,” Boitumelo
Lesomo, Cele’s lawyer, said today outside the Protea Glen
Magistrate’s Court in Soweto, southwest of Johannesburg. The
court’s next decision, to be taken in October, will be whether
or not to move the case to the  High Court , he said.  Wiggill, 54, was found shot dead next to his black Bentley
on a road in Soweto on June 20, precipitating the liquidation of
his company which owed about 2.5 billion rand ($241 million) to
creditors. Cele, an employee of First Strut, said he didn’t kill
Wiggill and wasn’t offered money to help the executive plan his
own death, the Mail & Guardian newspaper reported on Aug. 16,
citing an interview with Cele and his lawyers.  While Cele’s mobile telephone was confiscated following his
arrest and he would like it back, according to Lesomo, the
magistrate said it may still be needed by investigators.  Institutions that loaned First Strut money included
 Investec Plc (INVP) ,  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ,  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  and  Barclays
Africa Group Ltd. (BGA)  Investors in First Strut’s 925 million rand of
floating-rate notes due September 2016 included Investec Asset
Management, Rand Merchant Bank, Stanlib Asset Management,
Fairtree Capital (Pty) Ltd., Prudential Portfolio Managers and a
unit of  Sanlam Ltd. (SLM)   Cele, who was released on bail on July 15, is due in court
in Soweto again on October 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  