-- Folau Re-Signs With Australian Rugby Targeting 2015 World Cup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-29T03:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/folau-re-signs-with-australian-rugby-targeting-2015-world-cup.html
Israel Folau re-signed with the
Australian Rugby Union through 2015, rejecting offers to move
back to rugby league as he targets a spot in the Wallabies squad
at the next  World Cup .  Folau, 24, scored three tries in five Tests for  Australia 
in his debut season after being called up to the national squad
following 14 professional rugby games for the Sydney-based New
South Wales Waratahs.  After starting his sporting career in rugby league, Folau
also had a stint in the Australian Football League before
switching to rugby’s 15-a-side version eight months ago on a
one-year deal. He was voted the best Australian rookie in the
southern hemisphere’s Super Rugby competition this year.  “There were a few options,” Folau said of his decision to
re-sign. “I had to weigh up a few things, but at the end of the
day I was really enjoying the rugby. There is still a lot more
improvement and things I need to tick off in rugby and that’s
the reason I have decided to go on for another two years.”  A full-back for the Waratahs and a winger for Australia,
Folau joins players including Wallabies captain  James Horwill ,
center Adam Ashley-Cooper and openside flanker Michael Hooper in
re-signing with the ARU this year through the 2015 World Cup,
which will be hosted by  England .  “We’ve got a young squad and a great coach and we’re
building our game,” Folau said. “We’re only going to get
better. The  Rugby World Cup  is definitely a draw card.”  In making his Wallabies debut against the British and Irish
Lions in June, Folau became the first player to compete at the
elite level in Australian rules football and the country’s two
rugby codes.  Ewen McKenzie, who replaced  Robbie Deans  as Wallabies coach
last month, said that Folau had made the transition to rugby
with “surprising ease” and would improve over time.  “Every week we’re finding more and more ways to use his
unique skills,” McKenzie said in a statement. “There’s
unlimited potential, he’s got a lot of really good attributes.
He’s enigmatic, he just does things a bit differently and it
allows us to use him in different ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  