-- Friend of Boston Bomb Suspect Indicted Over Lying Claim
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-08-29T19:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/friend-of-boston-bomb-suspect-indicted-over-lying-claim.html
A third college friend of alleged
 Boston  Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was indicted by a
federal grand jury over claims he conspired to hide evidence
linking Tsarnaev to the April 15 terrorist attack.  Robel Phillipos, 19, was charged today with two counts of
lying to investigators about why he visited Tsarnaev’s dormitory
room three days after the bombing, U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz in
Boston said in a statement.  Phillipos and two friends are accused of removing a laptop
and backpack containing bomb-making materials in a bid to
protect Tsarnaev from authorities after Tsarnaev’s image was
shown on television as a suspect before he’d been identified.  The two other friends, Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat
Tazhayakov, both Kazakhstan citizens living in  Massachusetts  on
student visas, were indicted Aug. 8 on charges of conspiracy to
obstruct justice and impeding a federal probe. The superseding
indictment naming all three men was filed today in federal court
in Boston.  The double bombing near the marathon’s crowded finish line
killed an 8-year-old boy and two woman, injuring more than 260
others. Tsarnaev, 20, pleaded not guilty on July 10 to a 30-count indictment accusing him of masterminding the attack with
his brother, who was killed during a police manhunt.  Tsarnaev and the Kazakh students began attending the
 University of Massachusetts  at Dartmouth at the same time in
2011, prosecutors said.  Tsarnaev’s Text  According to the indictment, Kadyrbayev received a text
message from Tsarnaev on April 18 suggesting he go to Tsarnaev’s
room and “take what’s there.”  Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov, both 19, pleaded not guilty on
Aug. 13 to the earlier charges that they tried to block the hunt
for Tsarnaev and his brother, and that they sought to destroy
evidence by throwing it in a dumpster near their apartment.  Derege Demissie, Phillipos’ attorney, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the indictment. None of the
three friends have been accused of helping plan the attack, or
being aware it would happen.  Phillipos, a U.S. citizen, is in plea negotiations with the
government, and sought to distance himself from the other two
men in a court appearance in May.  If he’s convicted, Phillipos faces as many as eight years
in prison on each of the two counts, according to the statement.
Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov face a maximum penalty of 20 years
behind bars on the obstruction count and five years on the
conspiracy count, prosecutors said. The two Kazakhs also face
being deported.  The obstruction case is U.S. v. Kadyrbayev, 13-cr-10238,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston). The
bombing case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-cr-10200, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  