-- Fuel Supply-Demand Deficit Widens Without Iran, EIA Says
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-29T21:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/fuel-supply-demand-deficit-widens-without-iran-eia-says.html
Excluding  Iran  from the global oil
market increased the shortfall between worldwide supply and
demand, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said.  Global petroleum use averaged 2.2 million barrels a day
more than output in July and August when Iran is excluded from
the calculations, the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical
arm, said in a report today. Iran can help reduce the deficit by
1.5 million barrels a day as the country’s production outpaced
demand, the EIA said.  The examination of oil and fuel supplies and prices outside
of Iran came as the U.S., the U.K. and other Western countries
debate a military strike against  Syria , an ally of Iran, after
Syria’s government allegedly used chemical weapons against
civilians. Iran is facing European Union sanctions against its
oil exports aimed at stopping the country’s nuclear programs.  Global petroleum production excluding Iran averaged 85
million barrels a day in July and August and consumption
averaged 87.2 million, the EIA said. Iran produced 3.4 million
barrels a day of fuels and used 1.9 million.  Iran produced 2.57 million barrels a day of crude in
August, up 10,000 barrels from the previous month, a Bloomberg
survey showed. Output was down 180,000 barrels from a year
earlier. Iran, which was OPEC’s second-biggest producer as
recently as June 2012, is now in sixth place.  The  Middle East  accounted for 35 percent of global oil
production in the first quarter of this year, International
Energy Agency data showed.  EU Sanctions  The EU sanctions enacted on July 1, 2012, ban the purchase,
transport, financing and insurance of Iranian oil. Iran has said
that its nuclear program is for civilian energy and medical
research. The U.S., other United Nations Security Council
members and the EU suspect a covert atomic weapons program.  The prospect of an imminent attack on Syria has faded as
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , the U.S.’s top ally,
struggled to win parliamentary backing for military strikes that
critics said echoed the push to war in  Iraq .  The Obama administration is also laboring to marshal
conclusive evidence backing its assertion that Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad was directly responsible for the attack, said
three intelligence officials familiar with the situation.  Iran has warned that an attack on Syria would drag the
whole region into the conflict. Syria borders Iraq and is near
Iran, countries that together hold almost a fifth of the output
capacity from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  