-- Gay Spouses in All States Now Married Under U.S. Tax Law
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-08-29T21:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/gay-spouses-in-all-states-can-file-joint-taxes.html
Gay spouses in all U.S. states will
be treated as married under federal tax law even if local
authorities don’t recognize their marriages, in what gay-rights
advocates are calling a victory.  The decision by the Treasury Department today implements
the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in June to overturn part of
the federal Defense of Marriage Act, which had forbidden the
 Internal Revenue Service  from letting married homosexual couples
file joint tax returns.  The U.S. government’s decision is a win for same-sex
couples who were married in one of the 13 states, the  District
of Columbia  or foreign countries that recognize such
relationships and now live in one of the 37 states that don’t.  “This is a very positive development,” said Derek Dorn, a
partner at Davis & Harman LLP in  Washington  and outside counsel
to the Human Rights Campaign, which advocates for lesbian and
gay Americans. “Additional details need to be worked out in
more nuanced areas of the tax law.”  More than 200 provisions in the tax code and federal
regulations reference marriage, affecting a range of financial
matters such as retirement accounts and health benefits,
according to the IRS. Couples with unequal incomes will benefit
from the marriage bonuses in the  tax code , while those with
relatively equal incomes will have to pay more.  The ruling also will make it easier for spouses to inherit
money tax-free.  Amending Returns  There are more than 130,000 married, same-sex couples in
the U.S., according to estimates from the 2010 Census. For tax
year 2013, they must use the married filing jointly or married
filing separately status. They have the option to amend returns
filed as long as three years ago and can seek refunds; they
aren’t required to refile returns if they would pay more.  For example, before the court’s ruling, same-sex spouses
who received benefits from one of their employers had to
consider the benefits’ value as taxable income for the spouse
who doesn’t work for that employer. On an amended return, they
could remove that from income and recalculate their tax
liability.  The decision may cause complications for states that don’t
recognize same-sex marriages and piggyback their tax rules on
the federal system.  “There are going to be a lot of state tax attorneys
working overtime next week,” said Verenda Smith, deputy
director at the Federation of Tax Administrators. “This is what
everyone has been waiting for. Now states can release their own
guidance.”  State Laws  Same-sex married couples’ finances were complicated by DOMA
before the court decision. They were able to file jointly in
states that recognized gay marriages while having to file
individual federal tax returns because the U.S. government
treated them as single.  Now couples may find the reverse situation in states that
don’t recognize their marriages, depending on whether they
change their laws now that the IRS has issued its guidance, said
Shari Levitan, chairwoman of the New England private wealth
services group at Holland & Knight LLP in  Boston .  “I have clients who were married in  Massachusetts  and
moved to  Arizona ,” Levitan said. “They now know they can file
their joint return for federal purposes, but they are going to
have to unwind all that data according to Arizona’s rules for
state tax purposes.”  Estate Taxes  The disconnect may lead to a variety of new questions for
gay married couples such as the effect on trusts for the
purposes of state estate taxes and the treatment of gains on
second homes in some states, Levitan said.  In Arizona, which doesn’t recognize same-sex marriages, the
state-tax filing process won’t change, Sean Laux, a spokesman
for the Arizona Department of Revenue, said earlier this month.
Same-sex couples won’t be allowed to file returns as a married
couple, Laux said.  The Treasury Department’s statement doesn’t apply to
recognized civil unions or domestic partnerships that aren’t
marriages.  “Today’s ruling provides certainty and clear, coherent
tax-filing guidance for all legally married same-sex couples
nationwide,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said in a
statement today. “This ruling also assures legally married
same-sex couples that they can move freely throughout the
country knowing that their federal filing status will not
change.”  The IRS also released regulations explaining more detailed
rules on amending past returns and is planning further guidance
to address special circumstances that apply in a limited number
of cases.  Filing Extensions  Same-sex couples had been waiting since June for guidance
from the IRS before making decisions on amending past years’
returns or for tax filings due Oct. 15. Some same-sex married
couples filed for extensions on their 2012 returns in
anticipation of the Supreme Court decision.  Taxpayers who haven’t filed their 2012 taxes can choose to
file as two single people or a married couple before Sept. 16.
After that, they must file as married, the IRS said.  The DOMA case hinged on the issue of federal estate taxes.
It involved  New York  resident Edie Windsor, who sued the federal
government over a $363,000 estate-tax bill imposed after her
spouse died.  Also today, benefits began to expand for married gay
couples enrolled in Medicare, the U.S. health program for the
elderly.  Under current policy, married people enrolled in private
Medicare Advantage plans whose spouses live in nursing homes
have the right to receive treatment at the same home when they
leave a hospital and need follow-up care. Until today, that
benefit wasn’t explicitly available to gay married couples.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  