-- GCL-Poly Says Loss Triples After Competitors Dump Polysilicon
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-29T13:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/gcl-poly-says-loss-triples-after-competitors-dump-polysilicon.html
GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , the
world’s biggest maker of polysilicon, said its loss almost
tripled in the first half after foreign competitors sold the
commodity below costs.  The net loss was HK$917.3 million ($118 million) in the six
months ended June 30 compared with HK$330.2 million a year
earlier, GCL-Poly said today in a filing to the Hong Kong stock
exchange. Revenue fell 4 percent to HK$11.3 billion.  “The consolidation of the industry has not yet fully
completed and imported polysilicon was dumped into the Chinese
domestic market at a price below cost, therefore our business
performance was materially impacted,” the company said.  Oversupply across the solar-component industry has sent the
average spot price of  polysilicon , a raw material used to make
solar cells, tumbling by 24 percent at the end of the first half
from a year earlier. Prices of solar  wafers  were down 13
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China  said last month that it plans to impose tariffs of as
much as 57 percent on polysilicon shipped from the U.S. and
 South Korea  to counter dumping. The move follows a U.S. decision
last year to impose tariffs of as much as 250 percent on Chinese
solar panels after a plunge in prices. The European Union and
China recently struck a deal on tariffs amid a European probe
into alleged unfair Chinese trade in solar goods.  “We believe the worst is over for the solar giant and we
anticipate the loss to narrow to HK$437 million” in the second
half on higher output, Johnny Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Kingsway Financial Services Group, wrote in an Aug. 23 note.  GCL-Poly produced 21,980 metric tons of polysilicon in the
first six months, down 13 percent from the previous year. Wafer
output increased 14 percent to 3,452 megawatts, according to the
statement.  The company said it developed 270 megawatts of solar farms
in the first half.  The stock rose 4.3 percent to close at HK$1.94 in Hong Kong
trading before the announcement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  