-- Gemalto Forecasts Growth as It Drafts Strategy Around Mobile
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-08-29T08:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/gemalto-forecasts-growth-as-it-drafts-strategy-around-mobile.html
Gemalto NV (GTO) , the maker of security
chips and software that’s scheduled to unveil a new strategy on
Sept. 5, forecast operating profit and sales will rise at least
10 percent in 2013 for a second year.  First-half adjusted operating profit gained 14 percent to
131 million euros ($174 million), the Amsterdam-based company
said late yesterday in a statement. Sales gained 11 percent to
1.13 billion euros, in line with analysts’  predictions . The
stock rose as much as 6.4 percent to a record.  “We’re benefiting from deep durable trends because of new
technologies in segments like mobile and machine-to-machine,”
Chief Executive Officer Olivier Piou said during on a conference
call today. “I don’t see that rupturing in 2014.”  Gemalto, which invented the smart chip used in bank cards
and mobile phones, will address investors next week to outline
plans for business in coming years. Its 55-year-old chief has
shifted Gemalto from commoditized hardware to more lucrative
packages including security software.  Piou so far has bet on a ramp-up of mobile payments and
machine-to-machine transmissions, as well as new opportunities
in security with companies such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  He has said the
next phase of development will be to expand existing operations.  Stock Record  Gemalto rose 4.6 percent to 87.66 euros at 9:40 a.m. in
Amsterdam after reaching 89.16 euros, the highest price since
the company was created in the 2006 merger of Gemplus
International SA and Axalto Holding NV.  Analysts have predicted a full-year 10 percent revenue
increase. Profit from ongoing operations advanced 26 percent
last year, while sales had gained 13 percent.  “Sales growth this year should be on the same kind of
trend as last year,” Piou said during the call. “There’s less
visibility on profits because of seasonality, but we’re
definitely on the right trend and we’re confident.”  The CEO has cited mobile money and mobile identification as
probable growth areas as part of his strategic plan.  Payments through mobile devices are set to increase as more
people transfer money and shop using their smartphones.
Industrywide transactions will rise to $721 billion by 2017 from
$235 billion this year, according to researcher Gartner Inc.
Smartphones are the biggest and fastest-growing part of the
mobile-phone market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  