-- Genting Plans Special Dividend Even as Quarterly Profit Falls
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-08-29T13:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/genting-plans-special-dividend-even-as-quarterly-profit-falls.html
Genting Bhd. (GENT) , the flagship company
of Malaysian gaming billionaire Lim Kok Thay, proposed a 50 sen
special cash dividend even as second-quarter profit dropped.  Net income  for the three months ended June 30 fell 13
percent to 466.3 million ringgit ($141 million), or 12.62 sen a
share, from 534.5 million ringgit, or 14.47 sen, a year earlier,
the company said in a filing to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange
today. Revenue increased 3.4 percent to 4.46 billion ringgit.
Genting also plans to sell one warrant for every four shares
held at 1.50 ringgit apiece, it said.  The  special dividend  is the company’s first since it paid
30 sen a share in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Genting group of companies has been investing to expand
abroad, from the Bahamas to  Manila , amid restrictions on gaming
back home in Muslim-majority  Malaysia , where it operates the
country’s only casino on a hilltop.  “The proposed special interim cash dividend will enable
shareholders to derive a return from the profits earned,”
Genting said in a separate exchange filing.  Genting Plantations Bhd. (GENP) , the group’s palm oil arm, also
proposed a special cash dividend. It plans to pay 44 sen per
share and issue one warrant for every five shares held, the unit
said in a separate statement.  Genting fell 0.2 percent to 9.18 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur
today, while Genting Plantations dropped 0.8 percent to 8.93
ringgit ahead of the announcements. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index closed 1 percent higher.  Monitoring Japan  Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM) , another of Lim’s five listed
companies, said last month it will spend at least 3 billion
ringgit over five years to upgrade its Malaysian resort. It will
add 1,300 hotel rooms and spend 400 million ringgit transforming
its theme park after signing a licensing agreement with
Twentieth Century Fox Consumer Products, the billionaire said.  The subsidiary opened a casino at the Aqueduct Racetrack in
New York in October, controls casino operators in the U.K. and
owns Resorts World Sentosa, one of  Singapore ’s two gambling
resorts.  The group’s  Singapore unit  “is monitoring the developments
on the passing of gaming legislation in Japan and is prepared to
invest in an integrated resort in  Japan  when the opportunity
arises,” it said. Plans are underway to open a resort in
Birmingham in the U.K. in mid-2015, Genting said.  The lower profit was partly due to higher depreciation, and
lower fair value gains on derivative financial instruments, the
company said. Genting booked a loss on its joint ventures and
associate companies during the period compared with a profit a
year earlier, it said.  Pretax profit from the group’s plantation  division  fell 40
percent to 55.8 million ringgit from a year earlier, while
earnings from power generation climbed 23 percent to 57.5
million ringgit, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong in Hong Kong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  