-- German Inflation Slows as Prices Seen Contained During Recovery
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-29T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/german-inflation-slows-as-prices-seen-contained-during-recovery.html
German inflation slowed in August,
signaling price pressures remain contained after  Europe ’s
largest economy led the euro area out of its longest-ever
recession.  The nation’s  consumer price index , calculated using a
harmonized European Union method, rose 1.6 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 1.9 percent in July, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey  forecast 1.7 percent. Prices were
unchanged from July.  While  Germany ’s economy grew 0.7 percent last quarter and
the euro area returned to growth, Italy and  Spain  remained in
recession. Loans to companies and households in the currency
bloc, Germany’s biggest trading partner, fell for a 15th month
in July, and German unemployment unexpectedly rose in August.  “The European economy is still relatively weak, so there
are certainly no grounds for inflation worries,” said Lothar Hessler, an economist at  HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (TUB)  in
Dusseldorf, before the report. “The economy could well lose
some momentum in the third quarter, but all in all performance
is robust.”  Jobless Gain  The Bundesbank forecasts the German economy will grow 0.3
percent this year and predicts average inflation of 1.6 percent,
dropping to 1.5 percent in 2014. Prices for imported goods fell
2.6 percent in July from a year earlier, according to government
data yesterday. Prices for imported energy slid 4.1 percent.  The country’s unemployment unexpectedly gained in August
for the first time in three months in a sign of a slowdown. The
number of people out of work increased by a seasonally adjusted
7,000 to 2.95 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists predicted a decline by 5,000, according
to a Bloomberg News survey. The adjusted jobless rate stayed at
6.8 percent, near a two-decade low.  The euro-area’s inflation rate remained at 1.6 percent in
July, a report published by the European Union’s statistics
office showed on Aug. 16. The  European Central Bank  will present
new growth and inflation forecasts on Sept. 5.  In June, the ECB predicted 2013 inflation at 1.4 percent,
falling to 1.3 percent next year, and said GDP will contract 0.6
percent this year. The currency bloc’s economy shrank for the
six quarters through March before growing 0.3 percent in the
three months through June.  Rate Pledge  ECB President  Mario Draghi , reacting to concern that a
removal of monetary stimulus in the U.S. would push up market
interest rates and derail the recovery, pledged in July to keep
borrowing costs at the current level or lower for “an extended
period.” He said the reason for taking what he called the
“unprecedented” step was the ECB’s expectation that the
subdued outlook for inflation will extend into the medium-term
amid broad-based weakness in the economy.  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said on Aug. 27
that even though the central bank has pledged low rates for the
foreseeable future, it’s aware of the risks inherent in keeping
them there for too long. The ECB’s benchmark stands at 0.5
percent, a record low.  Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said today that the
ECB’s forward guidance depends on inflation expectations and
that it will end at some point. The central bank’s commitment to
keep rates low for a prolonged time “won’t be in place
forever,” he said in Alpbach,  Austria .  “Inflation in the euro area will remain moderate for quite
some time,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt . “That said, the rate of  core inflation  in Germany
is rising faster than the European average, and  interest rates 
aren’t likely to rise any time soon. We should be keeping an eye
on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  