-- Italian Bonds Rise as Nation Sells Debt, Political Tensions Ease
-- B y   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-08-29T15:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/germany-s-bonds-are-little-changed-before-unemployment-report.html
Italian  government bonds  rose for a
second day as the nation sold 6 billion euros ($7.93 billion) of
five- and 10-year securities amid easing political tension in
the euro-region’s third-biggest economy.  Ten-year yields dropped from near the highest level in six
weeks after the government led by Prime Minister Enrico Letta
yesterday amended an unpopular property tax in a deal that may
improve relations with his coalition partner  Silvio Berlusconi .
German bunds advanced as investors bought securities to meet
month-end requirements tied to index revisions. Investors should
buy Italian and Spanish bonds as the region’s economy improves,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Overall the auction was a good one,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in
Milan, referring to Italy. “Yesterday’s agreement shows there’s
a degree of cooperation in the government, so it removes a bit
of the political uncertainty. At the margin, this created a more
favorable market environment for the auction.”  Italy’s 10-year yield dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.38 percent at 4:36 p.m.  London  time after
climbing to 4.48 percent yesterday, the highest since July 18.
The 4.5 percent bond due in May 2023 rose 0.285, or 2.85 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 101.34.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 3.5 billion euros of notes due
in December 2018 at an average yield of 3.38 percent, compared
with 3.22 percent at a previous auction on July 30. The
government also sold 2.5 billion euros of bonds maturing in
March 2024 at 4.46 percent, unchanged from July.  Property Tax  Italy ’s government plans to cancel a tax on primary
residences this year and replace it in 2014 with a municipal
levy, Letta told reporters yesterday after a cabinet meeting in
 Rome . Berlusconi, a three-time former premier, praised the deal
in an e-mailed statement and said Letta lived up to his word.  The government is committed to keeping its  budget deficit 
below 3 percent of gross domestic product this year, Letta said.
Spending cuts, levies on gaming and value-added tax receipts
will compensate for the loss of revenue from the property levy,
he said.  Portugal’s  10-year bonds  rose for the fourth time in five
days, with the yield dropping three basis points to 6.57
percent. Similar-maturity Spanish  yields  were little changed at
4.53 percent.  ‘More Favorable’  “When you’ve got signs of data picking up and a cyclical
upswing, it’s much more favorable in general for the periphery
countries,” said  Steven Major , the global head of fixed-income
research at HSBC in London. “In terms of deleveraging, the
periphery has also done a lot more than the core countries.”  Major said investors should buy Italian and Spanish 10-year
bonds in the next one to three months, betting the nations’
credit fundamentals will be further boosted by an improving
economic backdrop.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield fell two basis points to 1.86
percent after fluctuating between 1.85 percent and 1.90 percent.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said in a report that its European
Government Bond Index, one of the key indexes investors use to
measure the performance of its funds, will extend by around 0.04
year at the end of August, which is “historically large” for
the month.  Bunds were also boosted as the Federal Labor Agency said
the number of Germans out of work increased by 7,000 to 2.95
million in August, spurring demand for safer assets.  The annual  inflation rate  fell to 1.6 percent this month
from 1.9 percent in July, a separate report showed.  Volatility on Dutch bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Finland and France, according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Italian bonds returned 3.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s
rose 7.4 percent, while German bunds lost 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  