-- Global Crude Oil Market Is Adequately Supplied, IEA Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-08-29T18:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/global-crude-oil-market-is-adequately-supplied-iea-says.html
The global oil market is adequately
supplied and doesn’t require the release of emergency
stockpiles, according to the  International Energy Agency .  The agency is monitoring the market and “stands ready” to
respond if there’s a major supply disruption, the Paris-based
adviser to 28 energy-consuming nations.  “The IEA is obviously concerned about the harmful effects
of high  oil prices  on the global economic recovery,” Greg
Frost, a Paris-based spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Prices at these levels cause hardship both in IEA countries
and especially emerging economies.”  The IEA coordinated the release of 60 million barrels of
crude and oil products in June 2011 to offset lost supplies from
Libya, where an uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi  almost halted
the country’s oil exports. Brent fell 8 percent in the two days
after the announcement of that intervention, the third use of
reserves in the agency’s history.  Brent has climbed 12 percent since July 1 amid unrest in
 Egypt , declining supply from Libya and the escalating conflict
in Syria. Contracts of the North Sea benchmark, used to price
more than half of the world’s oil, for October delivery rose to
a six-month high yesterday on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London . It was down 1.2 percent at $115.18 at 2:29 p.m. in New
York.  Libyan Output  Libya’s oil production fell to one-eighth of its capacity
as protests over pay and allegations of corruption spread to
fields operated by  Eni SpA (ENI)  and Repsol SA, according to
executives at the state oil company. Output from the North
African OPEC nation slumped to about 200,000 barrels a day,
compared with 640,000 in August and its optimal capacity of 1.6
million, National Oil Corp. Chairman Nuri Berruien said in an
interview Aug. 27 from Tripoli.  Tensions in the  Middle East  have fanned concern that
shipments from oil-producing nations may be disrupted. The
region accounted for 35 percent of global oil output in the
first quarter of this year, according to IEA data.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
responsible for 40 percent of world supplies and whose members
include Libya, declined to comment yesterday on the impact of
the supply disruption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  