-- Global Warming Slowdown Data Sought in UN Climate Report
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-08-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/global-warming-slowdown-data-sought-in-un-climate-report.html
U.S. and European Union envoys are
seeking more clarity from the  United Nations  on a slowdown in
global warming that climate skeptics have cited as a reason not
to “panic” about environmental changes, leaked documents show.  They’re requesting that more details on the so-called
“hiatus” be included in a key document set to be debated at a
UN conference next month that will summarize the latest
scientific conclusions on climate change.  Including more information on the hiatus will help
officials counter arguments that the slowing pace of global
warming in recent years is a sign that the long-term trend may
be discounted, according to Bob Ward, policy director at the
Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the
Environment at the  London School  of Economics.  “In the public debate, there are people who are using the
slowdown to say global warming is less of a problem than
thought,” Ward said in an interview yesterday. “It has to be
fully explained in the summary.”  A draft of the summary and the underlying 2,200-page report
from the UN Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change  were
obtained by Bloomberg from a person with official access to the
documents who declined to be further identified because it
hasn’t been published.  Government envoys from around the world will debate the
final wording of the summary at an IPCC meeting that starts in
 Stockholm  on Sept. 23. That document, formally the Summary for
Policymakers, is designed to be used by ministers working to
devise by 2015 a global treaty to curb climate change.  ‘Key Issue’  The current version of the summary needs more information
about the hiatus, according to the EU and the U.S.  “The recent slowing of the temperature trend is currently
a key issue, yet it has not been adequately addressed in the
SPM,” the EU said, according to an official paper that includes
all governmental comments on the draft report. The U.S. comment
suggested “adding information on recent hiatus in global mean
air temperature trend.”  Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for EU Climate Action
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard , declined to comment, citing a
confidentiality agreement with the IPCC and the lack of a
finalized text.  Jonathan Lynn, a spokesman for the UN panel, and Nayyera
Haq, a U.S. State Department spokeswoman, both declined to
comment.  Addressing the hiatus is important because skeptics of
man’s influence on warming the planet have seized on the slowing
pace temperature increase as evidence that scientists have
exaggerated the impact of manmade  greenhouse gases . That
supports their assertion that there’s less need for expensive
policies to curb  carbon emissions  from factories, vehicles and
deforestation.  Climate Sensitivity  “Some people have suggested that the slowdown means that
climate sensitivity is lower,” said Ward from the Grantham
Institute.  Climate sensitivity is the increase in temperatures
resulting from a doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
In the latest draft, sensitivity is estimated at 1.5 degrees
Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) to 4.5 degrees Celsius. That
compares with the estimate of 2 degrees to 4.5 degrees from the
UN’s last major climate assessment in 2007.  The summary document notes that the rate of warming over
the past 15 years “is smaller than the trend since 1951,”
citing a rate of  about 0.05 degrees Celsius per decade in the
years 1998 through 2012. The rate was about 0.12 degrees per
decade from 1951 through 2012.  Carbon Emissions  The slowdown came as emissions grew, with the concentration
of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere this year exceeding 400
parts per million for the first time on record.  The draft report includes possible reasons for the slowing
rate, including natural variability, volcanic eruptions and a
drop in solar energy reaching the Earth.  “Much of the information is present but it requires a lot
of effort on the part of the reader to piece it all together,”
the 28-nation EU said in the comments document.  The U.S. requested clarity on the implications of the data,
commenting “this is an example of providing a bunch of numbers,
then leave them up in the air without a concrete conclusion.”  Norway, Denmark and  China  requested information on the role
oceans have played in the slowdown. China cited three scientific
papers, including a study in the journal Geophysical Research
Letters in May that found deep ocean waters below 700 meters
(2,300 feet) have  absorbed more heat  since 1999.  Ocean Temperatures  A separate study in the journal Nature  Aug. 28  linked the
hiatus to a cooling of surface waters in the eastern Pacific.
The  cut-off date  for papers to be considered in the UN report
was March 15.  The UN World Meteorological Organization defines climate as
the  average weather  over a 30-year period, and scientists say
the 15-year slowdown isn’t long enough to mark a trend. Hungary
and  Germany , both EU members, cited this as a reason to delete
any reference to the hiatus in the summary, while  Japan 
questioned the purpose of using a 15-year average.  “A 15-years period of observation is not sufficient to
give a qualified analysis of the global mean surface temperature
trend in an assessment of climate change,” Germany said. It
also said the use of the word “hiatus” is “strongly
misleading” because “there is not a pause or interruption, but
a decrease in the warming trend.”  “We never comment on the internal procedures of the
IPCC,” Nikolai Fichtner, a spokesman for the German environment
ministry, said in an e-mail.  Slowdown Acknowledged  The slowdown in warming has been acknowledged by the U.K.
Met Office, which produces one of the world’s three main series
of global temperature data, and  James Hansen , the former NASA
scientist who first brought climate change to the attention of
Congress in the 1980s. They say the data is still compatible
with humans being the main cause of warming.  Even with the slowdown, the decade of 2001 to 2010 was the
warmest for both hemispheres and for land and sea, the WMO said
July 3 in a report. The  World Bank  says the planet is on course
to warm by 4 degrees Celsius by 2100 because of rising
emissions.  That hasn’t stopped skeptics, from scientists to lawmakers
and bloggers from seizing on the issue.  The Global Warming Policy Foundation, a U.K.-based research
group that describes itself as “deeply concerned about the
costs” of climate change policies, said in a  report  in March
that “we are on the threshold of global observations becoming
incompatible with the consensus theory of climate change.”  Don’t ‘Panic’  The Wall Street Journal published in January 2012 an
opinion piece signed by 16 scientists that cited “the lack of
global warming for well over 10 years now” as a reason not to
“panic” about climate change. They included professors at
Princeton and Cambridge universities,  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , and former U.S. Senator and Apollo 17 astronaut
Harrison Schmitt.  The comments on the slowdown are among 1,855 from
governments around the world detailed in the document. The
comments range from requests to spell out what acronyms stand
for and eliminate scientific jargon to clarifying the likelihood
of predictions and shuffling bits of text about.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  