-- Gold Trade Most Bullish Since March on Syria Crisis: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-08-30T13:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/gold-trade-most-bullish-since-march-on-syria-crisis-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bullish in
five months as mounting concern about military action in  Syria 
drove prices toward  bull market  territory.  Twenty-three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices
to rise next week, six were bearish and five neutral, the
highest proportion of bulls since March 8.  Hedge funds  and other
speculators have the biggest bet on higher prices in six months
and holdings of metal in exchange-traded products expanded in
the past two weeks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gold, down 27 percent from the record set two years ago
after some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of
value, advanced 18 percent from a 34-month low in June as lower
prices boosted demand for jewelry, bars and coins in  Asia . Oil
jumped to a two-year high this week as western nations debated
their response to an alleged chemical-weapons attack in Syria,
increasing concern that higher energy costs will slow economic
growth and strengthening gold’s allure as a haven.  “It’s all fueled into the  Syria crisis ,” said  James Moore , an analyst at FastMarkets Ltd. in London. “Oil’s been
going up and adds to the inflationary concerns longer down the
road and possibly that may feed into concern that high energy
prices could derail growth. We’ve seen quite a big slowdown in
the liquidation from the hot money that plowed into gold and
which has now come out of it.”  Gold’s Rebound  The metal fell 17 percent to $1,394.60 an ounce in London
this year. Prices set a three-month high of $1,433.83 on Aug. 28
and a close at $1,440.78 would be a 20 percent gain since June,
the common definition of a bull market. It entered a  bear market 
in April. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
rose 2 percent this year and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities gained 7.5 percent. Treasuries declined 3.2 percent,
the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index shows.  The U.S. and the U.K. said Aug. 28 they are prepared to
take military action against Syria without authorization from
the United Nations  Security Council  after Russia objected to a
resolution granting action to protect civilians. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  said two days ago that while the U.S. has concluded
the Syrian government was responsible for a chemical weapons
attack against civilians on Aug. 21, he hasn’t decided on a
course of action.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  failed to win approval
from parliament yesterday for a strike against Syria, ruling out
military action from one of the U.S.’s closest allies. President
Obama is still prepared to proceed even without that U.K.
support or an endorsement from the Security Council, the  New
York  Times said, citing unidentified administration officials.  Central Banks  Crude-oil futures surged to $112.24 a barrel in New York on
Aug. 28, the highest since May 2011, on concern that the
conflict in Syria may spread and threaten oil supplies from the
 Middle East . While gold slumped this year partly because
unprecedented stimulus by central banks failed to accelerate
consumer price increases, some investors judge that higher  oil
prices  can stoke inflation and buy the metal as a hedge.  Speculators’  net-long position  jumped 29 percent to 73,216
contracts in the week to Aug. 20, the most since Feb. 5, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Bullion-backed
ETP holdings rose 7.7 metric tons from a three-year low on Aug.
8 and August’s sales are set to be the least since the last
monthly increase in December.  Biggest Buyer  Consumer buying in  India , last year’s biggest buyer, and
 China  pushed global bar and coin sales to a record and jewelry
usage to the most since 2008 in the second quarter, according to
the London-based World Gold Council. The Austrian Mint’s gold-coin sales rose 79 percent in January to July from a year
earlier. BullionVault, a London-based online service for
investors to buy and sell physical gold and silver, said new
account registrations on Aug. 27 were the most since June 28.  Demand from China, which the World Gold Council says will
challenge India to be the top buyer this year, is slowing with
prices above $1,400, Standard Bank Group Ltd. said in an Aug. 28
report. The metal for immediate delivery in China averaged about
$13 more than the London price so far this month, compared with
a premium of $27 in July, Shanghai Gold Exchange data show.  Consumption is already being restricted in India, where the
government has sought to curb bullion imports by raising taxes
and costs to combat a record current-account deficit. The metal
climbed to a record 98,911.2 rupees an ounce this week, making
local purchases more expensive. Gold priced in dollars reached
an all-time high of $1,921.15 in September 2011.  Buying Debt  Gold rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as the
 Federal Reserve  pumped more than $2 trillion into the financial
system by buying debt. Policy makers are debating whether the
economy is strong enough to allow them to slow monthly purchases
of $85 billion. Officials will cut the amount at their next
meeting on Sept. 17-18, according to 65 percent of economists in
an Aug. 9-13 Bloomberg survey.  Prices that rose in six of the previous seven weeks pushed
gold’s relative-strength index above 70, a level that suggests
to some analysts using technical charts that the price may be
set to decline. The gauge was at 61.7 today.  Seven of 13 people surveyed expect raw sugar to fall next
week and four were bullish. The commodity slid 16 percent to
16.37 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year.  Fourteen of 26 surveyed anticipate lower corn prices and
six said the grain will rise, while 12 of 27 said soybeans will
gain and 11 expect lower prices. Eleven predicted losses in
wheat and eight were bullish. Corn fell 31 percent to $4.795 a
bushel this year in  Chicago . Soybeans lost 3.7 percent to $13.57
a bushel, as wheat slid 16 percent to $6.5425 a bushel.  Copper Outlook  Thirteen traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to
drop next week, seven were bullish and five neutral. The metal
for delivery in three months, the  London  Metal Exchange’s
benchmark contract, fell 10 percent to $7,109 a ton this year.  The S&P gauge of raw materials advanced about 11 percent
from a nine-month low on April 18, reaching the highest since
February this week. Brent and West Texas Intermediate crude-oil
futures and gold account for about 50 percent of the index. An
index of the six main metals traded on the LME fell 4.1 percent
since reaching a two-month high on Aug. 16  “You would need to see a significant upturn in underlying
demand for commodities to sustain a significantly higher
price,” said Ross Strachan, a commodities economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London. “We expect prices to fall
significantly for many industrial commodities. There’s very
significant supply growth for a number.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  