-- Gold Mine CEOs Hoard Cash as Strikes Loom in South Africa
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-08-30T10:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/gold-mine-ceos-hoard-cash-as-strikes-loom-in-south-africa.html
South Africa’s four biggest gold
producers are hoarding cash and lining up access to more as they
prepare for the first industrywide strike since 2011.  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL)  boosted its cash balance sevenfold and
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  has arranged to borrow more from banks if
needed, filings show. Like their peers,  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and
 Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  have scrapped dividends this month. The
 National Union of Mineworkers  today notified producers that its
members will down tools on Sept. 3.  “If we are, let’s say, bullied into a situation that we
don’t like, we can ride out the storm for a very long period of
time,” Sibanye Chief Executive Officer Neal Froneman said.
“That was the reason behind putting cash in the bank.”  The Chamber of Mines, which represents seven gold mining
companies employing 142,000 people, today received a 48-hour
notice of an intended strike from the NUM. The chamber has
estimated that a stoppage will cost 349 million rand ($34
million) a day in lost revenue. The four biggest producers say
bullion’s 16 percent slump this year means a decade of above-inflation pay raises must be halted as they seek to reverse
losses and avert a repeat of violence that has marred operations
since last year.  “This is a tipping point of the industry,”  David Davis , a
Johannesburg-based analyst at SBG Securities Ltd., said by phone
on Aug. 23. “The  gold mines  are taking action to put their
operations into positive  cash flow  at this gold price. Hunkering
down on wages is part of that strategic plan. They can’t afford
it.”  Wage Demands  Entry-level underground workers earn 5,000 rand a month
before housing allowances and bonuses, according to the  Chamber
of Mines . The NUM, which represents 64 percent of employees, or
about 90,000 miners, wants this to rise to 8,000 rand. The
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, the second-biggest gold-labor group, is demanding an increase to 12,500
rand a month.  CEOs have been less willing to negotiate this year,
according to the NUM. Their companies, engaged in wage talks
through the Chamber of Mines, are considering locking out
workers should their final offer not be accepted, Chief
Negotiator Elize Strydom said yesterday.  The chamber’s  offer  on Aug. 27 was for a 6.5 percent raise
in each of the next two years for entry-level employees. Other
bands would get 6 percent, with a profit-share payment for all.  Pay Scale  Gold miners’ salaries put them in the top 15 percent of
earners in  South Africa  and their pay can almost double if
bonuses and allowances are in included, according to Harmony CEO
Graham Briggs.  Inflation for mineworkers, who typically support as many as
10 other people, is 9 percent to 11 percent a year, higher than
South Africa’s  official rate  of 6.3 percent for July, NUM
General Secretary Frans Baleni said last month.  “There’s a very strong compact between the gold CEOs,”
Sibanye’s Froneman said. “This is not about one year. We intend
to be here a long time and we need to end this vicious cycle of
continuous increases of above inflation.”  The lower bullion price caused AngloGold, Harmony and Gold
Fields to post second-quarter losses and announce plans to cut
costs. Sibanye, spun out of Gold Fields as a collection of South
African mines in February, was the only one to make a profit,
which was for the six months ended June. Sibanye increased its
cash balance to 2.09 billion rand by June from December.  Australian Purchase  AngloGold agreed to a deal with its banks on Aug. 21 to
ease the terms of its revolving credit facilities to give the
company greater access to credit. “We’re not in a position
where we have a balance sheet that’s shaky,” Mike O’Hare,
AngloGold’s chief operating officer for South Africa, said in an
interview yesterday.  In addition to scrapping its dividend, Gold Fields
announced the purchase of three  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  Australian
mines on Aug. 22 for $300 million. CEO  Nick Holland  said the
mines will increase cash flow in the first year and reduce the
proportion of the company’s production from South Africa to 11
percent. “Our exposure to South Africa is much more reduced,”
Sven Lunsche, a spokesman, said by phone yesterday.  Gold Fields is also cutting costs and spending at its South
Deep mine in South Africa, which didn’t meet a target to break
even by this year, the company said in an Aug. 22 presentation.
The mine is implementing a 24-hour, seven-day-week operating
model, and labor relations have been “challenging,” it said.  Marikana Deaths  There have been no unauthorized work stoppages since wage
talks began in July, almost a year after 34 people were killed
in one day near  Lonmin Plc’s (LMI)  Marikana mine following strikes
over pay in the platinum industry.  Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  brokered a pact between
unions and companies to negotiate peacefully on July 3. It was
signed by all parties except the AMCU, which became the biggest
union in platinum last year and has been gaining gold employees
in 2013.  “The strikes might not be violent per se,” Mashego Mashego, an  executive director  at Harmony, said in an Aug. 28
interview. “But there’s a tug of war between the historically
majority union, which wants to keep the status quo, and the new
kid on the block, which wants to get a bigger stake in the
industry. It’s not just about wages, it’s about power.”  The last industrywide strike over pay in gold was in 2011
and lasted four days. The stoppage ended after producers agreed
to boost pay by 7.5 percent to 10 percent in each of two years,
exceeding the increase in the consumer-price index.  Hand-to-Mouth  Gold CEOs have been much more aggressive in their
negotiations this year, according to Mike Fafuli, a spokesman
for the NUM.  “Even before the commencement of negotiations, CEOs were
saying they have a mandate not to pay above inflation,” Fafuli
said in an Aug. 28 interview. “Going in with such a blueprint
defeats the object of engagement. Mineworkers are already living
hand to mouth. If they think they can get more then there will
be appetite to strike.”  The AMCU is “still in touch with our constituencies”
about how to proceed with negotiations, President Joseph
Mathunjwa said in a phone interview today.  AngloGold CEO Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan almost doubled his
pay to $4.4 million in 2012, when he was finance director,
according to the annual report, while the stock dropped 24
percent in Johannesburg. Gold Fields’ Holland got a total
package of 45.3 million rand, 39 percent more than a year
earlier. The shares fell 17 percent.  CEO Pay  Harmony’s Briggs earned 7.3 million rand in 2012, excluding
share options, which was 8.5 percent lower than in 2011. The
company’s stock fell 22 percent.  Weeks of strikes and violence led Harmony to suspend output
at its biggest mine for two months this year. A precondition to
reopening the operation was that employees sign a code promising
to respect the rule of law. The AMCU is the majority union at
the mine.  A wave of mining strikes cut about 15 billion rand in
output last year. Stoppages in the industry have already shaved
0.3 percent off growth in 2012, President  Jacob Zuma  said June
13.  Should gold miners down tools, they would join 30,000
operators at car manufacturers including the local unit of
Toyota Motor Corp., who have been on strike since Aug. 19.
Another 90,000 construction employees and 72,000 workers at gas
stations and  car dealerships  may walk out after talks failed.  The six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Gold Mining Index has fallen
44 percent this year compared with a 7.7 percent increase in the
FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index.  “Our shareholders think we’re probably too good to our
employees and our employees think we’re too good to
shareholders,” Harmony’s Briggs said on Aug. 14. “The numbers
are taking the shareholders’ view that there’s too much of our
profits going elsewhere but we need to get a balance. That’s
where it’s difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  