-- Gulf Crudes Strengthen as Takeaway From Cushing Hub Slows Down
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-08-29T17:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/gulf-crudes-strengthen-as-takeaway-from-cushing-hub-slows-down.html
Light Louisiana Sweet and other U.S.
Gulf of Mexico crudes strengthened relative to West Texas
Intermediate as withdrawals from the Cushing,  Oklahoma , oil hub
have slowed in recent weeks.  Inventories in Cushing , the delivery point for WTI futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , have fallen an
average of 1.1 million barrels a week the past three weeks,
following a five-week period in which declines averaged 1.96
million barrels. Supplies sank 837,000 barrels in the week ended
Aug. 23, the smallest drop since June 28.  The slowing inventory reduction mean that it will take the
oil hub longer than expected to reach its minimum operational
capacity of 20 million to 25 million barrels, said Amrita Sen,
chief oil market analyst for Energy Aspects Ltd. in London.  LLS strengthened by 30 cents to a premium of $3.55 a barrel
more than WTI at 11:59 a.m., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The expectation was that Cushing would reach its
operational minimum at the end of September,” she said. “Now
that’s been pushed back to October or November.”  The outlook for healthier Cushing stockpiles, along with
fear that conflict in  Syria  will escalate and reduce crude
exports from the  Middle East , have caused WTI’s discount to
Brent, the European benchmark, to grow after it reached a 35-month low of 20 cents on July 19. The spread widened 39 cents to
$6.90 a barrel at 12:30 p.m. today.  LLS and other Gulf of Mexico oils compete with foreign
crudes priced against Brent for space in U.S. refineries.  Refineries, Pipelines  Several factors have combined to slow withdrawals from
Cushing.  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) ’s refinery in Coffeyville, Kansas,
which can receive oil by pipeline directly from Cushing, has had
an extended unplanned outage of a main production unit since the
beginning of August.  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC) ’s Tulsa East refinery
in Oklahoma suffered a  power failure  on Aug. 15 that shut units.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  shut the 400,000-barrel-a-day Seaway pipeline that takes oil to Houston from Cushing for
12.5 hours on Aug. 20, according to a report form Louisville,
Kentucky-based Genscape Inc. Hawthorn Oil Transportation Inc.’s
90,000-barrel-a-day pipeline that carries crude to Cushing from
a rail terminal in nearby Stroud, Oklahoma, restarted Aug. 20
after being idle for nearly a year, reported Genscape, an energy
information provider.  Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. (COS)  restarted a coker at the Syncrude
oil-sands upgrader in  Alberta  on Aug. 27 after shutting the unit
for work June 10. The unit makes synthetic light oil and will
reduce PADD 2 refineries’ demand for oil from Cushing, Sen said.  Heavy Louisiana Sweet crude strengthened by 30 cents to a
premium of $3.90 a barrel.  Thunder Horse  gained 65 cents to $1
over WTI.  Mars Blend, a high-sulfur Gulf crude gained 25 cents to
$1.75 a barrel below WTI. Poseidon’s discount narrowed 20 cents
to $2.90 a barrel. Southern Green Canyon strengthened 50 cents
to a $3.40 discount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  