-- ICBC Leads Top China Banks to Record Profit as Economy Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-30T01:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/icbc-first-half-earnings-increase-12-to-record-on-loans-fees.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  led the nation’s biggest banks in posting faster-than-estimated second-quarter profit growth by containing bad
loans and selling more wealth management products.  The four lenders, among the world’s nine biggest by market
value, reported record combined net income of 216 billion  yuan 
($35.2 billion), an increase of 15 percent from a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. That accelerated
from an 11 percent increase in the first quarter.  China ’s biggest banks defied the earnings slowdown seen at
smaller rivals by boosting higher-yield loans to small firms
while stepping up credit-risk management and nonperforming loan
recovery. Their shares are still trading near record-low
valuations on concern that an economy set to expand at the
weakest pace in 23 years will curb loan demand and spark more
defaults.  “The valuations are certainly something that we would
become relatively bullish on,” May Yan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Barclays Plc, said today on Bloomberg Television.
“They reflect the long-term overhang on these stocks -- NPLs,
interest rate liberalization’s impact on the net interest
margin, equity raising, etc. We do see some short-term trading
and buying opportunities.”  Buy Recommendations  Yan recommended buying  ICBC (1398)  and  Bank of China Ltd.  after
their earnings yesterday beat her estimates. ICBC rose 0.4
percent to HK$5.08 in  Hong Kong  as of 9:32, while  Bank of China 
slipped 0.6 percent to HK$3.26.  Shares of the nine Hong Kong-listed mainland banks have
dropped by an average 12 percent this year to near record-low
valuations, compared with a 4.2 percent decline in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  ICBC and Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s
second-largest trade at about 5.4 times their estimated 2013
earnings.  Current valuations indicate the market is pricing in a
sustainable return on equity of 9.4 percent, well below the 21.2
percent China banks reported in 2012,  Mike Werner , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note
Aug. 28.  ‘Unfair’ Comments  Investors’ “noises” on wealth-management products, local-government loans and industries with overcapacity are driving
down valuations, and many of their comments are “unfair,” ICBC
Chairman Jiang Jianqing told a news conference in Hong Kong
yesterday.  Chinese banks had 9.08 trillion yuan of wealth management
products, savings vehicles that pay higher returns than deposits
and aren’t always kept on lenders’ balance sheets, at the end of
June. That’s up from 7.1 trillion yuan at the end of 2012,
according to data from the banking regulator.  ICBC had 1.2 trillion yuan of such products outstanding as
of June 30, while Bank of China had 687 billion yuan, according
to Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd.  Net income  at ICBC climbed 13 percent to 69.6 billion yuan,
beating the 67.5 billion-yuan median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Bank of China , the fourth-biggest,
reported a 17 percent profit increase yesterday. China
 Construction Bank Corp. (939)  on Aug. 25 posted 10 percent growth in
second-quarter net income and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ,
No. 3 by market value and assets, said on Aug. 28 earnings
gained 22 percent.  ‘Comforting’ Results  “It’s comforting to see that the big four banks managed to
maintain liquidity and earnings ability in the current operating
environment,” Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip
Securities Research, said by phone yesterday. “While the
banking industry’s profit keeps rising, the growth rate is
slowing. The biggest risk going forward is still the worsening
asset quality.”  Combined profit at the four lenders may grow by 7.6 percent
this year to $126 billion, the first rate below 10 percent since
they sold shares to the public, according to analyst estimates
compiled by  Bloomberg News . That would still exceed the $72
billion total earnings estimated for their four U.S.
counterparts.  “While profit growth at Chinese banks has been slowing, it
will be a gradual process as bank loans are still a major
financing channel in China,” said Rainy Yuan, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Masterlink Securities Corp. “Banks are also boosting
their fee-based business and adjusting loan portfolios to resist
pressure on income growth.”  Yield Climbs  The  yield  on AAA-rated five-year commercial bank bonds has
climbed 37 basis points to 5.17 percent since the end of March,
according to an index from Chinabond, the government debt
clearinghouse, signaling growing concern that  defaults  may rise
and funding may remain tight.  China’s banks advanced 2.3 trillion yuan of  new loans  in
the second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from
central bank figures, down 3 percent from a year earlier
following a surge in credit in the January-March period. Premier
 Li Keqiang  in June signaled a determination to make better use
of existing credit to revive the economy.  “The deterioration of nonperforming loans will depend on
how fast the government wants to get rid of overcapacity in some
industries,” said Liao Qiang, a Beijing-based senior director
at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. “The government will
consider the ability of Chinese banks in absorbing bad debt. The
most likely scenario is that the government will use time to buy
more room. It will be a gradual increase.”  Nonperforming Loans  Combined nonperforming loans at ICBC and its four biggest
rivals stood at 325.4 billion yuan at the end of June,
accounting for 0.97 percent of their total advances, according
to the China Banking Regulatory Commission. That declined from
0.98 percent as of March 31.  ICBC’s soured loans rose to 81.8 billion yuan as of June 30
from 80.24 billion yuan three months earlier, according to
yesterday’s statement. The ratio of bad debt to total credit was
unchanged at 0.87 percent.  Chinese banks have made an unprecedented $6.2 trillion of
loans available to state-owned companies, local governments and
smaller businesses from the end of 2008 to June this year,
according to the central bank.  Total credit, including bank loans and non-bank lending, is
about 200 percent of China’s gross domestic product at a time
when the economic slowdown is making it harder for borrowers to
repay debt, Charlene Chu, a Beijing-based senior director of
financial institutions at  Fitch Ratings , said in April.  Cash Squeeze  The China Banking Regulatory Commission in March tightened
rules on wealth management products. The People’s Bank of China
in June also temporarily refrained from providing short-term
funds on the  interbank market  used to finance off-balance-sheet
lending and  other credit  outside the banking system, known as
shadow banking.  That drove  money-market rates  to a record on June 20,
cutting off smaller banks’ borrowing. The central bank also
ordered lenders to improve their management of funding.  The net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, narrowed at ICBC and Agricultural Bank in the
first half, and was unchanged at Construction Bank.  ICBC chairman  Jiang Jianqing  forecasts the second-half
margin will be stable unless there’s a major change in market
rates, he said at a press conference in Hong Kong.  “Credit supply will remain tight in the second half, which
may boost banks’ pricing power,” said Xie Jiyong, a Shanghai-based analyst at Capital Securities Corp.  Policy makers are targeting a 7.5 percent economic
expansion in 2013 and have accelerated interest rate
deregulation by scrapping the lower limit on the lending rates
banks can charge customers in July. The reform will hurt
lenders’ pricing power on corporate loans and pose significant
challenges to banking management, Fu Yuning, chairman of China
Merchants Bank Co., said Aug. 26.  Bank of China will lend more to smaller companies to
maintain lending profitability, President Li Lihui said at a
press conference yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  