-- LightSquared Shouldn’t Run Its Own Auction, Lenders Say
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-08-29T16:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/lightsquared-shouldn-t-run-its-own-auction-lenders-say.html
Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared Inc.
shouldn’t be allowed to run its own bankruptcy auction, a group
of lenders said, citing depleted cash, a changing industry and a
controlling shareholder who wants to block the sale.  The lenders, a trustee or an independent committee should
conduct the planned asset auction, the lenders said in a filing
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Since the
Chapter 11 case began, LightSquared’s cash has dwindled by
$125 million to about $61 million, Steve Zelin of financial
adviser Blackstone Group LP said in support of the lenders.  “I have significant concern as to the LP Debtors’ ability
to run a fair and competitive auction,”  Zelin said.  A lawsuit filed by Falcone’s investment company, Harbinger
Capital Partners LLC, against  Charlie Ergen  and his  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  shows Falcone wants to keep control of LightSquared, Zelin
said. A Dish unit has offered $2.22 billion in cash for
LightSquared’s assets. Lenders have said that the offer, valued
at as much as $3.5 billion including assumption of contracts,
should be the auction’s leading bid.  Industry dynamics also have changed, leaving LightSquared
with fewer strategic options than it had at the outset of its
case, Zelin said. He cited purchases of spectrum by AT&T Inc.,
 Sprint Corp. (S)  and  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)   Spectrum Deals  AT&T spent $1.38 billion to buy spectrum from a number of
companies in January, Sprint spent $480 million in May and T-Mobile spent $308 million in June, Zelin said. AT&T agreed to
buy Leap Wireless in July in a $4 billion deal.  In addition, the Federal Communications Commission “has
publicly stated that it intends to increase the supply of
spectrum for commercial use in the coming years, the
availability of which may negatively impact the demand for and
value of” LightSquared’s wireless spectrum, Zelin said.  Lenders have said that prospects for creditors have
worsened during LightSquared’s 15 months in bankruptcy as
Falcone ignored the $2.22 billion cash offer from Dish’s L-Band
Acquisition LLC and admitted wrongdoing in a Securities and
Exchange Commission enforcement action.  Falcone and Harbinger agreed Aug. 19 to pay an $18 million
fine and Falcone accepted a five-year ban from the securities
industry. The SEC accused him of improperly borrowing from the
fund and favoring some investors over others.  Competing Proposals  LightSquared had said it expected competing proposals to
reorganize its assets. The company lost the exclusive right to
control its reorganization July 15.  The lender group, which owns debt in the LP unit, includes
Capital Research & Management Co., Fir Tree Capital Opportunity
Master Funds LP, Cyrus Capital Partners LP, Intermarket Corp.,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and SP Special Opportunities LLC, a fund owned by Ergen.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , filed for
bankruptcy in May 2012, listing assets of $4.48 billion and debt
of $2.29 billion.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-bk-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  