-- Broker Use of Client Assets as Collateral Faces Limits
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-08-29T19:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/limits-on-broker-use-of-client-assets-sought-by-global-regulator.html
Brokers face restrictions on using
clients’ assets as collateral for other trades, as part of a
push by global regulators to prevent the securities lending
market from sparking chain reactions that could cause a crisis.  Under recommendations published today by the Financial
Stability Board, brokers wouldn’t be allowed to tap client
assets for their own trading, and they would have to provide
“sufficient disclosure” of plans to use the securities as
collateral in other transactions. They would also have to meet
minimum standards in managing liquidity risks.  Regulators are seeking to rein in how traders use
collateral in a bid to prevent any repeat of the turmoil that
followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
which was driven in part by confusion over who was owed what on
outstanding trades. The European Union may seek to curb the
number of times a single asset can be passed on as collateral in
trades, a person familiar with the plans said last week.  “More safeguards” are needed for client assets, the FSB,
which brings together regulators and central bankers from the
Group of 20 nations, said in today’s proposals. Recycling the
securities as collateral, a process known as re-hypothecation,
“can create financial stability risks especially if clients are
uncertain about the extent to which their assets have been re-hypothecated, or about the treatment in case of bankruptcy.”  Securities lending agreements are trades in which one party
temporarily hands over a security to someone else in exchange
for cash or other assets, and they are similar in many respects
to repurchase agreements, or repos. Both markets are part of a
$67 trillion shadow banking system that became a target for
tougher rules following the collapse of Lehman.  Sharp Falls  Failure of a large player “may lead to sharp price falls
that create mark-to-market losses for all holders of these
securities. These losses can in turn lead to fresh rounds of
fire sales by other firms, thereby creating an asset valuation
spiral,” the FSB said.  Securities lending transactions and repos “play crucial
roles in supporting price discovery and secondary market
liquidity for a variety of securities,” the FSB said. The goal
behind its recommendations is to prevent excessive leverage, and
to “mitigate the risk that large forced sales of collateral in
one market segment” spreads chaos throughout the broader
financial system, it said.  ‘Positive Development’  “This is a positive development, given the issues and
negative credit events that were related to the re-hypothecation
of collateral and the general use of clients’ assets,” Viktoria Baklanova, New York-based chief credit officer at Acacia Capital
Corp. and former analyst at Fitch Ratings, said in a telephone
interview. “Recommendations to limit the use of clients’
collateral to rein in some of the abuses and the excessive
leverage which was created by securities lending is a beneficial
aspect of this. The negative, as always with this type of
regulation, is that it reduces efficiency and creates additional
costs.”  In addition to curbs on client-asset use, the FSB is
calling for pension funds, insurers and other non-banks active
in these markets to face tougher rules, including liquidity
requirements, when they reinvest cash collateral.  The FSB said that it would monitor implementation of the
recommendations and report back to G-20 leaders in November
2014.  The plans stipulate that a minimum portion of cash
collateral should be kept in short-term deposits, held in liquid
assets such as “high-quality” government debt, or used for
short-term transactions that can be readily converted into cash.  Minimum Costs  The FSB also published draft rules on the minimum costs
non-banks should face when engaging in trades without using
clearinghouses. The purpose of this rule is to make sure firms
can’t get too much cash in exchange for low-quality collateral,
the FSB said.  Regulators must ensure that firms don’t overreach in using
these markets for short-term financing of long-term assets, some
of which might become illiquid or lose value, the FSB said.  These trades can involve “maturity and liquidity
transformation” that can present risks to the wider market if
left unchecked, it said.  The FSB said it would seek views on this part of the
recommendations and complete work on them by spring 2014.  Shadow Banking  The FSB published today’s report as part of a package of
measures designed to oversee so-called shadow banking activities
that allow banks to shift business off their balance sheets, as
well as those which allow investors to bypass lenders and the
functions they traditionally fulfill on the markets.  In addition to repos and securities lending agreements, the
term also covers activities such as investments in money-market
funds and securitization.  The FSB has been asked by the Group of 20 nations to draw
up international rules to prevent shadow banking from sowing the
seeds of the next crisis. Some measures, such as those for
money-market funds, have already been published by standard
setters.  Other parts of the FSB plans involve boosting companies’
disclosure of their repo and securities lending activities, and
requiring them to do more internal stress testing of potential
losses on these trades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  