-- India Arrests Founder of Militant Group Behind Deadly Blasts
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-08-29T08:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/india-arrests-founder-of-militant-group-behind-deadly-blasts.html
India  arrested the co-founder of a
militant group that claimed responsibility for deadly bombings
across the country, a victory for intelligence forces criticized
in parliament for failing to stop terrorist attacks.  Yasin Bhatkal, 30, who founded the Indian Mujahedeen along
with a family member, was captured yesterday near the border
with Nepal, Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde told reporters in
New Delhi today. His group claimed it orchestrated a February
attack that killed 16 people in Hyderabad and a 2011 bombing at
New Delhi’s high court that left 15 people dead.  Bhatkal’s arrest strikes one name from the most- wanted  list
of India’s counter-terrorist National Investigation Agency. The
arrest may assuage opposition lawmakers who say a security and
intelligence overhaul following a series of attacks that killed
166 people in Mumbai in 2008 has failed to achieve results.  The capture “will help in breaking the morale of the
outfit, resolving some blast cases and also lead to the busting
of other cells,” said N. Manoharan, an independent security
analyst and a former academic at the Center for Land Warfare
Studies.  The  Indian Mujahedeen  emerged in 2008 as a loose network of
Islamic militants. The group was responsible for attacks that
killed at least 150 people in 2008 alone, according to the study
by the New Delhi-based Institute for Defense Studies and
Analyses.  The group has links with  Pakistan , including  guerrilla
groups  such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, according to the U.S. State
Department. India alleges Lashkar-e-Taiba carried out the
November 2008 attack targeting a  railway station  and luxury
hotels in Mumbai.  Second Arrest  The capture comes two weeks after India police arrested
Abdul Karim, an alleged bomb maker for Lashkar-e-Taiba, who
allegedly masterminded a series of bombings in the 1990s. Karim
was also arrested near the Nepal border.  India has suffered at least eleven terrorist attacks since
the 2008 Mumbai attacks. A parliamentary committee report
faulted the National Investigation Agency in April for
insufficient manpower and equipment. The committee report said a
car shortage led some officers to take taxis to crime scenes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  