-- Lira Rebounds From Record as Immediate Strike on Syria Deferred
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-08-29T09:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/lira-rebounds-from-record-as-immediate-strike-on-syria-deferred.html
Turkey ’s lira rebounded from a
record low as Western nations deferred an immediate strike on
neighboring Syria, boosting appetite for riskier assets.  The lira strengthened 0.5 percent to 2.0276 per dollar at
10:37 a.m. in Istanbul, heading for its biggest appreciation
since Aug. 2. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds dropped 43
basis points, or 0.43 percentage point, to 9.51 percent, the
lowest level in eight days.  Prime Minister David Cameron backed down from asking
lawmakers for immediate support today for possible U.K. military
strikes on Syria after the Labour opposition demanded a delay
until United Nations inspectors report on the alleged use of
chemical weapons. Concern that the conflict in  Syria  will
intensify damped demand for emerging-market assets this week,
with the lira weakening to a record 2.0730 per dollar during
intraday trade yesterday.  “We are seeing a little relief regarding the situation in
Syria,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt , wrote in e-mailed comments.  France  needs proof before acting on Syria, Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, cabinet member and spokeswoman for the French
government, said today on I-tele. Turkey, which borders Syria
and has supported rebels against President Bashar al-Assad, has
said it could be part of a Western attack against the country.  Turkey’s central bank said it would sell a minimum $50
million later today, which would raise its total dollar sales
since June 11 to $8.8 billion. It also offered 4 billion liras
($1.96 billion) at its lowest lending rate of 4.5 percent in a
repo auction today.  Fed Tapering  “In a risk-off environment there is little you can do as a
central bank,” Nguyen said. “The only way the Turkish lira may
recover sustainably is if market sentiment improves
significantly.”  The lira has slumped 8.7 percent in the last three months
in the biggest depreciation among  emerging markets  in Europe,
the Middle East and  Africa , extending its losses against the
dollar to 13 percent this year, on speculation the U.S. Federal
reserve will taper its monetary stimulus as early as next month.  Turkey’s  trade deficit  widened to $9.81 billion in July,
above the median estimate of $8.7 billion in a Bloomberg survey
of three economists. The shortfall expanded to $60.5 billion in
the first seven months, compared with $51.1 billion a year
earlier, according to data published on the website of the
Statistics Office in Ankara today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  