-- Israelis Rush for Masks Fearing Retaliation for Syria Strike
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-08-29T16:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/israeli-rush-for-gas-masks-fearing-retaliation-for-syria-strike.html
Israelis thronged to distribution
centers to pick up government-issued gas masks, afraid their
country will be targeted in retaliation if the U.S. attacks
 Syria .  The Israel Postal Service, which is distributing the masks,
announced on its website that the centers would extend their
hours until evening “due to extraordinary demand.” In Haifa,
the biggest city closest to the northern border with Lebanon and
Syria, people waited in line for hours, Israel Radio said. Some
centers ran out of masks.  “I’m disappointed there aren’t enough masks, but I’m also
upset at myself because my mother told me six months ago I
should take care of this,” said Inbal Demma, 28, of  Jerusalem ,
who had come to pick up masks and an infant gas tent at the
city’s Hadar mall for herself, her husband and their 2-month-old
daughter.  Shas lawmaker Eli Yishai, who chairs a parliamentary panel
on home front defense, has said  Israel  doesn’t have enough masks
for all of its citizens and appealed for a bigger budget.  The U.S. and its allies began exploring military action
after some Syrian opposition groups said 1,300 people died in an
Aug. 21 chemical attack in the Ghouta area outside Damascus.
Israel, sitting on Syria’s southern border and a longtime foe,
would be a potential target for retribution.  Israel Will ‘Burn’  Syria’s foreign minister, Walid al-Muallem, made the
linkage yesterday when he said the U.S. and Israel don’t want a
political solution. Ally  Iran  has explicitly identified Israel
as a target for reprisal, with the military’s deputy chief,
Masoud Jazayeri, saying Israel would “burn” from the fire of
any strike on Syria, the state-run Press TV news channel
reported yesterday.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  again urged Israelis to
go about their daily routines while threatening a fierce
response if the country is attacked.  “Although the likelihood of Israel’s being drawn into
events in Syria is assessed as low, we decided to deploy Iron
Dome batteries and our other missile interception systems,”
Netanyahu said today at the start of another security
consultation. “But I emphasize once again, if someone tries to
harm the citizens of Israel, the Israeli military will respond
very forcefully,” the prime minister said, in a text message
from his office.  Odds Slim  Some analysts and former military officials see the odds of
a retaliatory attack as slim because it would distract the
Syrian government from its main objective, vanquishing rebels.  It’s “a possibility that can’t be ignored,” said Yiftah Shapir, director of the Military Balance Project at the
Institute for National Security Studies in  Tel Aviv . “On the
other hand, rationally, I don’t think they need another front
against Israel. They are very much involved in a war for their
survival and don’t need another war in their back yard.”  While Shapir didn’t rule out an attack by pro-Syria
Hezbollah, he said that wasn’t in the Lebanese militant group’s
interest because it is fighting alongside Syria and under fire
at home for joining that conflict.  Israeli markets were not affected by the war talk. The
shekel appreciated 0.7 percent to 3.6292 per dollar as of 5:27
p.m. in Tel Aviv, while the benchmark TA-25 Index advanced for a
second day this week, rising 1.2 percent to 1,178.41 at the
close.  Israel first distributed gas masks to its citizens before
the 1991  Gulf War , during which  Iraq  fired Scud missiles at the
Jewish state after the U.S. attacked Iraq for invading  Kuwait .
None of the missiles carried chemical weapons.  Israel has bolstered its air defenses in the northern part
of the country, and has called up reserves in  air force ,
military intelligence and home front units.  “We are getting ready and are prepared, but there is no
panic, no escalation, and things are being done judiciously.”
Israeli Defense Moshe Ya’alon said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  