-- IVF Fails to Improve Pregnancy Odds After 5 Failed Cycles
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-08-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/ivf-fails-to-improve-pregnancy-odds-after-5-failed-cycles.html
IVF is unlikely to be successful for
any woman regardless of age after five failed rounds,
researchers in  Australia  found in the first national study of
pregnancy rates from in vitro fertilization.  The chance of delivering a live baby over the first five
cycles reaches 40 percent for women of all ages and about
50 percent for women younger than 35, a  study  by the University
of New South Wales’s National Perinatal Epidemiology and
Statistics Unit found. The probability of a live delivery was
negligible beyond five cycles, or rounds of drug-treatment used
to achieve an IVF pregnancy.  The findings may help identify the point at which costly
assisted reproductive technologies is no longer feasible.  U.S.
couples  spend an average of $12,400 on each cycle of IVF
treatment and cycles may need to be repeated to be successful,
according to the American Society for Reproductive Medicine.  The Australian study, based on data pooled from 35
fertility centers from Australia and New Zealand, found that
women 40 years or older represented the fastest-growing group
undergoing IVF -- or a quarter of patients in 2011. The average
age of women undergoing IVF using non-donated gametes was 35.9
years in 2011.  In IVF, eggs that are surgically removed from the ovary are
fertilized outside the body, such as in a Petri dish, with
sperm. They are examined 40 hours later for signs of
fertilization. Embryos are later transferred directly into the
uterus or frozen for later use.  The U.K.’s National Institute of Clinical Excellence
recommends that as many as three IVF cycles should be offered to
eligible couples if the woman is 23 to 39 years, and one cycle
should be offered if the woman is 40 to 42 years, provided she
has never previously had IVF and has enough eggs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  