-- J&J Adds Warning to Tylenol Caps on Acetaminophen Risk
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-08-29T20:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/j-j-adds-warning-to-tylenol-caps-on-acetaminophen-risk.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)   said it will add
a red warning to caps of Tylenol to reinforce the risks of
taking too much of the painkiller.  The alert will appear on the caps of Extra Strength Tylenol
beginning in October,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J said
today in an e-mail. The message will reinforce existing warnings
that the over-the-counter pill contains the ingredient
acetaminophen, which has been linked to fatal liver failure.
Tylenol bottles already alert consumers to the liver risk.  Acetaminophen overdose is the most-common cause of liver
failure in the U.S. The ingredient is found in more than 600
medicines, including  generic non-prescription pain relievers
and stronger combination products that require a doctor’s order,
such as Vicodin. The  Food and Drug Administration  is reviewing
appropriate acetaminophen levels for over-the-counter products,
Andrea Fischer, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mail.  The FDA cut the amount of acetaminophen that prescription
products could contain to 325 milligrams per pill two years ago
and said recently it would require warnings on prescription
products with the ingredient about rare serious skin reactions.  Extra Strength Tylenol tablets contain  500 milligrams  of
the ingredient, according to the website for the product. The
new warning on Tylenol caps, first reported by the  Associated
Press , will read: “Contains Acetaminophen” and “Always Read
the Label.”  J&J is the world’s largest maker of health-care products.
Its sales of over-the-counter drugs, including Tylenol, and
nutritional products accounted for about 6.5 percent of the
company’s $67 billion in  sales  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  