-- James Blake’s Tennis Career Ends With Five-Set U.S. Open Loss
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-29T06:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/james-blake-s-tennis-career-ends-with-five-set-u-s-open-loss.html
James Blake  said he’ll focus on the
positives from his 14-year professional tennis career rather
than the U.S. Open loss that sent him into retirement.  Blake, 33, blew a two-set lead against Ivo Karlovic of
 Croatia  in a first-round match that ended early this morning at
the National Tennis Center in  New York . He lost the decisive
fifth set in a tiebreaker 7-2.  “It was pretty much in my hands at times and I felt like I
gave them away,” Blake told reporters. “That’s frustrating,
but it’s one match. I lost 200 something over my career. It’s
not a fun way to do it, but only one guy is holding the trophy
at the end of this two weeks.”  Blake said earlier this week that he’d retire after the
 U.S. Open , ending a career that included 10 singles titles and a
career-high ranking of No. 4 on the ATP World Tour. He leaves
with a 366-256 singles record and amassed $7.9 million in
combined singles and doubles earnings.  He said he’d miss playing in front of big crowds.  “I’m never going to have 15,000, 20,000 people cheering
for me, chanting U-S-A, screaming my name,” said Blake, who
entered the U.S. Open ranked 100th. “I’m lucky enough to have
had that for 14 years. I try to look at the positives. Most
people in the world will never be able to relate to that.”  Born in Yonkers, New York, and a resident of Westport,
 Connecticut , Blake studied economics at  Harvard University 
before becoming a professional tennis player.  Injury-Marred Career  Blake overcame several injuries during his career,
including when he suffered a broken bone in his neck while
practicing for a 2004 clay-court tournament in  Rome . His father
also died that year, leading to a case of shingles that left
half of Blake’s face temporarily paralyzed. Blake said he almost
retired in each of those cases.  He came back to reach the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open in
2005 and 2006, and got to the last eight at the 2008 Australian
Open, his deepest advances in 42 Grand Slam tournament
appearances. Blake said earlier this week he considered retiring
in April 2012 after struggling to recover from knee surgery and
a shoulder injury, but wanted to do it on his own terms.  “I’m lucky enough to have done what I’ve done in my career
to give me some security and flexibility with what I want to do
with the rest of my life,” Blake said.  Saying Goodbye  After his three hour, 24-minute loss to Karlovic, Blake
thanked the fans at Louis Armstrong Stadium who stayed until
after midnight. He won the first two sets before losing three in
a row.  “The fact that he was up two sets and lost, that’s
probably one of the reasons he’s stepping away,” said 18-time
Grand Slam singles champion  Chris Evert , now an analyst for
ESPN. “It wasn’t there when he called up on it. That’s when you
know it’s time to say goodbye to the game.”  Blake said his immediate retirement plans are limited,
mostly revolving around his 1-year-old daughter and improving
his golf game.  “I’ll go back to being a normal person that doesn’t have
people cheering for him,” Blake said. “Just changing diapers
and hoping to get 18 holes in on a given day. That’s OK with
me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  