-- King & Spalding, Winston & Strawn: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/king-spalding-winston-strawn-business-of-law.html
Emory University  will pay $1.5
million to settle federal civil charges that it violated the
False Claims Act through clinical trial billing practices at its
Winship Cancer Institute.  Yesterday’s agreement settles U.S. Justice Department
allegations that the institute billed Medicare and Medicaid for
services the clinical trial sponsor agreed to pay, according to
a statement from the U.S. Attorney’s office in Atlanta. The
government claimed that in some instances the trial sponsor had
paid the cancer institute as well, resulting in double payment
to Emory.  Richard Shackelford, Phyllis Sumner and Michael Paulhus of
King & Spalding LLP represented Emory. Shackelford declined to
comment on the settlement.  The university acknowledged billing errors over a 10-year
period, but said in a statement that the settlement is “in no
way an agreement or admission that the university has any
liability under the False Claims Act.”  Emory spokeswoman Nancy Seideman said in a telephone
interview that “the quality of care and the research conducted
was never in question. This is about a complicated billing
process.”  The settlement doesn’t include what’s known as a corporate
integrity agreement, under which long-term monitoring of the
process is required, Seideman said.  The action was brought under the whistle-blower provisions
of the False Claims Act. That law permits the individual
bringing the action to share in the recovery. The amount the
whistle-blower will receive wasn’t disclosed.  T. Reed Stephens, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery LLP
who specializes in health care and life sciences, said that
settlement was on the low end. Stephens, who worked in the
civil fraud section of the Civil Division of the Justice
Department prosecuting these types of cases, explained that the
government usually likes to settle for at least double the
amount of damages. The Emory settlement could be double what
the government claims it lost.  The “cost of defense could have played a significant role
in the university’s decision to resolve it,” he said. “If it’s
a lengthy investigation, the legal costs can be in the millions
of dollars.”  “But for the whistle-blower, the government probably
wouldn’t have known about it,” Stephens said.  Legal Fees  U.S. Banks’ Legal Tab Tops $100 Billion Amid Crisis Cleanup  The six biggest U.S. banks, led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp. , have piled up $103 billion in legal costs
since the financial crisis, more than all dividends paid to
shareholders in the past five years.  That’s the amount allotted to lawyers and litigation, as
well as for settling claims about shoddy mortgages and
 foreclosures , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sum,
equivalent to spending $51 million a day, is enough to erase
everything the banks earned for 2012.  The mounting bills have vexed bankers who are counting on
expense cuts to make up for slow revenue growth and make room
for higher payouts. About 40 percent of the legal and litigation
outlays arose since January 2012, and banks are warning the
tally may surge as regulators, prosecutors and investors press
new claims. The prospect is clouding outlooks for  stock prices ,
and by some estimates the damage could last another decade.  JPMorgan and Bank of America bore about 75 percent of the
total costs, according to the figures compiled from company
reports. JPMorgan devoted $21.3 billion to legal fees and
litigation since the start of 2008, more than any other lender,
and added $8.1 billion to reserves for mortgage buybacks,
filings show.  Five years after the financial crisis shook global markets,
banks are facing accusations that they misled buyers of
mortgage-backed securities, rigged interest rates used to price
loans worldwide and manipulated markets for credit derivatives
and commodities.  The data were compiled from quarterly reports to the
Federal Reserve, the SEC and investors covering January 2008
through June 2013. The reports from Bank of America, JPMorgan,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  included Y-9C forms that bank holding companies
with more than $500 million of assets must file with the Fed.
The forms disclose specific costs, such as legal fees, that
exceed 3 percent of total non-interest expenses.  Some of the banks distinguished between litigation costs
and legal fees, which could include routine expenses of running
a business, such as drawing up contracts, rather than lawsuits.
Still, most outlays at JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citigroup
were tied specifically to litigation, the filings show.  Spokesmen for the six banks declined to comment about their
legal costs.  The totals would be billions of dollars higher if U.S.
cases involving the biggest European banks were counted. HSBC
Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest lender, agreed last year to pay
$1.92 billion to settle U.S. money-laundering probes. UBS AG,
the largest lender in Switzerland, said in July it would pay
$885 million to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on claims that it
improperly sold them mortgage-backed securities.  Barclays Plc, UBS and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  were
fined a combined $2.5 billion to settle allegations by
regulators in the U.S. and elsewhere that that they helped rig
the benchmark London interbank offered rate.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  Credit Union Agency Wins Appeals Court Ruling on Big Bank Suits  The National Credit Union Administration won an appeals
court ruling letting it pursue claims against big banks for
allegedly making misleading statements to market mortgage-backed
securities.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Denver unanimously affirmed a
lower-court ruling that the NCUA can rely on an “extender
statute” giving it more time to file the lawsuits lenders said
were filed too late.  That “serves the statute’s purpose by providing NCUA
sufficient time to investigate and file all potential claims
once it assumes control of a failed credit union,” the three-judge panel said.  The ruling on Tuesday resolves an appeal by RBS Securities
Inc. that prompted a Kansas City, Kansas, trial court judge this
year to halt most progress on several related cases until the
issue was decided.  NCUA has filed similar lawsuits against units of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other banks. RBS
Securities is a unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for RBS Securities, declined to
comment on the ruling.  “We’re pleased with the court’s decision,” NCUA Board
Chairwoman Debbie Matz said in a statement. “We will continue
to pursue our claims against firms that sold faulty mortgage-backed securities to corporate credit unions.”  The Alexandria, Virginia-based agency has reached $335
million in settlements with  Bank of America Corp. , Citigroup
Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Plc, according to the statement.  The case is National Credit Union Administration Board v.
Nomura Home Equity Loan Inc., 12-3295 and 12-3298, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 10th Circuit (Denver).  Law Firm News  Winston & Strawn to Open Office in Silicon Valley in September  Winston & Strawn LLP will open an office in Palo Alto,
 California , next month. The new office is the seventeenth
worldwide, the firm said in a statement and reflects its efforts
to expand its intellectual property litigation practice.  More than 200 attorneys practice in multiple areas of IP-related law at Winston & Strawn, including more than 20 partners
who have first-chaired IP trials in various courts throughout
the U.S. and in Europe.  “This new office will be an important anchor in serving
our growing number of local Valley clients,” Thomas Fitzgerald,
the managing partner of the firm, said in the statement.  The office will be led by partner David Enzminger.  Interviews  Omnicom’s Lawyer: Inside the Publicis-Omnicom Merger: Video  Mark Gerstein, global chairman of the mergers &
acquisitions practice at Latham & Watkins LLP, spoke with
Bloomberg Law about his representation of Omnicom Group Inc. in
its merger with Publicis Groupe SA, a combination that will
create the world’s biggest advertising company.  Gerstein, in this “Rainmakers” episode, also explains the
unique challenges of this “merger of equals.”  To see the interview, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 