-- KPN Foundation Moves to Impede America Movil Takeover
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-30T02:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/kpn-foundation-moves-to-impede-america-movil-takeover.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s independent
foundation moved to impede America Movil SAB from what it
described as a hostile takeover of the Dutch phone carrier,
saying it seeks a more ordered process.  The group said yesterday it exercised an option to acquire
preferred KPN shares, giving it almost 50 percent of issued and
voting stock, almost enough to entirely block America Movil’s
offer for majority control.  The foundation said it will only hold the shares
temporarily, leaving the door open for America Movil to address
its concerns. The Latin American wireless company, controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , is offering 2.40 euros a share to boost
its stake of about 30 percent in KPN to more than 50 percent.  “We want clarity and structure,” said Walter Samuels, a
foundation spokesman. “We need an orderly process which will
lead to a merger protocol, an offer document and just follow the
procedures.”  An America Movil press official declined to comment. Stefan Simons, a KPN spokesman, wasn’t immediately available for
comment.  America Movil is seeking control of the Dutch company as a
way to enter the European market,  expanding  beyond the Western
hemisphere. The carrier also holds a stake of about 24 percent
in  Telekom Austria AG. (TKA)   “Negotiations for AMX are getting tougher,” Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco Itau BBA in Mexico City, said
yesterday in a research note, referring to  America Movil ’s
ticker symbol. “The KPN foundation is forcing AMX to sit and
negotiate on demands that are not yet clear.”  Setting Conditions  The foundation may be aiming to firm up conditions such as
employee compensation, bonus packages and management continuity
before agreeing to let the offer proceed, said Tomassi, who has
the equivalent of a hold rating on America Movil.  Shares of America Movil fell less than 1 percent to 12.81
pesos yesterday in Mexico City, where the company is based. The
Hague-based KPN dropped less than 1 percent to 2.29 euros in
Amsterdam before the foundation’s announcement.  The foundation’s move came just after America Movil
appeared to be addressing the group’s concerns. Slim’s company
agreed this week to endorse the sale of KPN’s German unit to the
billionaire’s biggest Latin American rival,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  --
even convincing the Spanish company to sweeten its bid for the
asset. After negotiating with America Movil, Telefonica
increased the value of the bid for the KPN unit to 8.55 billion
euros from 8.1 billion euros.  Germany Commitment  America Movil committed to vote in favor of the German deal
after the foundation urged the company to make clear its
position on the transaction. Now the foundation is asking
America Movil to file documents that clarify how it calculated
its offer. It also seeks information on commitments America
Movil is making on technology, employment, strategy and
governance, it said.  “The foundation believes that America Movil has knowingly
opted for a hostile approach by not first trying to reach
agreement on a merger protocol with KPN,” the group said in a
 statement .  America Movil (AMXL)  also submitted an offer document to the
Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets without
consulting with KPN, the foundation said.  The foundation said it continues to support the German
transaction, leaving Telefonica’s deal assured.  Union Demands  Slim’s company is also contending with opposition from
KPN’s works council, which asked Dutch lawmakers to help block
the takeover. KPN’s unions want a guarantee that KPN’s strategy
will be continued and solid assurances from America Movil for
the future of KPN’s employees, according to Joost van Herpen, a
delegate for the Abvakabo union.  The foundation is in charge of defending the interests of
KPN’s shareholders, employees and customers, as well as Dutch
society. It has existed since the Dutch government first sold
shares in KPN in 1994. On its board are Chairman Jacques
Schraven, Vice Chairman Pieter Bouw, Hans Zwarts, Jan Klaassen
and Peter Wakkie.  The group’s call option allows it to obtain the KPN shares
for at least 25 percent of their nominal value, which is 0.24
euro a share, according to the foundation’s  website . The
foundation didn’t say how much it paid to acquire the 4.26
billion shares it obtained. The group has a financing
arrangement with Dutch banks to fund the share acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  