-- Naira Hits Year Low as Market Waits on Central Bank: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-08-29T13:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/naira-hits-year-low-as-market-waits-on-central-bank-lagos-mover.html
Nigeria’s naira retreated for a
third day, set for its lowest closing level in more than a year,
in the absence of central bank intervention and foreign-exchange
sales from oil companies.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest crude producer declined
0.7 percent to 163.35 per dollar as of 2:24 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, its worst level since June 2012 on a closing
basis. The naira has fallen 4.4 percent against the dollar this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Foreign exchange sales from oil companies have so far
remained benign this week” and “offshore support has certainly
dissipated given the current global environment,”  Samir Gadio ,
an emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
 London , said in e-mailed comments. “The market expected that
the Central Bank of Nigeria would intervene and sell dollars
directly to the banks, but this didn’t happen.”  Debate among Federal Reserve officials over whether to
reduce monetary stimulus has roiled financial markets since May.
Oil companies in Nigeria, which sell the U.S. currency mainly at
the end of the month to pay domestic expenses, are the second-biggest supplier of dollars after the Abuja-based central bank.
The regulator auctions foreign exchange on Mondays and
Wednesdays. It  sold  $563.5 million this week, compared with
$548.4 million in the previous five days.  The central bank occasionally sells dollars directly to
lenders on the interbank market outside of its weekly auctions.
Nigeria’s  foreign-exchange reserves  have slid 4 percent to $46.9
billion on Aug. 27 from a high this year of $48.9 billion in
May, according to central bank data.  Borrowing costs on Nigeria’s domestic bonds due January
2022 fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 13.6
percent, according to yesterday’s data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ghana ’s cedi weakened 0.2 percent to 2.155 per dollar in
Accra, the lowest on a closing basis since at least May 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  