-- Nasdaq Says Flaw Exposed in Data Flood Caused Trade Halt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n ,   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-08-29T18:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/nasdaq-says-software-flaw-exposed-in-data-flood-that-led-to-halt.html
Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. provided more
details about its three-hour trading halt last week, saying a
flood of data received from NYSE Arca exposed a software flaw in
its conduit for disseminating prices.  The deluge “vastly exceeded” the capacity of a marketwide
feed known as the securities industry processor, “which caused
its failure and then revealed a latent flaw in the SIP’s
software code,” Nasdaq said in a statement released today.  Today’s report amplifies previous public statements by
Nasdaq about what led it to freeze trading in about 3,300 stocks
both on its own platform and others where equities change hands
in America. The disruption underscored how quickly the integrity
of the U.S. market, which has a value of about $20 trillion, can
be subverted as orders to buy and sell shares are matched on
more than 50 exchanges and alternative electronic venues.  “Any piece of software, even if it’s run for 100 percent
for 10 years, there’s still flaws in it,” Nasdaq CEO  Robert Greifeld  said in an interview with Bloomberg News. “Whatever
you have, it’s a question of what unique set of circumstances
happen to reveal that.”  Several of the issues that led to the halt were within
Nasdaq’s control, the New York-based exchange operator said in
the report.  ‘Regret Them’  “We are responsible for them, regret them, and intend to
take all steps necessary to address them to enhance stability
and functionality of the markets,” the report said.  It said, “Other issues contributing to the halt are more
endemic to technology issues across today’s complex markets and
will require a broader industry-wide effort to resolve.”  The malfunction began when NYSE Arca sent more than 20
“connect and disconnect sequences” as well as a stream of
quotes for inaccurate stock symbols, according to Nasdaq’s
summary. At one point, Nasdaq received over 2 1/2 times more
data per second than the system’s tested capacity.  After being inundated with orders, the flaw in the SIP
software prevented redundancy that is built into the system from
“failing over cleanly” to a backup program, it said.  “That failover, that is our responsibility and our system
did not handle that well,” Greifeld told  Bloomberg News .  ‘Public Interest’  The report said a “combination of large system inputs and
delayed outputs ultimately degraded the ability of the SIP
system to process quotes to an extent that a shutdown of the
system was in the broader public interest, to prevent
information asymmetry and ensure fair conditions for all market
participants.”  The shutdown was the latest in a series of failures to
disrupt markets, prompting the Securities and Exchange
Commission to push for rules requiring executives to boost the
reliability of their technology. Faulty software caused Nasdaq’s
mishandling of Facebook Inc.’s public debut last year.  In a separate message sent to clients today, Nasdaq said
that it’s developing plans to better communicate with companies
listed on its exchange and identify systems that need
improvement after last week’s technical malfunction.  Forensic Analysis  Nasdaq will be working with regulators, members of the
exchange and partners to conduct a “thorough forensic analysis
on what happened” and identify areas for improvement, the
market operator told customers today. The message was sent by
Bruce Aust, executive vice president of Nasdaq’s global
corporate client group, and Robert McCooey, senior vice
president of the global corporate client group, and obtained by
Bloomberg News.  “It is clear that these systems could be more robust in
their support of markets given the complex ecosystem in which we
operate,” the client letter said. “We are reviewing additional
enhancements and potential design changes to further strengthen
the SIP resiliency,” it said, referring to the securities
industry processor, which runs the data feed of stock prices
that are sent to other exchanges and trading firms.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Baker in  New York  at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  