-- Nasdaq Plans to Analyze Systems After Trading Outage
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-08-29T16:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/nasdaq-plans-better-communication-systems-analysis.html
Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. is developing
plans to better communicate with companies listed on its
exchange and identify systems that need improvement after a
technical malfunction halted trading last week, according to a
letter sent to clients.  Nasdaq will be working with regulators, members of the
exchange and partners to conduct a “thorough forensic analysis
on what happened” and identify areas for improvement, according
to the letter. It was sent by Bruce Aust, executive vice
president of Nasdaq’s global corporate client group, and Robert McCooey, senior vice president of the global corporate client
group, and obtained by Bloomberg News.  “It is clear that these systems could be more robust in
their support of markets given the complex ecosystem in which we
operate,” the letter said. “We are reviewing additional
enhancements and potential design changes to further strengthen
the SIP resiliency,” it said, referring to the securities
industry processor, which runs the data feed of stock prices
that are sent to other exchanges and trading firms.  Market Integrity  The three-hour shutdown of more than 3,300 Nasdaq-listed
stocks and closure of its options exchanges was the latest in a
series of failures to disrupt markets, prompting the Securities
and Exchange Commission to push for rules requiring executives
to boost the reliability of their technology. The disruption
underscored how quickly the integrity of the U.S. market, which
has a value of about $20 trillion, can be threatened as orders
to buy and sell shares are matched on more than 50 exchanges and
alternative electronic venues.  The cause of the outage was a disruption in the
connectivity between an exchange participant and the SIP “which
consumed and exhausted computing resources and eliminated the
ability of the SIP to disseminate consolidated quotes and
trades,” Nasdaq said in the letter.  A computer from NYSE Arca,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s all-electronic
exchange, handling Nasdaq-listed stocks was the machine that had
trouble connecting with the SIP, a person familiar with the
situation, who asked not to be identified because they were not
authorized to discuss the issue, said last week.  When market disruptions occur in the future, Nasdaq will
open conference lines with chief executive officers, chief
financial officers and other executives to update them on its
systems, according to a report attached to the letter. Every
company that lists with Nasdaq will be assigned a director on
its market intelligence desk who will provide “a critical
touch-point for daily market reports, timely trading analysis
and market information,” the report said.  Twitter Alerts  Nasdaq said it will also use Twitter and other social media
to communicate exchange-related information during unusual
events as well as post updates on its websites every 15 minutes
and send emails “promptly and at regular intervals during and
after resolution,” the report said.  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq, declined to comment
on the report.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext,
also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  