-- NFL Agrees to Pay $765 Million to Settle Concussion Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-08-29T20:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/national-football-league-to-pay-765-million-in-concussion-case.html
The  National Football League  agreed
to pay $765 million to settle thousands of lawsuits over players
concussions in a deal that provides individual awards and
medical monitoring, according to court filings.  The settlement will compensate more than 5,000 ex-players
for ailments stemming from head injuries and fund research into
concussions, U.S. District Judge Anita Brody in Philadelphia
said today in court papers. The accord, which resulted from
talks between the league and players, still needs court
approval.  “This agreement lets us help those who need it most and
continue our work to make the game safer for current and future
players,” Jeffrey Pash, a league vice president, said in an e-mailed statement.  Maximum awards would include $5 million for patients with
 Alzheimer’s disease  and $3 million for dementia, Christopher Seeger, a plaintiffs’ lawyer, said in a  statement  on the
league’s website, nfl.com.  The settlement requires players to have completed five NFL
seasons to receive full recoveries, a person familiar with the
accord said. Players with fewer years can claim discounted
recoveries, the person said, requesting anonymity because the
information wasn’t public.  ‘Very Proud’  “It’s been a struggle to get to this point, but today I am
very proud that the NFL has decided to stand up for all the
former players that are suffering from brain injuries,” Kevin Turner, 44, a former running back for the  Philadelphia Eagles 
and  New England Patriots , said at a press conference in
Philadelphia. Turner suffers from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,
ALS, or  Lou Gehrig ’s disease.  Players accused the NFL in the suits of failing to warn
them about the link between repeated traumatic head impacts and
long-term brain injuries, including early onset Alzheimer’s and
dementia. The cases were consolidated before Brody for pretrial
exchanges of information.  “This agreement will get help quickly to the men who
suffered neurological injuries,” Seeger, the players’ lawyer,
said in an e-mailed statement. “It will do so faster and at far
less cost, both financially and emotionally, than could have
ever been accomplished by continuing to litigate.”  Former NFL athletes such as Miami Dolphins receiver  Mark
Duper  and Phoenix Cardinals running back  Lyvonia “Stump”
Mitchell,  alleged in their suits that league officials knew for
more than 75 years that concussions posed long-term health risks
and didn’t warn players, coaches or trainers.  2010 Warning  It wasn’t until June 2010 that NFL officials warned that
brain injuries from concussions, which result from brain
movement within the skull after an impact, “may lead to
problems with memory and communication, personality changes, as
well as depression and the early onset of dementia,” according
to the players’ court filings.  The settlement, if approved, will end the effort by former
players to find out what the NFL knew, and when it knew it,
about the links between neurological diseases and concussions.  Lawyers for the athletes said those ailments may have
played a role in the suicide deaths of ex-Chicago Bears
defensive back Dave Duerson and former San Diego Chargers
linebacker Junior Seau.  The families of players suffering from concussion-linked
diseases who killed themselves can recover $4.5 million, the
person familiar with the settlement said.  League’s Defense  The NFL asked Brody to dismiss the cases, saying players
knew the risks of a violent game such as football. The league
also argued that because players perform under union contracts,
federal labor law covered their claims. That law favors
arbitration of employment-related claims, the attorneys said.  Brody ordered the league and players to meet with mediator
Layn Phillips, a former federal judge, to see if they could
settle the cases.  “This is a historic agreement, one that will make sure
that former NFL players who need and deserve compensation will
receive it, and that will promote safety for players at all
levels of football,” Phillips said in an e-mailed statement.  Among the payments will be $675 million to compensate
injured players and their families, $75 million for medical
exams and $10 million for research and education, according to
the retirees’ committee. Attorneys’ fees will be paid in
addition to the settlement amount.  The accord doesn’t include claims against Riddell Sports
Group, a unit of the buyout firm Fenway Partners LLC, which
makes helmets used in NFL games. It’s still involved in
mediation talks.  The case is In re National Football Players’ Concussion
Injury Litigation, 12-md-02323, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 