-- Top N.Y. Court to Decide Whether Towns Can Ban Fracking
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-29T18:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/new-york-s-highest-court-to-hear-appeals-in-fracking-case.html
New York’s highest court agreed to
decide whether towns and cities have the power to pass anti-fracking laws.  The Court of Appeals in  Albany  today said it will hear
arguments in lawsuits seeking to block drilling bans passed by
the upstate towns of Dryden and Middlefield aimed at stopping
the practice of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which
millions of gallons of chemically treated water is forced
underground to break up rock and free trapped natural gas.  An intermediate-level appellate court in Albany in May
affirmed lower-court rulings upholding the bans opposed by some
property owners seeking to lease their mineral rights.  “We are hopeful that the Court of Appeals will protect the
rights of landowners and allow New York to realize the
environmental and economic benefits of natural gas while
allowing our nation to maintain its course towards energy
independence,” Scott Kurkoski, an attorney for a Middlefield
dairy farm owner who sued to block that town’s ban, said in a
statement.  Much of central and western  New York  sit atop the gas-rich
Marcellus Shale formation, which holds reserves of more than
141 trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to meet consumption
across the entire U.S. for almost six years, according to the
U.S. Energy Information Administration. New York officials have
sought to balance prospects for the booming economic development
seen in Ohio and  Pennsylvania  against environmentalists’
warnings that fracking may damage water supplies and make
farmland unusable.  Town Bans  Fracking already is banned in more than 50 New York towns,
while dozens more have moratoriums in place or are considering
bans, according to Karen Edelstein, a geographic information-systems consultant in Ithaca.  New York banned fracking in July 2008 so it could draw up
new regulations for the drilling process. In February, Governor
 Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, abandoned the rule-making process. He
said he would make his determination based on the conclusions of
state Health Commissioner Nirav Shah, who has been studying
fracking’s effect on health. Shah said then he would be done
within weeks, though his study has dragged on for months as he’s
visited state regulators in Texas, Illinois and  California .  The Middlefield dairy farm, which signed two oil and gas
leases in 2007 with Elexco Land Services Inc. to explore and
develop natural-gas resources under the property, said in a
September 2011 lawsuit that Middlefield, a town of about 2,000
people 50 miles (80 kilometers) west of Albany, had no authority
to enact a ban because the activity is governed by state law.  Anschutz Lawsuit  Anschutz Exploration Corp., a Denver-based affiliate of
billionaire  Philip Anschutz ’s closely held company, sued Dryden,
a town of 14,000 people about 75 miles west of Middlefield, the
same month.  A judge in Cortland upheld Dryden’s ban in February 2012. A
judge in Wampsville ruled the same month that Middlefield’s was
also legal. The cases were consolidated for appeal. Norse
Energy, a Lysaker, Norway-based explorer whose U.S. unit filed
for  bankruptcy protection  in December, replaced Anschutz
Exploration in the Dryden appeal.  “We are confident that the Court of Appeals will affirm,
as two other courts have before it, that our town has the right,
enshrined in our state constitution and upheld by the courts, to
decide how land is used within our town borders,” Dryden Town
Supervisor Mary Ann Sumner said in a statement. “Still, the oil
and gas industry is dissatisfied and stubbornly insists on
dragging out this court case. Clearly, they’re not used to not
getting their way.”  Just a week before the appeals court in Albany heard the
arguments, Justice Robert B. Wiggins in Livingston County upheld
a ban in Avon, a town and village of about 11,000 people
19 miles southwest of Rochester.  Full Review  A federal judge in  Brooklyn  in September threw out a
lawsuit by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman seeking a
full environmental review of hydraulic fracturing. The judge
granted a motion by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to
dismiss the case, finding that the development plans are in the
early stages and the threat of harm is speculative.  Schneiderman sued the  Delaware  River Basin Commission, the
EPA and other federal agencies in May 2011 to force a fuller
assessment of the environmental effects of gas development on
the state’s water supply.  The commission was created in 1961 by a pact among New
York, Delaware,  New Jersey , Pennsylvania and the federal
government. It is responsible for water quality in the Delaware
River Basin, which supplies drinking water to the four states.  18,000 Wells  Schneiderman said in the lawsuit that the commission’s
proposed regulations would allow fracking at 15,000 to 18,000
gas wells without a full environmental review. If the
regulations are issued, New York’s moratorium will be lifted.  Kurkoski said he expects a decision from the Court of
Appeals within six months. His client, dairy farm owner Jennifer
Huntington, said in a statement that she hopes that the court
will reverse the earlier rulings.  “This case has been about protecting property rights from
unreasonable interference at the municipal level,” Huntington
said.  The cases are Anschutz Exploration Corp. v. Dryden,
902/2011, New York Civil Supreme Court, Tompkins County
(Ithaca); and Cooperstown Holstein Corp. v. Town of Middlefield,
1700930/2011, New York Civil Supreme Court, Otsego County
(Cooperstown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  