-- Nissan Joins Tesla Selling California Green-Car Credits
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-08-29T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/nissan-joins-tesla-selling-california-green-car-credits.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the most prolific
electric-car maker, has begun selling green-car credits under
 California ’s clean-air rules. The only automaker that had
previously disclosed doing so is  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)   California requires large automakers to sell electric or
other zero-emission vehicles in proportion to their share of the
largest U.S. state market for cars and trucks. Nissan has
delivered enough of its all-electric Leaf hatchbacks that it has
started selling excess credits, Executive Vice President  Andy Palmer  told reporters in Irvine, California, this week.  “We’ve got carbon credits to sell, and we’re selling them
-- California ZEV credits,” Palmer said. He didn’t elaborate,
and the Yokohama, Japan-based company declined to provide
details about timing, price or purchasers.  U.S. demand for plug-in hybrid and battery-only autos has
been pushed by California’s requirement for such vehicles to
ease emissions of climate-warming carbon dioxide and other
exhaust gases and by federal rules aimed at doubling fuel-efficiency by 2025. The state’s  target  is to get 1.5 million
zero-emission vehicles on the road by 2025.  Tesla, too small to be required to accrue the ZEV credits
under California’s pollution rules, has so far been the main
seller. Its first net income was made possible in part by such
transactions to undisclosed mass-market rivals. In the first
half the  Palo Alto , California-based company got $119 million,
or 12 percent of its revenue, from ZEV credit sales.  Including sales of credits for exceeding federal efficiency
requirements, such transactions accounted for 16 percent of
Tesla’s total revenue.  Credit Counts  “As far as pure electric sales volumes go, it’s really
only a two-horse race at this point,” between Tesla’s Model S
and Nissan’s Leaf, said Ed Kim, an analyst at researcher
AutoPacific Inc. “As with Tesla, this isn’t revenue they can
count on for a long time, but they can take advantage of it
while it is there.”  Tesla’s Model S, priced from $70,000 to more than $100,000,
generates as many as seven ZEV credits, the maximum issued by
California, because of its range of as much as 300 miles (483
kilometers) per charge and ability to be rapidly “refueled” by
swapping its battery pack with a charged one.  Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  said the company will
open its first such facilities by year-end. Musk has also said
its ZEV credit sales will drop in the third and fourth quarters.  Each Leaf sold in the main U.S. electric-car markets,
including other states that participate in the California
program, earns  three credits  from the state’s Air Resources
Board, which manages it.  Regulators don’t set prices for ZEV credits and the sales
are negotiated directly between companies, said Dave Clegern, a
spokesman for the Sacramento-based agency.  Leaf Sales  Nissan declined to elaborate on its credit sales.  “While Nissan has been approached by other automakers
regarding emission-credit transactions, these discussions and
the outcome of any transactions is held in strict confidence by
all involved parties,” said David Reuter, a spokesman for the
carmaker.  Nissan has sold 75,000 Leafs globally since late 2010, and
California is among the car’s biggest markets, Palmer said. The
Leaf, priced from about $30,000, travels as far as 100 miles per
charge. CEO  Carlos Ghosn  has said electric vehicles will account
for as much as 10 percent of the global market by 2020.  Buyers of the Leaf or Model S receive $7,500 in U.S. tax
credits -- separate from the credits traded among the companies
-- and clean-vehicle rebates of $2,500 in California.  Sales Surge  Nissan sold 11,703 Leafs in the U.S. this year through
July, more than triple a year earlier, and should deliver 20,000
or more for all of 2013, Jose Munoz, the carmaker’s head of
sales for the Americas, said in an interview this week. That
would be more than double the 9,819 it sold in all of last year.  “In the first six months of this year we’ve sold as many
as we sold last year,” Munoz said in  Irvine . “Some months from
now, I’d like to sit down with you and confirm that we didn’t do
20,000 but significantly more,” he said, without elaborating.  Supply of the car, now built for the U.S. at Nissan’s
Smyrna,  Tennessee , plant after being imported from  Japan , is set
to expand, Munoz said.  “To be honest, we have been limited by our production
constraints,” he said. “Recently we have agreed to increase
production this year so that we can increase our sales.”  American depositary receipts for Nissan, which has North
American operations based in Franklin, Tennessee, fell 1.3
percent to $20.06 at the close in  New York  yesterday. Tesla,
with market value that surged to $20 billion this week, slipped
0.2 percent to $166.06.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  