-- No Celebrating Rousseff’s Fastest Growth as Brazilian Real Melts
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-08-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/no-celebrating-rousseff-s-fastest-growth-as-brazilian-real-melts.html
Brazil’s economy probably expanded
at the fastest pace in President Dilma Rousseff’s tenure in the
second quarter, a clip analysts forecast is unsustainable as the
central bank raises  interest rates  and the currency plunges.  Gross domestic product probably expanded 0.9 percent from
April to June, an annualized rate of 3.6 percent and the most
since 2010, according to the median  estimate  of 42 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Yet above-target inflation and falling
 consumer confidence  helped prompt economists to cut their 2013
growth forecast to 2.2 percent, down from 3.3 percent in
January, according to a weekly central bank survey.  The national statistics institute will publish its second-quarter GDP report at 9 a.m. tomorrow in Rio de Janeiro.  “Toward the end of the year they will be in real dire
straights, because the economy is slowing,” Paulo Vieira da Cunha, a former central bank director, said by phone from  New
York . “There’s no easy fix.”  Seeking to prevent an economic slowdown and a resurgence of
inflation ahead of the 2014 elections, Rousseff’s government has
subsidized lending for everything from capital goods to
televisions, given tax breaks to industry and defended the
currency after the biggest decline among major  emerging markets .
 Borrowing costs , which were at a record low in April, are rising
at the fastest pace among major economies as the central bank
labors to stem inflation.  The government’s efforts won’t be enough, according to Ilan Goldfajn, chief economist of Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Latin
America’s largest bank by market value. He forecasts zero
economic growth in the third quarter, no more than 0.5 percent
in the fourth quarter and a 2.1 percent expansion for 2013.  Higher Rates  “There was a recovery, but unfortunately it doesn’t look
like it’s going to continue,” he said in an interview in Rio.  Bucking a trend toward holding or cutting benchmark rates
in emerging markets from  Hungary  to  Thailand , Brazil’s central
bank yesterday increased the Selic rate by half a percentage
point for a third straight meeting to 9 percent.  Annual inflation has remained above the midpoint of the 2.5
percent to 6.5 percent target range since central bank President
Alexandre Tombini took office in January 2011, reaching a  20-month high  of 6.7 percent in June.  Seasonally-adjusted retail sales rose 0.5 percent in the
second quarter after falling 0.1 percent in the first quarter.
Industrial production rose 1.1 percent from 0.9 percent over the
same period.  With the real falling about 15 percent against the dollar
since April, Rousseff’s government said industry will get a
boost from the weaker real while simultaneously announcing a $60
billion intervention to support the currency.  ‘Competitive Again’  “It’s wonderful that the dollar is reaching the point that
it needs to,” Fernando Pimentel, minister of development,
industry and trade, said Aug. 20. “Brazil is becoming
competitive again, our industry is becoming competitive again.”  Every 10 percent fall in the  exchange rate  equates to a
0.75 percent point acceleration in inflation, Goldfajn said.  A weaker currency “will end up helping industry, but it’s
not going to be immediate,” he said. “Business confidence is
actually going to drop more.”  Tony Volpon , head of emerging market research for the
Americas at Nomura Holdings Inc., said the benefits of a cheaper
currency won’t be seen until 2014 or 2015 since it takes
industry time to substitute costlier imports with domestic
production and to regain export markets. He forecasts the
economy will shrink as much as 1.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, with growth of 1.6 percent for the year.  Industrial Stocks  The MSCI index of Brazilian industrial stocks, which
include airplane maker  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , highway manager  CCR SA (CCRO3) , and
industrial machinery manufacturer  WEG SA (WEGE3) , fell 12.3 percent in
the second quarter after rising 8 percent in the first quarter.  The real weakened 0.35 percent 2.3534 at 11:46 a.m. in  Sao
Paulo . The country’s dollar bonds have lost 13.3 percent this
year, more than the 10 percent average for emerging markets,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  A key factor both for Brazil’s economy and the exchange
rate is commodity prices, which are largely determined by
Chinese demand, according to former central bank President
 Carlos Langoni , who said he expects the currency to stabilize at
between 2-2.2 per dollar. Chinese trade rebounded more than
expected by economists last month while manufacturing, fueled by
domestic demand, resumed its expansion this month after
shrinking the most in almost a year in July.  ‘Better the Mood’  “I think pessimism with regard to Brazil is exaggerated,
primarily if there’s no disaster in  China ,” Langoni said.  Pending infrastructure concessions are one tool that could
help “better the mood” in Latin America’s biggest economy,
Volpon said.  With private banks restricting credit in the first half of
2013, public banks stepped up their efforts, disbursing at six
times the rate of their private counterparts. Brazil’s
development bank BNDES lent a record 88 billion reais ($38
billion) over that period, with about two-thirds going to
infrastructure and industry. That will continue as lending
balloons to as much as 190 billion reais this year, BNDES
president  Luciano Coutinho  said Aug. 14.  The government plans three electricity auctions this year
to draw 100 billion reais in investments and will also auction
rights to the Libra offshore oilfield in October. With Brazil
hosting the 2014 World Cup soccer tournament and 2016  Olympic
Games , the government will also seek bids on infrastructure
concessions worth $46 billion for railways, $27 billion for
ports, $26 billion for highways, $18 billion for a bullet train
and $4 billion for airports starting next month.  Negative Outlook  Standard & Poor’s  put Brazil’s BBB credit rating on
negative outlook in June, citing weakening fiscal fundamentals,
and Barclays Plc. said on Aug. 16 that its base-case scenario is
a downgrade in the first quarter of 2014. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  announced spending cuts of 10 billion reais on July 22
in order to meet a primary surplus target of 2.3 percent of GDP.  Rousseff, 65, will hold fast to her economic model through
the elections in October next year before being forced to make
adjustments in 2015, former central bank director Vieira da
Cunha said. Armando Castelar, coordinator of applied economic
research at the Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IBRE institute,
expects the current account deficit to climb to 4 percent of GDP
next year from about 3.4 percent in July.  “There’s no lack of concerns for this administration at
this point,” Italo Lombardi, an economist at  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN) , said by phone from New York. “Everybody is so much more
skeptical. Everything is a concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  