-- Noble Wins Court Order to Liquidate Ebullio Master Fund
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-08-29T07:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/noble-wins-court-order-to-liquidate-ebullio-master-fund.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  won a court order
appointing liquidators for Ebullio Commodity Master Fund LP,
which Asia’s largest raw-materials trader said had failed to pay
it about $4.9 million for contract breaches.  Judge Andrew Jones of the  Cayman Islands  Grand Court
accepted Noble’s petition and appointed Matthew Wright of RHSW
(Cayman) Ltd. and Finbarr O’Connell of Smith & Williamson LLP as
liquidators of the hedge fund, according to an Aug. 23 order.  Ebullio Capital Management LLP, which manages the $5
million fund, doesn’t comment on continuing litigation and its
other funds aren’t affected “in any size, shape or form,”
founder and executive managing partner Lars Steffensen said in
interviews this week. Ebullio’s other operations have assets of
about $250 million, he said.  A Noble unit sued Ebullio Commodity Master Fund on April
30, claiming it was insolvent after failing to pay damages when
it breached two copper contracts. The hedge fund had said it had
an oral agreement to roll over the contracts and filed for
arbitration against Noble, saying they shouldn’t have been
terminated, according to a May 24 ruling.  Stephen Brown , a Noble spokesman, declined to comment.  Noble Group, listed in  Singapore , posted its third straight
drop in quarterly profit in the three months ended June 30,
dragged down by a loss at its agricultural business. Net income
fell 68 percent to $62.8 million from $194.8 million a year
earlier, it said. Sales rose 5 percent to $25.3 billion.  Ebullio Capital Management, based in Southend-on-Sea, east
of  London , has 25 employees, according to its  website . Profit
totaled 682,091 pounds ($1.1 million) in the year ended Sept.
30, 2012, compared with a loss of 880,886 pounds a year earlier,
according to a filing with  Companies House .  The case is In re Noble Resources International Pte Ltd and
Ebullio Commodity Master Fund L.P., FSD No.56 of 2013 (AJJ)
Grand Court of the Cayman Islands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  