-- North and South Korea Move Closer to Reopening Gaeseong Complex
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-08-29T02:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/north-and-south-korea-move-closer-to-reopening-gaeseong-complex.html
North and South Korea moved closer
to reopening their jointly operated industrial park after
reaching an agreement to from a joint committee to oversee the
process.  Gaeseong was shuttered in April when North Korea withdrew
its 53,000 workers amid tension with the South. After weeks of
talks, the sides reached an agreement on Aug. 14 on reopening
the site and forming a committee responsible for the complex.  The committee will convene its first meeting on Sept. 2 at
the site and set up subcommittees to deal with more specific
issues, according to a report today from the North’s state-controlled Korean Central News Agency. Gaeseong provides cheap
labor for South Korean manufacturers there and is a source of
hard currency for Kim Jong Un’s regime in the North.  “There doesn’t seem to be a particular obstacle ahead for
Gaeseong, because the sides agreed to reopen it regardless of
political circumstances,” Yoo Ho Yeol, a professor of North
Korean studies at Korea University in the South, said by phone.  North and South Korea agreed earlier this month to resume
reunions of families separated by the 1950-53 Korean War. The
sides are negotiating when they should hold talks on restarting
South Korean tours to an eastern North Korean mountain resort.
The tours stopped in 2008 when a North Korean guard shot and
killed a South Korean visitor.  Tomorrow, a U.S. envoy on North Korean human rights will
travel to Pyongyang at the invitation of the North to try to
secure the release of an American detained there since November,
according to the State Department. Earlier this week, a Chinese
envoy to stalled international talks on the North’s nuclear arms
programs visited Pyongyang and met with senior North Korean
officials, according to the KCNA.  “North Korea appears to have made up its mind that it will
turn to dialog for the time being,” Yoo said.  Hundreds of South Koreans, including company officials with
factories in Gaeseong, have visited the site since Aug. 17 to
prepare for the resumption of operations, according to the
Unification Ministry. No timetable has been set for when the
complex will reopen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  