-- North Korea Says U.S. Threatens Nuclear Attack With Bombers
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-08-29T07:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/north-korea-says-u-s-threatens-nuclear-attack-with-b-52-bombers.html
The U.S. is threatening a nuclear
attack against  North Korea  by flying B-52 bombers during joint
military drills with South Korea this month, the North’s
National Defense Commission said.  The B-52 bombers taking part in the Aug. 19-30 Ulchi
Freedom Guardian exercises are a “brazen” nuclear threat, the
Commission, led by dictator Kim Jong Un, said today in a
statement. U.S. Forces Korea declined to say if B-52s have
joined the drills.  “Our revolutionary forces are sharply observing every move
of the nuclear bombing squad through our cross hairs,” the NDC
said via the official Korean Central News Agency.  In March, Kim raised tension by ordering his generals to
prepare nuclear attacks on the U.S. after two B-2 bombers flew
over the Korean Peninsula during annual U.S.-South Korean
drills. B-52 bombers also joined the drills that month,
according to the Pentagon.  In a statement issued today, U.S. Forces Korea spokesman
Christopher Bush said the drill “is defense-oriented and is an
annual event.” He didn’t answer a question about whether B-52
bombers took part.  The renewal of militant rhetoric from the North’s top
ruling body contrasts with signs of a thaw in relations after
North and  South Korea  agreed Aug. 14 on reopening a jointly run
factory park shuttered in April amid heightening tension.  Gaeseong Restart  The two sides moved closer to restarting Gaeseong today
with an agreement to form a joint committee to oversee the
process.  A U.S. envoy plans to travel to Pyongyang tomorrow at the
invitation of the North in an effort to bring back an American
detained there since November, the State Department said. A
Chinese nuclear envoy visited the North and met with a senior
North Korean official earlier this week, according to KCNA.  In February, the North conducted its third nuclear test in
what it called a deterrent act against U.S. hostility, prompting
the  United Nations  to tighten its sanctions against the country.  North Korea “has recklessly tested missiles and nuclear
devices,” U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said at a security
forum in Brunei, according to prepared remarks. “They need to
rejoin the international community by meeting their obligations
under UN resolutions. Until then, the  United States  will
continue to work with our allies to deter North Korean
aggression.”  About 28,500 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea as a
deterrent against North Korea, a legacy of the 1950-53  Korean
War  that ended in a truce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  