-- Obama Bypasses Congress With Gun Control on Felons
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-08-29T14:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/obama-bypasses-congress-with-gun-control-on-felons.html
President  Barack Obama  used his
executive powers today to tighten gun control laws, banning the
re-import of weapons sold abroad and changing a rule that
allowed felons to evade background checks and buy machine guns.  Obama bypassed Congress on these two actions. The Senate in
April voted against Obama-backed legislation expanding firearms
background checks to all commercial gun sales.  “Even as Congress fails to act on common-sense proposals,
like expanding criminal background checks and making gun
trafficking a federal crime, the president and vice president
remain committed to using all the tools in their power,” the
White House said in a statement.  Invoking executive action, Obama revised a rule that the
administration said let felons and domestic abusers obtain
machine guns and short-barreled shotguns.  Felons and abusers could evade the law by registering such
weapons to trusts or corporations, which don’t have to undergo a
fingerprint-based background check. The Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms said more than 39,000 requests had been
filed last year for transfers of these restricted arms to trusts
or corporations.  The new regulation today will require people associated
with trusts or corporations to face background checks, just as
individuals do, the White House statement said.  The second action bans the re-import of military firearms.
Under current law, U.S. sales of military weapons to overseas
buyers can’t be re-imported, unless the government approves.
Since 2005, the government approved 250,000 requests to do so.  Now, the administration is imposing a rule requiring such
requests to be denied, except in certain cases, such as
displaying a weapon in a museum.  Today’s new rules augment the 23 executive actions
recommended Jan. 16 by Vice President  Joe Biden  after the Dec.
14 shootings at an elementary school in Newtown,  Connecticut ,
that killed 20 children and six school employees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  