-- OGX Says Petronas Has No Right to Delay Brazil Deal Over Debt
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-08-29T02:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/ogx-says-petronas-has-no-right-to-delay-brazil-deal-over-debt.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
founded by  Eike Batista , said Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd.
has no right to delay buying stakes in two Brazilian oil blocks
for $850 million on debt restructuring grounds.  “The company understands that Petronas doesn’t have any
right to delay closing the deal with OGX as long as the
conditions established in the contract are met, none of which
mentions ‘debt restructuring’,” OGX said yesterday in a
regulatory filing after markets closed. Shamsul Azhar Abbas,
chief executive officer of state-owned Petronas, said Aug. 26
that the deal hinges on OGX undertaking the restructuring.  Rio de Janeiro-based OGX will run out of cash in this
quarter if it doesn’t receive an initial $250 million tranche of
the Petronas payment, Deutsche Bank AG said in an Aug. 27
report. OGX this month announced that it hired Blackstone Group
LP to advise on a study of its  capital structure  as former
billionaire Batista raises cash and sells company stakes after
his fortune plummeted on missed production and profit targets.  OGX, which said in July that it may close its only
operating oil field next year, said Aug. 27 that it will return
nine exploration licenses awarded in May as it tries to cut
spending.  Under the terms of the May  deal  with Petronas, OGX offered
an additional 40 percent in the BM-C-39 and BM-C-40 blocks and
half of its 40 percent stake in the BS-4 block to Petronas as
guarantees of the deal, without disclosing publicly under which
circumstances Petronas can exercise those guarantees. Petronas
also has an option until April 2015 to acquire a 5 percent stake
in OGX at 6.3 reais per share.  While the deal with Petronas isn’t conditioned by a debt
restructuring, OGX is “seeking a solution that preserves the
interests of both companies,” it said in yesterday’s filing.  The Petronas deal still requires Brazilian regulatory
approvals. The country’s anti-trust regulator, known as Cade,
yesterday approved OGX’s December acquisition of a 40 percent
stake in the BS-4 block, which must now be approved by the oil
regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  