-- Oil Patch Follows Smartphone Makers in Patent Defenses
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-08-30T11:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/oil-patch-follows-smartphone-makers-in-patent-defenses.html
Battles for supremacy in the $680
billion oil and gas industry are moving from the hardhats and
steel-toed boots of the drilling rig to the Brooks Brothers
suits of law firms representing the biggest patent holders.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) ,
the world’s largest oil service providers, secured a total of
1,257 patents last year, more than twice the annual number of a
decade earlier. In the past three years,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
doubled its revenue from technology it licenses to others.  The impulse to patent harks to Silicon Valley as companies
stake their claims to new techniques and equipment for hydraulic
fracturing, automated drilling and computer software that helps
find and reach oil and gas deposits. As research and development
expenses rise, stronger patent defense is part of the arsenal
energy companies deploy to win or maintain market share, said
Bart Showalter, a partner at  Baker Botts  in  Dallas .  “More patents issued means more staking out territory and
exclusivity under a patent portfolio, which leads to more patent
litigation,” Showalter said. “There’s big money involved in
this.”  The world’s four largest oilfield service providers spent a
combined $21.8 billion on research and development since 1997,
according to Barclays Capital. Patent protection gives companies
exclusive rights to use or sell their technology, and to sue if
someone else copies it.  Robot Glider  Baker Hughes was  granted  368 patents last year, compared to
138 in 2002. During the same period, Schlumberger patents rose
to 588 from 235. Halliburton’s patents rose 80 percent to 301.  Among the oilfield innovations that have won protection in
the past few years: lasers to help drill wells, wired drill pipe
for high-speed data transfer, and a subsea “glider” robot that
delivers gear to the seafloor.  The patent race may lead to a swell of litigation as the
 energy industry  follows a pattern established by smartphone
manufacturers, said Dean Becker, chief executive officer of ICAP
Patent Brokerage, the world’s largest. At least a dozen lawsuits
have been filed in federal courts over the past year including
two pitting the world’s largest service companies against one
another.  “This is the beginning of a tsunami to come,” he said.
“You’ve got a big marketplace for people to figure out how to
fit in.”  Acacia Opportunity  Acacia Research Corp. (ACTG) , a patent-licensing company that made
waves in the technology world for its litigation and
consolidation of patent portfolios, is now taking aim at the
energy industry.  Acacia announced its expansion into energy earlier this
year and hired Schlumberger’s former chief patent lawyer,
 Charlotte  Rutherford. Rutherford is a 30-year veteran of the oil
patch who began her career as a research and development
engineer at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA) , today  Europe ’s largest oil
company.  Based in  Newport Beach ,  California , Acacia works with
smaller companies and inventors to buy, sell and license
patents.  “There are many patent owners out there, whether it’s the
smaller or bigger players, who don’t know how to monetize their
patents,” she said, describing Acacia’s role as that of an
orchestra conductor. “It’s up to me to figure out where the
value is, how they all come together and work together to create
lots of money.”  Expanding IP  K&L Gates LLP law firm has been hiring lawyers and
expanding its energy practice in general, with an added focus on
intellectual property, or IP, litigation.  “That’s an area that’s becoming more litigious and in the
next five to 10 years might be the next smartphone wars,” said
 Susan Jackson  in Charlotte,  North Carolina , who co-heads the IP
group at K&L. “It’s hard to know exactly how large it will be,
but it’s definitely an area that we anticipate more.”  Oil explorers and producers around the world are expected
to boost annual spending 10 percent this year to a record $678
billion, according to  Barclays Capital .  Halliburton and its competitors have continuously increased
their research and technology budgets to meet the rising demands
of the industry, said Clive Menezes, Halliburton’s vice
president and chief patent counsel.  Prudent Protection  “As a result of this investment, it is prudent for these
companies to correspondingly increase their intellectual
property spend in order to protect the new technology and
equipment that is being developed,” Menezes said in a
statement. While Halliburton has been filing patents and
protecting them since the 1920s, “the magnitude has changed.”
he said.  Halliburton was awarded more than $35 million in damages
after winning a federal trial in Dallas in February 2012 against
 Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT)  over a patented tool used in well
bores.  Schlumberger sued Baker Hughes in a federal court in
Houston in December, accusing its rival of infringing four
patents and breaking a 2009 pledge to resolve patent fights
amicably. WesternGeco, a unit of Schlumberger, was awarded
$105.9 million a year ago after a federal jury in Houston said
that Ion Geophysical Corp. infringed a patent for equipment that
provides underwater seismic data.  Schlumberger and Baker Hughes, with market values of about
$108 billion and $20.7 billion, respectively, declined to
comment about their patent strategy. David Eglinton, a spokesman
for Exxon, declined comment about defending the company’s
intellectual property, while saying “technology is ExxonMobil’s
lifeblood.”  Technology ‘Moat’  A “moat” is developing between larger companies able to
develop, patent and protect their own technology, and smaller
competitors that lack such resources, James West, an analyst at
Barclays Capital in  New York , said in a phone interview.  “It’s a very expensive game,”John Keville, a partner at
Winston & Strawn in Houston, who handles patent cases for
Schlumberger, said in a phone interview. “You’ve got a lot of
area to cover internationally, and that gets expensive in a
hurry in the patent world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  