-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Drops From Highest Price in Two Years
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-08-29T06:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/top-oil-market-news-wti-drops-from-highest-price-in-two-years.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Oil Drops From Two-Year High as U.S. Crude Stockpiles Gain  West Texas Intermediate fell from the highest settlement
since May 2011 after government data showed crude stockpiles
gained the most in four months in the U.S., the world’s largest
oil consumer.  Oil Options Show Syria Biggest Risk Since 2011: Energy Markets  For the first time in two years, options traders are paying
more to prepare for a gain in oil prices than a decline as the
threat of military action against Syria spurs concern that
Middle East exports will be disrupted.  Syria Showdown Widens Rift as U.S., U.K. Press for Action (1)  The rift between Russia and western nations over Syria
widened as the U.S. and the U.K. said they were ready to lead a
military strike against Syria without  United Nations  approval.  Oil May Fall as Retaliation for Syria Strike Unlikely: Citigroup  Prices may “come off steeply” on low likelihood of
violent response from Syria, Iran or Russia, Citigroup says in
e-mailed report yesterday.  Shell Sells Urals at Three-Month Low; Basrah Crude Flows to Drop  Royal Dutch Shell Plc sold Russian Urals blend at the
lowest price in three months. There were no bids or offers for
North Sea Forties crude.  Los Angeles Gasoline Gains First Time in 3 Days as Supplies Drop  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles advanced against futures for
the first time in three days after the  California Energy
Commission  said supplies of the motor fuel tumbled by 4.9
percent last week.  Gulf Gasoline Falls With High Seasonal Stocks, Approaching Roll  U.S. Gulf Coast gasoline weakened for a second day after a
government report showed regional inventories reached the
highest level for this time of year since 2010, and before
futures roll from September to cheaper October contracts.  Gulf Oils Strengthen Amid Concern Conflict May Threaten Supply  Mars Blend and other  Gulf of Mexico  crudes strengthened on
concern that the conflict in Syria might spread and threaten
imports from the Middle East.  U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Aug. 23 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly Petroleum Status Report
from the U.S. Department of Energy:  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Cosmo Oil Plans to Restart Sakai Crude Unit in Late September  Co. plans to restart No. 1 crude distillation unit at Sakai
refinery in Osaka in late September, says co. official who asked
not to be identified because of internal policy.  JX Restarts Kawasaki Ethylene Cracker Unit Today After Outage  Co. restarts ethylene unit at Kawasaki plant in Kanagawa
prefecture today after  power outage  caused shutdown on Aug. 18,
according to official who asked not to be identified because of
internal policy.  Delaware City Refinery Has Emissions Into  Delaware River : NRC  “Rainbow sheen” coming from refinery at Delaware City,
according to filing from the National Response Center.  Shell Says Martinez Refinery Running as Planned  Shell reported delayed coker unit shutdown at refinery in
Northern Calif. Aug. 24, notice to county regulators shows.  Motiva Port Arthur Said to Perform Minor Repairs on Hydrocracker  Motiva Enterprises LLC’s  Port Arthur , Texas, refinery is
performing minor repairs on a hydrocracker that caught fire Aug.
17 and expects to restart it, along with the plant’s largest
crude unit, in a week or so, a person familiar with the work
said.  Exxon Baton Rouge Plans September Crude Unit Work, Filing Shows  Exxon Mobil Corp. plans to do work related to a crude unit
at its Baton Rouge refinery in Louisiana in September, according
to a filing with state regulators.  Tesoro Said to Be Repairing Crude Unit Leak at Kapolei Refinery  Tesoro Corp.’s Kapolei refinery, the larger of two in
Hawaii, is repairing a crude unit leak discovered while the
plant was restarting, a person with direct knowledge of work
said.  PBF Says Gasoil Leak at Delaware City Refinery Was Stopped  PBF stopped a leak of gasoil at its Delaware City refinery
that the Co. had reported to regulators today, according to an
e-mail from Co. spokesman Michael Karlovich.  Phillips 66 Requests Expedited Permit for Lake Charles FCC Work  Phillips 66 plans several internal modifications to a fluid
catalytic cracker at the Lake Charles, La., refinery, to modify
yields and improve mechanical reliability, according to a filing
received Aug. 8 by Louisiana regulators.  Motiva Norco Plans Alkylation Unit Turnaround for October  Motiva Enterprises LLC says it plans an alkylation unit
turnaround in October at Norco, La., refinery, in letter to
state regulators.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  TOP Oil Market News: WTI Crude Surges to Two-Year High on Syria  The following is a selection of the most important news
affecting the oil market.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 2.1 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan fell 2.1 percent to 10.14 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates 31.23 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, declined 0.8 percent to
31.23 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
London.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crude grades from the Middle East, Asia,
Africa and the Americas. Figures are in U.S. dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  Libya Lowers Es Sider Sept. Oil Price as Major Port Remains Shut  Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp. reduced its official
selling price of benchmark Es Sider crude for September to 30
cents a barrel less than Dated Brent, compared with a discount
of 20 cents for August, according to a price list obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Oil Diverges From U.S. Stocks Most Since 2011 on Syria Concerns  Oil and American equities are moving in opposite directions
by the most in almost two years amid prospects of military
intervention in Syria.  Keystone Seen as No Local Job Starter Where Workers Wanted Least  If the Keystone XL oil pipeline gets built, Rick Balcom
doubts he’ll see many construction workers at the bar of his No.
3 saloon in Buffalo, a remote town in the northwest corner of
South Dakota.  Rupee Drop Spurs Record Oil-Gold Cost in India: Chart of the Day  Oil and  gold prices  have never been so high for Indian
buyers as they are now, hampering government efforts to contain
inflation and reduce the nation’s record current-account
deficit.  U.S. Sees Multiday Strikes on Syria as U.K. Submits UN Draft (1)  U.S. officials planning potential military strikes on Syria
aren’t limited to a one-day operation, an administration
official said, as the UN Security Council’s permanent members
considered a resolution condemning last week’s suspected
chemical attack.  JPMorgan FERC-Probe Records Sought by Senate Investigators (1)  The U.S. Senate  Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations
asked energy-market regulators to hand over “key documents”
from a probe of JPMorgan Chase & Co. as lawmakers examine banks’
roles in  commodities markets .  Capital One Hires JPMorgan, Barclays Bankers to Expand in Energy  Capital One Financial Corp., the lender that gets more than
half its revenue from credit cards, hired two bankers with
experience advising firms in the oil and gas industries as it
expands its securities business.  Suntech Directors Quit Saying Solar Maker Has No Plan (1)  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the Chinese solar manufacturer
whose main unit was pulled into bankruptcy earlier this year,
said three directors including the former chairwoman quit saying
the company had no business plan.  Cheap Corn Deters Buyers in U.S. Sugar-for-Ethanol Program  A glut of corn has damped interest by biofuel makers in a
U.S. government program to sell surplus sugar for ethanol,
potentially decreasing its effectiveness in propping up sugar
prices.  OTHER MARKETS  Dollar Remains Higher Against Euro on U.S. Growth; Rupee Rallies  The dollar remained higher against the euro following its
biggest gain in a week before U.S. data that may show the
economy grew faster than initially estimated, adding to the case
for the  Federal Reserve  to slow stimulus.  Won Gains as Hyun Says South Korea Surplus to Boost Currency  The won rose for the second day as South Korea’s finance
minister said the nation’s current-account surplus, forecast to
reach a record this year, will support the currency.  Government
bonds  were steady.  Asian Stocks Rise From Two-Month Low as Oil Explorers Lead Gain  Asia’s benchmark stock index rose from a two-month low as
energy shares increased after concern military action against
Syria will disrupt global oil supplies fueled gains in crude
prices this week.  Goldman Sachs, Citadel Win Seats on Bats Board Through Merger  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citadel LLC plan to take seats
on the board of Bats Global Markets Inc. after the exchange
operator completes its merger with Direct Edge Holdings LLC.  Gold Snaps Five-Day Rally as Data May Add to Case for Tapering  Gold retreated from a three-month high spurred by tensions
over Syria as U.S. economic data may reinforce the case for the
Federal Reserve to slow stimulus and a technical indicator
showed that prices were set to decline.  Cotton Glut Expands to Record as Hanes Profit Gains: Commodities  The fourth straight year of surplus cotton output and the
biggest drop in Chinese imports since 2000 are creating record
global inventories, signaling higher profits for the makers of
Hanes underwear.  Cameron Gives Ground Over Syria Promising Lawmakers Further Vote  David Cameron  backed down from asking lawmakers for
immediate support today for possible U.K. military strikes on
Syria after the Labour opposition demanded a delay until United
Nations inspectors report on the alleged use of chemical
weapons.  Malaysia Splits With Asean Claimants Over China Sea Threat (1)  Malaysia differed with fellow Southeast Asian claimants in
the  South China Sea  on the threat posed by China, dismissing
concerns about patrols off its coast.  SPORTS  Folau Re-Signs With Australian Rugby Targeting 2015 World Cup  Israel Folau re-signed with the Australian Rugby Union
through 2015, rejecting offers to move back to rugby league as
he targets a spot in the Wallabies squad at the next  World Cup .  Barcelona Wins Spanish Super Cup Even After Messi Misses Penalty  Barcelona won a record-extending 11th Spanish Super Cup
title on away goals even after  Lionel Messi  missed a penalty in
a 0-0 draw against  Atletico Madrid .  Everton Advances in League Cup; Manchester Utd. Faces Liverpool  Everton rallied to beat Stevenage 2-1 in extra-time and
join four other Premier League clubs in advancing to the third
round of English soccer’s League Cup.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      109.28  -0.82  -0.7  Nymex     Oct.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    115.80  -0.81  -0.7    Ice  October
Gasoil ($/Ton)         973.00  +2.00  +0.2    Ice     Oct.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       307.63  -1.82  -0.6  Nymex    Sept.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.59  +0.01  +0.2  Nymex     Oct.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    117.93  -0.18  -0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            318.56  -2.27  -0.7  Nymex    Sept.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            81.58  +0.2
Gold ($/Oz)          1,418.80  -0.1
MSCI World Index     1,479.77    --
Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  Copy and paste this link for Table: NI $789 FJM  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  