-- Tottenham Moves for Hernandez, Closes on Eriksen: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-29T09:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/tottenham-moves-for-hernandez-closes-on-eriksen-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Hernandez Approach  Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas approached
 Manchester United  about signing  Javier Hernandez , though will
have to pay 15 million pounds ($23.3 million) to get the Mexican
striker, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Hernandez, 25, would be a more-than-adequate replacement
for Jermain Defoe, who is being chased by several clubs, the
newspaper added. While United isn’t pushing the player out, it
may sell him if it receives a sizable bid, the Mirror said.  More Spurs Signings?  After agreeing on the transfer of winger Erik Lamela from
Roma, Spurs are close to concluding deals for Steaua Bucharest
defender Vlad Chiriches and Ajax playmaker Christian Eriksen,
the  Daily Mail reported .  Eriksen, 21, is valued at 14 million pounds by Ajax, while
Chiriches arrived in  London  last night to complete an 8.5
million-pound move from Romania, the  Mail added .  United Raises Offer  Manchester United raised its joint offer for Everton
midfielder Marouane Fellaini and left-back Leighton Baines to 38
million pounds, the  Daily Mirror reported .  United manager  David Moyes  increased his previous bid for
the pair by 8 million pounds and Everton is yet to reject the
new offer, the newspaper said. Everton wants United to specify
the value it’s placing on Fellaini alone, the Mirror added.  Baines has asked Everton manager  Roberto Martinez  and the
club’s chairman Bill Kenwright to agree on a deal to sell him to
United, the  Independent reported .  Eto’o and Atsu  Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  will compensate for missing
out on Manchester United forward  Wayne Rooney  by signing Anzhi
Makhachkala striker Samuel Eto’o and Porto winger Christian
Atsu, the  Daily Express reported .  The Blues will pay Anzhi about 4 million pounds for Eto’o,
with the Cameroonian picking up wages of about 6 million pounds
in a one-year deal, the newspaper said. A transfer fee of 3.5
million pounds has been agreed for Atsu, the Express added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  