-- How Twitter Dodged Attack That Took Down New York Times
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-08-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/how-twitter-dodged-attack-that-took-down-new-york-times.html
Chalk one up for Twitter Inc.  While the New York Times and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  had visitors to
their sites redirected this week by hackers, the microblogging
service was better able to deflect attacks because of a simple
tool called a registry lock. Like alerts sent to credit-card
users when something bad happens, the feature notifies website
managers of attempts by intruders to tamper with critical
information, such as Web-address data.  The cost? As little as  $50 a year .  Large banks, e-commerce companies, gambling sites and
pornographers have used registry locks from  VeriSign Inc. (VRSN)  and
 NeuStar Inc. (NSR)  to prevent unauthorized changes. Attacks by the
Syrian Electronic Army routed New York Times readers to a site
that displayed the group’s initials and altered some
registration data. They underscore how vulnerable many companies
are to relatively unsophisticated attacks, which can take down
sites and harm their businesses.  “This is certainly an ah-ha moment,” said Rodney Joffe, a
senior technologist at NeuStar. The Sterling, Virginia-based
company began offering registry locks in 2010 and requires that
website domain information be accompanied by two layers of
verification, such as additional codes from security tokens.  “It is a niche business but there’s no reason for it to
be,” he said. “It’s the kind of thing you have to do today.”  While Twitter’s site operated normally, twitter.co.uk was
inaccessible for some users. The Syrian Electronic Army, which
backs the country’s president, Bashar al-Assad, claimed
responsibility for the  New York  Times and Twitter intrusions, as
well as the Washington Post this month and the Financial Times
in early May. Unknown hackers altered Google’s website in the
Palestinian territories, displaying a map without  Israel .  Raising Bar  The attacks exploited weaknesses in a registration network
called the Domain Name System, exposing risks that site
operators face because they’re relying on third parties to
handle their online addresses. Weaknesses in DNS, which was
created in the 1980s to help computers find websites using names
instead of numbers, haven’t been seen as a significant threat
outside of the financial-services and retail sectors up to now,
according to John Pescatore, director of emerging-security
trends at the SANS Institute in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “There are still a lot of sloppy practices,” Pescatore
said. “There’s a lot of room to raise the bar.”  Because Twitter, based in San Francisco, monitors its DNS
information in real time and had implemented a registry lock, it
was better prepared than the New York Times, according to HD Moore, chief research officer at Rapid7, a Boston-based security
firm. Since the attacks, many other companies have moved to
institute similar safeguards, he said.  DNS Flaw  Twitter has had its DNS records hacked before. The company
acknowledged  in 2009  that its DNS records were compromised by
hackers who defaced the site with a message about  Iran . Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Twitter, declined to comment on the
company’s security measures.  A vast system that underpins how computers locate each
other, DNS is often called the phone book of the Internet. In
2008,  Dan Kaminsky , a security researcher, uncovered a flaw in
the system that would let hackers easily impersonate legitimate
sites. He worked with technology companies to fix it. The
finding prompted several companies that process financial
transactions online to adopt additional security measures to
ensure their domain information is secure, while others stayed
on the sidelines, according to SANS’s Pescatore.  Security Steps  NeuStar and VeriSign, another provider of registry lock
services, declined to identify the companies using  its registry
lock services. Danny McPherson, chief security officer of
VeriSign, said in a statement that the technology gives
customers more control over who can change information.  Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for the  New York Times (NYT)  Co.,
said the newspaper is looking at additional measures.  “In light of this attack and the apparent vulnerability
even at what had been highly secure registrars, we are
tightening all of our security,” she said.  Jay Nancarrow a spokesman for Google, declined to comment
on the company’s security. The company’s Palestine site itself
wasn’t hacked and Google is talking with the domain manager to
resolve the issue, he said.  One complication of hosting sites with addresses of
specific countries or regions is that many of the registration
providers don’t use registry locks and other protective steps,
said  Paco Hope , a principal consultant with Cigital Inc.  “When you’re a company like the New York Times or Twitter
or Google, your stock in trade is the Internet, it’s the service
you offer, and that’s why it makes sense to put in a lot more
security,” Hope said.  The rise in sophisticated hacking attacks is helping fuel a
market for computer-security technology that is expected to
exceed $65.7 billion this year, according to Gartner Inc.  Many companies that didn’t prioritize a threat involving
their DNS records are now rethinking that approach, SANS’s
Pescatore said.  “It’s one of several Achilles’ heels of using the
Internet,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  