-- Payment Group Says U.S. Banks Can Work With Legal Online Lenders
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-08-29T15:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/payment-group-says-u-s-banks-can-work-with-legal-online-lenders.html
Banks can do business with Internet-based lenders that don’t violate the law, the nation’s primary
payment system said in a letter that followed warnings from
regulators about the online firms’ practices.  Nacha, the group that oversees the automated clearing house
network, told the Online Lenders Alliance, an industry
association, that banks have to examine the circumstances of
lenders’ work and “take action where appropriate.”  Banks need not stop processing payments “for online
lenders engaged in legal lending activity,” Jane Larimer, the
executive vice president and general counsel of Nacha said in an
Aug. 26 letter.  Nacha’s members include  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America
Corp. , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  PNC Financial
Services Group (PNC)  and  U.S. Bancorp. (USB)   Benjamin Lawsky , New York’s state superintendent of
financial services, on Aug. 6 ordered a group of 35 online
lenders, including at least four owned by Native American
tribes, to cease offering loans in New York. He charged the
loans violated New York’s interest rate caps.  Lawsky also sent a letter to 117 banks and Nacha itself
requesting their assistance to “choke off” the lenders from
the automated clearing house system, the bank-supported network
that handles electronic bank account debits. Nacha responded on
Aug. 8 by asking banks to advise the payment network whether
they are still doing business with the online lenders named by
Lawsky.  The online lending group has argued that its members do not
violate the law for various reasons. For example, companies
owned by tribes contend they are exempt from state laws because
the doctrine of tribal sovereign immunity limits state influence
on tribal affairs.  The  Department of Justice  and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. have also been pressuring banks to reconsider their
relationships with online lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  