-- Pena Nieto Delays Annual Address After Mexico Education Protests
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-08-29T22:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/pena-nieto-delays-annual-address-after-mexico-education-protests.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
delayed his annual address to the nation after protests against
proposed changes to the education system yesterday closed the
capital’s main streets.  Pena Nieto’s speech, originally planned for Sept. 1 at the
Campo Marte equestrian venue in  Mexico  City, was moved to 10
a.m. on Sept. 2 at the presidential residence of Los Pinos,
according to an e-mail today from the president’s press office.
The 47-year-old leader, who took office in December, yesterday
canceled a trip to  Turkey  that was scheduled for the first part
of next week.  Speaking to reporters yesterday about the postponement of
his trip, Pena Nieto cited a desire to focus on the next
congressional session, also set to begin Sept. 1. The president
said he is sticking to his plan to travel to  St. Petersburg ,
 Russia , for the Group of 20 meetings later next week.  Delaying the Turkey trip “will lead to a reconsideration
in the format, date and hour in which I’ll be delivering my
message,” Pena Nieto said yesterday at the Mexico City airport
about his annual address after returning from a trip to the
state of Nuevo Leon.  The Pena Nieto administration still plans to send Congress
a document summarizing the events of the past year on Sept. 1,
as required by law, according to the president’s office.  Pena Nieto has promised before the end of the year to win
congressional approval for an energy overhaul to open the state-controlled oil industry to private investment and a tax change
to wean the federal government off revenue from crude sales.  Face Opposition  The proposals could face opposition in the streets after
protesters halted traffic yesterday on Paseo de la Reforma,
Mexico City’s historic boulevard. About 15,000 people
participated in the march to Los Pinos, according to Mexico
City’s police. Protesters are demonstrating against an education
bill being debated in Congress that would require teachers to
undergo standardized evaluations.  The protesters set up a tent city to occupy the Zocalo, the
capital’s main square, as their numbers swelled over the past
two weeks.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who finished second to
Pena Nieto in last year’s election, has called for opponents of
the president’s energy proposal to rally in the Zocalo next
month.  Today a group of about 200 people, many identifying
themselves as teachers, massed outside the Mexican stock
exchange building entrance. They chanted anti-government taunts,
including “Pena Nieto, you said everything would change. It’s a
lie, it’s the same nonsense.”  Riot Shields  The demonstrators were met by a cordon of about 150 police
with riot shields, who formed a two-deep perimeter to separate
protesters from the entrance to the headquarters of the Bolsa
Mexicana de Valores SAB stock exchange.  Pena Nieto yesterday reiterated his determination to pass
secondary laws he says would improve education standards and
make teachers more accountable for their performance. He signed
into law in February a change to the constitution in a bid to
foster competition for teaching jobs and promotions based on
merit.  Mexico is seeking to overhaul an education system that
ranked last out of 34 countries for enrollment rates of high
school-age students, behind Chile, Argentina and  Brazil ,
according to a 2011 study by the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. Mexico also spent more of
its public budget on education than 33 countries in a separate
OECD survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 