-- Pernod Adds to Emerging-Market Worries as China Weakens
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-08-29T11:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/pernod-ricard-sees-economic-growth-matching-previous-year.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI) ,  Europe ’s second-largest distiller, added to concern that growth in  emerging-markets  is ebbing as it reported a slowdown in some less-established regions.  China , previously a driver of growth at the maker of
Jameson whiskey, is among countries where gains will be less
pronounced than before, Paris-based Pernod said today. Where the
company has previously benefited from emerging markets
offsetting weakness in other parts of the world, it is now
counting on “ongoing growth” in the U.S.  The distiller isn’t the first company to point to slowing
growth in developing regions. Larger competitor  Diageo Plc (DGE)  said
in July that it saw some “soft spots” in economies including
Brazil and the Asia-Pacific region. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index of 819 stocks has declined 13 percent this year.  “The problem remains Asia, and particularly China,” for
Pernod,  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec Plc in London,
wrote in a note. Deboo said he would review his forecasts and
target price for the company.  Pernod  fell  1.7 percent to 89.18 euros at 12:30 p.m. in
Paris trading, reversing a gain of as much as 2.2 percent.  The company reported annual sales and profit that were
broadly in line with analysts’ estimates today. Revenue growth
in countries including China slowed in the second half of the
year ended June 30, Pernod said.  Chinese Slowdown  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Pringuet expects the Chinese
slowdown to continue in the first half of this fiscal year, he
said today by phone. Government spending restraints have curbed
sales of cognac and whiskey, and are particularly affecting
bottles of spirits sold at more than $200, Pringuet said,
including some Martell cognacs. Pernod also saw tougher
conditions in countries including  Brazil , it said.  “Economic cycles: this is life as usual,” Pringuet said.
“We’ll capture growth where it is.” The company gets about 42
percent of sales from emerging markets, he said, and expects the
U.S. to be a “growth driver” for the business.  Pernod’s guidance may imply the company is unlikely to
forecast “more bullish” growth this fiscal year, said Laetitia Delaye, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris.  Pernod’s annual revenue totaled 8.57 billion euros ($11.4
billion), rising 4 percent on an organic basis, or excluding
acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts. Fourth-quarter
organic sales increased 5 percent.  Cognac Share  Full-year earnings before interest, taxes and some one-time
items were 2.23 billion euros, Pernod said. That compares with
the 2.26 billion-euro median estimate of nine analysts surveyed
by  Bloomberg News . Earnings on an organic basis increased 6
percent, equalling Pernod’s forecast.  Sales rose 7 percent in Asia,  Australia , Africa and the
 Middle East . The company said it gained share in the cognac
market, even with moves by the Chinese government to limit
feasting and gift-giving.  Revenue also increased 7 percent in the Americas, boosted
by an 8 percent jump in the U.S. as drinkers bought beverages
including Perrier-Jouet champagne.  European sales, excluding  France , showed “stability” as
growth in Russia and Poland offset a 3 percent decline in
western Europe. French sales slid 7 percent because of a tax
increase introduced last year, unfavorable economic conditions
and bad weather, the distiller said.  Net debt  as of June 30 fell to 3.5 times Ebitda from 3.8
times earnings a year earlier. Pernod won’t rule out “strategic
acquisitions,” though “our clear guidance is that in the
current world, we want to retain our investment-grade rating,”
Pringuet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  