-- Philippine Stocks Rebound From 8-Month Low on Economic Expansion
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-08-29T08:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/philippine-stocks-rebound-from-8-month-low-on-economic-expansion.html
Philippine stocks rallied from an
eight-month low, sending the index to its biggest gain in two
months, after second-quarter economy growth beat estimates.  SM Investments Corp. (SM) , owner of the nation’s top shopping
mall operator, and  International Container Terminal Services
Inc. (ICT) , the country’s biggest port operator, jumped more than 4
percent. Philippine lenders rallied after a Macquarie Group Ltd.
report released yesterday rated the sector overweight. GT
Capital Holdings Inc. and LT Group Inc. jumped 13 percent after
the bourse said they will be added to the benchmark index.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  climbed 3.6 percent to
5,944.21 at the close in Manila, the most since June 26 and
ending a two-day slump that sent the measure yesterday to the
lowest level since Dec. 18. The nation’s economy expanded 7.5
percent in the second quarter, official data showed. That beat
the 7.2 percent median of estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “This a strong figure that should support a solid
macroeconomic picture for the  Philippines ,” said Allan Yu, vice
president at Metropolitan Bank, the nation’s third-largest money
manager with $8.3 billion under management.  The  Philippine stock index  slumped 6.9 percent in the
previous two days on concern local protests over discretionary
government budgets will hamper state spending and phasing out of
monetary stimulus by the U.S. will spur capital outflows.
Foreigners pulled a net $128.5 million from shares yesterday,
the most since Oct. 12 and the eighth straight day of sales.  The Philippine stocks index has slumped 10.5 percent this
month. The economy expanded more than 7 percent for a fourth
straight quarter, withstanding a regional slowdown that has
prompted policy makers in  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and  Indonesia  to
cut growth estimates.  ‘Support Prices’  “This will help support share prices and give investors
reason to differentiate Philippines from other countries in the
region,” Metropolitan Bank’s Yu said.  The PSE gauge is valued at 16.3 times estimated earnings
for the next 12 months, down from a 20.8 peak on May 15. Still,
that’s the highest level among 21 developing-nation stock
indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
has a multiple of 9.8 times.  The PSE gauge’s 14-day relative strength index sank to 23.7
yesterday, the lowest since Sept. 26, 2011, and below the 30
level that some traders take as signal an asset is oversold. Ten
of the 30 members on the index had a RSI of less than 30
yesterday, the highest proportion since June 25, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Five of the members reached new 52-week lows, also the most in two months.  “This is a technical rebound,” Alex Pomento, Philippine
strategist at the Macquarie’s Manila unit, said by phone. “The
market is now picking up on stocks that provide value after a
bad battering the past two days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  