-- Pound Rises Most in 3 Weeks Versus Euro as Data Points to Growth
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-29T15:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/pound-strengthens-for-second-day-versus-euro-after-carney-speech.html
The pound strengthened the most in
three weeks versus the euro as optimism Britain’s economic
growth is gathering pace boosted demand for the nation’s assets.  Sterling gained for a second day against the common
currency as Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  told the
Nottingham Post that the U.K. couldn’t devalue its way to
prosperity. Analysts say reports tomorrow will show  consumer
confidence  improved in August and  mortgage approvals  increased
in July. Britain’s currency weakened versus the dollar after a
report showed the  U.S. economy  expanded more in the second
quarter than analysts forecast. Gilts advanced.  “The market continues to look past the forward guidance at
the bigger picture of a rapidly improving U.K. growth profile,”
Alvin Tan, a director of foreign-exchange strategies at Societe
Generale SA in London, wrote in a note to clients. Tan said he
expects the pound to extend its gain versus the common currency.  The pound strengthened 0.7 percent to 85.36 pence per euro
at 4:29 p.m.  London  time, the biggest gain since Aug. 7. It
advanced 0.3 percent yesterday after sliding to 86.52 pence, the
weakest level since Aug. 7. The U.K. currency declined 0.2
percent to $1.5494.  Sterling has strengthened at least 0.6 percent against all
16 of its major peers this month as Citigroup Inc.’s Economic
Surprise Index for the U.K. rose to the highest level since
November, indicating data has beaten analysts’ estimates.  Gross domestic product  increased 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, a report showed on Aug. 23, exceeding an initial
estimate of 0.6 percent.  U.K. Optimism  GfK NOP Ltd. will say tomorrow its U.K. consumer sentiment
index rose 2 points to minus 14 this month, the highest since
February 2010, according to the median forecast of 19 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. A separate report from the  Bank of
England  will show mortgage approvals increased to 58,800 in July
from 57,700 a month earlier, according to another survey.  A gauge of commercial business  optimism  rose to 54 in
August from 41 the previous month, according to a survey of
about 200 companies by Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  Sterling rallied from a three-week low versus the euro
yesterday after Carney failed to convince investors that the
central bank would keep  interest rates  at an all-time low. He
said in a speech that the central bank would keep down borrowing
costs and will move to boost the lending capacity of the
nation’s largest banks.  Carney ‘Dovish’  “We’re seeing a bit of a hangover from Carney’s speech
yesterday, which was dovish but without the intensification of
dovishness the market expected,” said  Daragh Maher , a foreign-exchange strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “We saw a
bit of a recovery in sterling.”  U.S. GDP expanded at a 2.5 percent annualized rate, up from
an initial estimate of 1.7 percent, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 79 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 2.2 percent gain.  The pound has strengthened 5.5 percent in the past six
months, the best performer of 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
gained 4.4 percent and the dollar climbed 3 percent.  The benchmark  10-year gilt yield  fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 2.78 percent. The 2.25 percent
security due in September 2023 rose 0.185, or 1.85 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 95.375.  Gilts lost 3.7 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped
2.3 percent and Treasuries declined 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  