-- Power Climbs in Texas as Temperatures Rise to Three-Week High
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-08-29T21:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/power-climbs-in-texas-as-temperatures-rise-to-three-week-high.html
Spot wholesale electricity rose for
a third day in  Texas  amid projections that unusually hot weather
will boost demand to the highest level in three weeks.  Power consumption  on the main state grid operated by the
Electric Reliability Council of Texas Inc. will peak at 65,178
megawatts today, the highest since Aug. 8, according to its
website. The temperature in  Dallas  may reach 102 degrees
Fahrenheit (39 Celsius), 8 above normal, also the most in three
weeks, according to forecaster AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania .  “If any day is going to be interesting pricewise, it could
be today,” Beth Garza, deputy independent market monitor for
Ercot with Potomac Economics in Austin. “We have loads coming
in higher than day-ahead forecasts, we are on a Thursday before
a long weekend and we’ve been mild all year.”  Spot prices at Ercot’s North Hub, which includes deliveries
to the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area, rose $9.84, or 26
percent, to average $47.34 a megawatt-hour during the hour ended
at 3 p.m. local time from the same hour yesterday, grid data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Electricity output from  wind turbines  was 1,143 megawatts
at 3:49 p.m., 17 percent lower than the day-ahead forecast of
1,376 megawatts for the hour, according to Ercot.  Wind generation in Ercot’s territory may slump at times
heading into the weekend because of a high pressure weather
system over the central third of the U.S. WSI Corp. in Andover,
 Massachusetts , said. Conditions look favorable for solar
generation.  Wind Farms  The addition of new transmission lines from wind farms
concentrated in West Texas is making the renewable electricity
source more accessible to the state’s biggest cities, Garza
said. Net generating capacity is 600 megawatts higher this
summer than it was a year earlier, which is subduing price gains
on the hottest days, she said.  “The loads this year have been marginally higher than last
year but we also had some additional resources available to us
this year,” Garza said. “We’ve been able to maintain our
operating reserves.”  The state has more than 20 gigawatts of the more efficient
combined cycle gas plants and prices may not surge until the
state needs to use less-efficient generators, she said.  Prices also gained on the PJM Interconnection LLC network,
the largest in the U.S. with more than 60 million people in 13
states, as hotter weather drove demand above forecasts. Power on
its benchmark Western hub, serving  Washington , climbed $31.77,
or 87 percent, to $68.51 a megawatt-hour during the hour ended
at 4 p.m. Eastern time.  Northeast Power  Northeast power prices slumped amid lower demand.  New York 
  City electricity tumbled $12.35, or 20 percent, to $50.50 a
 megawatt-hour as  Boston  slid $22.41, or 41 percent, to $32.46.  New York on-peak power fetched a premium versus Boston for
the first time in three days, rising to $10.83 compared with a
discount yesterday of $5.97.  Higher demand also boosted spot prices across  California 
amid lower transmission capacity because fires near Yosemite
National Park have reduced access to lower cost hydroelectric
power. The  San Francisco Public Utilities Commission  has spent
$783,000 to purchase power on the open market since Aug. 19 to
replace power from two of its three hydropower plants, Jean
Walsh, a spokeswoman for the commission, said in an e-mail.  Spot power at the NP15 hub, serving northern California,
was up $3.41, or 7.4 percent, at $49.44 during the hour ended at
2 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  