-- Premium Increases Under Obamacare May Be Overstated
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-08-29T18:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/premium-increases-under-obamacare-may-be-overstated.html
Predictions of sharp increases in
health-insurance premiums for people getting coverage under the
U.S. Affordable Care Act have been overstated and many states
will see little to no change, researchers at  Rand  Corp. found.  Out-of-pocket premiums for most individuals who buy health
plans through new insurance exchanges will decline because of
federal subsidies, the Santa Monica, California-based nonprofit
research group said today in a  report . The researchers looked at
insurance markets in 10 states to project costs as core parts of
the 2010 health law kick in next year.  “Rates for policies in the individual market are likely to
vary from state to state, with some experiencing increases and
some experiencing decreases in cost,”  Christine Eibner , a Rand
senior economist and the study’s lead author, said in a
statement. “But our analysis found no widespread trend toward
sharply higher prices in the individual market.”  Starting Oct. 1, people without health insurance may sign
up for coverage through online insurance marketplaces, called
exchanges, in each state. The health law requires that most
Americans obtain insurance by next year or pay a fine. About 7
million people are expected to gain coverage through the
exchanges next year, the  Congressional Budget Office  has said.  The Rand study was conducted on behalf of the U.S. Health
and Human Services Department and looked at insurance rates in
Florida,  Kansas ,  Louisiana ,  Minnesota , New Mexico,  North Dakota ,
Ohio,  Pennsylvania ,  South Carolina  and Texas.  Rate Shock  Republican state officials in Ohio, Indiana and Georgia
have warned of “rate shock” next year for young, healthy
people who previously could buy inexpensive insurance plans. The
Rand study estimated premiums in 2016 without examining actual
2014 rates that have been released for some states, including
Ohio, Eibner said in an interview.  “Some people buy more generous coverage because of the law
and that will lead to increased costs,” said Eibner, who works
at Rand’s office in Arlington, Virginia. “In my mind, that’s
not the same as rate shock because the person will be getting a
better plan.”  The health-care law prohibits insurers from charging sick
people more than healthy people or denying them coverage, and
limits what companies can charge older people relative to the
young. The result is that young, healthy people are expected to
generally see higher premiums while older and sicker people see
decreases, or are able to obtain coverage they previously
wouldn’t have been offered.  Premium Discounts  Government subsidies will be available to offset higher
premiums, and the Rand study said more than 60 percent of people
who shop for exchange plans will get a discount.  In half the states Rand studied, and for the U.S. as a
whole, the health-care law will cause no statistically
significant change in premiums, the researchers said. There may
be premium increases of as much as 43 percent before subsidies
in Minnesota, North Dakota and Ohio, Rand estimated.  In Louisiana and  New Mexico , premiums may decline as
younger, healthier people are drawn into insurance markets and
the Affordable Care Act limits the amount of premium revenue
insurers can keep for their costs and profits, Rand said.  The percentage of the  U.S. population  that will remain
uninsured, Rand said, will fall to 8.2 percent by 2016, compared
with 19.6 percent if the law didn’t exist.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  