-- Puerto Rico Poised for Worst Year Since ’00 on ‘Spooked’ Buyers
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-29T16:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/puerto-rico-poised-for-worst-year-since-00-on-spooked-buyers.html
Municipal debt from  Puerto Rico  is
poised for its worst year since at least 2000 as demand for
state and local securities wanes with yields at two-year highs.  Bonds of Puerto Rico and its localities have lost 14.9
percent this year through Aug. 28, about three times more than
the rest of the $3.7 trillion municipal market, according to
Standard & Poor’s data. The commonwealth’s borrowings haven’t
had an annual loss this steep since at least 2000.  Investors demand 2.76 percentage points of additional yield
to buy 30-year Puerto Rico general-obligation bonds rather than
top-rated munis, the most since January, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The island’s general-obligation debt is rated
one level above junk amid recurring budget deficits and a
pension system that has a lower funding level than any U.S.
state.  Individual investors, who own about 70 percent of the
municipal market, are “spooked” by the drop in prices on
Puerto Rico bonds and are selling, said Matt Dalton, who manages
$1.6 billion of munis at Belle Haven Investments Inc. in  White
Plains ,  New York .  “Individuals are running scared on Puerto Rico right
now,” he said. The commonwealth’s returns may worsen “before
it really finds a bottom; There’s a good chance that it will be
the underperformer for 2013.”  Puerto Rico’s population is 3.7 million. Its debt is tax-exempt in all U.S. states, which allows state-specific muni
mutual funds to buy the securities. Investors have pulled $21.4
billion of cash from U.S. muni mutual funds in the 13 weeks
through Aug. 21, the most since 2011, Lipper US Fund Flows data
show.  Yields Climb  Puerto Rico general obligations maturing in July 2041
traded today at an average yield of 8.03 percent, the highest
since they were sold in March 2012, Bloomberg data show.  As investors bet a growing economy will lead the  Federal
Reserve  to curtail its bond buying, the muni market has lost
4.98 percent this year, according to S&P data.  Losses on Puerto Rico accelerated after Barron’s published
an article in its Aug. 26 issue on the commonwealth’s fiscal
challenges, saying the bonds may suffer. The island’s debt may
drop even further as the commonwealth plans to borrow in the
next couple of months, Dalton said.  The commonwealth is set to refinance $600 million of
general obligations in September, and the Puerto Rico Highways &
Transportation Authority will issue $750 million to $1 billion
of revenue bonds within about 30 days of the general-obligation
sale, Jose Pagan, interim president of the Government
 Development Bank  for Puerto Rico, said last month.  The commonwealth had about $70 billion of public-sector
debt as of June 30, according to the Development Bank, which
handles the island’s capital-market transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  