-- Pure Storage Valued at Over $1 Billion in T. Rowe Price Funding
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-08-29T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/pure-storage-valued-at-over-1-billion-in-t-rowe-price-funding.html
Pure Storage Inc. , a maker of flash-memory technology for data centers, raised $150 million in a
financing round that values the company at over $1 billion.  The funding, led by investors including mutual-fund manager
 T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  and hedge-fund manager Tiger Global
Management LLC, will help Pure expand overseas and bolster
spending on research and development ahead of an initial public
offering, the  Mountain View , California-based company said today
in a statement.  Pure has nabbed customers including Netflix Inc. and
LinkedIn Corp. with its storage computers that use speedy solid-state memory chips -- like the kind used in Apple Inc.’s iPhone
-- instead of traditional magnetic disk drives. Flash-memory
provider Fusion-io Inc. sold shares to the public in 2011 and
earlier this week rival Violin Memory Inc. filed to raise as
much as $172.5 million in an IPO.  “The public market guys are really only interested in
companies that aspire to be public,” Scott Dietzen, Pure’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview. “They want a
front seat at the IPO.”  The market for enterprise solid-state, or flash, storage is
forecast to grow 29 percent this year to $3.2 billion, according
to market researcher IDC. Pure competes with EMC Corp. and
NetApp Inc. and startups including Nimble Storage Inc.  Pure’s revenue is increasing 50 percent sequentially each
quarter, and the company is in the process of hiring a chief
financial officer in preparation for an IPO, said Dietzen,
declining to comment on timing.  Technology Upgrades  Investors in public and private markets are pouring money
into emerging business-technology providers as companies
supplement their older computer systems and software to lower
costs or improve performance.  SugarCRM Inc., a maker of customer-management software,
raised $40 million from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week to
speed global expansion. Tidemark Systems Inc., a maker of
analytics software,  raised  $13 million this month.  Pure uses special software loaded on its devices that can
compress customers’ data so they need to buy less flash storage,
which is pricier than disk-based systems.  At $150 million, the Pure deal matches the third-biggest
venture investment in a North American business technology
company this year, according to Bloomberg data. AirWatch LLC, a
maker of mobile device monitoring software, raised $200 million
in February. HootSuite Media Inc., whose software manages
social-networking activity, raised $165 million on Aug. 1.
SevOne Inc., whose equipment monitors network performance,
raised $150 million in January.  Pure’s financing also included participation from  Fidelity
Investments  as well as existing investors  Greylock Partners ,
Index Ventures, Redpoint Ventures, Samsung Electronics Co.’s
venture arm and Sutter Hill Ventures. The company, which has
raised a total of $245 million, plans to use the cash to hire
sales and marketing staff and expand in Europe and  Asia .  Pure also said that Frank Slootman, CEO of cloud-software
maker ServiceNow Inc., is joining the startup’s board of
directors. The board includes Workday Inc. co-CEO Aneel Bhusri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  