-- Putin Orders Probe of Officials as 100,000 Affected by Flooding
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-08-29T13:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/putin-orders-probe-of-officials-as-100-000-affected-by-flooding.html
President  Vladimir Putin  ordered
investigators to probe actions by officials and OAO RusHydro’s
management during record flooding that engulfed  Russia ’s  Far
East  and forced five regions to declare a state of emergency.  Surging waters in the Amur River basin may have caused as
much as 50 billion rubles ($1.5 billion) in damage, destroying
crops and affecting 100,000 people, Emergencies Minister
Vladimir Puchkov said today in an interview in Khabarovsk, where
he accompanied Putin on a tour of the inundated areas.  “Some our citizens are doubtful that officials, including
those overseeing the hydropower industry, acted strictly in
accordance with mandated instructions and existing laws,” Putin
said today at a government meeting. Their “actions must be most
thoroughly examined.”  The region’s biggest towns including Khabarovsk, a city of
more than 590,000 people, are bracing for the swollen Amur to
peak in the coming days as authorities  deploy  tens of thousands
of emergency personnel on a rescue mission in six regions.
Speaking at a meeting two days ago, Putin asked RusHydro Chief
Executive Officer Evgeny Dod to respond to criticism that
Russia’s state-run hydropower producer didn’t conduct timely
releases of water from its local facilities.  The Investigative Committee opened a probe of officials at
RusHydro’s Zeya and Bureya plants, according to a  statement .
Yelena Vishnyakova, a spokeswoman for Moscow-based RusHydro,
said the company bears no responsibility for the flooding. Its
dams have held back about 70 percent of the deluge, she said.  RusHydro Probes  RusHydro has been the subject of other investigations this
year, including a probe into missing building funds. The
 Interior Ministry  opened an inquiry into suspected embezzlement
of funds in the Karachaevo-Cherkessia region on March 7.  Heavy rains and RusHydro’s actions probably both
contributed to the severity of the situation in the Far East,
said Khabarovsk Mayor Alexander Sokolov.  The Amur River embankment in Khabarovsk, the Far East’s
second biggest city, was completely submerged under water today.
The police closed access to the final open section of
Khabarovsk’s riverfront today, with sandbags piled up along the
shoreline and soldiers working to protect the city around the
clock.  Rescuers used a boat to move between houses as water
covered the nearby garages up to their roofs. A canteen was
distributing porridge and tea.  More than 1,000 of the houses inundated in the region can’t
be rebuilt, according to Puchkov. The water level near
Khabarovsk, which has been at the highest in more than a
century, rose to 7.63 meters (25 feet) as of 8 p.m. local time,
rising by 2 centimeters in four hours, according to the
Emergencies Ministry. The Amur is predicted to crest at as high
as 7.80 meters Sept. 2-4, according to the ministry.  “There were cataclysms before, but it’s the first time to
happen at such a scale” said Zinaida Bondarenko, 67, who lives
in a ground-floor apartment in one of the worst-affected areas
of Khabarovsk. “I just hope they will pump all the water from
my house before the first frost comes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  