-- Putin Underwear Artist Seeks Asylum as Works Disappear
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-08-29T12:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/putin-underwear-artist-seeks-asylum-as-works-disappear.html
The artist who fled  Russia  after
authorities seized his paintings depicting President  Vladimir Putin  and Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  in women’s underwear
began taking steps to claim permanent asylum in  France .  “I don’t want to return to Russia,” Konstantin Altunin
said in a phone interview from Paris. “I want to live and work
in an atmosphere of freedom.”  Alexander Donskoy, the owner of the Museum of Power gallery
in St. Petersburg, Russia’s second-largest city, said today he
has been unable to secure an attorney to help retrieve the
paintings, which have gone missing, after 20 lawyers rejected
requests to represent the gallery.  Putin who hosts the Group of 20 nations in his hometown St.
Petersburg on Sept. 5-6, is being accused of stamping down on
opposition movements, human rights and freedom of speech in
Russia. He signed a law banning “propaganda of non-traditional
sexual relations” among minors in July, while three members of
the all-female punk group Pussy Riot were convicted of
hooliganism and inciting religious hatred last year for lip-syncing a song critical of Putin in Moscow’s main cathedral.  Donskoy said in an interview today that authorities who
raided his premises left no documentation after they took four
works by Altunin. He doesn’t “believe the artworks could be
returned” because he found no trace of them at police
headquarters.  The  Interior Ministry ’s  St. Petersburg  unit  said  in a
statement on its website on Aug. 27 that police officials would
study the seized paintings to determine if they violate the law.  Altunin, who fled the country on Aug. 27, has started to
collect the documents needed to claim political Asylum in France
because he fears he would be arrested if he returns, he said by
phone from Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  