-- Quiet Air-Traffic Towers Should Be Closed Nights: Report
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-08-29T17:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/quiet-air-traffic-towers-should-be-closed-nights-report.html
The U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration should close minimally used air-traffic
facilities during overnight hours to reduce controller fatigue
and save money, a government report concluded.  The Transportation Department’s inspector general said 72
towers and radar rooms don’t handle enough flight traffic
overnight to stay open. The report, released today, recommended
the FAA develop a plan for reducing hours at those facilities
and report back within 180 days.  Former Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood ordered a second
overnight controller at facilities that had only one on duty
after a series of incidents in 2011 in which controllers fell
asleep or became unresponsive. Twenty-seven of those 30
facilities didn’t have enough work to be open overnight, the
report said.  That policy has cost the FAA about $1.9 million a year,
whereas closing the towers at night may save as much as $11
million annually, the report said.  “By reducing services at these facilities during the
midnight shift, the agency could reduce costs,” the report
said.  Bloomberg News reported last year that air-traffic
facilities handling as little as one flight an hour on overnight
shifts were kept open 24 hours a day because of pressure on the
FAA from members of Congress.  Congress’ Mandate  Agency logs revealed at least 26 instances in which
lawmakers from both parties pushed the agency on controller
staffing levels or the location of air-traffic facilities from
2010 through May 2012.  A total of 72 air-traffic facilities open 24 hours a day
don’t meet the FAA’s own minimum standards for traffic to
justify full-time service, the agency’s Office of Financial
Services determined according to the report. A facility must
handle at least four flights an hour for four consecutive hours
to remain open, according to FAA standards.  The FAA agrees that staffing needs to be reviewed at those
locations, towers and radar-tracking facilities within 50 miles
of an airport, the agency said in a response to the IG report.
It plans to determine whether to make adjustments within the 180
days recommended by the IG, the FAA said in the response.  So far, agency attempts to reduce air-traffic staffing or
to close towers have met stiff resistance from lawmakers. An FAA
plan to furlough controllers and to halt U.S. funding for 149
small-airport towers operated by private contractors was blocked
April 26 by Congress.  Fatigue Examined  The FAA had planned the reductions to decrease spending
under mandatory cuts required by sequestration. Congress gave
the FAA authority to shift money from other accounts to avoid
the air-traffic cuts.  The report by Jeffrey Guzzetti, assistant inspector general
for aviation audits, was ordered by Congress in 2012 to review
FAA’s fatigue policies a year after the sleeping controller
incidents.  Following that controversy and recommendations by the U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board, the FAA imposed new rules
giving controllers an extra hour off between shifts, from a
minimum of 8 hours to 9 hours.  It isn’t clear whether the new schedules are helping
because FAA doesn’t have a way to measure improvements, the
report said.  Unlike adding the controller at some facilities, increasing
the time between shifts had almost no effect on costs, the
review found.  Improving Alertness  Another policy to reduce fatigue, which implicitly allows
napping during midnight shifts, isn’t clearly defined, the IG
said. Controllers are encouraged to take breaks and to “apply
fatigue mitigation techniques,” according to FAA guidance.  While some air-traffic managers said napping during breaks
was permitted, others said the rules didn’t explicitly allow
them. They feared that allowing subordinates to sleep during
breaks would run afoul of the rules.  Research by the FAA and others has found that a nap during
a midnight shift can improve alertness and performance of
workers, according to the report. Managers interviewed by the IG
were mostly supportive of napping so long as it didn’t violate
the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  