-- Radian Reaches Accord With Freddie Mac to Cap Expenses
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-08-29T22:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/radian-reaches-agreement-with-freddie-mac-to-cap-claim-exposure.html
Radian Group Inc. (RDN) ’s mortgage insurer
reached an agreement with Freddie Mac that caps expenses at $840
million related to loans held by the U.S. government-controlled
housing-finance company.  The accord covers more than 25,000 first-lien  mortgage
loans  that Radian insured and were delinquent as of Dec. 31,
2011, the Philadelphia-based company said today in a statement.
The insurer expects to incur a loss of about $20 million in the
third quarter related to the deal. That will be fully mitigated
by lower losses in future periods, the company said.  “This agreement is an important step in resolving our
remaining legacy risk, and reduces our total number of primary
delinquent loans,” Chief Executive Officer S.A. Ibrahim said in
the statement.  Mortgage insurers that saw claims rise during the housing
crash are rebounding as a resurgent U.S. real-estate market
cushions losses on policies sold before the downturn. Radian and
competitor  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) ’s shares have more than doubled
this year, and both companies have raised capital in stock and
bond sales.  The insurers may also benefit as the U.S. government
retools the mortgage-finance system. President  Barack Obama  is
pushing for the country to scale back from its role in covering
losses when home loans sour. He called for private capital to
take more of the risk in a speech this month, as Freddie Mac and
 Fannie Mae  are wound down.  Radian said the deal announced today will eliminate
obligations on about 9,800 loans that were delinquent and about
4,600 that were performing again as of July 31. Mortgage
insurers cover losses when homeowners default and foreclosures
fail to recoup costs.  Radian has paid about $255 million to  Freddie Mac  to cover
claim exposure on the loans, and had previously incurred $370
million of claims, according to the statement. The business also
deposited $205 million in a collateral account to cover loss-mitigation activity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  