-- RBC Leads Canadian Banks Beating Quarterly Estimates
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-08-29T20:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/rbc-leads-canadian-banks-in-beating-estimates-on-record-profit.html
Royal Bank of Canada , Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce joined the
country’s other lenders in topping analysts’ estimates for
third-quarter earnings, lifted by record profits in domestic
consumer lending and  wealth management .  Royal Bank,  Canada ’s largest lender by assets, reported
today that net income for the period ended July 31 rose 2.9
percent to a record C$2.3 billion ($2.19 billion), or C$1.52 a
share. Toronto-Dominion, the second-biggest bank, said profit
fell 10 percent to C$1.53 billion, or C$1.58 a share, after
taking insurance losses tied to severe weather claims. Canadian
Imperial, the fifth largest, said profit rose 5.8 percent to
C$890 million, or C$2.16 a share.  “It’s a return to business as usual for the Canadian
banks,”  Tom Lewandowski , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., said
in a phone interview from  St. Louis . “All of these banks said
they would see a slowdown in 2013 and it doesn’t seem to be
happening.”  The three Toronto-based banks posted record profit in
Canadian personal and commercial banking and wealth management
even as near record-low  interest rates  and tight net interest
margins proved challenging for lenders. Royal Bank and Toronto-Dominion joined  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in raising their quarterly
dividend.  Tougher Times  “I still feel that their real day in the sun is over, as
things are going to be tougher for them going forward,”  John Kinsey , who helps manage about C$1 billion including bank shares
at Caldwell Securities Ltd. In Toronto. “Eventually it’s going
to slow down a bit.”  The banks benefited by getting a jump on preparing for a
slower Canadian economy, cutting costs and raising fees ahead of
time, Kinsey said. Canada’s economy is predicted by economists
to grow 1.7 percent this year, the slowest pace since a
contraction in 2009.  “They’re not out of the woods yet, because the Canadian
economic numbers look rather weak,” Kinsey said.  Stocks of Canadian lenders rose in Toronto. Royal Bank
 climbed  1.2 percent to C$65.24 and Toronto-Dominion increased
2.7 percent to a record C$89.93. CIBC  advanced  2.8 percent to
C$82.66, while Edmonton-based  Canadian Western Bank (CWB) , which
yesterday posted results that beat  estimates , surged 4.7 percent
to C$29.49. The eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial
Banks Index hit a record high.  ‘Tremendous Strength’  “The Canadian banks have shown tremendous strength and
resilience,” Colleen Johnston, Toronto-Dominion’s chief
financial officer, said today in an interview. “But the
operating environment is challenging.”  Royal Bank said profit excluding some items was C$1.48 a
share, beating the C$1.38  average estimate  of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Toronto-Dominion reported adjusted profit
of C$1.65 a share, beating the C$1.53 average estimate of 11
analysts, and Canadian Imperial said adjusted profit was C$2.29
a share, topping the C$2.13 average estimate of 14 analysts.  Royal Bank benefited from a 51 percent increase in profit
from its wealth-management unit as fund sales and improving
stock markets lifted fee-based client assets. The lender also
added contributions from its RBC Investor Services custodian
business after buying out partner Banque Internationale a
Luxembourg SA in July 2012. Provisions for bad loans fell 18
percent to C$267 million from a year earlier. Royal Bank raised
its quarterly  dividend  6.3 percent to 67 cents.  Wealth Management  “Our strategies are working,” Royal Bank CFO Janice Fukakusa said in an interview. “It was a pretty clean quarter
and really solid results, and you see the strength of our
franchise.”  Profit from Royal Bank’s personal- and commercial-banking
unit rose 7.1 percent to C$1.18 billion and wealth management
posted C$236 million in profit. Insurance earnings fell 11
percent to C$160 million, while  profit  from the RBC Capital
Markets  investment-banking  business declined 9.6 percent to
C$388 million on lower revenue from advising on stock sales and
mergers, and declines in fixed-income trading revenue.  Toronto-Dominion posted record profit in Canadian wealth
management as well as its Canadian and U.S. retail-banking
businesses, according to Johnston. The bank raised its  dividend 
4.9 percent to 85 cents a share.  Canadian Lending  Adjusted profit from Canadian lending rose 12 percent to
C$997 million and profit from U.S. retail banking advanced 23
percent to C$445 million. Earnings from its investment-banking
unit fell 18 percent to C$147 million, the lender said.  Toronto-Dominion’s gains were tempered by insurance losses
on flood claims, which drove profit from its wealth management
and insurance unit down to C$7 million, from C$360 million a
year earlier. Rain-swollen rivers caused flooding in southern
 Alberta  in June and a record deluge in Toronto on July 8
submerged parts of Canada’s most populous city, contributing to
a C$243 million loss for TD Insurance in the quarter.  “If the market can look past the insurance charges, which
we believe it should, the exceptionally strong retail-banking
results on both sides of the border should be well-rewarded in
its valuation,”  John Aiken , a Barclays Plc analyst, said today
in a note to clients.  Toronto-Dominion’s third-quarter results “likely mean
little or no” growth in earnings per share for the year, Chief
Executive Officer Ed Clark, 65, said today in a conference call
with investors. The lender will consolidate facilities in Canada
and the U.S., including combining some branches, to cut costs,
he said.  CIBC Earnings  Canadian Imperial’s earnings were aided by a 34 percent
gain in its wealth-management unit, as well as increases in
investment banking and record profit in Canadian retail banking.  Consumer-lending and business-banking earnings climbed 7.4
percent to a record C$638 million from a year earlier. Profit
from CIBC’s wealth-management unit rose to a record C$102
million after buying the private-wealth business of MFS McLean
Budden last year from  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  Income from
investment banking advanced 39 percent to C$217 million, helped
by a 42 percent increase in trading revenue.  CIBC said in a separate statement that it plans to buy back
as many as 8 million shares, or 2 percent of its stock.  Canadian Western said yesterday in a statement that
quarterly profit was C$47.5 million, down 1 percent from last
year’s record high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  