-- RBI Powerless on Rates as Swaps Show Deeper Crunch: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-08-29T04:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/rbi-powerless-on-rates-as-swaps-show-deeper-crunch-india-credit.html
India’s incoming central bank
Governor Raghuram Rajan has little room to use borrowing costs
to spur Asia’s third-largest economy as the rupee plummets,
 interest-rate swaps  show.  The cost to lock in rates for a year using the contracts
surged 267 basis points this quarter to 10.16 percent yesterday
as investors bet the Reserve Bank of India will prolong a cash
crunch it created to shore up the currency. A similar rate in
China was at 4.09 percent. The RBI said it will sell dollars to
the nation’s biggest oil importers through a swap facility to
stem the slide in the rupee, which plunged 3.9 percent yesterday
to a record low of 68.8450 per dollar.  Rajan, who takes office on Sept. 5, will inherit an economy
with a record current-account  deficit , the highest inflation
rate among the largest developing nations and company bond
yields above 10 percent. Gross domestic product probably grew
4.6 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the least in four
years, a Bloomberg  survey  showed before data due tomorrow.  “The liquidity steps taken by the RBI have led to a gut-wrenching credit squeeze, going in the direction of worsening
growth,” Mirza Baig, head of foreign-exchange and interest-rate
strategy in  Singapore  at BNP, said in an interview on Aug. 23.
What Indian policy makers “are doing is having no effect,
they’re losing their credibility and raising the risk of a
rating downgrade,” he said.  Policy U-Turn  The RBI, which cut interest rates three times in the first
half to support the economy, was later forced to abort its pro-growth bias and curb funding availability to stem the exchange-rate slide. Since mid-July, the central bank has raised two of
its interest rates while keeping the benchmark  repurchase  rate
at 7.25 percent, curtailed lenders’ access to cash and drained
money from markets via open-market debt sales.  The tightening has led to the worst credit squeeze since
the global financial crisis of 2008, with benchmark  five-year 
company bond yields jumping 151 basis points since the end of
June to 10.20 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Three-month  commercial  paper rates rose 398 basis points to 12.40
percent. Company debt sales plunged to 1 billion rupees ($15
million) so far in August from 243 billion rupees in the same
period of 2012.  UBS AG and BNP Paribas cut their growth forecasts for  India 
this week as the funding crunch threatened to deter investments.
Switzerland’s largest bank reduced its estimate for GDP gains in
the year through March 2014 to 4.7 percent from 5.2 percent,
while  France ’s No. 1 bank lowered its projection to 3.7 percent
from 5.2 percent, according to separate reports.  ‘A Hard Place’  The RBI will be unable to resume policies that support the
economy until the rupee stabilizes, according to SJS Markets
Ltd. The Indian currency has tumbled almost 19 percent this
year, the worst performance among 24 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, as the prospect of the U.S. paring
stimulus boosted the dollar.  “The RBI is in a hard place,” Hemant Dharnidharka, the
Bangalore-based head of credit research at SJS Markets, said in
a phone interview on Aug. 27. “It can’t really support growth
and the currency at the same time. It can’t cut rates because of
the dollar and it can’t raise rates because of the slowing
economy. So unless one of these two things stabilizes or begins
to look up, the central bank can’t support the other.”  RBI Dollar Sales  The RBI will sell dollars to Indian Oil Corp., Bharat
Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum Corp., which the
authority will repurchase after a specified period, according to
a statement on its website. The measure, effective immediately,
will extend until further notice and will be available to the
companies through a designated bank. The rupee advanced 2.1
percent today to 67.45 per dollar following the central bank’s
announcement.  The move will help reduce demand for foreign exchange in
the spot market by as much as $600 million, the average monthly
purchase of crude by Indian oil companies this year, according
to Priyanka Kishore, a London-based currency strategist at
Standard Chartered Plc.  The government’s ability to accelerate public spending and
spur growth is also weakening as soaring debt costs threaten to
worsen the budget  deficit . Ten-year sovereign bond yields rose
139 basis points, or 1.39 percentage point, this quarter to 8.84
percent. Similar rates are 3.95 percent in  China , 3.57 percent
in South Korea and 2.77 percent in the U.S. The yield on India’s
7.16 percent notes due 2023 fell 12 basis points to 8.84 percent
today.  Global Recovery  A pickup in the global economy will help boost the local
services sector, which accounts for almost 60 percent of the
nation’s GDP, helping India return to an average growth of more
than 8.3 percent between 2014 and 2020, according to Dun &
Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt.  “India’s economic growth has slowed markedly over the last
two years due to structural and cyclical factors,” Arun Singh,
an economist at Dun & Bradstreet in Mumbai, wrote in an Aug. 26
research report. “We expect stability in the external
environment and recovery in global growth which will aid India’s
growth journey during the coming years.”  Bond risk in India is rising as economists predict the
economic slowdown will deepen in the coming quarters. Credit-default swaps insuring the bonds of  State Bank of India (SBIN)  against
non-payment for five years have climbed 97 basis points since
June to 372, according to data provider CMA.  While the RBI may eventually scale back the tightening
steps, it is unlikely to do so until there’s more clarity on the
Federal Reserve’s plans to reduce stimulus and before local
financial markets stabilize, according to Standard Chartered.  “It’s unlikely the RBI will ease liquidity ahead of the
Fed meeting on Sept. 18,” Nagaraj Kulkarni, a strategist at
Standard Chartered in Singapore, said in a phone interview on
Aug. 27. “We have enough indications that these tightening
measures will be short-term. If these measures are prolonged, we
could see them hurting the real economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  