-- Treasuries Fall Second Day as Economy Expands More Than Forecast
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-08-29T15:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/treasuries-hold-decline-before-jobless-claims-gdp-reports.html
Treasuries dropped for a second day
as a report showed the economy expanded last quarter faster than
previously forecast, boosting speculation the Federal Reserve
will reduce the pace of bond purchases as soon as next month.  Benchmark 10-year yields  pared gains on reports a fifth
U.S. destroyer was headed to the eastern Mediterranean before a
potential strike on  Syria . The economy grew at a 2.5 percent
annual pace in the second quarter, more than forecast and up
from the previous estimate of 1.7 percent, while weekly jobless
claims fell more than projected. The U.S. plans to auction $29
billion of seven-year debt after a sale of five-year notes
yesterday drew the least demand in four years.  “Tapering is there, one data point isn’t going to make a
difference now,” said David Ader, head of U.S. government bond
strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
referring to the Fed’s plans. “We are in this nervous
equilibrium and that will create short-term volatility.”  The U.S. 10-year yield increased two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.79 percent at 11:21 a.m. New York time,
after adding six basis points yesterday, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 2.5 percent note due in August 2023 fell
6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 97 17/32.  The yield climbed as much as six basis points earlier and
reached 2.93 percent on Aug. 22, the most since July 2011.  Index Extension  U.S. debt saw month-end buying to match market indexes.
Funds that manage portfolios against benchmark indexes,
including the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Index, typically buy
longer-maturity Treasuries at almost month-end to align the
interest rate sensitivity of their holdings with the indexes.  The Barclays index will extend its duration, the measure of
rate-sensitivity, by 0.11 year on Sept. 1, compared with 0.10
year on Aug. 1.  Treasuries lost 3.3 percent this year through yesterday,
including 0.8 percent in August, according to Bloomberg U.S.
Treasury Bond Index.  The seven-year notes being sold today yielded 2.25 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.026 percent at the
previous auction on July 25. Investors bid for 2.54 times the
amount offered last month compared with 2.61 at the June sale.  Auction Detail  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 48.6 percent of the securities
last month, primary dealers bought 34.9 percent and direct
bidders purchased 16.6 percent.  The five-year notes sold yesterday had a bid-to-cover ratio
of 2.38, the  lowest  since July 009 and compared with an average
of 2.74 for the past 10 sales. They drew a yield of 1.624
percent, compared with a forecast of 1.618 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of eight of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers.  Treasuries pared losses as the U.S. bolsters forces in
preparation for a potential strike on Syria. The USS Stout is en
route to join four destroyers already in the region, according
to a defense official who asked not to be identified discussing
military preparations.  “People are speculating there may be a strike over the
weekend,” said Dan Mulholland, head of Treasury trading at BNY
Mellon Capital Markets in New York.  Syria Watch  Treasuries rose earlier this week on speculation the U.S.,
 France  and Britain were moving closer to military action against
Syria after the nation’s government allegedly used chemical
weapons against civilians.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron face a decision whether to attack Syria without a UN
mandate amid Russian resistance, demands for consultation from
lawmakers at home and domestic opposition to involvement in
another conflict in the Middle East.  The Fed bought $1.6 billion of securities maturing from
February 2036 to February 2043 today, according to the New York
Fed’s website. Debate about when policy makers will start to
taper the $85 billion in monthly bond buying has roiled
financial markets around the world in the past three months and
sparked a selloff in fixed-income assets.  “Tapering is almost a done deal unless you get a real bad
employment number in September,” said Thomas Roth, senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc.  The economy expanded at a faster pace in the second
quarter as a smaller trade deficit and gains in inventories
overshadowed the effects of  federal budget  cutbacks. GDP growth
topped the median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected a 2.2 percent gain.  Jobless claims in the week ended Aug. 24 dropped 6,000 to
331,000 from a revised 337,000 the week before that was higher
than initially reported, the Labor Department said. The median
forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
drop to 332,000.  “It’s putting a little bit of pressure on Treasuries going
into the seven-year auction,” Mitsubishi’s Roth said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  