-- Trina Solar Rallies Amid Demand Outlook: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-29T21:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/trina-solar-rallies-amid-demand-outlook-china-overnight.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  led gains in
Chinese renewable energy makers in New York on prospects of
increased demand for its products in Asia.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 0.1 percent to 95.73 yesterday
as 29 companies rose and 26 fell. Trina, the third-largest solar
panel producer, jumped 5.9 percent, and Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. rallied the most in a week.  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) 
tumbled 11 percent after Morgan Stanley reduced its rating.
 Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMI)  traded at the
biggest  premium  to its Hong Kong stock in a week.  JA Solar Holdings Co., a Shanghai-based maker of cells,
said yesterday that second-quarter shipments beat its previous
forecast, driven by orders from China and  Japan . Spot prices for
Polysilicon, a raw material for making solar products, has
increased to to a four-month high in the past week, signaling a
rebound after excess production drove panel prices down 61
percent since the start of 2011.  The solar rally is a “recognition that pricing has
bottomed and is turning up in most markets,” David Smith, the
manager of the Gabelli Green Fund at Gamco Investors Inc., said
by e-mail from Purchase, New York. “There is clear upside to JA
Solar’s 2013 sales target, and the same is likely for Trina and
Yingli. As margins improve, the recognition is that the worst
has passed.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.3 percent to $35.11 for
the biggest rally in a week. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
added 0.2 percent as data showed the U.S. economy expanded at a
faster pace in the second quarter and concerns over  Syria  eased.  Trina Solar  American depositary receipts of Trina rallied to $9.40 in
New York, rising for a second day. Baoding-based Yingli, the
world’s biggest solar-panel maker, climbed 3.2 percent to $4.20,
gaining the most since Aug. 21.  JA Solar’s second-quarter shipments of solar modules and
cells exceeded the company’s previous forecast by 8 percent, the
company said in a statement yesterday.  Japan was a “key revenue” driver for JA Solar and the
company will benefit from further growth in the Chinese market,
where the government raised its installation target to 35
gigawatts by 2015, Chief Executive Officer Baofang Jin said,
according to JA Solar’s statement.  Semiconductor Manufacturing, a circuit foundry based in
 Shanghai , rallied 2 percent to $3.63. Its ADRs, each
representing 50 underlying shares in the company, traded 2.4
percent above its Hong Kong stock, the widest premium since Aug.
22. Sanford C Bernstein & Co. raised its recommendation to the
equivalent of hold from the equivalent of sell yesterday. The
shares are down 20 percent from this year’s high in May.  Online Games  Shanda, an online game operator based in Shanghai, tumbled
to $4.07, the biggest slump in a month. Morgan Stanley cut its
recommendation to an equivalent of hold yesterday after the
company said third-quarter revenue will rise as much as 4
percent from the previous three months.  The company’s outlook is “soft,” while its the potential
of mobile game platform is yet to be proved, Nick Ning, a
Shanghai-based analyst at 86Research Ltd. wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (HSCEI)  advanced 0.9 percent
to 9,850.72. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.2 percent to
2,097.23, slumping for a second day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  