-- Rogers Leads Telecoms Surge on Vodafone, Verizon
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-08-29T15:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/rogers-leads-telecoms-surge-on-vodafone-verizon.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , Canada’s
largest wireless carrier, led a rally in the country’s
telecommunications stocks on speculation that a  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  bid for its U.S. partner will reduce
Verizon’s appetite for Canadian expansion.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  confirmed it’s in talks to sell its 45
percent stake in Verizon Wireless to partner Verizon
Communications, in a deal that may be worth $130 billion,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Rogers rose 3.3 percent to C$42.11 in Toronto at 10:18 a.m.
after jumping as much as 5.1 percent, the biggest intraday
increase since Aug. 15. Montreal-based  BCE Inc. (BCE)  gained 1.8
percent to C$43.25 and  Telus Corp. (T) , based in Vancouver, added
3.3 percent to C$33.33.  “If negotiations between Verizon and Vodafone are really
heating up, we believe that the prospects of a Verizon entry
into Canadian wireless could decline significantly,”  Dvai Ghose , head of research at Canaccord Genuity said in a note to
clients dated yesterday.  Verizon’s balance sheet priority would be on a U.S. deal,
and management may not want to detract their focus by investing
in Canada, he said. The opportunity north of the border is small
for a “behemoth” like Verizon, Ghose said.  New York-based Verizon said in June it was weighing a bid
to buy Wind Mobile, the largest of three new Ontario-based
carriers. The Globe and Mail reported Aug. 14 the company may be
backing away from a Canadian entry.  Still, Verizon would have the financial scale to pursue
both opportunities, said Tim Casey, an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets. Verizon is likely to submit an initial deposit next
month, which is refundable, to participate in a January spectrum
auction to expand in  Canada , Casey said in a note today.  The Canadian carriers have taken out newspaper
advertisements to lobby against the government’s spectrum rules,
which limit incumbents to bid on just one of four blocks of 700-megahertz spectrum, which is prized for its ability to penetrate
dense urban areas. New entrants such as Verizon can bid on two
prime blocks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe in Toronto at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  