-- Yellen Backed by U.S. Labor Boss to Head Federal Reserve
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-08-29T19:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/trumka-says-yellen-s-history-on-employment-tops-summers-.html
Janet Yellen  has won the backing of
U.S. labor leaders, including the head of the AFL-CIO, to be the
next  Federal Reserve  chief over Larry Summers because of her
support for central bank policies promoting full employment.  Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairman, has a better approach on
jobs, making her a preferable successor to  Ben S. Bernanke  when
his term expires in January, AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka 
said today.  “She seems to be a better candidate,” Trumka, leader of
the nation’s biggest labor federation, said today in an
interview for “Political Capital” with  Al Hunt  to be broadcast
this weekend. “When things were going wrong in the economy, in
each one of those instances, she predicted them accurately.
Larry didn’t.”  Trumka said he has stressed to President  Barack Obama  his
preference for a Fed chief who emphasizes  job creation .  Yellen, 67, the No. 2 Fed official since 2010, would be the
first female leader in the central bank’s 100-year history.
Summers, 58, was Obama’s chief economic adviser until 2010 and
helped him decide on giving aid to ailing automaker Chrysler
LLC. Obama’s trust in Summers is a chief reason he is now
considered a leading candidate to replace Bernanke.  Yellen, if selected, probably would continue Fed polices to
stimulate the economy until jobs and wages recover from the
recession that began in December 2007, said Paul Shearon,
secretary-treasurer of the International Federation of
Professional and Technical Engineers. Summers has been hesitant
to back such an approach, he said.  Summers ‘Hesitant’  “When it actually came time to stimulate the economy in
other ways, we feel that he was hesitant in getting to that
position and didn’t have a desire to go far enough,” Shearon
said in an interview.  Yellen was an economics professor at the  University of
California , Berkeley, before serving as chairman of President
 Bill Clinton ’s  Council of Economic Advisers  and as San Francisco
Fed president.  In a Feb. 11 speech at a conference sponsored by the AFL-CIO, the federation of 57 labor unions with 12 million members,
Yellen spoke of the hardships endured by people out of work for
extended periods or whose wages have failed to keep pace with
the cost of living. She also said creating jobs should be
“center stage” as the Fed begins to wind down its policies to
stimulate the economy.  ‘Devastating’ Workers  “These are not just statistics to me,” Yellen said,
according to a copy of the speech posted on the Fed’s website.
“We know that long-term unemployment is devastating to workers
and their families. The toll is simply terrible on the mental
and physical health of workers, on their marriages, and on their
children.”  Trumka praised Yellen at a media breakfast today sponsored
by the Christian Science Monitor and said any Summers’
endorsement of a jobs policy was unlikely to change the minds of
many labor leaders.  Summers “may come out and say I am fully in favor of
enforcing full employment as well as inflation,” Trumka told
reporters at the breakfast. “If you looked at history, who do I
think would be the best at that job to date, I think you know
who that is. She’s been very balanced in her approach.”  Unemployment should be the highest priority for the Fed and
“activist” policies to boost jobs are needed, said Owen
Herrnstadt, director of trade and globalization for the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
Herrnstadt, who didn’t attend the Feb. 11 conference, read
excepts of Yellen’s speech.  Shared Concerns  “She appears to be speaking to many of our concerns,”
Herrnstadt said in an interview. “We would need to be convinced
that he shares our concerns on unemployment and stagnant wage
growth,” he said, referring to Summers.  Summers, a former Treasury secretary, also led  Harvard
University  from 2001 to 2006.  Bernanke’s second four-year term ends Jan. 31. In a July 24
interview with the  New York Times (NYT) , President Barack Obama said
he wants a chairman who understands the Fed’s dual mandate to
promote maximum employment and price stability.  “I sort of assumed that Yellen was kind of a shoo-in given
her background,”  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center for
Economic and Policy Research, a Washington-based group funded by
labor unions and private foundations, said in an interview.  Summers “was a big proponent of deregulation. The Fed’s
going to have to make some calls on a lot of regulatory rulings,
both setting rules but also ongoing policy, and I would expect
Summers would be much more Wall Street friendly than Yellen.”  Bond Buying  As Fed vice chairman since 2010, Yellen played a key role
in the Federal Open Market Committee’s campaign to pump up the
economy. She’s been a defender of the central bank’s bond-buying, saying the strategy helped bring down long-term  interest
rates  and reduce unemployment.  Summers has been more circumspect on the Fed’s bond-buying
policy, said Lawrence Mishel, president of the  Economic Policy
Institute , a Washington-based research group focused on
improving the  living standards  for low and moderate income
families.  “We don’t know  Larry Summers ,” Mishel said in an
interview. “Larry hasn’t articulated everything about monetary
policy.”  Trumka said in an interview after the broadcast that while
the AFL-CIO hasn’t taken a formal position on the next Fed
chief, he has told Obama what policies are important to workers.  “Fed chiefs in the past that have only looked to their
inflation-fighting mandate to the exclusion of their full-employment mandate, have cost this country and cost American
workers,” Trumka said in an interview. “We’ve made this known
to” the administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  