-- Rupee Seen on Slippery Path as Volatility Highest: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-30T05:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/rupee-seen-on-slippery-path-as-volatility-highest-india-credit.html
India’s rupee is seen swinging the
most among global currencies as  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Credit
Agricole CIB say government efforts to buoy the currency by
boosting offshore borrowing are misguided.  Three-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, jumped 649 basis
points this quarter to 19.14 percent, the highest among 48
global currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The rupee has plummeted
18 percent this year in Asia’s worst performance.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram aims to contain
the current-account deficit at $70 billion in the year through
March 2014 and said at least $11 billion will be funded through
non-rupee liabilities. The government will ease rules for
overseas corporate loans, make state-run companies sell bonds
offshore and incentivize Indians living abroad to deposit more
foreign currency with the nation’s banks, he said Aug. 12.  “Increasing foreign-exchange liabilities is an easy way
for policy makers to try and balance the currency market,”
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB, said in an Aug. 27 e-mail interview. “However,
it’s a slippery path at a time when structural reforms are not
in place, and markets seem to have lost patience.”  The Reserve Bank of  India  said in a report last week the
nation’s debt-servicing needs “may pose a concern” for the
shortfall in the broadest measure of trade. The central bank has
identified the deficit as the biggest risk to Asia’s third-largest economy.  $172 Billion  India had $172 billion of debt  maturing  within 12 months as
of March 31, equivalent to about 59 percent of the nation’s
foreign reserves, official data show. That’s the highest ratio
since at least 2005 and compares with 51.4 percent in  Indonesia .
The current-account deficit will be narrowed from a record $87.8
billion mainly by restricting gold imports to 850 metric tons
this year, Chidambaram said.  “A lot of borrowing offshore is what got them into this
mess in the first place,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at
Westpac in  Singapore , said in an Aug. 22 telephone interview.
“The market needs to see some sustainable steps taken to narrow
the current-account deficit before this capital comes in, and we
just aren’t there yet.”  Financing pressures have weakened the rupee. The currency
fell the most in 20 years to an unprecedented 68.8450 per dollar
on Aug. 28 on concern a surge in oil prices amid political
tension over  Syria  will worsen India’s external position and
push the economy toward its biggest crisis since 1991.  Payments Crises  Oil-price shocks triggered balance-of-payments crises in
India in 1981 and 1991. During those periods of tumult, debt-servicing increased with the help of external commercial
borrowings and deposits from non-resident Indians, according to
a Dec. 7  speech  by RBI Executive Director Deepak Mohanty.  Since Aug. 20, the RBI has exempted banks accepting
deposits from overseas Indians from keeping 4 percent of the
money as  cash  and investing 23 percent in approved securities.
Such deposits stood at $70.8 billion in the year ended March 31,
compared with $58.6 billion in the previous year, RBI data show.  “Non-stable flows,” including purchases of Indian stocks
and bonds by foreign institutional investors and short-term
credit, comprised more than half of total capital inflows in the
last fiscal year compared with one-third in the previous period,
according to the RBI’s annual report released Aug. 22.  Currency Reserves  The central bank’s foreign-currency  reserves  fell to $277
billion as of Aug. 2, the lowest level since 2010, due to
currency valuations and as the central bank intervened to defend
the rupee. The holdings were $279 billion on Aug. 16, according
the latest official data.  “Most of the currency risk sits with foreign institutional
investors and non-resident Indians, and the RBI is expending its
reserves to protect these investments,” Mirza Baig, head of
currency and interest-rate strategy at BNP Paribas SA in
Singapore, said in an Aug. 23 telephone interview. “The costs
outweigh the benefits.”  Bond risk in India is rising. Credit-default swaps insuring
the bonds of  State Bank of India (SBIN)  against non-payment for five
years have climbed 96 basis points since end-June to 371,
according to data provider CMA.  Chidambaram’s plan to get state-run companies to sell
foreign-currency bonds will boost costs for Indian borrowers as
total issuance from the nation will increase, Hemant Dharnidharka, the Bangalore-based head of credit research at SJS
Markets, said in an Aug. 22 e-mail interview.  Current Account  India’s current-account deficit will narrow more than the
government forecasts, making it easier to fund, according to
Barclays Plc. The lender predicts the shortfall could drop to as
low as $57 billion, causing the rupee to strengthen to 61 per
dollar in six to 12 months.  The currency climbed 3.4 percent yesterday after the RBI
said it will sell dollars to state-run oil refiners through swap
agreements. It fell 0.2 percent today to 66.7450 per dollar. The
yield on the 10-year government bond rose five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 8.83 percent today.  “However, given the present fragile market sentiment, the
underlying improvements in India’s current account may go
unnoticed,”  Siddhartha Sanyal  and  Rahul Bajoria , Barclays
economists in Mumbai and Singapore, wrote in an Aug. 23 report.
“Near-term rupee weakness could persist, especially in the
absence of policy initiatives to quickly boost capital flows.”  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley estimates borrowings by the 10 most-indebted
Indian companies have risen sixfold since 2007 to $120 billion,
and a quarter of corporates lack the cash flow to cover their
interest payments, according to an Aug. 27 report. India’s
import cover has declined to 5.5 months from 14 months in 2007,
the report said.  Domestic structural factors are the root cause of the
rupee’s drop, while the speed and timing of the plunge is due to
speculation about the U.S. paring of stimulus, RBI Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said in a speech yesterday. His term ends next
week, and Raghuram Rajan will take charge of the central bank.  “Not so long ago, India was still celebrated as one of the
emerging nations destined to rise for the indefinite future,”
the report by Morgan Stanley’s Global emerging-markets equity
team said. “But behind the scenes the picture was
deteriorating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  