-- Russian GDP Forecasts Cut After Second-Quarter’s Drop
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-08-29T10:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/russian-gdp-forecasts-cut-after-second-quarter-s-drop.html
Russia ’s  economy  will grow less than
previously forecast this quarter and next after weak investment
and external demand added to the worst slowdown since a 2009
recession, according to a survey of analysts.  Gross domestic product will advance 2.6 percent from a year
earlier in the third quarter and 3.1 percent in the final three
months of 2013, according to the median estimates of 16
economists in a Bloomberg survey. That’s down from forecasts of
3 percent and 3.4 percent a month ago.  Economists are downgrading their growth forecasts as the
issue of monetary easing moves to the forefront of policy
debates, with central bank Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  weighing
the first cut to lending rates in a year. Monetary stimulus may
help close the output gap in Russia’s economy, though choosing
the appropriate course of action is solely up to the central
bank, Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  told reporters today.  “Weak second-quarter GDP data, stagnating industry,
falling investments and still fragile sentiments left the market
with a low base and stronger agricultural output as nearly the
only factors for a recovery in growth in annual terms,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia at ING Groep NV in Moscow,
said today by e-mail.  Economic expansion slowed to 1.2 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter after a 1.6 percent gain in the
previous three months, the Federal Statistics Service said Aug.
9. That was below all 19 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey, which
had a median estimate of 2 percent growth. The Economy Ministry
this week cut its growth forecast for the year to 1.8 percent
from 2.4 percent in April.  Lagging Behind  Russia’s dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  of 50 stocks has
tumbled 14.6 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent drop
in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index and a 15 percent advance for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The central bank may have been reluctant to lower rates
because of the pace of consumer-loan growth, Sanna Kurronen, an
economist at Danske Bank A/S in Helsinki, said today by e-mail.
While growth will probably recover in the second half,
“considerably lower” investment is slowing the economy.  “Faster growth in mortgage loans or corporate loans would
be welcome,” she said. “The central bank should have cut the
main rate some four months ago.”  Monetary-policy makers are scheduled to hold their next
meeting on interest rates Sept. 13, the central bank said after
its Aug. 9 meeting. Economic growth will slow to 2 percent this
year and “gradually” recover in 2014, the regulator said in a
report Aug. 13.  Reductions Ahead  Economists predicted a quarter-point cut in the overnight
repurchase auction rate to 5.25 percent in the third quarter and
another quarter-point reduction in the fourth, according to the
median forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. That was unchanged from
last month.  Household consumption will remain the economy’s stalwart
this year, with slower inflation and low unemployment sustaining
spending, Vladimir Osakovskiy, Moscow-based chief economist for
Russia at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said by phone.  “Public spending and investment demand will likely be
laggards,” he said today. “On external demand, we might see
some pickup in exports but imports will likely be robust as
well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  