-- Salesforce Revenue Forecast Tops Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-08-29T22:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/salesforce-sales-forecast-tops-estimates.html
(Corrects analyst’s rating in eighth paragraph).  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  issued a fiscal
third-quarter sales and earnings forecast that topped analysts’
estimates as the largest seller of customer-management software
adds marketing tools to its lineup.  Revenue for the period ending in October will be $1.05
billion to $1.06 billion and profit excluding some items will be
8 cents to 9 cents a share, the company said in a statement
today. That compared with analysts’ average  estimate  for profit
of 7 cents on sales of $1.04 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The company raised full-year guidance and shares
rose in extended  trading .  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  is adding online-marketing software to his sales and customer-support products as
he seeks to expand beyond $4 billion in sales this year.
Salesforce last month closed its $2.5 billion acquisition of
ExactTarget Inc. -- the San Francisco-based company’s biggest
ever -- to add tools for e-mail marketing by businesses.  “More and more IT budget dollars will flow to the chief
marketing officer over time and Salesforce.com has decided to
target that person,” said  Steven Ashley , an analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co., who has an outperform rating on the shares, the
equivalent of a buy. “Marketing generates leads and hands them
to sales, then they become customers and need service.”  Salesforce rose as much as 8.7 percent in extended trading
after  closing  up 2 percent at $43.65 in  New York . The stock has
climbed 3.9 percent this year, trailing the 9.5 percent  return 
of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index.  Integrating Acquisitions  For the fiscal second quarter through July, sales rose 31
percent to $957.1 million, compared with analysts’ average
estimate for $938.9 million. Profit excluding some items was 9
cents a share, compared with analysts’ 7-cent projection.  Salesforce reported  net income  of $76.6 million, which
included a $133.4 million tax gain. Analysts had predicted a $90
million loss.  “In terms of foreseeing the future and making the right
bets, Benioff’s truly been vindicated,” said Pat Walravens, an
analyst at JMP Securities LLC, who has a market outperform
rating on the shares, the equivalent of a buy.  Billings, a measure of the amount Salesforce invoiced
customers during the quarter, increased 31.7 percent to $966.9
million, compared with analysts’ average estimate of $937
million.  Salesforce raised its full-year sales forecast to $4
billion to $4.03 billion, from $3.96 billion to $4 billion.  Cloud Vendor  Benioff is expanding Salesforce’s presence in online
software that companies pay to use on an annual basis, getting
regular updates and new features, instead of installing programs
on personal computers and servers.  The company’s “current valuation does not give full credit
to Salesforce’s status as the largest pure-play software-as-a-service vendor,”  Brent Thill , and analyst at UBS AG, wrote in
an Aug. 13 note to clients. The company “has shown a good track
record of integrating acquisitions and providing execs of
acquired companies with significant responsibilities,” he said.  ExactTarget helped to lift Salesforce’s revenue result and
outlook, although Benioff probably had to pay a premium to buy
the company, a provider of e-mail marketing tools that companies
such as Nike Inc. and Gap Inc. covet, Walravens said.  “This is one area where it took him a while to figure it
out, and as a result, he had to pay more money than we probably
would have liked,” Walravens said.  Growth Push  In addition to ExactTarget, Salesforce has bought social-media marketing companies Buddy Media Inc. for $689 million last
year, and Radian6 Technologies Inc. for $326 million in 2011.
When Salesforce announced the ExactTarget deal in June, Benioff
told analysts buying smaller companies was taking too long to
tack on revenue.  Benioff is competing in the cloud-computing software market
with companies including  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , SAP AG and Workday Inc.
Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  in June hosted a conference call with
Benioff as the companies mended fences. Salesforce signed a
long-term deal to use Oracle’s software and Exadata computers,
and Oracle began using Salesforce’s customer-management
software. A former Ellison deputy, Benioff later became a
competitor in in the customer-relationship software space.  Salesforce  surpassed  SAP this year as the top seller of
customer-relationship management software, according to market
researcher Gartner Inc. In June, Salesforce hired Keith Block, a
former Oracle sales executive, as president and vice chairman.  Salesforce plans to hold its annual Dreamforce user
conference in  San Francisco  from Nov. 18. Speakers include
Yahoo! Inc. CEO  Marissa Mayer  and Facebook Inc. Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , according to Salesforce’s Web site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  