-- Saudi Oil Output to Stay Near 10 Million Barrels a Day
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-08-29T17:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/saudi-oil-output-to-stay-near-10-million-barrels-a-day.html
Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest
producer, will probably keep crude production in September at
similar levels to this month and July, a person with knowledge
of the kingdom’s oil policy said.  The world’s biggest crude exporter produced 10.03 million
barrels a day in July, and taking into account inventory
movements it supplied 9.9 million barrels a day to the market
that month, the person said, asking not to be identified because
the matter is confidential. Output won’t vary much unless market
conditions change, the person said.  Saudi Arabia isn't supplanting sales from Libya, where oil
exports have dipped, and the current situation is different to
2011 when the North African nation was in greater turmoil, the
person said, adding that Saudi and Libyan crude varieties are
different and most Saudi customers are in Asia.  A PIRA Energy Group forecast suggesting Saudi Arabian
production will rise to an average 10.5 million barrels a day
this quarter, is inaccurate, the person said. The prediction
was reported earlier today by Reuters.  Gary Ross, chief executive officer at PIRA in  New York ,
declined to comment when his office was contacted by  Bloomberg
News  today.  The 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates
and Venezuela. The group will next meet in Vienna on Dec. 4.  OPEC’s total crude production increased 116,000 barrels a
day in August from July, to 31.04 million barrels a day, with
Saudi Arabian production rising 150,000 barrels a day to 9.95
million barrels a day, according to a Bloomberg survey of
producers, companies and analysts published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  