-- SCA Property Has A$70 Million of Debt Capacity to Fund Purchases
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-29T22:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/sca-property-has-a-70-million-of-debt-capacity-to-fund-purchases.html
SCA Property Group (SCP) , the Australian
real estate trust spun off by supermarket chain  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) 
last year, said it has about A$70 million ($62 million) of debt
capacity available to fund its plans to buy shopping centers.  The company will see its gearing -- the ratio of its debt
to assets -- rise to about 33 percent in a year when it acquires
two centers being developed by Woolworths, from 28.9 percent as
of June 30, Chief Executive Officer Anthony Mellowes said in a
telephone interview. Under existing debt facilities, its gearing
can rise to as high as 40 percent, he said.  SCA Property in June agreed to buy seven neighborhood
centers in Victoria and Queensland for A$135.8 million, partly
funding it with a A$90 million institutional equity raising. The
company, which owns A$1.5 billion of shopping centers, most
anchored by supermarkets, will focus on buying existing centers
rather than starting its own new developments, Mellowes said.  “Most of the neighborhood shopping centers, which we would
buy, are normally in the range of A$20 million to A$40 million
for one,” Mellowes said, adding that the company would probably
fund single acquisitions with debt. “If we do a portfolio, we
would have to go out and raise more capital.”  Neighborhood centers are  defined  by industry group Property
Council of  Australia  as local malls with one supermarket and
about 35 specialty stores.  The Sydney-based company will consider refurbishments of
its own malls over the next three years, Mellowes said.
Potential candidates for smaller redevelopments include centers
in Gladstone and Mackay in Queensland state, while properties
with development land attached such as the North Orange mall in
New South Wales and Ocean Grove in Victoria, could double in
size, he said.  SCA Property on Aug. 28 reported a  net loss  of A$4.4
million due to one-time costs associated with its formation. It
reported distributable earnings of A$38.6 million, or 6.6
Australian cents a share, and reiterated its forecast for
earnings of 12.2 cents a share for the year to June 30, 2014.  The  shares  have risen 3.3 percent this year, compared with
a 9.5 percent gain in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  