-- Scania Says Arms-Length Policy Remains Amid Auditor Push
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   E k   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-08-29T12:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/scania-says-arms-length-policy-remains-amid-auditor-push.html
Scania AB (SCVB)  said an arms-length policy
on cooperation with majority investor  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  MAN SE (MAN) 
remains in place after a Swedish shareholders group called for
an independent audit of the companies’ transactions.  “If a third party buys something from us, we transfer
value in the form of a product and get money for that, and the
same principle should apply when you cooperate with someone,”
Erik Ljungberg, a spokesman at Soedertaelje, Sweden-based
Scania, said in a phone interview today. “If we are going to
cooperate on something, it must benefit us, we must gain from
it. If we do, everyone benefits.”  The Swedish Shareholders’ Association, which represents
individuals with small stakes in the country’s traded companies,
 called  this month for an independent monitor to evaluate
cooperation between truckmaker Scania and Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest car manufacturer, to ensure
that minority investors’ interests aren’t overlooked.  The group is seeking the support of investors controlling
10 percent of Scania stock to call a shareholders’ meeting to
appoint the outside overseer.  “We want a special independent auditor to evaluate whether
cooperation and the transfer of value is done in a proper way,”
Carl Rosen, head of the association, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “If you look at how VW has acted before, they are
infamous for not caring much about minority shareholders.”  Volkswagen’s Role  Volkswagen bought 18.7 percent of the capital in Scania and
34 percent of the voting rights in 2000. While helping the
Swedish company fend off a takeover by Munich-based truckmaker
MAN, VW also began accumulating stock in the German manufacturer
to push a combination of the three companies’ commercial-vehicle
operations.  VW now  owns  46 percent of Scania’s equity and 71 percent of
the votes, while MAN holds 13 percent of the stock and 17
percent of the votes. VW’s stake in MAN exceeds 75 percent, and
the carmaker is in the process of buying full control.  Scania’s board outlined terms in July 2008 on cooperation
with the Volkswagen group “to ensure that all corporate benefit
issues with related parties are handled in accordance with the
arms-length principle,” the Swedish truckmaker said in a
statement yesterday. “The board of directors is continuously
reviewing this policy.”  Investors’ Cost  Smaller Scania stockholders lost out on 15 billion kronor
($2.3 billion), or 18,000 kronor per investor, when Volkswagen
and MAN took control of Scania and avoided making a bid for all
the shares, the shareholders association said in the statement
calling for an auditor.  Investor AB (INVEB) , the publicly traded holding
company of  Sweden ’s billionaire Wallenberg family, sold its A-class shares in Scania at 30 percent to 40 percent more than the
stock’s market price, the association said.  Minority holders’ interests were ignored earlier this year
when Scania’s board removed the nomination committee that
usually proposes members to a company’s board, the association
said.  Marco Dalan, a spokesman for Volkswagen, declined yesterday
to comment on the Swedish association’s statement.  Investors are concerned that a 1 billion-euro ($1.33
billion) cost-savings plan for Volkswagen’s truck units,
including Scania, won’t reflect market conditions, association
head Rosen said. Now that VW dominates MAN, shareholders in
Scania are the only minority investors in the VW group,
according to Rosen.  Besides VW and MAN, major owners of Scania stock include
Swedbank Robur funds, Alecta, AMF, Skandia Liv and Handelsbanken
Fonder. About 100,000 smaller investors directly hold about 5
percent of Scania stock, while millions of Swedes are indirect
shareholders through funds and insurers, according to the
association website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Ek in Stockholm at 
 vek@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  