-- Schaeuble Snubs Greek Plea for Direct Bank Recapitalization
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-08-29T10:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/schaeuble-snubs-greek-plea-for-direct-bank-recapitalization-1-.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  closed down one avenue of help sought by Greece while
signaling that the Greek government can expect additional aid of
as much as 11 billion euros ($14.7 billion).  Schaeuble said in an Aug. 27 interview in Berlin that a
figure of 10 billion euros to 11 billion euros “appears
plausible.” At the same time, he rejected retroactive direct
recapitalization of banks from  Europe ’s permanent rescue fund as
proposed by Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras.  “We must be very careful not to promise too much in this
area,” Schaeuble said. “Raising expectations that can’t be
realized is always dangerous.”  Schaeuble thrust Greece on to  Germany ’s election campaign
when he said on Aug. 20 that the country at the heart of the
debt crisis will need another aid program after the current one
expires next year. Stournaras told Handelsblatt newspaper this
week that  Greece  faces a financing gap of about 10 billion euros
in 2014 and 2015. He proposed shifting debt from the country’s
public coffers to the European Stability Mechanism to complement
reductions in loan rates and maturity extensions.  The fund’s ceiling for direct bank recapitalizations is 60
billion euros, and “those who know the figures are aware that
the entire capacity of the ESM would be used up very quickly if
it was used for the retroactive recapitalization of banks in the
program countries,” said Schaeuble. “One can read time and
again that some in the  euro zone  want to use the instrument of
direct bank recapitalization through the ESM retroactively. We
don’t even have the instrument yet.”  Bundestag Backing  Schaeuble said that “several more steps are needed”
before direct bank recapitalization is available. Among them,
national parliaments including Germany’s lower house, the
Bundestag, have to back “the new ESM instrument.”  Greece is in the sixth year of a recession deepened by
spending cuts and tax increases linked to a 240 billion-euro
bailout from the euro area and the  International Monetary Fund .  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said on Aug. 21 that the “possible continuation of
Greece’s bailout program and its financing” will be assessed
after a review next month, following Germany’s Sept. 22 vote, by
the so-called troika of the IMF, the European Commission and the
 European Central Bank . He said in an interview in Brussels
yesterday that “it is premature to quote any figure.”  ‘Moderate Size’  “The troika mentions a figure of 10-11 billion euros by
2016, which appears plausible,” said Schaeuble. “On the one
hand that’s a large sum, on the other hand it is of a moderate
size compared to the two European bailout programs for Greece”
to date.  Schaeuble has ruled out a second debt cut for Greece,
saying that would fan uncertainty among investors. German Social
Democratic chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck , Schaeuble’s
predecessor as finance minister, has said that Schaeuble’s
remarks that Greece will need additional funds are proof the
government’s crisis policies aren’t working.  Even so, Steinbrueck at a press conference in Berlin today
said he shares Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s skepticism and
“extreme reluctance” on a second debt cut for Greece. Any
writedown of publicly-held Greek debt faces “considerable
difficulties” not least because of the bonds held by the
European Central Bank, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  