-- Serco Falls Most Since 2002 on Prisoner Data: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-08-29T16:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/serco-falls-most-since-2002-on-prisoner-data-london-mover.html
Serco Group Plc (SRP) , the U.K. services
provider that withdrew from seeking a Ministry of Justice
contract on concern about its billing practices, slumped the
most in 11 years after saying it misreported data on escorting
prisoners for the same department.  The  shares  plunged 11 percent, the most since July 2002, to
538.5 pence in  London , the lowest this year. That was the worst
performance today on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index and the decline
cut about 340 million pounds ($527 million) from Serco’s market
value. The volume of shares traded was more than seven times the
three-month daily average.  Data on the Prisoner Escorting and Custodial Services
contract was misreported and performance overstated, the Hook,
England-based company said in a statement today. Serco agreed to
repay any profit, estimated to be about 2 million pounds, earned
since the seven-year 285 million-pound contract was renewed in
2011 and forego future profit.  “The risk is the impact on Serco’s broader relationship
with government and the potential impact of greater transparency
on margins,” Joe Brent, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. who
put his buy  rating  under review, said in a note to clients. The
financial effect of the contract expenses will probably be
“minimal,” he said.  Serco agreed to a three-month program with the ministry to
restore performance and will keep the contract if its meets
performance requirements. There was no evidence that managers
outside the contract knew of the misreporting, the company said.  ‘Deeply Saddened’  “I am deeply saddened and appalled at the misreporting of
data by a small number of employees on the contract,” Serco
Chief Executive Officer Chris Hyman said in the statement. “We
will not tolerate any wrongdoing and that is why we have
referred this matter to the police.”  Serco agreed to “initiate a program of change and
corporate renewal” and to have the government exercise
independent oversight of the plan, it said. In July, Serco
withdrew from seeking a contract for electronic monitoring of
prisoners amid a government investigation.  Serco also announced first-half results today and left its
overall full-year guidance unchanged. That implies a “material
climb down” in growth in the second half after a better-than-expected 8.8 percent organic revenue gain in the first half,
Investec Securities analyst Gideon Adler said in a note to
clients.  “In the short term it faces the triple threat of a subdued
revenue outlook, particularly in its U.K. public sector
pipeline, margin headwinds and contracting free cash flow,”
said Adler, who maintained a sell recommendation.  Serco jumped to its highest price since at least 1991 on
July 8 after winning a U.S. Medicare and Medicaid support
contract worth as much as $1.25 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at  