-- Singh Woos Voters Passing Farmer Friendly Land-for-Industry Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-08-29T16:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/singh-woos-voters-passing-farmer-friendly-land-for-industry-law.html
India passed a key bill that assures
fairer terms for farmers when companies acquire their land for
factories and mines, seeking to curb deadly clashes as Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh attempts to woo poor voters.  Changes to a century-old law will allow farmers to get at
least double the value of their land as  compensation , while
helping revive stalled projects. Private businesses will also
need to win the approval of at least 80 percent of landholders
before seeking state intervention to evict the remaining
residents. The law requires a social impact study and provides
valuation rules.  Singh, whose administration has been marked by corruption
allegations and policy gridlock, is seeking to burnish his pro-poor image by passing legislation in the final months of his
second five-year term. He won a rare victory on Aug. 26, when
lawmakers passed another landmark bill that expands the world’s
biggest food program, as he struggles to rescue a tumbling rupee
and revive economic growth from a decade low.  “This is like a 5,000-meter race, where in the last 500
meters you really speed up,” said Sandeep Shastri, a political
analyst and pro-vice chancellor of Jain University in Bangalore.
“But in the first 4,500 meters you lost so much time that no
matter how fast you run in that 500 meters it won’t really
help.”  Maoist Rebellion  The land bill has been fought over both within the ruling
Congress party and in parliament since September 2011, delaying
the ratification of a key plank of the government’s agenda to
spread the benefits of growth. Protests over state-backed
purchases of land at below-market rates for factories or
highways have increased in frequency since 2007, triggering
calls for greater compensation to farmers.  “It’s detrimental for companies,” said Giriraj Daga, an
analyst at Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai. “The viability
of projects will be affected because getting the consent of land
owners will be difficult and higher compensation will lead to an
increase in costs.’  The new law, which was passed by the lower house and still
needs to be approved by the upper house, comes at a time when
the economy is on the verge of its biggest crisis in more than
two decades. The currency has weakened about 17 percent versus
the dollar this year. The tumble has brought back memories of
 India ’s early 1990s crisis, when the government received an
International Monetary Fund loan as foreign reserves dwindled.  Colonial Law  The passage of the law amends the 1894 colonial-era Land
Acquisition Act, which allows the state to seize land at cheap
rates if it believes there’s a larger public interest, such as
the creation of jobs. Abuse of the rule has led to clashes
between farmers and provincial administrations, and fueled
Maoist rebellions in some mineral-rich states, including
Chhattisgarh.  Plans by  Posco (005490) , the world’s third-largest steelmaker, to
build a $12 billion steel project -- billed as the biggest
investment in India by a foreign company -- have languished
since 2005 because of opposition from farmers unwilling to
vacate public land they’ve occupied for generations.  Singh’s minority government needed the backing of regional
parties for the passage of the bill, which was championed by
Congress President  Sonia Gandhi  and her son  Rahul Gandhi ,
members of a political dynasty that has ruled India for most of
the last seven decades.  Opinion Poll  Fatal clashes between farmers and companies trying to
secure land for projects have hampered India’s plans to expand
its network of highways, new power projects and mines hindering
growth. Tussles have sparked rioting and stalled more than $100
billion of projects across India, the Associated Chambers of
Commerce & Industry said in 2009.  The ruling coalition, made up of nine political parties, is
likely to lose the next election, according to an opinion poll
published by Times Now television channel and C-Voter polling
agency last month. The number of seats won by Congress is likely
to drop by about 42 percent to 119 seats while the main
opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  is likely to win 131 seats,
the poll found. No margin of error was given.  ‘‘This government has seen a drift that we have never seen
in the past, a period of policy paralysis and a sudden awakening
at the end which may not prove to be anything substantial at the
polls,” Shastri said. “A few months is a long time in politics
to demolish your image but a few months is too short a time to
build up your image.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  