-- Slovenia Recession Seen Easing as Consumption Drop Abates
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-08-29T14:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/slovenia-recession-seen-easing-as-consumption-drop-abates.html
Slovenia’s second  recession  since
2009 eased in the second quarter as consumption fell less than
in the first three-month period, a survey of economists shows.  Gross domestic product shrank 3.1 percent from the same
period in the previous year after a 4.8 percent contraction in
the first quarter, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg  survey of six economists . The statistics office will
publish the data tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. in Ljubljana.  “The government’s ability to raise sufficient financing
and its submission of the national reform program to the
European Union is likely to have calmed nerves and eased the
pace of contraction in private-sector investment,” Abbas Ameli
Renani, an emerging-market economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group in  London , said in an e-mail today. “Net exports will
most likely be the only positive contributor to the economy, as
weak private consumption – albeit not as weak as before – will
ensure imports continue to fall more than exports.”  Slovenia expects its economy to recover only in 2015 as
consumption is failing to pick up and the nation battles a
banking crisis that is further undermining growth prospects.  The administration of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek has
vowed to fix the bank industry with a direct capital boost of
1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) and by swapping their bad loans
for government guaranteed bonds to aid the recovery. Central
bankers have said it may be higher.  Falling Yield  The yield on the nation’s benchmark bond maturing in 2022
dropped 3 basis points to 6.71 percent at 2:28 p.m. in
Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps, which rise as the perceived creditworthiness of
the country worsens, declined 4 basis points to 351, data shows.  Central bank Governor Bostjan Jazbec yesterday told STA
newswire that 1.5 billion euros should suffice for the bank
rescue plan. He said bad-loan transfers from Nova Ljubljanska
Banka d.d., the nation’s biggest lender, will start in October.  The bank rescue plan should “convince financial markets
that Slovenia is a credible debtor and any new borrowing will be
used for restructuring economy,” Jazbec said in the interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  