-- Spain Recession Eases as Exports Pave Way for Recovery
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-08-29T11:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/spain-recession-eases-as-exports-pave-way-for-recovery.html
Spain ’s recession  eased  in the
second quarter as domestic demand stabilized and exports surged,
supporting the government’s forecast that the fourth-largest
economy in the euro area will recover this year.  Exports rose 6 percent after a 3.8 percent decline in the
previous quarter, while household spending contracted 0.1
percent from the three months through March, when it shrank 0.5
percent, the Madrid-based National Statistics Institute said
today.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.1 percent in the second
quarter, the office said, confirming a July 30 estimate. The
economy contracted 1.6 percent from a year earlier.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is relying on exports and
tourism to rekindle growth as tax increases, spending cuts and
an unemployment rate of more than 26 percent undermine domestic
spending. The 17-nation euro region, which includes Spain’s main
trading partners, emerged from its longest-ever recession in the
second quarter.  “Data seem encouraging but this could change any time,”
 Maria Yolanda Fernandez Jurado , associate professor in the
Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences at Madrid’s
Universidad Pontificia Comillas, said in a telephone interview.
“Small and medium enterprises are still in a difficult
situation and  job creation  is mostly temporary or part-time.”  Tourist Visits  Inflation (SPCPEUYY) , calculated using a harmonized European Union
method, slowed to 1.6 percent in August from 1.9 percent in
July, INE said in a separate release. That’s in line with the
1.6 percent median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Growth will be flat or may reach 0.2 percent in the third
and fourth quarters, Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre told reporters in  Madrid  today. The government maintains
its forecast of a contraction of 1.3 percent for the full year,
he said.  During the first seven month of the year, the number of
tourist visits grew 3.9 percent from the same period in 2012,
reaching 34 million. That’s more than the figure attained in
July 2007, Spain’s best year for tourism since at least 2000.
Tourism accounts for about 11 percent of GDP and 12 percent of
jobs.  Tourism and structural reforms will help the country’s
real-estate market recover, Colin Dyer, chief executive officer
of Chicago-based property broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  told
Spanish newspaper El Pais in an interview published Aug. 11.  Record Exports  Unemployment declined in the second quarter after two years
of uninterrupted increases and Deputy Trade Minister Jaime Garcia-Legaz Ponce predicted last week that exports will surge
to a record in 2013 as the country’s competitiveness has
improved. Joblessness is still the highest in the euro region
after  Greece .  There are signs that the “worst is over” in Spain, Marco Gadola, CEO of Swiss dental-implant manufacturer  Straumann
Holding AG (STMN) , said last week.  Still, Spanish banks’  bad loans  jumped to a record 11.6
percent of total lending in June, according to Bank of Spain
data. They may peak amid continued weak economic activity at 16
percent in the second half of next year, Antonio Garcia Pascual,
Barclays Plc’s chief economist for southern  Europe , said last
week.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bonds  fell two basis
points to 4.52 percent at 1:47 p.m. in Madrid, compared with a
euro-era high of 7.75 percent in July 2012, before the  European
Central Bank  pledged to backstop the single currency. Investors
demanded 15 basis points more to hold them than similar Italian
securities, compared with as much as 122 basis points a year
ago.  “We could see Spain trading flat to  Italy  or inside within
six months,” said Francesco Marani, a fixed-income trader at
Auriga Global Investors SV SA in Madrid. “Spain has been more
effective in implementing needed reforms, tackling some problems
such as regional spending and funding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  