-- Spitzer Tied With Stringer in NYC Comptroller Race, Poll Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-08-29T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/spitzer-tied-with-stringer-in-nyc-comptroller-race-poll-says.html
Former New York Governor  Eliot Spitzer  lost a lead of 19 percentage points and is now tied with
Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer in the race for city
comptroller, according to a Quinnipiac University poll.  Today’s  survey , released 12 days before a Sept. 10 primary
election, shows each candidate getting 46 percent support from
likely Democratic voters. In an Aug. 14 poll, Spitzer led
Stringer 56 percent to 37 percent.  In the past two weeks, Stringer has run television
commercials and appeared in debates characterizing Spitzer as a
failed governor who resigned in 2008 after getting caught
consorting with high-priced prostitutes. Stringer also garnered
endorsements from the New York Times, the New York Post and the
Daily News, with the newspapers blasting Spitzer.  “The entire political and media world has jumped on
Stringer’s bandwagon,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the
Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute.  The comptroller acts as the city’s chief financial officer,
responsible for overseeing about $140 billion in pension assets
and auditing agency spending. Democrats outnumber Republicans in
the city by more than 6 to 1, almost ensuring that the winner of
the primary will be elected on Nov. 5.  Self Financing  Spitzer, 54, the son of a Manhattan-based real estate
investor, is funding his campaign with his own money. He
announced his candidacy July 7, less than a week before the
entry deadline. He has vowed to revitalize the agency with
aggressive reviews of city spending and by using pension funds’
shareholder power to make companies more profitable and socially
responsible.  A Harvard-educated lawyer, Spitzer was elected governor
with 69 percent of the vote in 2006 after becoming nationally
known for prosecuting financial-industry abuses as state
attorney general. He served just two years and three months of
his four-year term, increasing education funding statewide
before he resigned. Since then, he has worked as a commentator
on CNN and run the family’s real estate investment firm.  Stringer, 53, a graduate of John Jay College of Criminal
Justice in  Manhattan , is a career politician who served in the
state Assembly for 13 years before his election as borough
president in 2005. His job makes him a trustee of one of five
city pension funds and gives him a voice in borough zoning and
land-use planning. He also appoints members to local community
boards and acts as a booster for Manhattan commerce and quality-of-life issues.  No Gap  Men and women back each candidate without a gender gap,
according to the poll, with women choosing Stringer over Spitzer
48 percent to 45 percent, and men preferring Spitzer to Stringer
47 percent to 45 percent.  White voters support Stringer over Spitzer, 58 percent to
35 percent, while black voters back Spitzer, 52 percent to 40
percent, the poll reported.  Voters who describe themselves as “very liberal” favored
Stringer to Spitzer, 60 percent to 35 percent while those who
say they are “somewhat liberal” backed Spitzer 51 percent to
40 percent.  The survey, based on telephone interviews with 602 likely
Democratic voters from Aug. 22 to Aug. 27, had a 4 percentage-point margin of error, according to the institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  