-- Starbucks Pastor-to-Be Shows Shift in U.S. Part-Time Job Market
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-08-29T14:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/starbucks-pastor-to-be-shows-shift-in-u-s-part-time-job-market.html
Joseph Peterson grew up wanting to
be a pastor, just like his dad. A part-time job at  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  is allowing him to pursue his dream.  His barista’s salary is supporting him and his wife,
Nicole, while he studies for a divinity degree at Baptist Bible
Seminary in Clarks Summit,  Pennsylvania . “I’d rather get my
schooling done now, when it’s just the two of us and our cost of
living isn’t very high,” said Peterson.  Peterson, 24, is among a growing number of people who are
working part-time because they want to, and not because the
sluggish economy forces them to settle for less than a full-time
job. That’s a reversal of what happened during the recession and
the first years of the recovery. It shows a labor market in the
early stages of a shift toward more full-time employment choices
rather than just low-paying, part-time positions such as coffee
servers, say economists including Neil Dutta and  Ethan Harris .  “If it’s a non-economic reason, it’s basically an
individual choice,” said Dutta, head of U.S. economics at
Renaissance Macro Research LLC in  New York . “Whichever way you
look at the labor market, information suggests to me a largely
cyclical weakness. It’s way too early to say that there’s some
structural break.”  Since the end of 2010, the number of people working less
than 35 hours a week for  non-economic reasons , including
child care and family obligations or school, has climbed 4.6
percent to 19.1 million, according to Labor Department data.
Those citing a  slack economy  or inability to find full-time jobs
dropped by 7.7 percent over the same period to 8.25 million.  Part-Time Growth  So far, part-time hiring is still growing faster than the
total job market. The 1.2 percent gain in hiring at an
annualized rate so far this year has been paced by a 4.6 percent
increase among those working less than 35 hours. As a result,
part-time workers accounted for 19.6 percent of all employment
in July, little changed from a record 20 percent in January
2010.  An improving economy means the job market will soon reach a
tipping point, where employers will need to offer more hours and
better pay to attract qualified applicants, according to Harris,
co-head of global economics research at Bank of America Corp. in
New York.  Some of those jobs will be filled by part-time workers who
have been searching for full-time work, such as Frank Avila, 27,
who starts a full-time job next week as an administrative
assistant in Conroe,  Texas , at the supermarket chain H-E-B. He’d
been working part-time at a different location for about a year
after moving from  California  in August 2012.  Playing Money  “It’s not that I wasn’t able to pay any of my bills,”
Avila said. “I didn’t have any playing money. Everything was
going to the bills and rent.’  He said he hopes to use the extra money from his new job to
help pay off credit-card debt and eventually buy a house.
“I’m very excited. I feel a weight lifted off my shoulders.”  About two-thirds of the increase in part-time jobs can be
traced to the so-called cyclical influences of the recession and
ensuing slow expansion, when out-of-work Americans had little
bargaining power and companies had the upper hand in dictating
what type of employment was available, said Harris, a former
researcher at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  “When you get a full recovery in the job market and
workers can pick and choose their jobs, people will not be
willing to take those jobs and the companies that are offering
them will have to switch over to full-time,” Harris said.  GDP Growth  He projects gross domestic product will expand at a 3
percent clip in the first half of 2014, prompting employers to
take on more full-timers. The economy grew at a 2.5 percent
annualized pace from April through June, more than previously
forecast, according to revised figures from the Commerce
Department issued today in  Washington .  Peterson, the pastor-in-training, is already being pursued
by churches willing to put him in the pulpit.  “We’ve actually had a few offers to go to a church and
have a full-time position, but they wouldn’t necessarily pay for
school,” said Peterson. “I’d be doing my job and having a wife
and probably a family and still having to go out-of-pocket for
school.”  Peterson said he hopes to get his degree by the end of 2014
and then search for a full-time position, potentially in the
Carolinas where Nicole has family.  Not all economists agree the jump in part-time hiring will
prove fleeting.  Structural Shift  “I think it’s a structural shift,” said  John Silvia ,
chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , and a former chief economist for the Senate
Banking Committee. “Firms have learned to use part-time people
more effectively.”  The industries that have led the gains in employment,
including  retailing , leisure and hospitality and temporary-help
agencies, tend to use fewer full-time workers, and those trends
will probably continue, he said.  The record share of part-timers in the workforce at the
start of 2010 is less startling when adjusted for a 1994 change
in the way the figures were calculated, according to  researchers 
at the  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco .  Starting in January of that year, all Americans were asked
how long they worked each week, and those saying less than 35
hours were put in the part-time category, causing their numbers
to surge. Previously, people who identified themselves as full-timers weren’t asked about the number of hours they worked.  1980s Recessions  After prior years’ numbers were adjusted to the new
definition, they showed the part-time share of employment
actually peaked at 20.3 percent in 1983, following the back-to-back recessions in the early 1980s,  San Francisco  Fed
researchers Rob Valletta and Leila Bengali wrote in an Aug. 26
economic letter.  “By this standard, the level of part-time work in recent
years is not unprecedented, although its persistence during the
ongoing recovery is unusual,” they said.  Valletta and Bengali conclude “that the continued high
incidence of individuals working part time for economic reasons
reflects a slow recovery of the jobs lost during the recession
rather than permanent changes in the proportion of part-time
jobs.”  The prevalence of part-time work is making it difficult for
Fed policy makers to gauge the strength of the job market as
they decide when to scale back monetary stimulus and increase
the benchmark  interest rate . Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said
they may soon start trimming the $85 billion a month in bond
purchases and will aim to stop the program by mid-2014 when they
project the jobless rate will be around 7 percent.  Bernanke’s View  In July testimony before Congress, Bernanke said long-term
unemployment and under-employment, including people working
fewer hours and at jobs below skill levels, are among the
“problems” the labor market continues to face.  The jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to 7.4 percent last
month, in part because of the increase in part-time help.
Additional declines in unemployment for the same reason would be
less meaningful in determining policy makers’ next steps. The
Labor Department’s August jobs report will be released on Sept.
6, less than two weeks before the Fed’s next meeting.  A pickup in growth will probably be the main reason
unemployment will keep dropping, making it easier to read the
job-market tea leaves, said  Carl Riccadonna , senior U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York.  “A faster pace of economic growth is going to mean more
demand for labor, and businesses will not have the luxury of
just adding temporary workers on a part-time basis,” Riccadonna
said. “This recovery has been much slower and more drawn out
than the typical recovery, and that’s why it’s taking time to
turn that corner. This is the final stage before full-time
hiring shifts into a higher gear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  