-- Steinmetz-Linked Onyx Hands Over Documents to Swiss Authorities
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-08-29T17:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/steinmetz-linked-onyx-hands-over-documents-to-swiss-authorities.html
A company linked to Beny Steinmetz,
Israel’s richest person, has handed over documents to
authorities in  Switzerland  amid a U.S. probe into a man with
ties to Steinmetz’s BSG Resources Ltd.  Onyx Financial “provided the Swiss authorities with
information following a request to Switzerland by the Government
of Guinea,” according to an e-mailed statement from Onyx
provided by an external communications firm working for BSGR.
The West African nation is reviewing mining licenses including
the Simandou deposit, once described as the world’s largest
untapped deposit of  iron ore , owned in a joint venture by BSGR
and  Brazil ’s Vale SA.  Frederic Cilins, 50, a French citizen with ties to BSGR,
has said he’s innocent of charges he interfered with a U.S.
grand jury probe into alleged bribes paid for mining rights in
 Guinea . He said he was arrested after trying to stop an
extortion attempt by the government’s main witness.  Onyx Financial is based in London and has offices in
Geneva, Amsterdam, Johannesburg and  Rome , according to its
 website . Dag Cramer is chief executive officer of Onyx Financial
Advisers U.K. and also a director of BSGR, according to its
 website .  BSGR said in March that Guinea was preparing to remove
mining rights from its joint venture with Vale SA, which planned
a $10 billion operation.  Eric Grandjean, a spokesman for the Geneva police, said he
couldn’t comment on the matter and wouldn’t confirm whether
police raided the offices.  Henri Della Casa, a spokesman for the Geneva prosecutor’s
office, wouldn’t comment and said he had no information on the
case.  A man named Kevin Metcalf, who answered the phone at the
Onyx Financial Advisors’ office in Geneva, wouldn’t confirm the
raid or make any comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  