-- Stephens Keeps Attacks for Tennis While Dodging Fans’ Lunges
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-08-30T20:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/stevens-reserves-attacks-for-tennis-while-dodging-them-from-fans.html
The rise of Sloane Stephens to the
elite of women’s tennis has come with tough life lessons, from
dealing with rowdy crowds to learning when to keep quiet.  Stephens, second in the WTA rankings among American women
and at 20 the youngest player in the top 30, has struggled this
year with a byproduct of her success -- getting mobbed by fans,
including one girl who hit her with a racket.  “Having my ponytail pulled, that was a little intense,”
Stephens said in an interview in  New York  at the U.S. Open,
where the 15th seed next could face top-ranked  Serena Williams .
“People kind of attack you and it’s a little rough, but I think
it comes with the territory and you just have to go with it.”  Stephens learned another lesson this May when her
disparaging comments about Williams were published in a
magazine. She accused Williams of giving her the cold shoulder
after Stephens won their Australian Open quarterfinal match.  “It’s not easy for anybody; and for Sloane, who is a very
out-there kind of girl and who wears her emotions on her sleeve,
it’s even more difficult,” 18-time Grand Slam singles champion
 Chris Evert  said on an ESPN conference call. “Her emergence has
been very dramatic and very quick and her life has changed so
quickly. She’s just getting used to the life of being famous.”  Stephens reached the fourth round of the U.S. Open for the
first time with a 6-1, 6-3 victory today over fellow American
Jamie Hampton, the 23rd seed. She next faces the winner of
tonight’s match between Williams, the 31-year-old defending
champion from the U.S., and Yaroslava Shvedova of  Kazakhstan .  Aggressive Style  Stephens’s three wins this week at the National Tennis
Center in Flushing Meadows, New York, have highlighted her new
emphasis on attacking. She has increased the percentage of her
points earned on winners and errors forced on her opponents,
according to data compiled by  Bloomberg Sports , rather than
playing it safe and waiting for unforced errors to give her
points.  In 2013 Grand Slam tournaments, Stephens has won about 63
percent of her points on winners and forced errors, which
Bloomberg Sports refers to as the points earned percentage. That
compares to 59.8 percent last year and a points earned
percentage of 48.5 in 2011.  Taking control of points has become Stephens’s focus.
Though her points earned percentage of 55.6 at last year’s  U.S.
Open  was an increase from 47.7 percent in 2011, it still was the
fifth-lowest mark among all women who played two or more matches
at the tournament, according to Bloomberg Sports data.  Asserting Herself  “I think I’ve just worked on being more aggressive and
really just trying to assert myself more on the court, and I
think it’s worked, obviously,” she said. “You always have to
think, ‘I’m going to go for my shots, I’m not going to let the
person push me around.’”  Just as with fame, the attacking has a downside. Stephens,
who also reached the third round of the tournament the past two
years, made 55 unforced errors in her opening match this week.  “That’s not good, I never want to have that,” Stephens
told reporters after she needed a third-set tiebreaker to beat
unseeded Mandy Minella of Luxembourg 4-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-5) in a
first-round match that lasted almost three hours. “That’s
horrible.”  Stephens captured 80 of her 123 points against Minella on
winners and forced errors, a points earned percentage of 65. She
had 38 winners and forced Minella into 42 errors.  In a 6-1, 6-1 second-round win against  Poland ’s Urszula Radwanska, Stephens had a points earned percentage of 61.1 with
24 winners and nine forced errors among 54 points.  Rankings Rise  Stephens reached the semifinals of the Australian Open in
January, and was a Wimbledon quarterfinalist in July. After
starting the year ranked 38th in the world, she is now No. 16.
She’s earned $1.2 million in 2013 and almost $1.9 million in her
career without winning a tournament.  The success has brought new demands on her time. She signed
240 autographs in 25 minutes at the U.S. Open’s  American Express (AXP) 
Fan Experience three days ago, rushing through and rarely making
eye contact as fans thrust balls, hats and postcards at her. At
a warm-up tournament near Cincinnati, she said at a news
conference that during the U.S. Open she didn’t “plan to go
outside because I know I will probably not make it out alive.”  Hall of Fame player Pam Shriver said dealing with stardom
is a challenge for all young players.  “Sloane is suffering from what most people who have that
early burst have, and she will work her way through it,”
Shriver said in an interview. “She’s got to learn to manage
people wanting a piece of her. If you want to be a top player
and you’ve got charisma, that’s what you’re going to get.”  Athletic Parents  Stephens is the daughter of athletes. Her mother, Sybil
Smith, in 1988 became the first black woman to be a first-team
All-American swimmer in the top division of U.S. college sports.
Her father, John Stephens, was a  National Football League 
running back from 1988-93 and died in 2009.  Smith said her daughter has struggled this year with the
demands of stardom, from people waving at her in restaurants to
the crush of fans at tournaments.  “It’s a little bit of a shock to the system,” Smith, a
former swimmer at  Boston University , said in an interview at the
Open. “Instead of fighting it, you have to embrace it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  