-- Syria Strikes Recede as Cameron, Obama Seek Support
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2013-08-29T18:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/syria-strikes-recede-as-cameron-struggles-for-lawmaker-assent.html
The prospect of an imminent attack
on  Syria  faded as U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, the U.S.’s
top ally, struggled to win parliamentary backing for military
strikes that critics said echoed the push to war in Iraq.  Britain released an assessment showing it “highly likely”
the Syrian government was behind the mass killing of civilians
with chemical weapons on Aug. 21 near Damascus. Still, Cameron
bowed to opposition demands to await a judgment by onsite United
Nations inspectors. The Obama administration is also laboring to
marshal conclusive evidence backing its assertion that Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad was directly responsible for the
attack, said three intelligence officials familiar with the
situation.  Memories of the invasion of Iraq, based on false
intelligence of an Iraqi stockpile of weapons of mass
destruction, are slowing efforts by the U.S. and the U.K. to
rally support for strikes against Syria to halt the regime’s use
of chemical arms in the two-year-old civil war, which the UN
estimates has claimed more than 100,000 lives.  “This is not like  Iraq ,” Cameron said in a House of
Commons debate today. “What we are seeing in Syria is
fundamentally different. We’re not invading a country.”  Opposition leader Ed Miliband, while not ruling out
military strikes, warned against following “an artificial
timetable or a political timetable set elsewhere.”  Chemical Assault  Britain’s debate resonated across Europe and in the U.S.,
where Obama’s top advisers, including Secretary of State John Kerry and National Security Adviser Susan Rice, were scheduled
to give a conference call briefing to congressional leaders and
key members of committees dealing with national security. It
won’t include a classified analysis of the chemical weapons
attack by intelligence agencies.  White House press secretary  Josh Earnest  said the
classified assessment “has not been finalized as of this
moment.” The administration still plans to publicly release
“before the end of the week” an unclassified version of the
intelligence assessment, he said.  Conflicting Reports  Speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss
classified intelligence, the three U.S. officials said
intercepted Syrian communications provide no ironclad evidence
that Assad or members of his inner circle ordered the attack.
Two of them said the intercepts indicate that he didn’t know
about it in advance and demanded that his subordinates explain
what had happened.  While the officials said Assad’s communications could be
deliberate deception to evade responsibility for the attack,
they added that using chemical weapons at a time when the
regime’s forces were regaining the upper hand made no military
or political sense. The messages leave open the possibility that
a lower-ranking official could have ordered the attack, which
they said appears to have been launched by the Syrian Army’s
Fourth Armored Division, commanded by Assad’s brother, Maher.  Britain’s  intelligence assessment  was hedged. It found “no
plausible alternative scenarios to regime responsibility” for
last week’s chemical attack. What remains unclear, the
assessment said, is Assad’s “precise motivation for carrying
out an attack of this scale at this time.”  UN Inspection  UN weapons experts, central to the endgame over Iraq a
decade ago, loomed as critical to the decision over war and
peace with Syria as well. A UN mission will continue to inspect
the site of the chemical attack tomorrow, leave Syria by early
Aug. 31 “and report to me as soon as they come out,” UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told reporters in Vienna today.  Russia called for a meeting later today of the five
permanent members of the Security Council.  With British politicians hinging their ultimate decision on
the presentation of the probe to the Security Council, the
timetable for a strike stretched into or beyond the weekend.  Advocates of a military response, scarred by the experience
of nation-building in Iraq and  Afghanistan , have defined the war
aims narrowly. Both the U.S. and U.K. say they are focused on
halting the use of chemical weapons, not ousting Assad.  Four days after saying that U.S. forces were ready to act
when ordered, U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel emphasized the
need to put together a coalition to take on Assad. Speaking to
reporters in Brunei today, Hagel said, “If any action would be
taken against Syria, it would be an international
collaboration.”  Market Impact  Investors’ concerns about an immediate clash subsided after
 Middle Eastern stocks  plunged earlier this week and the risk
premium that traders demand to hold bonds from the region rose.
West Texas Intermediate oil, which jumped to the highest level
in more than two years this week, fell as much as 1.4 percent
today.  The U.S. has warships and submarines carrying Tomahawk
cruise missiles on standby in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. The
Navy decided yesterday to keep the USS Nimitz aircraft carrier
in the Persian Gulf region instead of returning it to Washington
State as planned, according to a U.S. defense official, who
asked not to be identified discussing the move.  Direct Aggression  Assad told Syrians today he will defend them against
“threats of a direct aggression.” In comments reported on
state television, he accused Western powers and  Israel  of
seeking to wreak havoc in the Middle East.  Syria’s conflict is increasingly dividing the Middle East,
which produces about a third of the world’s oil, along sectarian
lines and has pitted the U.S., the U.K. and  France  against  China 
and  Russia  in the UN Security Council.  Russia, a staunch Assad ally, said today the UN probe
should be widened to include other reports of chemical use in
Syria. Russia has signaled it will veto a Security Council
resolution authorizing the use of force.  Another Syrian ally,  Iran , warned that Israel will be
sucked into any wider Syrian war. U.S. allies in the region,
including Sunni Muslim nations Saudi Arabia and  Turkey , support
the rebels in Syria and are calling for action against Assad.  In  London , a Conservative Party rebellion forced Cameron to
abandon a plan to seek parliamentary approval tonight for
immediate strikes. He was forced to hold two votes, the first,
scheduled for 10 p.m., on the principle of intervening and the
second, after the UN report, on whether Britain would join in
airstrikes.  Public Opposed  A  poll  of Britons by  YouGov Plc (YOU)  published yesterday found
respondents opposed missile strikes against Syria by two to one.
In the U.S., a survey before last week’s incident found more
backing for attacks on Assad’s forces, as long as American lives
weren’t in danger. The July  survey  by Quinnipiac University
found 49 percent of Americans would back such strikes with 38
percent against.  There are signs of doubts among U.S. politicians about a
Syria strike as well. More than 100 lawmakers in the U.S. House,
including 18 Democrats, signed a letter yesterday saying Syria
doesn’t pose a direct threat to the U.S. and calling on Obama to
seek congressional approval before making any military move.  “I see no convincing evidence that this is an imminent
threat to the United States of America,” Representative Kurt Schrader, an Oregon Democrat who signed the letter, said. “We
have our own huge problems in this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  