-- U.K. Lawmakers Reject Cameron Plan for Syria Strikes
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-08-29T22:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/u-k-lawmakers-reject-cameron-plan-for-syria-strikes.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
failed to gain parliamentary approval for a military response to
what he says is clear evidence of the use of chemical weapons by
forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The House of Commons rejected a motion put forward by
Cameron seeking endorsement in principle for military strikes by
285 votes to 272 after more than seven hours of debate in  London 
tonight. Rebel members of Cameron’s Conservative Party joined
the Labour opposition in rejecting the plan.  “The British Parliament doesn’t wish to see British
military action,” Cameron told lawmakers after the vote. “I
get that and the government will act accordingly.”  Tonight’s vote banishes the prospect of U.K. involvement in
any imminent U.S.-led attack on Syria. The Obama administration
is also struggling to marshal conclusive evidence backing its
assertion that Assad was directly responsible for the alleged
chemical attacks near Damascus last week, according to three
U.S. intelligence officials familiar with the situation. Syrian
opposition groups say 1,300 people died in the assault.  Cameron had attempted to ward off the prospect of defeat by
pledging that Parliament would have a second vote before the
government ordered any military strikes against Syrian targets,
and that there’d be no action before United Nations inspectors
have reported back on the chemical attacks.  Legal Assessment  The government published an assessment by Attorney General
Dominic Grieve today that limited military intervention in  Syria 
would be “legally justifiable,” even without the backing of
the UN Security Council. Lawmakers opposing Cameron expressed
wariness about renewed military involvement in the Middle East,
10 years after Britain went to war in Iraq.  “I strongly believe in the need for a tough response to
the use of chemical weapons,” Cameron said after the vote. “I
also believe in respecting the will of the House of Commons.”  Cameron began the debate by telling lawmakers that the
discussion was about how to “respond to the most abhorrent use
of chemical weapons in a century.”  “It’s not about taking sides, it’s not about invading,
it’s not about regime change,” the prime minister said. “It’s
about chemical weapons. Our response to a war crime, nothing
else.” It’s “in Britain’s national interest to maintain an
international taboo about the use of chemical weapons on the
battlefield,” he argued.  ‘Legitimate Roadmap’  Labour leader Ed Miliband responded by saying there should
be “a clear and legitimate roadmap” before any military
intervention, taking into account the consequences on the wider
region. Lawmakers voted against a Labour amendment to that
effect before rejecting the government’s own motion.  “I do not rule out supporting the prime minister but I
believe he has to make a better case,” Miliband said, saying
more evidence of the Assad regime’s responsibility is needed.
“Evidence should precede decision, not decision precede
evidence.”  The government’s  legal advice , published on its website,
said that even if action against Syria is blocked in the UN
Security Council, “the U.K. would still be permitted under
international law to take exceptional measures in order to
alleviate the scale of the overwhelming humanitarian catastrophe
in Syria by deterring and disrupting the further use of chemical
weapons by the Syrian regime.”  ‘Strictly Limited’  It said the conditions for such action were met, including
evidence of “extreme humanitarian distress,” the absence of a
“practicable alternative to the use of force,” and the
necessity for such action to be “strictly limited in time and
scope to this aim.”  Cameron’s office also published a letter from the
government’s Joint Intelligence Committee that said it’s
“highly likely” Assad’s regime was to blame for the chemical
attacks, and that “there are no plausible alternative scenarios
to regime responsibility.” The panel said it assessed
previously that the Syrian government used lethal chemical
weapons on 14 occasions since 2012.  For many, the shadow of Tony Blair’s 2003 decision to join
the invasion of  Iraq  to oust Saddam Hussein hung over the
debate. That cost Blair popularity, eventually leading to his
resignation as premier and Labour Party leader in 2007.  The U.K. Ministry of Defence said today that six Royal Air
Force Typhoon interceptor fast jets are deploying to the British
base at Akrotiri in Cyprus.  “This is a precautionary measure, specifically aimed at
protecting U.K. interests and the defense of our sovereign base
areas at a time of heightened tension in the wider region,” the
ministry said in a statement on its website. “This is a
movement of defensive assets operating in an air-to-air role
only. They are not deploying to take part in any military action
against Syria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  