-- U.S. Outlines Penalties for Swiss Banks in Tax Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-08-30T13:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/u-s-outlines-penalties-for-swiss-banks-in-tax-probe.html
Swiss banks that seek to avoid
prosecution for fostering  tax evasion  through secret accounts
held by U.S. clients face penalties of as much as 50 percent of
the value of those assets, the U.S. government said.  Hundreds of Swiss banks could be covered by a U.S.-
 Switzerland  accord over how to punish financial institutions
that used secret accounts to help American clients hide assets
from U.S. tax authorities. The U.S. said yesterday it will
continue criminal probes of 14 banks while allowing others to
avoid prosecution by paying penalties and disclosing accounts.  “This program will significantly enhance the Justice
Department’s ongoing efforts to aggressively pursue those who
attempt to evade the law,” Attorney General Eric Holder said in
a statement. “The program’s requirement that Swiss banks
provide detailed account information will improve our ability to
bring tax dollars back to the  U.S. Treasury .”  The accord lets Switzerland, the world’s largest offshore
financial center with about $2.2 trillion of assets, resolve
talks spanning two years after U.S. criminal prosecutions eroded
Swiss bank secrecy. Those under investigation include  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-largest Swiss bank;  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , the largest European bank; and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)   Reputational Damage  “This is a result we can live with,” Swiss Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told reporters in Bern today.
“Without the deal we’d have had years of hard-to-calculate
risks, instability in the financial sector. Our reputation would
have suffered,” she said. “It gives banks the chance to close
the issue and avoid lawsuits.”  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million in 2009, admitting it aided U.S. tax evasion
and handing over data on 4,500 accounts. Wegelin & Co., the
oldest Swiss private bank, pleaded guilty in January and paid
$74 million. Since 2009, the U.S. has prosecuted 68 account
holders and more than 30 banking professionals for offshore tax
crimes.  Under the accord, banks that seek to avoid prosecution must
pay penalties, disclose their cross-border activities, give
detailed account information for U.S. clients, describe other
banks that received secret accounts, and cooperate in requests
for information under a U.S.-Swiss  tax treaty .  The Justice Department and  Internal Revenue Service  have
pursued taxpayers and bankers that set up secret accounts after
the UBS deferred-prosecution deal was announced in February
2009. The accord reflects increasing penalties after that time
for banks that seek to avoid prosecution.  Increasing Penalties  Those banks must pay 20 percent of the value of accounts
not disclosed to the IRS on Aug. 1, 2008; 30 percent for such
accounts opened between then and February 2009; and 50 percent
for accounts opened after February 2009.  Total penalties by banks seeking voluntary disclosures --
not the 14 institutions under criminal investigation -- may
exceed $1 billion, according to a senior  Justice Department 
official not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and who
asked not to be named.  Widmer-Schlumpf said there was no way to predict the total
amount of fines. She called the progressive system a success,
and said an agreement on fines has been in place since May.  Banks wanting to participate in the program will need to
apply for individual authorization, the Swiss government said in
a statement today. Banks that believe they have violated U.S.
tax law must request non-prosecution agreements by Dec. 31.  ‘Painful Consequences’  “The program brings with it painful consequences for the
banks in Switzerland,” the  Swiss Bankers Association , which
represents more than 300 banks, said in a statement. “The fines
in particular are at the upper end of legally acceptable and
economically bearable levels. It is, however, the sole remaining
solution for enabling the banks to resolve the legal problems
with the U.S. conclusively, and for creating legal certainty.”  U.S. law requires taxpayers to tell the IRS about accounts
they hold anywhere in the world and pay taxes on income earned.
Swiss banks and bankers took elaborate steps to help U.S.
clients hide their assets from the IRS, court records show.  Since 2009, 38,000 U.S. taxpayers avoided prosecution by
voluntarily disclosing offshore accounts to the IRS and
detailing the bankers, lawyers and advisers who helped them. The
new accord provides a pathway for the U.S. to acquire vast new
troves of data about hidden accounts, their U.S. owners, and the
offshore enablers who established and managed them.  ‘Significant Risks’  “The program will give us yet more information to pursue
U.S. taxpayers who are continuing to hide their assets in
offshore accounts, and creates significant risks for those Swiss
banks that fail to come forward,” Kathryn Keneally, assistant
attorney general in the Justice Department’s tax division, said
in the U.S.’s statement.  Those taxpayers and bankers or advisers already under
investigation or indictment will get no relief from the accord.
Their cases must play out in the U.S. courts. Many other
taxpayers could faces charges.  The new data “will provide us with additional information
to prosecute those who used secret offshore bank accounts,”
Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole said in the statement.  “We welcome the agreement, even though Credit Suisse is
not directly impacted, as a step toward the resolution of the
issue as a whole,” the Zurich-based company said in an e-mail
today. “Credit Suisse began to exit the U.S. cross-border
business in 2008.”  The announcement doesn’t affect HSBC because it has been
under investigation, according to David Bruegger, a Zurich-based
spokesman for the bank.  Bill Rejected  “We are continuing our discussions,” he said. “We are in
close contact with the authorities and will stay in touch until
a solution is found.”  Julius Baer  declined to comment.  In June, the Swiss Parliament rejected a bill that would
have given banks a yearlong legal reprieve and allowed them to
settle with the U.S. by handing over information on employees
and third parties who worked with American clients. It would
also have established legal protection for bank employees.  “The Swiss have finally decided to deal with the issue of
creating an exception to Swiss bank secrecy by employing an
administrative procedure to avoid legal challenges and a public
referendum, which could otherwise defeat any settlement,” said
Milan Patel, a former IRS trial attorney who is now a partner at
Zurich-based law firm Anaford AG. “It also avoids the long
diplomatic procedures.”  1996 Agreement  The banks under investigation by the Justice Department can
use a 1996 tax agreement to respond to requests for names of
American clients, the Swiss government said on May 29. That
depends on the U.S. authorities providing a sufficiently
detailed description of the matter to establish suspicion of
fraud or similar offenses.  The  U.S. Senate  has yet to ratify a 2009 protocol revising
the 1996 accord to make it easier for Swiss banks to hand over
data on clients suspected of tax evasion to the IRS.  Banks that aren’t currently under investigation that may
have breached U.S. laws with undeclared assets would have to pay
fines on accounts exceeding 50,000 francs ($54,407) under the
proposal, Tages-Anzeiger reported on Aug. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  