-- U.S. Second Quarter Second GDP Technical Note (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-08-29T12:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/u-s-second-quarter-second-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the technical note from
the Gross Domestic Product report from the Commerce Department.  Technical Note  Gross Domestic Product  Second Quarter of 2013 (Second Estimate)  August 29, 2013  This technical note provides background information about the
source data and estimating methods used to produce the estimates
presented in the GDP news release. The complete set of estimates
for the second quarter is available on BEA’s Web site at
www.bea.gov; a brief summary of “highlights” is also posted on
the Web site. In a few weeks, the estimates will be published in
BEA’s monthly journal, the Survey of Current Business, along
with a more detailed analysis of the estimates (“GDP and the
Economy”).  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 2.5 percent (annual rate) in the second
quarter, an upward revision of 0.8 percentage point from the
advance estimate. The revision reflected an upward revision to
exports, a downward revision to imports, and an upward revision
to private inventory investment that were partly offset by a
downward revision to state and local government spending.  *    Both the upward revision to exports and the downward
revision to imports were mainly based on newly available Census
goods data for June and revised data for May.
*    The upward revision to private inventory investment
primarily reflected an upward revision to retail trade
industries and reflected newly available Census Bureau inventory
data for June.
*    The downward revision to state and local government
spending primarily reflected a downward revision to investment
in structures, based on newly available Census Bureau
construction spending data for June and revised data for April
and May.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases increased 0.3
percent in the second quarter, the same increase as in the
advance estimate.  Gross Domestic Income and Corporate Profits  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output of
the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in the
production of GDP, increased 2.5 percent in the second quarter.
For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may differ for
a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of largely
independent source data. However, over longer time spans, the
estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of
change.  Profits from current production increased $78.3 billion, or 3.9
percent (quarterly rate), in the second quarter.  Domestic
profits of financial corporations increased $14.3 billion,
domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations increased $50.4
billion, and rest-of-the-world profits increased $13.6 billion.  Dividends paid by corporations increased $273.8 billion in the
second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $103.8 billion in
the first. The large second-quarter increase primarily reflected
dividends paid by  Fannie Mae  to the federal government.  Revisions to Wages and Salaries, Disposable Personal Income, and
GDI  In addition to presenting revised estimates for the second
quarter, today’s release also presents revised estimates of
first-quarter wages and salaries, personal taxes, and
contributions for government social insurance. Wages and
salaries are now estimated to have decreased $46.2 billion in
the first quarter of 2013, an upward revision of $10.7 billion.
These estimates reflect newly available wage and salary
tabulations for the first quarter from the BLS quarterly census
of employment and wages (QCEW). These data are more
comprehensive than the monthly employment and earnings data that
were used for the earlier estimates-- the QCEW data include
irregular pay, such as bonuses and gains from the exercise of
 stock options .  Real disposable personal income is now estimated to have
decreased 7.9 percent (annual rate) in the first quarter and to
have increased 3.2 percent in the second. (By comparison, the
estimates that were available last month showed a decrease of
8.2 percent in the first quarter and an increase of 3.4 percent
in the second.)  The revision to first-quarter wages and salaries also resulted
in a revision to GDI. Real GDI is now estimated to have
increased 2.4 percent in the first quarter, an upward revision
of 0.2 percentage point.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  