-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Decline for First Time in Five Weeks
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-08-29T14:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/u-s-mortgage-rates-decline-for-first-time-in-five-weeks.html
U.S. mortgage rates fell for the
first time in five weeks, reducing borrowing costs from a two-year high as the housing-market recovery shows signs of slowing.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
4.51 percent this week from 4.58 percent, which was the highest
since July 2011,  Freddie Mac  said in a statement today. The
average 15-year rate declined to 3.54 percent from 3.6 percent,
according to the McLean, Virginia-based company.  Rising prices and a jump in the 30-year rate from 3.35
percent in May have pushed some potential homebuyers out of the
market by reducing affordability. Contracts to purchase homes
last month dropped 1.3 percent, the most this year, figures from
the National Association of Realtors showed yesterday.  New-home (NHSLTOT) 
sales plunged 13.4 percent to the weakest pace since October,
the Commerce Department reported last week.  “We’re starting to see some impact of rising rates holding
back sales,”  Jed Kolko , chief economist at San Francisco-based
property-listings service  Trulia Inc. (TRLA)  “Rates probably won’t go
back to where they were six months ago, at least not until the
next big recession.”  Home prices  in June jumped 12.1 percent from a year
earlier, the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of 20 U.S. cities showed
this week. That followed a 12.2 percent gain in the year ended
May, the biggest increase since 2006.  A slowdown in the housing market is actually needed
after unsustainable price gains in many areas,  Stan Humphries ,
chief economist at property-data company  Zillow Inc. (Z) , said today
on Bloomberg Television.  “We need to start slowing down the pace of appreciation
right now so that when rates go back to 5 percent in 2014, it
does not leave us in a situation where home prices look
inflated,” he said.  Rising home prices are helping lift borrowers out of
negative equity, allowing more to refinance or sell properties
without losing money. About 12.2 million U.S. homeowners with a
mortgage owed more than their properties were worth at the end
of the second quarter, down from 15.3 million a year earlier,
Seattle-based Zillow said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  