-- U.S. Banks Earned Record $42.2 Billion in 2nd Quarter, FDIC Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-29T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/u-s-banks-earned-record-42-2-billion-in-2nd-quarter-fdic-says.html
U.S. banks reported record net
income of $42.2 billion for the second quarter on broad gains
from trading revenue, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said.  Banks’ earnings for the three months ending June 30 marked
a second consecutive record quarter, the FDIC said today in its
Quarterly Banking Profile. After the second-most profitable year
on record in 2012, the boom has continued in the first half of
this year as some of the largest banks scored trading success
that outpaced analyst expectations.  “The trends we have seen in recent quarters continued in
the second quarter,” FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said in
remarks prepared for a Washington briefing on the report.
“Asset quality continues to recover, loan balances are trending
up, fewer institutions are unprofitable, the number of problem
banks is down and the number of failures is significantly below
levels of a year ago.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest  U.S. bank  by assets,
reported a 31 percent profit increase to $6.5 billion for the
second quarter on climbing revenue from trading stocks and
bonds, and third-biggest  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s profit jumped 42
percent year-over-year.  Bank of America Corp. , the second
largest by assets, also had improved equity results while
crediting expense cuts and lower provisions for bad credit for
its 63 percent profit gain.  Industry profits were widespread with just 8.2 percent of
banks reporting negative income even as interest income decline,
falling 1.7 percent, according to the agency’s report.
Lenders set aside $8.6 billion for bad loans -- a 4.1 percent
drop from the preceding quarter -- and asset quality improved,
with $14.2 billion in charge-offs.  Bank profits are being bolstered by reductions in money set
aside for bad loans, mainly at the larger banks, the FDIC said
in the report. Regulators at the FDIC and Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency have cautioned lenders against
excessive cutting of loan-loss reserves.  Loan balances rose by $73.8 billion for the quarter,
including a 2 percent boost in commercial and industrial loans,
the FDIC said.  -- Editors: Anthony Gnoffo, Gregory Mott  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  