-- U.S. Won’t Sue to Block State Marijuana Legalization
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-08-30T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/u-s-won-t-sue-to-block-state-marijuana-legalization.html
The U.S. won’t challenge laws in
 Colorado  and  Washington  that legalized the recreational use of
marijuana and will focus federal prosecutions on ties to
organized crime, distribution to minors and transportation
across state lines, the Justice Department said.  Attorney General Eric Holder yesterday told the governors
of the two states that U.S. attorneys will concentrate on
certain priority areas and work with them to set rules for the
marijuana industry.  The decision marks the first time the U.S. government has
condoned recreational marijuana use and opens the door for other
states to consider it. Voters in Washington and Colorado became
the first to legalize it in November. Nineteen  states  allow
medical marijuana use, according to the  National Conference of
State Legislatures .  In a memo to federal prosecutors around the country, Deputy
Attorney General  James Cole  said that, beyond the priority
areas, “the federal government has traditionally relied on
states and local law enforcement agencies to address marijuana
activity” under their own laws.  The new guidelines are “a major and historic step toward
ending marijuana prohibition,” said Dan Riffle, federal policy
director for the Marijuana Policy Project.  “The next step is for Congress to act,” said Riffle,
whose Washington-based group is the largest advocating
legalization. “We need to fix our nation’s broken marijuana
laws and not just continue to work around them.”  Growing, selling or possessing marijuana remains illegal
under federal law.  Criminal Activity  Besides monitoring marijuana activities for ties to crime,
use by minors and out-of-state trafficking, prosecutors have
been instructed to focus on preventing state-authorized
endeavors from being a cover for illegal drugs, violence in pot
cultivation and driving under the influence of marijuana.  The government also will pursue cases where marijuana is
grown on public lands or when it is carried on federal property,
according to the  Justice Department ’s memo.  Officials in Washington and Colorado, as well as businesses
associated with marijuana, have been pressing the Justice
Department to make a decision on what the federal government
would do where recreational use has been legalized.  “This very carefully considered approach by the federal
government will allow our state to move forward and show the
country a way a well-regulated system can be effectuated in a
state while still respecting the federal Controlled Substances
Act,” Washington Governor Jay Inslee, a 62-year-old Democrat,
said yesterday at a news briefing in Olympia.  Trusting States  “What I’m hearing from the federal government is that they
believe there’s a reason to trust the states of Colorado and
Washington,” Inslee told reporters. “So we’re not going to
allow distribution of this product in a way that has massive
leakage outside the state of Washington. We’re not going to
allow distribution of this product to minors.”  Colorado Democratic Governor John Hickenlooper, 61, said
yesterday the state shares the Justice Department’s enforcement
priorities. The state is “determined to keep marijuana
businesses from being fronts for criminal enterprises or other
illegal activity,” he said in a statement.  ‘A Mistake’  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie , 50, a Republican who is
seeking re-election in November and may run for president in
2016, called Holder’s decision not to challenge recreational
marijuana laws “a mistake.”  It amounts to a “de facto” legalization, said Christie, a
former U.S. attorney. New Jersey won’t move toward legalizing
the recreational use of marijuana, the governor told reporters
in Point Pleasant yesterday.  Washington and Colorado have been designing regulations for
the cultivation and sale of recreational marijuana while the
Obama administration formulated its position on the state laws.  The Justice Department said it reserves the right to
preempt the states should they run afoul of the new guidelines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  