-- U.S. Subpoena of Wall Street Due Diligence Firm Targets Banks
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-08-29T17:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/u-s-subpoena-of-wall-street-due-diligence-firm-targets-banks.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  has
subpoenaed documents from what was Wall Street’s largest
mortgage due-diligence firm as it ratchets up an investigation
into bank actions in the years before the financial crisis.  The Justice Department delivered a subpoena to Clayton
Holdings LLC last month for an extensive number of documents
related to the firm’s work on residential mortgage-backed
securities deals. Information sought includes due diligence
reports, internal communications related to reviews of pools of
loans and correspondence with clients, according to a copy of
the subpoena filed as an exhibit in federal court.  The work of Clayton in the years before the subprime
mortgage crisis has been used by state and federal agencies in
past cases. The Shelton, Connecticut-based firm so far has
declined to comply with the subpoena, according to a Justice
Department court filing on Aug. 27.  The fight over the subpoena underlines the Justice
Department’s push to file civil claims against the largest U.S.
banks related to mortgage-backed securities. Top department
officials have pledged to bring more cases through a joint
federal-state  task force  probing the deals. Clayton was a
“major provider of third-party due diligence services” to the
Wall Street firms that packaged mortgages into bonds for sale to
investors, according to the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission’s 2011 report.  ‘Crucial’ Documents  “These documents are crucial to the  United States ’
investigation as to which residential mortgage-backed
securities, and which businesses involved with their assembly,
could give rise to” civil claims, the Justice Department said
in the filing.  The department’s financial fraud task force has increased
its activity in RMBS cases, suing  Bank of America  Corp. this
month as New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  disclosed ongoing
criminal and civil investigations. Bank of America, based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , has denied wrongdoing and said it
will fight the suit.  Private and government plaintiffs including the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  and  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman have previously used information from Clayton to
bolster suits against banks including JPMorgan, Bank of America,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  A Clayton internal
report released by the FCIC showed securitizers allowing
mortgages flagged during the company’s reviews to be accepted
for bond deals.  All Communications  In its subpoena, issued on July 1, the Justice Department
sought due diligence reviews performed by Clayton, as well as
all communication between the clients for whom the company
performed reviews and the employees they dealt with, according
to a copy of the subpoena.  The subpoena was issued as part of a “broad and ongoing
nationwide investigation into the assembly, underwriting and
issuance of residential mortgage backed securities during the
time period between 2005 and 2007,” the Justice Department said
in its filing.  Bill Campbell, a spokesman for Clayton, didn’t respond to
a phone message and e-mail seeking comment about the subpoena.
Adora Andy Jenkins, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment beyond the court filings.  The Justice Department is relying on a 1989 statute, known
as the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement
Act, as it pursues the RMBS cases against Wall Street banks.  Time Limit  The law, enacted in response to the savings-and-loan
crisis, allows the government to seek, for as long as 10 years,
civil penalties for losses to federally insured financial
companies. Standard securities-fraud cases must be brought
within a five-year time limit.  Attorney General Eric Holder, in a statement after the
department and the Securities and Exchange Commission sued Bank
of America for allegedly misleading investors in an $850 million
mortgage-backed bond, said the U.S. would “pursue a range of
additional investigations” in the future.  “We will continue to use every tool, resource and
appropriate authority to ensure stability, accountability and --
above all -- justice for those who have been victimized,”
Holder said on Aug. 6.  The Justice Department’s Residential Mortgage Backed
Securities Working Group, established last year by President
 Barack Obama , has taken the lead on a series of investigations
related to financial crisis-era deals.  The group took on a mix of continuing civil and criminal
investigations and new probes into misrepresentations by
originators and underwriters on the quality of mortgages backing
the securities, failures to repurchase problem loans and
failures to transfer ownership of collateral.  The group has a broad mandate to investigate “any harm
suffered by American consumers” related to misrepresentations
or failures in agreements related to the securities, according
to a Jan. 27, 2012, memo by Holder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  