-- U.S. Second Quarter Second Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-08-29T12:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/u-s-second-quarter-second-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product report from the Commerce Department.  GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT:  SECOND QUARTER 2013 (SECOND ESTIMATE)
 CORPORATE PROFITS:  SECOND QUARTER 2013 (PRELIMINARY ESTIMATE)  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the United
States -- increased at an annual rate of 2.5 percent in the
second quarter of 2013 (that is, from the first quarter to the
second quarter), according to the “second” estimate released by
the Bureau of Economic Analysis.  In the first quarter, real GDP
increased 1.1 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete
source data than were available for the “advance” estimate
issued last month.  In the advance estimate, the increase in
real GDP was 1.7 percent.  With this second estimate for the
second quarter, the increase in exports was larger than
previously estimated, and the increase in imports was smaller
than previously estimated.  The increase in real GDP in the second quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), exports, private inventory investment,
nonresidential fixed investment, and residential fixed
investment that were partly offset by a negative contribution
from federal government spending. Imports, which are a
subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased.  The acceleration in real GDP in the second quarter
primarily reflected upturns in exports and in nonresidential
fixed investment and a smaller decrease in federal government
spending that were partly offset by an acceleration in imports
and decelerations in private inventory investment and in PCE.  _____ FOOTNOTE.  Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally
adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise specified.  Quarter-to-quarter dollar changes are differences between these published
estimates. Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data
and are annualized.  “Real” estimates are in chained (2009)
dollars.  Price indexes are chain-type measures.  The price index for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 0.3 percent in
the second quarter, unrevised from the advance estimate; this
index increased 1.2 percent in the first quarter.  Excluding
food and energy prices, the price index for gross domestic
purchases increased 0.9 percent in the second quarter, compared
with an increase of 1.4 percent in the first.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.8
percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 2.3
percent in the first.  Durable goods increased 6.1 percent,
compared with an increase of 5.8 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 1.8 percent, compared with an increase of 2.7 percent.
Services increased 1.1 percent, compared with an increase of 1.5
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 4.4 percent
in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 4.6 percent
in the first.  Nonresidential structures increased 16.1 percent,
in contrast to a decrease of 25.7 percent.  Equipment increased
2.9 percent, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent.
Intellectual property products decreased 0.9 percent, in
contrast to an increase of 3.7 percent.  Real residential fixed
investment increased 12.9 percent, compared with an increase of
12.5 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 8.6 percent
in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 1.3 percent
in the first.  Real imports of goods and services increased 7.0
percent, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment decreased 1.6 percent in the second quarter, compared
with a decrease of 8.4 percent in the first.  National defense
decreased 0.6 percent, compared with a decrease of 11.2 percent.
Nondefense decreased 3.2 percent, compared with a decrease of
3.6 percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 0.5 percent,
compared with a decrease of 1.3 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 0.59
percentage point to the second-quarter change in real GDP, after
adding 0.93 percentage point to the first-quarter change.
Private businesses increased inventories $62.6 billion in the
second quarter, following increases of $42.2 billion in the
first quarter and $7.3 billion in the fourth.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 1.9 percent in the second
quarter, compared with an increase of 0.2 percent in the first.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
2.4 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of
1.4 percent in the first.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 3.0 percent in the second quarter, compared with an
increase of 0.6 percent in the first.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which increased $16.8 billion in the second quarter after
decreasing $17.5 billion in the first; in the second quarter,
receipts increased $1.3 billion, and payments decreased $15.5
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 3.2 percent, or $132.6
billion, in the second quarter to a level of $16,667.9 billion.
In the first quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 2.8 percent,
or $115.0 billion.  Gross domestic income  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the
output of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes
earned in the production of GDP, increased 2.5 percent in the
second quarter, compared with an increase of 2.4 percent
(revised) in the first.  For a given quarter, the estimates of
GDP and GDI may differ for a variety of reasons, including the
incorporation of largely independent source data.  However, over
longer time spans, the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow
similar patterns of change.  Revisions  The upward revision to the percent change in real GDP
primarily reflected an upward revision to exports, a downward
revision to imports, and an upward revision to private inventory
investment that were partly offset by a downward revision to
state and local government spending.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation adjustment (IVA) and capital consumption
adjustment (CCAdj)) increased $78.3 billion in the second
quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $26.6 billion in the first.
Taxes on corporate income increased $10.5 billion, in contrast
to a decrease of $25.0 billion.  Profits after tax with IVA and
CCAdj increased $67.9 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $1.7
billion.  Dividends increased $273.8 billion in the second quarter,
in contrast to a decrease of $103.8 billion in the first.  The
large second-quarter increase primarily reflected dividends paid
by Fannie Mae to the federal government.  Undistributed profits
decreased $205.9 billion, in contrast to an increase of $102.1
billion.  Net cash flow with IVA -- the internal funds available
to corporations for investment --decreased $194.6 billion, in
contrast to an increase of $140.7 billion.  Profits from current production reflect the depreciation of
fixed assets valued at current cost using consistent
depreciation profiles.  These profiles are based on used-asset
prices and do not depend on the depreciation-accounting
practices used for federal income tax returns.  The IVA and
CCAdj are adjustments that convert inventory withdrawals and
depreciation of fixed assets reported on a tax-return,
historical-cost basis to the current-cost economic measures used
in the national income and product accounts.  Corporate profits by industry  Domestic profits of financial corporations increased $14.3
billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $4.1
billion in the first.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations increased $50.4 billion, in contrast to a decrease
of $3.1 billion.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits increased $13.6
billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of
$19.6 billion in the first.  This measure is calculated as the
difference between receipts from rest of the world and payments
to rest of the world.  Gross value added of nonfinancial domestic corporate business  In the second quarter, real gross value added of
nonfinancial corporations increased, and profits per unit of
real value added increased.  The increase in unit profits
reflected decreases in both the unit nonlabor and labor costs
incurred by corporations; unit prices were unchanged.  *          *          *  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry
estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases
are available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov.
By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  *          *          *  Next release -- September 26, 2013, at 8:30 A.M. EDT for:
  Gross Domestic Product:  Second Quarter 2013 (Third Estimate)  Corporate Profits:  Second Quarter 2013 (Revised Estimate)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  