-- Mubadala Said to Join Trafigura in Batista’s MMX Buyout Race
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-08-29T21:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/mubadala-said-to-join-trafigura-in-batista-s-mmx-buyout-contest.html
Mubadala Development Co. has joined
Trafigura Beheer BV to bid for  Eike Batista ’s iron-ore unit,
seeking to beat offers by Glencore Xstrata Plc and MRS Logistica
SA, three people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Mubadala and Amsterdam-based commodities trader Trafigura
presented a joint offer for Batista’s stake in  MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA (MMXM3) , the people said, asking not to be named as the
talks are private. MMX, a part of Batista’s holding company EBX
Group Co., is studying the bid together with offers from
Glencore and Brazilian railway operator MRS, they said.  Batista, 56, is running against the clock to sell pieces of
his commodities and logistics empire as the companies run out of
cash amid ballooning debt. MMX, based in  Rio de Janeiro , is in
“advanced” negotiations to sell the company and has received
interest from funds, miners and commodity traders, Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Gonzalez  said this month.  “Mubadala remains in close discussions with EBX and a
number of interested parties as EBX continues to restructure its
businesses,” Brian Lott, a Mubadala spokesman in  Abu Dhabi ,
said in a statement. “Many EBX assets have significant
potential value for Mubadala and other investors.”  MMX declined to comment in an e-mailed statement, as did
MRS’s press office. Victoria Dix, a Trafigura spokeswoman, and a
spokesman for Glencore also declined to comment.  Sudeste Port  The parties are still discussing a price for Batista’s
stake and no decision on a deal has been taken, two of the
people said. Notes linked to royalties of Sudeste, a port that
MMX is developing in Rio’s Sepetiba bay, are taken into
consideration for the valuation of the company, the people said.  Batista owns a stake valued at $694.9 million of those
securities, known as MMXM11, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires index. Some of these notes have been given as
collateral to creditors including Banco Bradesco SA and Itau
Unibanco Holding SA, people with knowledge of the matter told
 Bloomberg News  this month.  MMX,  Brazil ’s fourth-largest iron-ore producer, expects to
start operations at Sudeste by year-end, allowing the unit to
ship the steelmaking material to more profitable Asian markets.  The company had 3.02 billion reais ($1.28 billion) of  total
debt  and 451.3 million reais of cash at the end of the second
quarter, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  MMX  rose  5.5 percent to 2.10 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo today, the best-performing stock in the benchmark Ibovespa
 index . The securities linked to Sudeste  dropped  0.4 percent to
2.45 reais.  OGX Rout  A rout on Batista’s oil producing unit  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  deepened today as the entrepreneur sold stock
and a dispute with Petroliam Nasional fuels speculation the
venture will run out of cash. OGX  slumped  12 percent in Sao
Paulo to close at 50 centavos, extending a three-day slide to 38
percent, the steepest since July 3, after the company said
Batista sold a 1.54 percent stake. Shipbuilder sister unit  OSX
Brasil SA (OSXB3)  tumbled 18 percent to a record low 72 centavos.  Batista, who last month lost his billionaire status after
Mubadala converted an investment in his EBX Group into debt,
decided to cut his stake in MMX and a new controlling
shareholder is expected in the short term, CEO Gonzalez told
investors on a conference call Aug. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net . 