-- Verizon Credit Swaps Reach Three-Year High on Vodafone Talks
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-08-29T21:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/verizon-credit-swaps-rise-to-three-year-high-on-vodafone-talks.html
The cost to protect against losses
on  debt  of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  reached the highest level
in three years as the owner of the largest U.S. mobile operator
negotiates to buy a 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless from
partner  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Credit-default swaps on Verizon, which typically increase
as investor confidence deteriorates, climbed 15 basis points to
80.5 as of 4:48 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill Financial Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts earlier touched 94.5 basis points, the highest since
September 2010.  The carriers are in advanced discussions about a sale of
the holding for about $130 billion, according to people with
knowledge of the matter. New York-based Verizon is working with
several banks to raise $10 billion from each, or enough to
 finance  about $60 billion of the buyout, said two of the people,
asking not to be identified because the talks are private. The
deal would be the largest in more than a decade.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Debt of Verizon, which has $49.2 billion in obligations,
declined. The company’s $1.75 billion of 2.45 percent unsecured
notes due November 2022 fell 0.5 cent to 88.1 cents on the
dollar to yield 4 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  A gauge of company credit risk in North America fell after
the U.S. reported higher than expected economic growth.  GDP Rise  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.9 basis
point to a mid-price of 82.5 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent annualized
rate in the second quarter, up from an initial estimate of 1.7
percent, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 2.2 percent gain.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries narrowed 0.7 basis point to 130.6
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 1.3 to
587.4.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  