-- Verizon Seen Seeking $60 Billion After Record Low Debt Cost
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-08-29T14:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/verizon-seen-seeking-60-billion-after-debt-costs-at-record-low.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  is said
to be seeking $60 billion in financing to back its potential
purchase of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s stake in its wireless unit as
borrowing costs for investment-grade companies climb from
historic lows.  Verizon is in discussions about an acquisition of
Vodafone’s 45 percent stake in  Verizon Wireless  for about $130
billion, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The
New York-based company is negotiating with several banks to
raise about half that amount, said two of the people, who asked
not to be named because the talks are private.  Speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will taper its
unprecedented stimulus measures as soon as September might make
it more expensive for companies to sell bonds. The average yield
investors demand to hold the debt of companies with A ratings in
the U.S. rose to 3.08 percent, after falling to a record low of
2.3 percent in May, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Single-A US Corporate index, which counts Verizon among its
members.  “Given the risk of rising interest rates, it adds to the
sense of urgency for Verizon to secure this asset that’s growing
in value,” Brian Zinser, a New York-based credit strategist at
Mizuho Securities Co, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
becoming clear that there may be a limited window to be able to
do a transaction of this size, which will likely require
financing across both equity and debt capital markets.”  In a statement, Newbury, England-based Vodafone said
there’s “no certainty that an agreement will be reached” as it
holds discussions with Verizon.  Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for
Verizon, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  