-- Visa, MasterCard Merchants Better With Pact, Expert Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-29T17:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/visa-mastercard-merchants-better-with-pact-expert-says.html
Merchants will be better off with a
multibillion-dollar price-fixing settlement with  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  over swipe fees than they would be if they went
to trial, a court appointed expert said.  Alan O. Sykes , a  New York  University law professor, found
that U.S. merchants face “a substantial probability of
failure” if they proceed with the case, according to a
memorandum filed yesterday in  Brooklyn , New York federal court.
Sykes, who was asked by U.S. District Judge John Gleeson to
weigh in on the pact, also found some concerns with legal
releases and the possible impact of certain rule changes
promised in the deal.  “The expected returns to continued litigation are highly
uncertain,” Sykes said in the memorandum. “Plaintiffs face a
substantial probability of securing little or no relief at the
conclusion of trial.”  Announced last July, the settlement was estimated at one
time to be worth as much as $7.25 billion and was described by
lawyers for the plaintiffs as the largest-ever U.S. antitrust
accord.  Dozens of major retailers, including the world’s biggest,
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc., (WMT)  opposed the deal, claiming merchants
should receive more money. They contend promised rule changes
wouldn’t be helpful and that the card companies would have too
much freedom to raise fee rates in the future.  The size of the settlement will be reduced based on the
number of retailers that decided to opt out, according to court
documents.  A hearing on final approval of the accord is scheduled for
Sept. 12.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Manhattan federal court
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  