-- Vitus Chief Says German Landlord’s Owners Mulling Stake Sale
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-08-29T14:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/vitus-chief-says-german-landlord-s-owners-mulling-stake-sale.html
Owners of Vitus Immobilien Sarl, the
German residential landlord partly held by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
are considering selling stakes or adding new investors to profit
from demand for German housing, according to Chief Executive
Officer Ben Lehrecke.  “No decision has been taken regarding an exit strategy, a
recapitalization or taking on additional investors,” Lehrecke
said in a telephone interview. “In this favorable market
environment, all of these are options.”  If Vitus chooses to go public, an initial share offering
could come as early as this year, according to a person with
knowledge of the talks. The company, owned by Blackstone, Round
Hill Capital LLC,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Aviva Plc (AV/) , is being
advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Deutsche Bank, said the
person who asked not to be named because the discussions are
private.  Spokesmen for Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and Blackstone
declined to comment. Officials at Round Hill and Aviva didn’t
immediately reply to e-mails seeking comment.  Vitus, which owns 30,000 apartments and manages 20,000
more, would be the third German property company to list its
shares this year.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN) , the
country’s largest landlord by market value, raised 575 million
euros ($760 million) in an IPO in July.  LEG Immobilien AG (LEG) , the
third-largest landlord, raised 1.32 billion euros in February.  Demand for German homes is fueled by investors seeking safe
assets amid the  European debt crisis . Institutions including
insurers, pension funds and private-equity firms may buy about
10 billion euros of residential buildings in 2013, according to
data compiled by Chicago-based broker  Jones Lang LaSalle. (JLL)  In
2012, investors bought 11.1 billion euros of homes, the most
since 2007.  Vitus, founded in 1869, owns and manages homes in western
German cities including Dusseldorf, Kiel and Bremen, according
to its website. Blackstone bought the company in 2004 for 1.39
billion euros, and in 2007 sold a majority stake for 1.6 billion
euros to funds managed by Round Hill, Deutsche Bank and Aviva.  Last year, Vitus refinanced its debt with a five-year, 754
million euro commercial mortgage backed security issued by
Deutsche Bank. It was the first European CMBS since 2007.  On Wednesday, the Wall Street Journal reported that Vitus
is planning an IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  