-- Vivendi Cuts Forecasts for Biggest Units as Sales Decline
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-08-29T07:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/vivendi-cuts-forecasts-for-biggest-units-as-sales-decline.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ,  Europe ’s largest media-to-telecommunications company, cut the full-year forecasts for
its two biggest divisions after reporting a decline in second-quarter revenue.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization at French mobile-phone division SFR will be 2.8
billion euros ($3.7 billion) this year, less than the 2.9
billion euros predicted earlier, Paris-based Vivendi said today
in a statement. The company cuts its forecast for earnings from
pay-TV provider Canal Plus to 650 million euros from 670 million
euros.  Vivendi, trying to refocus its business on media and
content, last month announced the $8.2 billion sale of a stake
in video-games maker  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou, having promised to overhaul the company and weighing a
split-up of its businesses, is also in exclusive talks to sell
its stake in Maroc Telecom SA to Emirates Telecommunications
Corp.  “We deem these results disappointing,” Chief Financial
Officer Philippe Capron said during an earnings call. “We’ve
taken Activision and Maroc Telecom out of the accounting, but
they had better performances than the four divisions we are
keeping -- that’s weighed on our earnings.”  Vivendi’s total second-quarter sales dropped 0.5 percent to
5.43 billion euros, while net income rose 7.5 percent to 501
million euros. SFR reported an 11 percent drop in quarterly
sales, to 2.5 billion euros, while its Ebitda fell 16 percent to
768 million euros.  Price War  As a price war started by  Iliad SA (ILD)  goes on for a second
year, SFR has started talks with Bouygues SA’s phone unit over
sharing part of their mobile-phone networks to cover more ground
for less. Shrinking phone bills have also prompted SFR to
simplify its structure and cut jobs.  SFR is cutting costs faster than planned and is on the
right track to turn around its business next year, Capron said
today. He predicts full-year results will show cost savings
taking hold at SFR as well as an improvement in winning over new
clients.  The  shares  rose 0.7 percent to 15.45 euros at 9:20 a.m. in
Paris, bringing this year’s decline to 9 percent. That values
the company at 20.7 billion euros.  SFR Outlook  Vivendi, which is looking to cut back its debt and rebuild
the company around  Universal Music Group  and  Canal Plus , has
said an IPO is an option for SFR, though business at the unit
must first be strengthened.  “We’re not ready to discuss this option yet,” Capron said
when asked about an IPO of SFR. “Everything that goes in the
direction of a turnaround at SFR gives us more courses of action
to go ahead with transforming Vivendi.”  Vivendi has also said it may resume a process to dispose of
its Brazilian broadband unit GVT.  Taking into account expected asset disposals including
Maroc Telecom and Activision Blizzard, Vivendi’s net debt will
drop to 6.5 billion euros from 17.4 billion euros as of June 30,
the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  