-- Vivendi Says Savings Will Encourage Phone and TV Advances
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-08-29T14:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/vivendi-eyes-savings-to-bring-phone-and-tv-back-on-track.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , the French conglomerate
that owns phone company SFR, said cost cuts, asset sales and
restructuring to focus on media and content will help its phone
and TV units recover next year after second-quarter sales fell.  Vivendi’s SFR, pay-TV provider Canal Plus and Brazilian
telecommunications unit GVT are making progress toward a
turnaround, Finance Chief Philippe Capron said today. That’s
after the Paris-based company revised full-year forecasts for
its two biggest divisions, citing a tax adjustment at SFR and
macroeconomic concerns affecting Canal Plus.  “We’ve planted the seeds for the operational improvement
of our business,” Capron said on a conference call. “Canal,
SFR and GVT are all on track to recovery. You just can’t see it
yet in the numbers.”  Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou, having promised to overhaul the
company through a possible split, is clamping down on units
suffering profit declines. Vivendi announced the $8.2 billion
sale of a stake in video-games maker  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) 
last month and said it’s in exclusive talks to sell Maroc
Telecom SA to Emirates Telecommunications Corp. as it tries to
refocus its business on media and content.  The  shares  rose as much as 3.3 percent to 15.86 euros in
Paris. They gained 1.6 percent at 3:49 p.m., paring this year’s
decline to 8 percent and valuing the company at 21 billion euros
($28 billion).  Dividend Question  As Vivendi aims to focus on the media business, which
includes Universal Music Group and Canal Plus, the company has
said the first step will be to use asset-sale proceeds to repay
debt. Accounting for expected disposals including Maroc Telecom
and Activision Blizzard, Vivendi’s net debt will drop to 6.5
billion euros from 17.4 billion euros as of June 30, the company
said today.  The question remains as to how much of the proceeds Vivendi
will give back to shareholders, analysts from JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Natixis and Kepler Cheuvreux said in separate notes today.  Capron, who declined to comment about the dividend policy,
said he and Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Dubos will
soon make recommendations to the board, which will discuss the
matter in the coming weeks.  “We’re not ready to talk about this yet, but that doesn’t
mean we have forgotten about it,” Capron said. “We’ll look to
balance the interest of bondholders and shareholders.”  Price War  Vivendi’s second-quarter sales dropped 0.5 percent to 5.43
billion euros, while net income rose 7.5 percent to 501 million
euros. SFR, the biggest contributor to quarterly sales and
profits, reported an 11 percent drop in quarterly sales, to 2.5
billion euros, while its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell 16 percent to 768 million
euros.  As a price war started by  Iliad SA (ILD)  goes on for a second
year, SFR has started talks with Bouygues SA’s phone unit over
sharing part of their mobile-phone networks to cover more ground
for less. Shrinking phone bills have also prompted SFR to
simplify its structure and cut jobs.  SFR is cutting costs faster than planned and will turn
around its business next year, Capron said. He predicts full-year results will show cost savings taking hold at SFR as well
as an improvement in winning over new clients.  Still, because of a tax adjustment, Ebitda at the unit will
be 2.8 billion euros this year, less than the 2.9 billion euros
predicted earlier.  SFR IPO  Vivendi has said an IPO is an option for SFR, though
business at the unit must first be strengthened. Capron said
again today that improving SFR’s operational performance would
give management “more courses of action.”  Vivendi has also said it may resume a process to dispose of
its Brazilian broadband unit GVT, which it said today won’t grow
as fast this year as initially forecast. Fourtou’s attempt to
divest GVT earlier this year failed because of differences on
valuation.  In the short-term, the focus should remain on turning
around SFR and adapting structure at Universal Music and Canal
Plus,  Claudio Aspesi , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein said in a note.  “It’s too early to set your financial models,” Capron
told analysts today on a call. “There is more transformation
ahead of us before the dust settles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  