-- Vodafone Seen as AT&T Prey Amid $130 Billion Verizon Deal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-30T16:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/vodafone-seen-as-at-t-prey-after-130-billion-verizon-deal-tech.html
As  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  nears an exit
from its 14-year-old U.S. wireless venture with  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , Europe’s biggest mobile-phone company may
have to make a tough choice: buy or be bought.  AT&T (T)  Inc., which has scoured Europe for potential
acquisitions this year, would examine assets that remain after
Vodafone sells its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless, people
familiar with the matter said. The U.S. company is only
interested in wireless and would be deterred if Vodafone expands
in cable and fixed-line businesses, said one of the people,
asking not to be named discussing internal deliberations.  Vodafone and Verizon are discussing a price of about $130
billion for the stake, people with knowledge of the talks said.
AT&T could pay about 80 billion pounds ($124 billion) for what’s
left of Vodafone, according to  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, basing her estimate on a valuation of six
times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization.  “Were somebody to buy Vodafone, AT&T would be the primary
candidate,” said James Barford, a telecommunications analyst at
Enders Analysis in London. “AT&T would both be likely to summon
the financial resources and has already expressed an interest in
Europe.”  Europe Attraction  Vodafone is one of Britain’s most global non-financial
companies with assets from Sydney to Johannesburg overseen from
a bucolic headquarters outside London. To revive its European
business, where wireless mergers are hampered by regulation,
Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  has started acquiring
wireline assets, agreeing in June to pay $10 billion for
 Germany ’s largest cable-television provider.  AT&T has examined takeover candidates including Vodafone’s
assets, U.K. mobile carrier EE -- a venture of  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  and  Orange SA (ORA)  -- and parts of Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , people
familiar with the company’s plans said in June. AT&T is
attracted to Europe because of its relatively recent
introduction of faster, fourth-generation networks, which have
been available for years in the U.S.  Brad Burns , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to
comment on any potential M&A targets.  Ben Padovan , a spokesman
for Newbury-based Vodafone, declined to comment on whether the
carrier may become a takeover candidate.  Vodafone  gained  0.7 percent to close at 206.25 pence in
London, adding to yesterday’s 8.2 percent jump. Verizon lost 0.9
percent to $47.40 at 12:24 p.m. in New York. AT&T added 0.2
percent to $33.71.  Cash Conundrum  Vodafone would fit AT&T’s global strategy, and the cash
proceeds from the Verizon Wireless stake sale could make it more
interesting for an acquirer, Bienenstock said.  Verizon is working with several banks to raise $10 billion
from each, or enough to  finance  about $60 billion of the buyout,
people familiar with the plans have said. In a statement
yesterday, Vodafone said there’s no certainty an agreement with
Verizon will be reached.  “With 30 to 40 billion pounds cash in its pocket, Vodafone
would quickly look an attractive target,” Bienenstock wrote in
a note. “Alternatively, Vodafone could use the cash to build a
bigger business itself. This would be more risky and time
consuming, but it could be more fun and, depending on one’s
view, more value creating.”  AT&T’s likely strategy would be to accelerate Vodafone’s 4G
rollout, Enders’s Barford said. Vodafone switched on its 4G
service in the U.K.  yesterday , while consumers in some other
European markets are still waiting for speedier connections.  Low Valuations  The U.S. carrier is unconvinced of the advantages of
running combined fixed-line and wireless networks, and would be
more interested in Vodafone were it to remain a primarily mobile
provider, said one of the people.  Vodafone has already expanded beyond wireless service, and
in June beat  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global (LBTYA)  Plc to take over
Germany’s  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)  Vodafone and Verizon
accelerated talks on the stake sale after the Kabel Deutschland
offer, which put additional pressure on the British company’s
finances, a person familiar with the matter said.  If 51-year-old Colao opts to step up acquisitions, the
Verizon Wireless stake sale would supply the funds to buy almost
any company in the industry at a time when valuations of
European telecommunications firms are at an all-time low. At the
end of its last financial year ended in March, Vodafone had
about $11.8 billion in  cash  and cash equivalents. It reported
net debt of 24.9 billion pounds as of June 30, including its
joint ventures.  Cash Pile  Vodafone’s cash pile alone, including the  Verizon Wireless 
proceeds, would be worth more than the combined market
capitalization of France’s Orange, at $27 billion, and  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT) , at almost $12 billion. Liberty Global, which has
cable operations in countries including Germany and the
Netherlands, is valued at about $30 billion.  Vodafone is now heavily focused on mature European markets
such as Italy, the U.K. and Germany. It also has operations in
Asia and  Africa .  Expansions into fixed-line businesses have two primary
advantages for mobile operators. Selling so-called triple- and
quadruple-play packages that combine mobile, landline, TV and
broadband services makes customers more reluctant to upend their
entire digital lives by switching providers. Owning high-capacity fiber-optic networks helps carriers deal with the
demands of surging mobile-data traffic.  Broadband Expansion  Last year, Vodafone bought Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc,
an operator of U.K. fixed-line networks, for $1.8 billion. Its
deal for  Kabel Deutschland  is adding a formidable fixed-line
operation that Vodafone will combine with its mobile business in
Germany.  Vodafone was also considering an acquisition of Italy’s
Fastweb SpA, people familiar with the matter told  Bloomberg News 
in June. Other European cable companies that aren’t part of a
larger multinational group include Spain’s Grupo Corporativo ONO
SA, France’s Numericable SAS and Zon Multimedia SGPS SA in
Portugal.  “Both the U.S. and European telecommunication markets
stand to face some tough competition with the increasing move
towards converged, triple-play offers,” said Ronald Klingebiel,
a professor at the Warwick Business School. “To weather these
impending storms, Vodafone is right to sell the stake so it can
concentrate on its priority markets in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  