-- Weidmann Says Ending Sovereign-Debt Privilege Would Spur Lending
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-29T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/weidmann-says-ending-sovereign-debt-privilege-would-spur-lending.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said ending the preferential
treatment given to sovereign bonds on bank balance sheets would
help increase lending to the private sector.  “Ending the preference given to sovereign debt with
respect to corporate loans would be an important step in making
credit to companies more attractive,” Weidmann, who leads
 Germany ’s Bundesbank, said in a speech in Hamburg today. “The
sovereign risks on bank balance sheets, which have in places
increased during the crisis, are partly due to the fact that
government bonds don’t have to be backed by capital and that
there are no upper limits for sovereign debt held.”  European Union regulations classify the region’s government
debt on bank balance sheets as risk-free, even as that has
passed the effects of governments’ fiscal difficulties through
to the financial system. That has squeezed credit as lenders in
the countries worst affected by the sovereign debt crisis try to
repair their balance sheets. Lending to companies and households
in the euro area contracted for 15 months through July, ECB data
show.  At the same time, “higher capital requirements for banks
are of decisive importance,” Weidmann said. “They ensure that
banks can shoulder losses out of their own resources, and
thereby transfer the risk back to the owners. This process
started with the Basel-III regulation and has to be consistently
implemented.”  Fiscal Softening  Weidmann said that the measures undertaken by the ECB in
the past year, including interest rate cuts, unlimited liquidity
provision to banks and forward guidance on rates, were
“basically correct” and helped to limit the effects of the
debt crisis.  “However, the effectiveness of loose monetary policy
decreases with the duration of the low interest-rate phase, and
financial-stability risks increase,” Weidmann said. The
withdrawal of such loose policy “becomes more difficult,” he
said.  The Bundesbank president also said that it “isn’t right”
that new fiscal rules for member states agreed by the EU have
already been softened, allowing countries including Spain and
France more time to rein in their budgets deficits  “Such a watering-down should only be undertaken in well-founded exceptional cases,” Weidmann said. “Over the long
term, only solid national finances can secure sustainable
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Hamburg at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  