-- Wesfarmers Raises A$304 Million With Lease Securitization Deal
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-08-29T09:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/wesfarmers-raises-a-304-million-with-lease-securitization-deal.html
Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ,  Australia ’s largest
employer, raised about A$304 million ($272 million) through a
transaction that involves the sale and leaseback of properties
in its Bunnings Warehouse hardware store chain.  The conglomerate with businesses including supermarkets,
coal mining and insurance, is selling and renting back 15
properties to a special purpose entity funded by a lease
securitization structure, according to a regulatory filing. The
purchase will be primarily funded with the proceeds of 12-year
senior secured partially amortizing floating-rate notes which
were today priced to yield 215 basis points more than the bank
bill swap rate, it said.  The secured notes will be serviced by rental revenues from
the properties and also carry a guarantee from Wesfarmers,
according to ratings company Standard & Poor’s, which assigned
them a preliminary rating of A-.  “The lease securitization represents a continuation of
Wesfarmers’ strategy to release capital from its balance
sheet,” the company’s Finance Director Terry Bowen said in the
filing. “Given the depth of Bunnings new store pipeline and
high rate of conversion into trading locations, the group will
continue its strong focus on recycling capital as these stores
are completed.”  The special-purpose entity today sold A$270.89 million of
the secured notes which have a weighted-average life of 10.3
years, according to an e-mailed statement from  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC) , which helped managed the note sale.  CIMB Group Holdings
Bhd (CIMB)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were also sale managers and
acted as joint structuring advisers. The transaction was also
expected to include about A$33 million of residual value notes,
according to S&P.  The structure, which released about A$287 million of
capital for Perth-based Wesfarmers, may be used again should
market conditions permit, the company said.  Today’s transaction follows the sale and leaseback earlier
this month of a portfolio of 10 other Bunnings properties to  BWP
Trust (BWP) , according to Wesfarmers’ statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  