-- Won Strengthens After Hyun Says Korean Surplus to Boost Currency
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-29T07:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/won-gains-as-hyun-says-south-korea-surplus-to-boost-currency.html
South  Korea ’s won rose to the
strongest level in almost three weeks after Finance Minister
Hyun Oh Seok said the current-account surplus, forecast to reach
a record this year, will support the currency. Bonds were steady.  The excess in the broadest measure of trade will be larger
than last year’s and put upward pressure on the won, Hyun said
in an interview yesterday. The surplus for July was $6.8 billion,
compared with $7.2 billion in June, the Bank of Korea reported
today. The Kospi index of stocks rose by the most in two weeks
as overseas funds added to their holdings, exchange data show.  The won advanced 0.5 percent to 1,109.8 per dollar in  Seoul ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,108.66
earlier, the strongest level since Aug. 9. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, dropped 40 basis points, or 0.4
percentage point, to 8.16 percent.  “The won is holding well from external risks based on
strong fundamentals and it has been undervalued, too,” Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul,
wrote in a research note today. “We’re keeping an eye on oil
price from tensions around  Syria , it might hurt Korea’s trade
surplus.”  Oil futures fell after surging to the highest level since
2011 yesterday on concern the Syrian conflict may threaten
supplies from the  Middle East . The U.S. and the U.K. said they
are prepared to take military action after accusing Syria’s
leaders of using chemical weapons in an attack on a Damascus
suburb.  Domestic Spending  South Korea’s current account surplus will rise to $53
billion this year from last year’s $43 billion, according to a
 Bank of Korea  forecast last month. The target can be achieved
“without difficulty,” Bank of Korea Director General Jung Yung Taek said at a press briefing in Seoul today.  Korean exporters are less sensitive to the exchange rate
than they used to be and resurgent domestic spending will
ultimately boost imports and help reduce demand for the local
currency, Finance Minister Hyun said yesterday.  Overseas
shipments (KOEXTOTY) , which account for more than 45 percent of the
nation’s gross domestic product, have increased in three of the
past four months.  The country’s solid current-account surplus reflects its
increasing safe-haven status, Wai Ho Leong and Bill Diviney,
economists at Barclays Plc, wrote in a research note today.  The yield on  South Korea ’s 2.75 percent government
securities due June 2016 was steady at 2.92 percent, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  