-- WPP Lifts Sales Target on Growth in U.K. and North America
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-08-29T08:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/wpp-first-half-sales-rise-7-on-growth-in-u-k-and-north-america.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, raised its forecast for 2013 sales growth
after stronger-than-expected expansion in the U.K. and North
America helped counter a slowdown in Asia and Africa.  First-half revenue rose 7.1 percent to 5.33 billion pounds
($8.27 billion), compared with analysts’ average estimate of
5.29 billion pounds. Profit before interest and taxes rose 12
percent to 541.4 million pounds, the London-based company said
in a statement today.  The owner of ad agencies Young & Rubicam and Ogilvy &
Mather said revenue in July increased 5 percent on a like-for-like basis, the highest monthly growth rate this year. As WPP
continues to see recovery, the industry is also coming to terms
with the announced merger last month of  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  and
 Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) , which if approved will unseat WPP’s Chief
Executive Officer Martin Sorrell from his No. 1 industry spot --
a deal Sorrell said today was “clunky” and counter to both
companies’ strategies.  “There is a significant degree of concern with strategic
and regulatory issues,” Sorrell said in a phone interview.
“Potential client and, even more importantly, people conflicts
are considerable, exacerbated by a lack of pre-announcement
consultation.”  Shares Rise  WPP’s shares rose as much as 4.2 percent to 1,227 pence and
were 3.4 percent higher as of 8:55 a.m. in London trading. The
company’s market value is 16.3 billion pounds.  As regulators in Asia, Europe and U.S. set about to examine
the merger, which would create a company with a combined market
value of $35 billion and $23 billion in 2012 revenue, Sorrell
said WPP is raising its target for revenue from fast-growing
markets and digital operations to 40 percent to 45 percent of
total sales in the next five years from 35 percent to 40
percent.  After seven-month like-for-like revenue growth of 2.8
percent, WPP forecast sales growth of “over” 3 percent for the
full year, compared with a previous forecast of “around” 3
percent. WPP also expects to meet an operating-margin expansion
of 0.5 points or more for 2013 and is continuing to make
strategically targeted small and medium-sized acquisitions,
Sorrell said.  In the first half, revenue from U.K. operations was 669
million pounds, an increase of 13 percent, while North American
sales rose 5.3 percent to 1.84 billion pounds.  “There has been some slowing of revenue growth rates in
the faster growing markets of Asia Pacific, Latin America,
 Africa  and the Middle East and Central and eastern Europe,” WPP
said. “This was more than compensated by a significant
improvement in the revenue growth rates in the mature markets of
North America and the United Kingdom in the second quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  