-- WTI Oil Falls From 2-Year High as Syria Strike Debated
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-29T12:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/wti-oil-drops-from-two-year-high-u-s-crude-stockpiles-advance.html
West Texas Intermediate fell from
the highest settlement since May 2011 amid easing concern of an
imminent American-led strike against Syria.  Futures slid as much as 1.4 percent in New York as the U.K.
and France said they favor waiting for the results of a United
Nations investigation into President Bashar al-Assad’s alleged
use of chemical weapons. Prices surged yesterday on concern the
conflict in Syria may spread and threaten oil supplies from the
 Middle East . Brent’s 14-day relative strength index stayed above
70 for a third day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
signaling gains may have been exaggerated.  “The U.S.-led coalition is losing momentum,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London . “I don’t
expect much downside though, and a potential quick strike over
the weekend would still push” crude toward the highest levels
of the year, he said.  WTI for October delivery declined as much as $1.50 to
$108.60 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and stood at $109.32 as of 1:26 p.m. London
time. The volume of all futures traded was 17 percent below the
100-day average. The contract climbed 1 percent to $110.10
yesterday, the highest close since May 3, 2011.  Brent for October settlement declined as much as $1.67, or
1.4 percent, to $114.94 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange, slipping from the highest close since Feb. 19.
The European benchmark was at a premium of $6.74 to WTI, the gap
widening for a fourth consecutive day.  Syrian Unrest  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  face a decision about whether to attack Syria for its
alleged use of chemical weapons amid Russian resistance and
without a UN mandate.  Cameron is backing away from a bid to win swift
parliamentary approval for attacks on Assad’s military capacity.
France said action requires “proof,” pointing to a report due
within days by UN inspectors probing the location of last week’s
chemical attack near Damascus.  Options to bet on a 10 percent advance in WTI for October
delivery became more expensive than for a drop of the same
magnitude on Aug. 27, according to data from the Nymex. The
volume of contracts giving the right to buy WTI at $125 a
barrel, about $15 more than current levels, rose more than 10-fold the past two days, the data show.  Brief Rally  Brent would briefly rally to as much as $130 a barrel in
the event of a limited operation, Bank of America Corp. said in
a report dated yesterday.  “The most likely scenario remains a short-lived oil spike
to a price range of $120 to $130 a barrel, assuming a NATO-led
contained military strike that lasts for only a few days,” said
 Francisco Blanch , the bank’s head of commodities research in New
York. Prices could surge $50 if “Syria turns into a protracted
Vietnam-style boots-on-the ground proxy war,” he said.  The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil
production in the first quarter of this year, according to data
from the  International Energy Agency . Syria shares a border with
 Iraq , OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  Previous Wars  Oil prices  have retreated in the past once military action
begins. WTI tumbled 9.9 percent in May 2011 as the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization bombarded  Libya . Futures lost 15
percent in March 2003 as a U.S.-led coalition invaded Iraq with
the mission of toppling President  Saddam Hussein .  “Prices could come off steeply” after an attack “as the
likelihood of a violent response from Syria, Iran or Russia is
seen as low and actual supply losses should remain small,”  Ed Morse , head of global commodities research at Citigroup Global
Markets Inc. in New York, said in a report yesterday.  U.S.  crude inventories  increased by a larger-than-expected
2.99 million barrels to 362 million barrels in the week ended
Aug. 23, the biggest gain in four months, the Energy Information
Administration reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  