-- Hyun Sees Won Pressured Higher as South Korea Surplus Surges
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m ,   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r   a n d   B r i a n   F o w l e r
-- 2013-08-29T00:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-29/hyun-sees-won-pressured-higher-as-south-korea-surplus-surges-1-.html
South Korea ’s current-account
surplus, forecast to hit a record this year, will put “upward
pressure” on the won, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said.  “The size of the current-account surplus this year is
forecast to be bigger than last year,” Hyun said in an
interview yesterday in  Seoul . “That means it’s unavoidable to
have upward pressure on the won.”  Hyun, 63, said that Korean exporters are less sensitive to
the  exchange rate  than they used to be and he expects resurgent
domestic spending will ultimately boost imports and help reduce
demand for the local currency. The finance minister, who was
appointed in March, also spoke about the risks posed by U.S.
Federal Reserve tapering and an economic slowdown in  China , and
said it wasn’t clear when the country would balance its budget.  South  Korea ’s  current-account surplus  is enabling  Asia ’s
fourth-biggest economy to keep  interest rates  low to support
growth at a time when emerging-market economies from  Indonesia 
to  Turkey  to  Brazil  are raising borrowing costs to protect their
currencies. At the same time, a slowdown in investment by local
companies has prompted President Park Geun Hye to consult with
executives about regulatory changes that would help create jobs
and boost wages.  The surplus in the broad measure of trade will rise to $53
billion this year from $43 billion last year, according to a
Bank of Korea forecast last month. The excess for July was $6.8
billion, from $7.2 billion in June.  Capital Inflows  The won traded at 1113.18 per dollar as of 9:21 a.m. local
time, a gain of 0.2 percent for today and about 4.9 percent
stronger than the five-year average rate. South Korea’s currency
has weakened about 4.4 percent against the dollar this year,
while the  Indian rupee  has tumbled about 20 percent and the
Brazilian real has declined about 13 percent.  “Incurring a surplus would definitely push up the won and
this will increasingly be an important factor,” said Jeong Young Sik, a Seoul-based economist at Samsung Economic Research
Institute. “Should emerging economies continue to experience
turbulence, investors will rely more on current-account data to
determine economic fundamentals and this will attract more
foreign money into Korea.”  Hyun said he joined a luncheon President Park held
yesterday with executives from companies including  Samsung Group (1584) 
and Hyundai Motor Co. to encourage them to boost investment. At
the meeting the president asked what sort of regulations were
hampering investment, he said. The government is planning a
package of deregulatory steps, Hyun said earlier this month.  Revitalizing Investment  Facility investment by South Korean companies fell 1.9
percent in 2012 after a 3.6 percent increase in 2011. The
central bank projects a 1.8 percent gain this year, according
to a July statement.  “Big companies have considerably large amounts of cash
holdings,” Hyun said. “So if the outlook improves, business
conditions improve and regulations improve, then corporate
investment activity will be revitalized.”  South Korea has bolstered its defenses since its economy
was embroiled in a regional financial crisis in the late 1990s,
leading to a bailout from the  International Monetary Fund . The
country built up foreign-exchange reserves to a record $329.71
billion as of end-July and reduced short-term external debt.  While South Korea stands unscathed by emerging-market
turmoil triggered by anticipation of the Fed winding back
stimulus, Hyun said that “we need to closely monitor the
situation.” Fed policy moves will flow through financial
markets “so I cannot say that Korea is completely immune,” he
added. “We can absorb shocks, to some extent.”  Export Outlook  The finance minister spoke about the trade risks from a
 Chinese slowdown , saying the impact on South Korea could be
limited. Korea supplies components for products that are
assembled in China for sale in other markets.  South Korea’s biggest export market has already shifted
down a gear from its 10 percent average economic growth of the
past decade, with economists forecasting a 7.5 percent expansion
this year in China. Still,  South Korea’s exports  are set to grow
about 5 percent in the second half of the year, Hyun said.
Exports increased 0.6 percent in the first half, after falling
1.3 percent in 2012, according to the customs service.  Academic Connection  Hyun, who is three years younger than  Bank of Korea 
Governor Kim Choong Soo, followed a similar academic and career
path. They went to the same schools -- Kyunggi High School and
Seoul National University -- and then both completed doctorates
in economics at the  University of Pennsylvania .  Both also headed the nation’s biggest state-run research
center,  Korea Development Institute , which was founded by former
dictator Park Chung Hee, father of the current president. As
KDI’s president, Hyun advised Kim on policy until Hyun became
deputy prime minister and finance minister in March under Park.  South Korea will have a fiscal deficit of 1.8 percent of
gross domestic product in 2013, worse than last year’s 1.4
percent, according to government projections released when the
parliament approved an extra budget in May.  Hyun said he “cannot say” by when the nation will achieve
a goal of balancing its books, citing factors including a
decline in  tax revenue . “All I can say is that fiscal
consolidation is the most important issue that the government
keeps in mind,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in  New York  at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler in Tokyo at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  