-- Ma Wins Second Term in Taiwan Election
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2012-01-14T15:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/ma-declares-re-election-as-taiwan-president-as-voters-back-china-ties.html
President Ma Ying-jeou was elected
to a second term as  Taiwan ’s president, giving him a renewed
mandate to press for  closer ties  with China that have eased
decades-old tensions across the Taiwan Strait.  Ma, the 61-year-old leader of the ruling Kuomintang Party,
defeated challenger Tsai Ing-wen, the Democratic Progressive
Party candidate, by 51.6 percent to 45.7 percent, with more than
99 percent of precincts reporting, the Central Election
Commission said. James Soong, the People First Party chairman,
received 2.8 percent of the vote. Taiwan has 18 million eligible
voters.  “This isn’t a personal victory, this is a victory for the
Taiwan people,” Ma said at a rain-soaked victory rally in
Taipei tonight. “The people have approved our efforts to shelve
disputes and strive for peace across the  Taiwan Strait .”  Ma’s victory is an affirmation of his effort to improve
Taiwan’s relationship with China after years of strained ties
under his DPP predecessor and previous Kuomintang governments.
Former U.S. officials said members of the Obama administration
viewed a Ma victory as more conducive to maintaining good
relations with China, as the U.S. seeks help from the leadership
in Beijing in containing the nuclear programs of  Iran  and  North
Korea .  Smoother Relations  People in the U.S. administration “will feel the victory
of President Ma will be advantageous to maintaining smoother
relations with China,” Bruce Jacobs, a professor of Asian
languages and studies at  Monash University  in  Melbourne , who was
in Taipei for the election, said by phone. “The Chinese will
also be pleased.”  The U.S. welcomed efforts by Taiwan and  China  to improve
ties in recent years, the White House press office said in a
statement that congratulated Ma on his victory.  “We hope the impressive efforts that both sides have
undertaken in recent years to build cross-Strait ties
continue,” the White House said, according to the statement.
“Such ties and stability in cross-Strait relations have also
benefitted U.S.-Taiwan relations.”  ‘Taiwanese Compatriots’  A statement from the State Council’s Taiwan Affairs office
in China said Ma’s victory shows that better cross-strait ties
are the “correct path and have the support of the Taiwanese
compatriots.” The statement was released via the Xinhua News
Agency.  Ma was backed by executives of Taiwan’s biggest companies,
who said his policies, including a 2010 trade agreement with
China, have boosted investment and helped the island’s  economy 
grow.  “The stock market will rally on Monday,” Terry Gou,
chairman of Apple Inc. supplier  Foxconn Technology Group (2317) , said
in an interview with local television station TVBS in predicting
a Ma victory earlier today.  Markets may have assumed a Ma victory. Option traders
placed increasingly bullish bets earlier this month on an
exchange-traded fund tracking Taiwan stocks. The ratio of calls
to buy the  iShares MSCI Taiwan Index Fund  versus puts to sell
rose on Jan. 6 to the highest level since March 2008, two months
before Ma was sworn in for his first term.  Let People Down  “We’re very sorry that we let the public down,” Tsai, 55,
said in a concession speech, where she also offered her
resignation as head of the DPP. “The cross-strait relations is
a complicated matter and cannot be treated in the naive way that
the KMT is doing now or it will become a source of conflict for
Taiwan people later.”  In his first term, Ma ended a six-decade ban on direct air,
sea and postal links and signed 16 trade agreements with China,
arguing that better ties with the mainland would create
stability attractive to investors who feared the political risk
was too high to put their money into Taiwan.  Jacobs said some members of Ma’s KMT were concerned that
Taiwan was too dependent on China. In his victory speech, Ma
pledged to “strengthen ties with the international community.”  Ma, who has law degrees from  New York University  and
 Harvard University , soothed Chinese leaders when he came into
office in 2008 with his vow of “no unification, no
independence, and no use of force.” China had criticized a push
by the DPP’s Chen Shui-bian to seek sovereignty during his
2000-08 tenure as president. Chinese officials had warned that
relations would suffer if Tsai had won.  Criticizing Others  “You can argue Ma overlooked some of the domestic issues,
but it’s easy to criticize others,” said graphic designer Eric
Wang, 27, who voted for Ma in 2008 and this year. “I don’t
think Tsai can do a better job than Ma given such challenging
global conditions.”  The Chinese government, which itself will undergo a
leadership change later this year, has never ruled out the use
of force to reunite with the island. Taiwan has been governed
separately since 1949 after KMT forces were defeated on the
mainland by the Communists in a civil war. China had as many as
1,200 short-range missiles deployed opposite Taiwan as of
December 2010, according to an annual review by the U.S. Defense
Department.  “I will use my life to protect the Republic of China’s
sovereignty and dignity,” Ma said, using the formal name for
Taiwan. “This is my solemn vow.”  Taiwan’s Legislature  Taiwan’s voters also elected members of the Legislative
Yuan, the island’s parliament. The Kuomintang Party won 64 of
113 seats, the Central Election Commission said in a faxed
statement, 17 fewer seats than the party won in 2008. The DPP
won 40 seats, a gain of 13, while the nine remaining seats went
to three other parties and an independent candidate.  Turnout for the presidential election was 74.4 percent, the
commission said in a separate statement.  Taiwan’s economy will slow to 4.05 percent this year from
4.5 percent in 2011 and 10.7 percent in 2010, according to
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy 
grew at a 9.2 percent rate in 2011 and its expansion will slow
to 8.5 percent this year, the data show.  Ma vowed to learn from the criticism leveled at him during
the campaign by Tsai, who said Taiwan was losing jobs to China
and that the gap between rich and poor was increasing.  “I hope in the next four years the wealth gap will narrow
and we will take care of the underprivileged,” Ma said. “I
want Taiwan to continue to have a stable environment for
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  