-- Ma Wins Second Term as Taiwan Voters Back His Push for Closer China Ties
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e ,   Y u - H u a y   S u n   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-01-15T07:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/ma-re-elected-taiwan-president-as-voters-endorse-closer-links-with-china.html
President Ma Ying-jeou was elected
to a second four-year term as  Taiwan ’s president, giving him a
renewed mandate to press for  closer ties  with China that have
eased decades-old tensions across the Taiwan Strait.  Ma, the 61-year-old leader of the ruling Kuomintang Party,
defeated challenger Tsai Ing-wen, the Democratic Progressive
Party chairwoman, by 51.6 percent to 45.6 percent, with all the
votes tallied, the Central Election Commission reported on its
 website . The commission said 74.4 percent of Taiwan’s 18 million
eligible voters cast ballots.  “This isn’t a personal victory, this is a victory for the
Taiwan people,” Ma said at a rain-soaked victory rally in
Taipei late yesterday. “The people have approved our efforts to
shelve disputes and strive for peace across the  Taiwan Strait .”  Ma’s victory is an affirmation of his effort to improve
Taiwan’s relationship with China after decades of strained ties
under his DPP predecessor and previous Kuomintang governments. A
stable cross-strait relationship may also benefit U.S.-China
ties as Washington seeks help from the leadership in Beijing to
contain the nuclear programs of  Iran  and  North Korea .  ‘Profound Importance’  “Cross-Strait peace, stability and  improved relations , in
an environment free from intimidation, are of profound
importance to the  United States ,” the White House said in a
statement congratulating Ma on his victory.  Ma’s victory removes a potential irritant in the U.S.-China
relationship, said Bryce Wakefield, a program associate at the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a  Washington 
policy group.  A second term for the incumbent means “there will be
continued cross-Straits stability, which mean that Taiwan will
not be a major destabilizing factor going forward,” Wakefield
said.  China’s Taiwan Affairs Office said in a statement issued
through the Xinhua News Agency that Ma’s victory shows that the
“peaceful development of cross-straits ties” in the last four
years was “the correct path that has won the support of the
majority of the Taiwanese compatriots.”  Ma was backed by executives of Taiwan’s biggest companies,
who said his policies, including a 2010 trade agreement with
China, have boosted investment and helped the island’s  economy 
grow.  “The stock market will rally on Monday,” Terry Gou,
chairman of Apple Inc. supplier  Foxconn Technology Group (2317) , said
in an interview with local television station TVBS in predicting
a Ma victory yesterday.  ‘Very Sorry’  Markets may have assumed a Ma victory. Option traders
placed increasingly bullish bets earlier this month on an
exchange-traded fund tracking Taiwan stocks. The ratio of calls
to buy the  iShares MSCI Taiwan Index Fund  versus puts to sell
rose on Jan. 6 to the highest level since March 2008, two months
before Ma was sworn in for his first term.  “We’re very sorry that we let the public down,” Tsai, 55,
said in a concession speech in Taipei yesterday evening, in
which she also offered to resign as head of the DPP. “The
cross-strait relations is a complicated matter and cannot be
treated in the naive way that the KMT is doing now or it will
become a source of conflict for Taiwan people later.”  Direct Links  In his first term, Ma ended a six-decade ban on direct air,
sea and postal links and signed 16  trade agreements  with China,
arguing that better ties with the mainland would create
stability attractive to investors who feared the political risk
was too high to put their money into Taiwan.  Chinese tourist numbers jumped 68 percent to 1.63 million
in 2010, overtaking  Japan  as the island’s biggest source of
visitors.  “Cross-strait relations and economic growth will be even
better than before,” Taipei City Mayor Hau Lung-bin said at an
annual party held by Foxconn Technology Group today. “‘We’ll
definitely see a lot more mainland tourists coming to the
city.”  Ma, who has law degrees from  New York University  and
 Harvard University , soothed Chinese leaders when he came into
office in 2008 with his vow of “no unification, no
independence, and no use of force.” China had criticized a push
by the DPP’s Chen Shui-bian to seek sovereignty during his
2000-08 tenure as president. Chinese officials had warned that
relations would suffer if Tsai won.  ‘Challenging Global Conditions’  “You can argue Ma overlooked some of the domestic issues,
but it’s easy to criticize others,” said graphic designer Eric
Wang, 27, who voted for Ma in 2008 and this year. “I don’t
think Tsai can do a better job than Ma given such challenging
global conditions.”  The Chinese government, which itself will undergo a
leadership change later this year, has never ruled out the use
of force to reunite with the island. Taiwan has been governed
separately since 1949 after KMT forces were defeated on the
mainland by the Communists in a civil war.  China  had as many as
1,200 short-range missiles deployed opposite Taiwan as of
December 2010, according to an annual review by the U.S. Defense
Department.  “I will devote my life to protect the Republic of China’s
sovereignty and dignity,” Ma said, using the formal name for
Taiwan. “This is my solemn vow.”  Parliamentary Election  Taiwan’s voters also elected members of the Legislative
Yuan, the island’s parliament. The Kuomintang Party retained its
majority, winning 64 of 113 seats, the Central Election
Commission said, down from 81 seats in 2008. The DPP won 40
seats and the People First Party won 3 seats. The PFP
presidential candidate, James Soong, won 2.8 percent of the
vote.  Chen, the former president, is serving a 17-year prison
sentence for corruption and bribery. His son, Chen Chih-chung,
lost his bid for a parliamentary seat yesterday. Chen Chih-chung
was convicted of perjury in his father’s corruption case last
year.  Taiwan’s  economy  will slow to 4.05 percent this year from
4.5 percent in 2011 and 10.7 percent in 2010, according to
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy 
grew at a 9.2 percent rate in 2011 and its expansion will slow
to 8.5 percent this year, the data show.  Ma vowed to learn from the criticism leveled at him during
the campaign by Tsai, who said Taiwan was losing jobs to China
and that the gap between rich and poor was increasing.  “I hope in the next four years the wealth gap will narrow
and we will take care of the underprivileged,” Ma said. “I
want Taiwan to continue to have a stable environment for
growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  