-- Thailand Holds Swedish-Lebanese Terror Suspect, Is Irked Over U.S. Warning
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-01-14T17:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/thailand-detains-swedish-hezbollah-terror-suspect-in-bangkok.html
Thailand  detained a Swedish-Lebanese
man who aimed to strike tourist sites in Bangkok and said it was
“disappointed” the U.S.  warned  its citizens of a possible
attack without first advising the Foreign Ministry.  Police are investigating Atris Hussein, 47, after taking
him into custody at Bangkok’s  Suvarnabhumi Airport  on Jan. 12
and are searching for a second suspect still at large, Piya
Uthayo, a police spokesman, told reporters today. Thai-language
newspaper Matichon published a photocopy of the suspect’s
Swedish passport.  The U.S. announcement two days ago “made many countries
panic and follow the U.S.,” Foreign Minister Surapong Tovichakchaikul told reporters in Bangkok yesterday. “That’s
why it really disappointed me.”  Thailand, a U.S. treaty ally that sent troops to  Iraq  in
2003, depends on tourism for about 7 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the government. The benchmark  SET Index (SET) 
fell 0.7 percent, the most in a month, after the U.S. warning.
Thailand is considering the next diplomatic steps to take
because the announcement will affect tourism, Surapong said.  The U.S. said Jan. 13 that “foreign terrorists may be
currently looking to conduct attacks against tourist areas in
Bangkok in the near future.” U.S. Ambassador Kristie Kenney
 said on Twitter  the threat is “Bangkok specific” and
“credible.”  In Effect  U.S. Embassy spokesman Walter Braunohler said by phone the
warning remains in place even after reports that Thai police
were holding a suspect.  After the warning,  Minor International Pcl (MINT) , Thailand’s
biggest hotel operator, dropped 3.4 percent, the most in seven
weeks, while Dusit Thani Pcl slumped 4 percent and Shangri-la
Hotel Bangkok Pcl fell 3.1 percent. Thailand had about 19
million tourist visits last year, official statistics show.  “Thailand never creates enemies,” Surapong said. “I hope
whoever plans to do anything here thinks about our good
relationship.”  Hussein, linked to the Lebanese Shiite Hezbollah movement,
“plotted to create chaos in Bangkok and the plan was terminated
after the arrest,” Police Chief Priewphan Damaphong said. The
chief named the tourist area of Khao San Road and downtown
street Sukhumvit 22 as potential targets and said that under
Thai law, police can hold suspects for as long as 60 days before
they must be charged or deported.  No Contact  Swedish officials are trying to confirm the detainee’s
ownership of the passport published in the Thai press, which
appears to be authentic, Foreign Ministry spokesman Andre
Mkandawire said by phone yesterday. The Swedish Embassy in
Bangkok hasn’t been able to speak with the suspect, he said.  Obtaining information is complicated because the matter is
“sensitive for Thai authorities” and is taking place during a
weekend, Mkandawire said. Officials expect to get more details
on Jan. 16, he said.  The U.S. told Thai officials several days ago that two
terrorist suspects had entered Bangkok, Defense Minister
Yuthasak Sasiprapha told reporters on Jan. 13. A car bomb might
be used at the Israeli Embassy, Jewish places of worship,
tourist companies or restaurants, he said.  Hezbollah, based in Lebanon, was designated as a foreign
terrorist organization by U.S. President  Bill Clinton  in 1997.
It is among terrorist groups supported by  Iran , according to the
 U.S. State Department .  The threat may stem from U.S. steps aimed at sanctioning
Iran over its nuclear program, according to Anthony Davis, a
Bangkok-based analyst at defense researcher IHS Jane’s.  The U.S. is “looking at pro-Iranian groups that might
possibly react to what may very well go down in the  Strait of
Hormuz  and possibly beyond,” Davis said. “It seems unlikely
that terrorist attacks would be launched before the situation in
the  Middle East  has escalated significantly.”  Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi threatened on
Dec. 27 to block the waterway, a chokepoint for shipping about a
fifth of the world’s oil, if the European Union imposed
sanctions on the Islamic Republic’s crude exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  