-- Manchester United Ties for Premier League Lead; Tottenham Draws
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-14T17:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/manchester-united-ties-for-premier-league-lead-tottenham-draws.html
Paul Scholes scored six days after
coming out of retirement to help  Manchester United  beat Bolton
3-0 and move into a tie with first-place Manchester City in
English soccer’s Premier League.  Tottenham missed a chance to join United and City at the
top of the standings by drawing 1-1 at home with Wolverhampton.  Blackburn beat Fulham 3-1 to move out of last place,
Chelsea defeated Sunderland 1-0 and Norwich won 2-1 at West
Brom. Aston Villa and Everton tied 1-1, while Liverpool and
Stoke finished 0-0.  Scholes scored at Old Trafford along with  Danny Welbeck  and
Michael Carrick as Manchester United ended a two-game losing
streak in the league. United and Manchester City have 48 points
before City’s game at last-place Wigan in two days.  United’s  Wayne Rooney  missed a first-half penalty kick
before Scholes scored in stoppage time. The former England
midfielder, 37, ended an eight-month retirement to rejoin United
for the rest of the season.  Welbeck made it 2-0 in the 74th minute and Carrick closed
the scoring 9 minutes later.  Third-place Tottenham has 46 points after rallying against
Wolves at White Hart Lane.  Steven Fletcher  opened the scoring in
the 22nd minute, before Luka Modric pulled Spurs even 6 minutes
after halftime.  Goal Difference  Ten-man Blackburn moved not only out of last place, but
also out of the three relegation places at the bottom of the
standings. Rovers climbed to 17th in the 20-team league with 17
points, ahead of Queens Park Rangers on a superior goal
difference.  Blackburn was reduced to 10 men in the 23rd minute when
 Ayegbeni Yakubu  was red-carded for a challenge on Danny Murphy.
Morten-Gamst Pedersen then gave Rovers the lead with a free kick
in first-half stoppage time.  After David Dunn doubled the lead in the first minute of
the second half, Damien Duff pulled Fulham a goal back. Mauro
Formica then clinched victory in the 79th minute.  Fourth-place Chelsea pulled within six points of Tottenham
with its home win over Sunderland.  Frank Lampard  scored as the
Blues ended Sunderland’s four-match unbeaten run.  Steve Morison broke a 1-1 tie with a header in the 79th
minute as Norwich extended West Brom’s winless run at home to
five games. Victor Anichebe’s goal in the 69th minute canceled
out an earlier score from Darren Bent and gave Everton the away
tie at  Aston Villa .  Liverpool’s struggles at home continued with its goalless
draw with Stoke. The Reds have tied seven of their 11 matches at
Anfield this season.  Newcastle hosts QPR and Arsenal visits Swansea in
tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 