-- Arizona’s Brewer Offers to Trade 5% Raises for Job Protections
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/arizona-s-brewer-offers-to-trade-5-raises-for-job-protections.html
Arizona (STOAZ1)  Governor Jan Brewer, seeking
a freer hand over hiring and firing, proposed 5 percent raises
to reward public employees willing to give up job protections
afforded by the state’s personnel rules.  The $108 million  plan , unveiled yesterday in Brewer’s $8.5
billion budget recommendation, would be a step toward a mostly
at-will workforce. Overhauling the state’s personnel system is
one of her “most important” initiatives, Brewer has said.  “It is an incentive, if they choose to do that,” Brewer
told reporters in a briefing yesterday. She said it will show
“that if they choose to move from underneath a covered
position, that we are at liberty to do a lot of good things for
them.”  Arizona  finished its 2011 budget year in June with a
balance of $3.2 million, compared with a $332 million deficit
that had been forecast, according to a report by the Joint
Legislative Budget Committee. To get there, state officials
froze Medicaid enrollment and slashed social-services spending.  The governor wants “personnel reform that improves the
management of the workforce, restructures the grievance and
appeal systems and modifies human resources practices,” Brewer
said in her state-of-the-state address Jan. 9.  While Arizona doesn’t bargain collectively with state
employees, many non-management workers have certain job
protections under personnel rules, including an appeals process
that can overturn disciplinary actions. At-will employees can be
dismissed at any time, with or without a reason being given.  System Too Difficult  The current system makes it too difficult to hire and fire
employees or to reward top-performers, Brewer said in November
in a speech to the American Legislative Exchange Council.  The governor’s plan would make all new hires at-will
employees and allow supervisors to base future raises on
performance, Brewer spokesman Matthew Benson said. Details of
the personnel system overhaul haven’t been made public.  Under the budget proposal, raises would go to non-
university employees who voluntarily give up personnel
protections under the so-called “merit system” as well as
those who are already not covered. Law enforcement officers, who
will remain covered by personnel rules, will also get the raise.
The state has about 38,000 employees outside the university
system.  If approved by lawmakers, the pay increases would be the
first for workers since fiscal year 2008, according to a budget
summary from the govenor’s office. Since then, salaries have
been cut by 2.75 percent and employees have given up another 1.8
percent of their pay for retirement contributions.  $28.2 Million Raises  The raises would cost $28.2 million from the state’s
general fund, with the rest coming from other accounts,
according to the budget summary.  “We will fight any so-called ‘reforms’ that simply allow
for favoritism or give unfair advantages to some employees at
the expense of others,” Don Carr, Arizona director for the
 Service Employees International Union , said in a statement on
the union’s website.  Brewer’s budget plan calls for the addition of 2,500 prison
beds over the next three years. About 500 would be maximum-
security cells in a state-run prison. The governor plans to seek
proposals from private prison operators for a facility that
would house 2,000 medium-security inmates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  