-- Audience, Maker of IPhone Processors, Planning to Raise $75 Million in IPO
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/audience-maker-of-iphone-processors-planning-to-raise-75-million-in-ipo.html
Audience Inc., a maker of sound
processing chips used in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products, plans to raise as
much as $75 million in an initial public offering.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche
Bank AG are leading the sale, the  Mountain View , California-
based company said yesterday in a regulatory filing. Audience
didn’t say how many shares it will sell or at what price. The
stock will trade under the ticker symbol ADNC.  Audience began shipping chips in 2008, attracting Apple,
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , LG Electronics Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498)  as
customers. It has sold more than 135 million processors, which
improve the quality of communication on phones by isolating
voice and suppressing noise.  The company, founded in 2000, had a profit of $13.9 million
in the first three quarters of 2011, compared with a loss of
362,000 in the year-earlier period. Sales jumped to $79.7
million from $16.1 million.  Apple, through its contract manufacturers Foxconn
International Holdings Ltd. and Protek Ltd., accounted for 79
percent of Audience’s sales in the first nine months of 2011,
compared with 82 percent the previous year. Samsung accounted
for 17 percent last year, up from 7 percent in 2010.  While sales are growing and the company has been profitable
for the last two years, it cautioned potential investors that
its relationship with Apple may change.  Licensing Change  Rather than supplying chips to Apple, Audience may start
licensing its technology to the company. That transition “may
have a material and negative effect on our business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flows,” Audience said.  Andrew Humber, an Audience spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the information in the filing. Steve Dowling, a spokesman
for Apple, also declined to comment.  Audience said its per-unit royalty from licensing
technology integrated into phones is less than the amount it
receives for selling processors. The company has six patents
issued and 72 pending patent applications in the U.S., along
with 37 pending foreign applications. Beyond mobile devices,
Audience’s technology could work in automobile entertainment
systems, cameras and televisions.  The biggest investor in Audience is Tallwood  Venture
Capital , which owns 32.8 percent.  New Enterprise Associates  owns
a 30.1 percent stake, followed by  Paul Allen ’s Vulcan Capital
with 25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at  