-- Canada Dollar Gains for Eight Week Versus Euro on Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-14T05:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/canada-dollar-gains-for-eight-week-versus-euro-on-debt-concern.html
The Canadian dollar advanced for an
eighth consecutive week versus the euro, the longest streak
since 2007, as investors sought the assets of countries with
relatively healthy balance sheets amid Europe’s debt crisis.  The currency trimmed its weekly advance against the U.S.
dollar after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the AAA ratings of France and
 Italy  yesterday, potentially reducing the effectiveness of the
euro-region’s bailout fund to finance aid for  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal . The Bank of  Canada  meets Jan. 17 to determine
 interest rates .  “The Canadian dollar and other currencies have been doing
well versus the euro, that’s the real story,” said Philippe Denolf, a currency trader in  Montreal  at  Laurentian Bank  of
Canada.  Canada’s currency climbed 0.5 percent this week to C$1.0232
per U.S. dollar in Toronto. It touched C$1.0319 on Jan. 9, the
weakest level since Dec. 20. One Canadian dollar buys 97.73 U.S.
cents. The currency ended the week at C$1.2974 per euro. It
touched C$1.2908 on Jan. 11, the strongest since January 2010.  The Canadian dollar may depreciate to C$1.0860 after it
breaks out of its range of between C$1.000 to C$1.0350, Denolf
said.  Bearish Bets  Futures traders increased their bets the Canadian dollar
will decline against the greenback, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The  difference  in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
28,649 on Jan. 10, compared with net shorts of 23,371 a week
earlier.  Canadian  government bonds  rose this week, driving benchmark
10-year yields down one basis point to 1.92 percent. The 3.25
percent securities due in June 2021 rose 8 cents to C$111.33.  The spread difference between two- and 10-year government
bonds narrowed to 96 basis points yesterday, the least since
September 2008. A flatter yield curve generally indicates a
worsening economic outlook.  S&P cut  France ’s AAA credit rating to AA+ with a negative
outlook, the company said in a statement. Cyprus, Italy,
Portugal, and  Spain  were cut by two levels S&P said.  Germany ,
Belgium, Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Luxembourg and the
Netherlands had their ratings affirmed.  ‘Well-Defined Downtrend’  “We’ve seen a pretty well-defined downtrend” in euro-
Canada,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, in a telephone
interview. “We’ve pretty much moved in a straight line decline
from C$1.40 to C$1.30. It’s going to take quite a bit to turn
things around.”  Canada reported an unexpected surplus as exports of energy
and automobiles rose while imports fell. Statistics Canada said
yesterday the nation ran a surplus of C$1.07 billion ($1.05
billion) while the October deficit was revised to C$487 million
from C$885 million. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a
C$500 million deficit, based on the median of 19 responses.  The trade report is the last major piece of economic data
before the central bank’s Jan. 17 interest-rate decision.
Governor  Mark Carney  will probably keep the policy interest rate
at 1 percent, where it’s been since September 2010, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rates Outlook  “Uncertainties regarding policies and spillover risks from
 Europe  should keep Canadian rates low in the first half of
2012,” Alex Li, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a note
to clients yesterday. “Although Canada’s economic prospects
appear to be brightening largely due to an improved flow of U.S.
economic data, there is still considerable uncertainty regarding
both the external and domestic economic outlook.”  The central bank will hold rates at 1 percent until the
first quarter of 2013, when it will raise them by a quarter
percentage point, according to the median of 24 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. The nation’s economy will expand at a 2
percent pace this year, from 2.3 percent last year, a separate
survey said.  Trading in overnight index swaps indicates a 50 percent
probability of a quarter-percentage point interest rate cut by
the central bank’s Sept. 5 meeting, according to Bloomberg
calculations as of yesterday. Swaps show only a 6 percent chance
of a cut at next week’s meeting, rising to about a 25 percent
chance in April.  Currency Volatility  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback fell to as low as 8.9 percent
yesterday from 11 percent at year-end. Implied volatility, which
traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected
pace of swings in the underlying currency.  Options traders are becoming less bearish. The three-month
so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate, which measures the
premium charged for the right to buy the  U.S. dollar  against the
loonie versus contracts to sell, fell Jan. 11 to 1.44 percentage
points, the lowest since August, from 2.27 percentage points at
the end of last week.  The loonie has weakened 4 percent in the past year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The U.S. dollar has
lost 0.9 percent and the euro has fallen 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  