-- Survivors Found Inside Capsized Cruise Ship
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-15T18:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/carnival-corp-cruise-ship-runs-aground-off-italy-killing-at-least-three.html
The confirmed death toll from the
capsizing of  Carnival Corp.’s (CCL)  Costa Concordia off Italy’s Tuscan
coast rose to five today as rescuers continued to search for 15
people still missing. Three people were found alive in the
capsized cruise liner.  The ship’s captain has been arrested and accused of
manslaughter, abandoning the vessel and causing the shipwreck
following the incident on Jan. 13. Two bodies were found aboard
the ship today, said Stefano Giannelli, a fire department
spokesman, adding to two French tourists and a Peruvian
crewmember who are also known to have perished.  About 60 people were also injured after the ship carrying
more than 4,000 passengers and crew hit submerged rocks near the
island of Giglio in the Tyrrhenian Sea. Many of the survivors
spoke of the panic on board when the ship began listing, with
some likening the events to those in the film “Titanic.”  Rescue workers evacuated passengers and crew to the nearest
mainland port, Santo Stefano,  Italy ’s Civil Protection Agency
said on its  website . Rescuers found two South Korean passengers
in a cabin inside the ship at 3 a.m. local time today and they
saved a crewmember after voices were heard on the third deck,
Giannelli, said.  About 60 firemen are deployed in the search operation that
will continue “all night long,” he said. Rescuers have
searched one third of the ship, Giannelli said.  Prosecutor Probe  Captain Francesco Schettino is being detained for allegedly
abandoning the ship “since we know he was in the harbor about
midnight,” Francesco Verusio, the chief prosecutor in the city
of Grosseto, said in an interview. The ship’s first officer is
also being probed, he said. Dozens of people have been
questioned so far, the prosecutor said.  Gianni Onorato, general manager of the Costa Crociere line,
said the ship had embarked about 7 p.m. from Civitavecchia near
Rome on a trip that was scheduled to include stops at ports in
France and  Spain . The vessel hit the rocks and Captain
Schettino, after assessing the damage, decided to secure the
ship and gave the evacuation order, Onorato told news channel
SkyTG24 in an interview. A Costa Crociere spokesman confirmed
the comments.  The number of missing may be as low as 15, including six
crewmembers, according to the Tuscany Region Governor Enrico
Rossi. Among them are an 84-year-old Italian and a 5-year-old
child, la Repubblica said on its website. The U.S. Embassy in
Italy said two of the 120 U.S. passengers are still unaccounted
for, according to a statement posted on Twitter today.  ‘Terrible Tragedy’  “This is a terrible tragedy and we are deeply saddened,”
Carnival said yesterday in a statement. Carnival, based in
Miami, is the world’s largest cruise line owner, with brands
such as Cunard, Princess Cruises and Costa.  The ship probably was on a wrong route, the prosecutor
said. The so-called black box was retrieved, Verusio said.
Investigators have determined the ship was only about 150 meters
(492 feet) from the coast when it hit the rocks, Ansa said.  Captain Schettino said he was the last one to leave the
ship, according to an interview broadcast by  TGCOM24  before his
arrest. The rocks weren’t identified on the navigation maps,
Schettino said. The ship was at least 300 meters from the island
when it hit the rocks, he said.  The accident was due to a “reckless maneuver,” news Ansa
quoted Verusio as saying. Italian newspaper  Corriere della Sera 
said the captain may have steered the boat closer to the coast
to allow passengers a better view of the island’s lights.  Scuba Divers  A scuba-diving unit arrived from Genoa today to search for
survivors who may be inside the ship, Lieutenant Colonel Italo
Spalvieri of the Livorno Air-Naval Rescue unit said in a
telephone interview.  Television images broadcast today showed the Costa lying on
its starboard side, a portion of the ship underwater and its
orange smokestack close to the waterline. The ship was built in
2006 and has 1,500 cabins, according to Costa Crociere’s
 website . The vessel also had a docking accident at  Palermo ’s
harbor in 2008 because of strong winds, newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore 
reported.  The ship hit the rocks about 9:45 p.m. as dinner was being
served, sending plates and glasses crashing, Italian media
reported. Passengers said the situation on board was reminiscent
of the film “Titanic,” as the vessel tilted, electrical power
was lost and people rushed to find lifeboats. Several passengers
interviewed by Italian television channels including SkyTG24
said they were initially told by crew that there only was an
electrical problem and it wasn’t an emergency.  ‘Roaring Sound’  Cabin steward Deodato Ordona told the British Broadcasting
Corp. there was a “roaring sound” before the ship began to
shift. He said the vessel leaned to the left and then the right
before the captain announced an order to abandon ship.  There were 3,200 passengers on the ship, including 1,000
Italians, 500 Germans, 160 French and 250 from  North America ,
Costa Crociere  said . Emergency procedures began immediately and
were impeded by the ship’s listing, Costa Crociere said in a
statement. The cause of the incident can’t be confirmed, the
company said.  The first coast guard boats arrived within 10 minutes of
the accident, Air-Naval Rescue Lieutenant Colonel Spalvieri said
by phone. The vessel is carrying a large amount of fuel and
Costa Crociere has been ordered to start procedures to remove
it, according to Cosimo Nicastro, a spokesman for the Italian
Coast Guard. The Giglio island is part of the biggest marine
park in  Europe . Giglio Mayor Sergio Ortelli said in an e-mailed
statement that there’s no risk of an  oil spill .  Launching the Lifeboats  Fabio Costa, a shop worker on the boat, said it took the
crew a long time to launch the lifeboats because the vessel had
listed so much.  “We just saw a huge rock, that was probably where the ship
hit, and people were having huge trouble trying to get on the
lifeboats,” Costa told the  BBC . “So at that point we didn’t
know what to do, so it took hours for people to get off the
ship. It was easier for people to jump into the sea because we
were on the same level as that water.  “So some people pretty much just decided to swim as they
were not able to get on the lifeboats,” he said.  ‘Felt Like’ Titanic  Rose Metcalf, a 22-year-old British dancer who had been
performing on the ship and who was winched to safety by a
helicopter, told her father it had “felt like the sinking of
the Titanic.”  “The ship rolled over on its side, so they had to get a
fire hose which they strung between the railings to stop them
falling overboard,” Philip Metcalf told the broadcaster in an
interview after speaking with his daughter.  “She thought she’d have to make a jump for it as it was
dark and cold, like the sinking of the Titanic, but the
helicopter then winched her off,” Metcalf said.  The vessel set sail at 7 p.m. Jan. 13 from Civitavecchia
near  Rome , Costa Crociere said. Its itinerary was to include
calls at the Mediterranean ports of Savona, Marseille,
Barcelona, Palma de Mallorca, Cagliari and Palermo.  Italian newspapers said that when the vessel was christened
in 2006 the champagne bottle didn’t break against the side of
the ship, supposedly an omen of bad luck.  Carnival owns 100 ships and has 10 on order. Its brands
also include Carnival, Holland America Line, Seabourn, AIDA
Cruises, Ibero Cruises and P&O Cruises. The Costa cruise line
has 15 ships and sails worldwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  