-- China Pledges to Stabilize Trade as ‘Grim Situation’ Slows Global Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-14T06:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/china-pledges-to-stabilize-imports-exports-as-global-trade-growth-slows.html
China  will take measure to stabilize
its exports and imports as slowing global growth creates a
“grim situation” for trade, said  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice
chairman at the nation’s top economic planning agency.  “Downward risks for the global economy are increasing,”
the  National Development and Reform Commission’s  Zhang said at a
forum in Beijing today. “The difficult situation will make
competition for product exports among countries fiercer.” China
will take steps to stabilize and improve  trade policy , including
the lowering of import taxes for some  consumer goods , helping
smaller businesses get financing and keeping its currency
“basically stable,” he said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged earlier this month to preserve
growth and said the nation wouldn’t “stand still” in the face
of difficult conditions. China, which reported the slowest
 export  growth in two years for December as the European debt
crisis eroded overseas demand, introduced a 4 trillion yuan
($633 billion) stimulus and froze gains by the yuan to counter
the effects of the 2008 financial crisis.  “Looking into 2012, the global economy will remain
sluggish,” Zeng Peiyan, a former vice premier, said at the same
forum today. “Western developed economies are encountering
hardships never seen since World War II and the unstable
elements and uncertainty that will be faced by developing
nations and emerging economies is also increasing,” said Zeng,
now chairman of the China Center for International Economic
Exchanges, which hosted the event.  Export Difficulties  China’s exports will face a “grim situation” this year,
particularly in the first half, the NDRC’s Zhang said. In
addition to slowing global demand, the rising cost of energy,
raw materials, labor and land are other challenges for Chinese
exporters, he said.  Appreciation of the yuan is also adding pressure, Zhang
said. China’s currency has risen more than 8 percent against the
dollar since regulators allowed gains to continue in June 2010.
Those gains will continue for “a certain period,” Zhang said
without giving more detail.  The nation’s exports expanded 13.4 percent in December, the
smallest increase since gains resumed in 2009 after the
financial crisis, excluding holiday distortions.  Import (CNFRIMPY)  growth
moderated to 11.8 percent, also the slowest pace in two years.  China will actively expand imports, Zhang said. The
government will lower  import taxes  for some consumer goods and
also for some raw materials, energy and imports of advanced
equipment, he said, without giving details.  Company Financing  China will also help the nation’s small- and medium-sized
companies obtain financing, Zhang said.  Obtaining bank loans became more difficult this year for
smaller companies, many of which are exporters, after the
government instituted  lending limits  in a campaign to rein in
 inflation  and property prices.  Zhang said that loan rates for smaller companies able to
secure funds were 30 percent to 50 percent higher than the
benchmark rate set by the central bank. The People’s Bank of
China one-year benchmark lending rate is 6.56 percent. Smaller
companies also have to pay additional charges such as guarantee
fees, thereby boosting their borrowing costs to more than 12
percent, Zhang said, without giving a time period.  --Zheng Lifei, Feifei Shen. Editors:  John Liu ,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net 
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 Fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  