-- Merkel Says S&P Downgrades Show Euro-Region Leaders Must Redouble Efforts
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-15T13:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/merkel-says-downgrades-show-euro-leaders-must-redouble-efforts.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said euro-
area downgrades by  Standard & Poor’s  reinforce Germany’s stance
that European leaders must redouble their efforts to resolve the
debt crisis as governments prepare to sell more debt this week.  “The decision confirms my conviction that we have a long
way ahead of us before investor confidence returns,” Merkel
told reporters yesterday in Kiel. Resolving the crisis is a
“longer process” that will take more than a few months, Merkel
said in comments broadcast today by Deutschlandfunk radio.  Germany was left with the euro-area’s only stable AAA
rating as S&P stripped France and Austria of their top credit
grades, citing “insufficient” policy steps to combat the debt
crisis. The decision to include  France  among the nine sovereign
downgrades was “disappointing” even if expected, French Prime
Minister  Francois Fillon  said, noting that the market  response 
in advance of the announcement late on Jan. 13 “was muted.”  The S&P verdict on France shouldn’t be “dramatized” or
“politicized,” Fillon said at a news conference in Paris
yesterday. “The rating agencies won’t decide our policies.”  France sells as much as 8.7 billion euros ($11 billion) in
bills tomorrow, offering the first gauge of the decision’s
impact. History suggests the reaction may be limited. Ten-year
yields for the nine sovereign borrowers that lost their AAA
ratings between 1998 and the U.S.’s downgrade in August rose an
average of two basis points in the following week, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  EFSF Impact  “I think we will still have to fight for a while with the
fact that investors haven’t regained full confidence in the
euro,” Merkel said in the radio interview today. Debt-cutting
steps being taken by the new Italian and Spanish governments
will “convince markets in the medium term,” she said.  Merkel said yesterday in Kiel that the S&P downgrades won’t
“torpedo” efforts to provide financing to indebted member
states by weakening the current bailout fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility. The EFSF could provide firepower
even if its creditworthiness sinks below AAA status, she said.  “I was never of the opinion that the EFSF necessarily has
to be AAA,” Merkel said. “AA+ is also not a bad rating,”
Merkel said, citing a remark made by French Finance Minister
 Francois Baroin .  Germany and France are pushing for stricter budget rules as
the bedrock of European governments’ response to the debt crisis
that emerged in  Greece  in late 2009 and is now buffeting  Spain 
and  Italy . Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy will meet
with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in  Rome  on Jan. 20 to
prepare for a European summit 10 days later.  Greek Debt-Swap Talks  Threatening to overshadow the Rome meeting are Greek debt
swap talks that stalled two days ago and may resume Jan. 18.  Merkel today in her radio interview urged the Greek
government to make good on debt-cutting commitments and banks to
uphold their pledges of a debt writedown made in October.  There is the “expectation that Greece implements the
measures it has accepted,” Merkel told Deutschlandfunk. At the
same time, she said she expects the International Institute of
Finance, the negotiator for the banking industry, “keep to its
commitments,” including a 50 percent writedown of Greek debt.  Greece aside, S&P acted at the end of a week in which signs
grew that  Europe ’s woes may be cresting as borrowing costs fell,
evidence of economic resilience emerged and the  European Central
Bank  said it had quelled a credit crunch at banks.  Political Sluggishness  S&P cited the propensity of European leaders to be behind
the curve in their response to the crisis as one reason for the
decision.  “The policy response at the European level has not kept up
with the rising challenges in the  euro zone ,” Frankfurt-based
Moritz Kraemer, S&P’s managing director of European sovereign
ratings, said in a conference call yesterday.  While policy makers have engaged in an “open and prolonged
dispute” over the appropriate course of action, the ECB has
been “using its flexibility” through its decisions to lower
 interest rates , aid banks and step up sovereign bond purchases,
he said. “For the time being they have had a constructive
role.”  Investors ignored S&P last year when it cut the U.S. to AA+
in August as the company argued that the failure up to then of
Democrats and Republicans to agree on budget cuts made the U.S.
less creditworthy. Seven weeks after the downgrade, the yield on
the benchmark U.S. government bond fell to a record 1.6714
percent.  Contrast With U.S.  One difference is that the U.S., unlike France, is prepared
to print money, making it easier for the world’s largest economy
to pay its debts.  “The U.S. is still rightly seen as a safe haven,” Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for International
Political Economy in Brussels, said by phone. “The U.S. is a
big liquid economy with a strong tradition of honoring its debts
in modern time and a  central bank  pledged to taking action if
needed. It’s different with France in the sense that they cannot
rely on strong central bank policies.”  Germany has aligned itself with ECB in warning fellow
 member states  not to weaken the tougher debt rules outlined in
the so-called fiscal pact being drafted for the Jan. 30 summit.  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in a letter
to negotiators last week that euro-area governments are diluting
the pact. From the ECB’s perspective, recent changes in a text
aimed at translating the agreement into an international treaty
“imply a substantial watering-down of the earlier draft
proposal,” he said.  Asmussen’s Warning  “These revisions in my view clearly run against the spirit
of the initial general agreement on an ambitious fiscal
compact,” Asmussen said in the letter.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , responding to Spain’s
downgrade in a speech in Malaga yesterday, pledged spending cuts
and a banking-system cleanup, as well as a “clear, firm and
forceful” commitment to the euro’s future.  Merkel, who convened with leaders of her  Christian
Democratic Union  for a strategy meeting, said the S&P decision
won’t unduly force  Germany  to increase financing for the bailout
package. European leaders must now quickly set up the permanent
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, which is due to replace
the EFSF this year, a year ahead of schedule.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  called the S&P
announcement an “artificially produced” setback that emerged
just as leaders’ efforts were beginning to bear fruit. In an e-
mailed statement, he said he’ll step up efforts with euro-member
states to create a European ratings company.  Michael Fuchs , the CDU’s ranking floor member for economic
issues, said the downgrades were “arbitrary Anglo-Saxon
politics that don’t square with the efforts of countries
including France” to take aim at state spending.  “At the same time, the rating moves show we daren’t weaken
the terms of the fiscal pact,” Fuchs said in an interview in
Kiel. “The days of writing in escape clauses for fiscal
austerity must be over; the stakes are too high.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at   acrawford6@bloomberg.net  