-- Euro Weakens in Longest Losing Streak Since 2010 as S&P Downgrades France
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-14T05:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/euro-in-longest-losing-streak-since-2010-as-france-downgraded.html
The euro slumped for a sixth week,
the longest stretch of losses versus the dollar since 2010, as
the stripping by  France ’s top credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s 
magnified concern the region’s financial turmoil will intensify.  The shared currency slid for a third week versus the yen
and fell against the majority of its most-traded peers after
negotiations between Greece and its creditors were put on hold.
Currencies of commodity-producing countries rallied amid bets
China’s central bank will ease credit conditions. U.S. inflation
rose in December, a report next week may show.  “The ratings downgrades on the face, they are bad but
markets have been anticipating this for some time now,”  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of the online
currency trading firm Gain Capital in Bedminster,  New Jersey ,
said. “The Greek situation is quite dire. If they don’t reach
some sort of agreement by the end of next week, they may very
likely be forced in to a hard default.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2680 yesterday in New York,
from $1.2717 on Jan. 6. Its last six-week losing streak ended
Feb. 19, 2010. The euro touched $1.2624 yesterday, the weakest
level since Aug. 25,2010.  The shared currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 97.57 yen in
a third weekly loss. It reached 97.20 yen yesterday, the lowest
level since December 2000. The dollar was unchanged versus the
Japanese currency at 76.97.  Wagers Against Euro  Futures traders  increased bets to a record high that the
euro will decline against the dollar. The difference between
wagers that the shared currency would fall versus those that it
would rise -- so-called net shorts -- surged to 155,195 in the
week ended Jan. 10, according to data from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission released yesterday.  The euro dropped yesterday as S&P lowered the top ratings
of France and  Austria  one level to AA+, with negative outlooks,
while affirming the ratings of countries that included Germany,
Belgium and the Netherlands. The company also downgraded Italy,
Portugal, Spain and Cyprus by two steps and cut Malta, Slovakia
and Slovenia by one level.  “It’s the same level as the U.S.,” French Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin  said on France 2 television yesterday,
disclosing France’s downgrade before S&P announced it. “It’s
not a catastrophe,” he said.  S&P had put the ratings of 15 euro nations on review on
Dec. 5 for possible downgrades.  Fiscal Compact  The common currency was headed for a weekly gain versus the
greenback before yesterday. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
discussed Europe’s debt crisis in meetings with French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  The euro rose for two days after Merkel said Jan. 9 a
blueprint for closer fiscal union among nations that use the
currency may be ready a month early. The outline of the
budgetary-discipline effort was negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit.  The  European Central Bank  held its benchmark  interest rate 
at 1 percent on Jan. 12 after lowering it by half a percentage
point since November. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he saw
signs of stabilization in the economy.  The loss by France and Austria of their AAA credit ratings
may erode firepower of the euro-region’s bailout fund that’s
needed to tap markets to finance aid for  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal. The European Financial Stability Facility owes its AAA
rating to guarantees from the euro region’s top-rated nations.  Global ‘Panic’  “There could be panic around the world on contagion as
sovereigns have difficulty acquiring credit,”  Axel Merk ,
president and chief investment officer of Merk Investments LLC
in New York, said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “We need clarity on reform process, and that causes
uncertainty and then you just get downgraded step by step, and
that’s not a rosy outlook.”  Greece’s creditor banks broke off talks yesterday after
failing to agree with the nation’s government about how much
money investors will lose by swapping their bonds, increasing
the risk of the euro-area’s first sovereign default.
Negotiations have “paused for reflection,” the Institute of
International Finance said in an e-mailed statement.  The euro fell 0.4 percent over the past week against nine
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The  New Zealand dollar  rose 2 percent in the
best performance, while the Swedish krona was the biggest loser
with a decline of 0.9 percent.  Testing Switzerland  The franc rose to the strongest against the euro since
September after Philipp Hildebrand quit as head of the  Swiss
National Bank  and investors tested the bank’s cap of 1.20 francs
per euro. A currency transaction by his wife last year had
dented his credibility. The SNB said in a statement the
limitation, imposed in September to curb the currency’s
strength, “remains unchanged.”  The Swiss currency rose 0.6 percent this week to 1.2076 per
euro and touched 1.2063, the strongest level since Sept. 20.  Commodity currencies including Brazil’s real and New
Zealand’s dollar rallied amid bets the People’s Bank of  China 
will expand last month’s cut in banks’ reserve-requirement ratio
to boost the economy.  The real climbed 3.9 percent to 1.7863 per dollar, the best
performance against the greenback among major currencies. It
reached 1.7708, its strongest since Nov. 18. New Zealand’s
currency rose 1.8 percent to 79.47 U.S. cents. China is the
biggest trade partner of both Brazil and Australia.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, rose 0.3 percent to 81.460 in its third weekly gain.  U.S. consumer prices increased in December for the first
time in three months, gaining 0.1 percent after stagnating in
November, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. The government reports the data on Jan. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  