-- Fed Officials Debate Impact of Revealing Their Interest-Rate Forecasts
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-14T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/fed-officials-debate-impact-of-revealing-their-interest-rate-forecasts.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  pointed out pitfalls in a Fed plan to
forecast interest rates, highlighting a debate among officials
on whether the move will provide clarity about policy.  Bullard told reporters on a conference call yesterday that
“there is some risk” the projections for the benchmark
 interest rate  will be mistaken as a commitment to certain rate
levels in the future. He later said that while the move should
“be a little bit helpful,” it’s “no panacea.”  Fed officials are preparing the forecasts while voicing
disagreement over whether they should provide more easing for an
economy that shows signs of strengthening. The Fed’s 12 regional
bank presidents and five members of the Washington-based Board
of Governors plan to discuss their projections, which will be
released after policy makers meet on Jan. 24-25.  “For the Fed to get into the forecasting game in a big
way, I’m not sure it’s going to make anyone more certain,” said
Mark MacQueen, co-founder of Sage Advisory Services Ltd. in
Austin,  Texas . “I don’t think it’s going to create greater
clarity because all forecasts are subject to change,” said
MacQueen, whose firm manages about $10 billion in fixed-income
investments.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has pushed the Fed toward greater
openness at a faster pace than any of his predecessors, holding
regular press conferences and providing forecasts on economic
growth, unemployment and price increases. By providing interest-
rate projections, Bernanke intends to promote understanding of
the Fed’s aims and make policy more effective.  Not ‘Perfect’  “It’s not going to be perfect” because “you still have
17 possible paths” laid out by Fed officials, Bullard, 50, said
in response to audience questions after a speech in  St. Louis .  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
pointed to  Sweden ’s Riksbank as an example of a central bank
that has deviated from its published projections.  “The notion that this tells you a whole lot about what’s
going to happen is not right,” Bullard said. He said he would
consider other ways to provide the public with the same
information, citing the quarterly inflation report released by
the  Bank of England .  “It’s been done by the U.K. pretty effectively” and “we
can do something similar in the U.S.,” he said.  San Francisco Fed President John C. Williams said in
November that the release of interest-rate projections would be
“useful,” having worked well in other countries. He was the
first Fed official to signal the possibility the central bank
would provide the public with the forecasts.  ‘Fully’ Supports  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , speaking on
Jan. 11 in Rochester, New York, said he “fully” supports the
release of rate forecasts as a way toward “greater clarity.”  At the same time, the projections shouldn’t be seen as an
easing measure or a “commitment,” and they won’t reduce the
Fed’s flexibility on setting interest rates, he said.  Richmond Fed president  Jeffrey Lacker  said yesterday the
Fed’s rate forecasts shouldn’t be seen as “a separate tool”
for influencing borrowing costs. Rather, they are meant to
provide the public more information on how the central bank will
react to changes in unemployment and inflation, he said.  Policy makers have held the fed funds rate near zero since
December 2008 and have pledged to keep it there through at least
mid-2013.  Economic data released since the Fed’s last meeting in
December show unemployment fell to 8.5 percent last month from
8.7 percent in November. The economy grew less than previously
estimated in the third quarter, with gross domestic product
climbing at a 1.8 percent annual pace. That’s down from the 2
percent initially estimated, Commerce Department figures showed
on Dec. 22.  Stocks Fall  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.5 percent
yesterday to 1,289.09 in  New York , snapping a four-day rally as
euro-region governments braced for credit downgrades by S&P and
after JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s profit slumped 23 percent. Since
the start of the year, the index is up 2.5 percent on signs the
economy is strengthening.  Lacker, in a speech yesterday to the Risk Management
Association in Richmond,  Virginia , said he still doesn’t see the
need for additional monetary stimulus. Also, the central bank
should avoid targeting specific markets such as mortgage debt
with its policies, he said.  Bullard told reporters the central bank should “stand
pat” on its current level of accommodation, given that economic
“data has been strong in the last two month.”  By contrast, Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said
yesterday to reporters in Carmel,  Indiana , that aggressive
easing by the Fed could improve economic performance “one or
two years faster than if we didn’t take those actions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  