-- Ferrer, Barthel, Nieminen Win Australian Open Warm-Up Tennis Tournaments
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-15T04:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/ferrer-barthel-win-australian-open-warm-up-tennis-tournaments.html
Spain ’s  David Ferrer ,  Germany ’s Mona
Barthel and Jarkko Nieminen of Finland tuned up for the
Australian Open beginning tomorrow by winning warm-up
tournaments for the year’s first tennis Grand Slam.  Ferrer, 29, defeated Belgium’s Olivier Rochus 6-3, 6-4 in
the final of the Heineken Open in Auckland yesterday for his
12th career title and third in  New Zealand .  “I love to play here,” fifth-ranked Ferrer said on the
ATP World Tour’s website. “Winning today was more special than
the other times, because players are more difficult and I’m
older now.”  Barthel, 21, upset top-seeded Yanina Wickmayer of Belgium
6-1, 6-2 in the final of the Hobart International in Australia
to win her first WTA Tour title. Barthel, who climbed up 20
spots to 44th in the  WTA rankings  with her victory, made the
tournament as a qualifier and knocked off four seeded players en
route to her victory.  “I’m really surprised right now,” Barthel said. “I had a
great week here, it could not have been better and we will see
how the future will go.”  Nieminen, 30, defeated Julien Benneteau of France 6-2, 7-5
today to win the Sydney International and take his second career
title in his 12th appearance as a finalist. Their final had been
rescheduled after rain wiped out any play last night.  “I wanted to win badly,” Nieminen said. “It has been
many years for me since my first title but I never stopped
believing in myself and working hard.”  Nieminen, who claimed his first title in Auckland six years
ago, then paired with  Australia ’s Matthew Ebden in the doubles
final, which they lost 6-1, 6-4 to Bob and Mike Bryan of the
U.S. Nieminen will play his first round match at the Australian
Open tomorrow against Argentina’s David Nalbandian.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  