-- Gilts Have Weekly Gain Amid Speculation S&P to Cut Europe Nations’ Ratings
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-14T08:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/gilts-have-weekly-gain-amid-speculation-s-p-to-cut-europe-nations-ratings.html
Gilts posted a weekly gain, with
yields falling towards record lows, as speculation  Standard &
Poor’s  would cut the credit ratings of some European nations
boosted demand for AAA-rated U.K. assets.  Thirty-year  yields  also approached all-time lows after a
European Union official said yesterday that S&P was poised to
downgrade several euro-area countries after European markets
closed. The rating company announced nine reductions after
trading ended. The pound fell to a 17-month low against the
dollar as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening increased
investor appetite for the safety of the U.S. currency.  “The prospect of downgrades by S&P has been overhanging
the market ever since their ratings were placed on review for
downgrade,”  Brian Barry , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in
London, said before S&P announced its decision. “Gilts are one
of the main benefactors from these uncertain market
conditions.”  The 10-year gilt yield dropped 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage points, this week to 1.97 percent by the 5 p.m. close
of trading in  London  yesterday. The 3.75 percent bond due
September 2021 gained 0.5, or 5 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 115.57. The yield dropped to an all-time low 1.93
percent on Dec. 30.  The 30-year yield dropped 4 basis points this week to 3.01
percent, after falling to a record 2.98 percent on Nov. 30.  France and  Austria  were cut one level to AA+ from AAA and
face the risk of further reductions, S&P said late yesterday.
While Finland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg kept their AAA
ratings, they were put on negative watch. Spain and  Italy  were
also downgraded.  Pound Weakens  The pound fell 0.9 percent this week to $1.5290 after
weakening to $1.5235, the lowest since July 22, 2010. Sterling
strengthened 0.8 percent to 82.89 pence per euro.  Gilts also advanced as signs inflation is slowing boosted
the appeal of the fixed payments from government debt.  U.K. producer prices dropped 0.2 percent in December from
the previous month, the statistics office said yesterday.
Economists forecast a 0.1 percent gain, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Annual price growth slowed to 4.8 percent, the least in
a year.  The data suggests “pipeline pressures are easing,” said
 Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA
Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and investors. That may
be “a supportive factor for gilts,” he said.  The U.K. 10-year break-even rate, a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
regular and index-linked bonds,  fell  9 basis points this week to
2.68 percentage points.  Best Performer  Gilts returned 17 percent last year, the best performers
among 26 indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The U.K. securities
rallied as a deepening of the euro-region’s sovereign-debt
crisis stoked demand for the bonds as an alternative to euro-
denominated assets.  The  Bank of England  has been buying about 5.1 billion
pounds of gilts a week since October as part of its plan to
boost the economy. The Monetary Policy Committee kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent and maintained its asset-
purchase target at 275 billion pounds at a meeting yesterday, as
forecast in Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  The U.K.’s Debt Management Office sold 3 billion pounds of
10-year bonds Jan. 11, with the auction attracting bids for more
than twice the amount of debt allotted. The bonds were sold at
an average yield of 2.085 percent, compared with 2.382 percent
at the previous auction last month.  The pound has strengthened 1.5 percent in the past six
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. Only the dollar, the
yen and the Australian currency gained more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  