-- Google Grills ‘Zombie Hordes,’ China Scorns Suicide in Top Business Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/google-grills-zombies-china-scorns-suicide-top-business-books.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  grills “zombie hordes”
of job applicants with fiendish puzzles and China spurns
“suicidal” economic shock therapy in two of our favorite
business books of late. Here’s a list of recommended titles.  “Adapt” by  Tim Harford  (Farrar, Straus & Giroux/Little,
Brown). We all struggle to accept our failures and cut our
losses. Yet admitting our mistakes holds a key to solving
intractable problems, says Harford, who writes the Undercover
Economist column for the Financial Times. “Success,” he
argues, “always starts with failure.”  “Are You Smart Enough to Work at Google?” by William Poundstone (Little, Brown). A guide to brain-bending interview
questions asked at Google and other innovative companies. “You
are shrunk to the height of a nickel and thrown into a
blender,” one begins. What do you do in the 60 seconds before
the blades begin whirring?  “Boomerang” by Michael Lewis (Allen Lane/Norton). The
author of “ Liar’s Poker ” and “The Big Short” returns with a
collection of writings on his journeys through “the New Third
World,” from Iceland and Ireland to California.  “Civilization” by Niall Ferguson (Allen Lane). The
prolific Harvard historian explains how the West came to
dominate the globe.  “Confidence Men” by Ron Suskind (Harper). An inside look
at how Barack Obama came under the spell of  Timothy Geithner  and
Lawrence Summers, “two men whose actions had contributed to the
very financial disaster they were hired to solve.”  “Demystifying the Chinese Economy” by Justin Yifu Lin
(Cambridge). A patriotic yet pragmatic look at how China notched
up average annual  growth  of 9.9 percent for three decades.  “Exorbitant Privilege” by Barry Eichengreen (Oxford). A
brisk primer on the dollar’s role as the dominant international
currency.  “Extreme Money” by Satyajit Das (FT Press). An
idiosyncratic yet withering analysis of how 30 years of
financial alchemy and excessive credit plunged us into the Great
Recession.  “Fatal Risk” by Roddy Boyd (Wiley). An engaging
reconstruction of how  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
committed “corporate suicide.”  “The Futures” by Emily Lambert (Basic). A bouncy jaunt
through the history of Chicago’s trading pits.  “Grand Pursuit” by Sylvia Nasar (Fourth Estate/Simon &
Schuster). An absorbing narrative history of economists -- from
 Beatrice Webb  to John  Maynard Keynes  -- who pursued the idea
that mankind could control its destiny.  “Greece’s ‘Odious’ Debt” by Jason Manolopoulos (Anthem
Press). A hedge-fund manager explains how his Greek compatriots
gambled away their future -- and how German and French bankers
egged them on. Who’s bailing out whom?  “Guaranteed to Fail” by Viral V. Acharya,  Matthew
Richardson , Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh and Lawrence J. White
(Princeton). Four professors at New York University’s Stern
School of Business explain how  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  got so
big and why we must fix them.  “The High-Beta Rich” by Robert Frank (Crown Business).
The Wall Street Journal wealth reporter returns to “Richistan”
only to find billionaires flailing in debt and repo men seizing
their Gulfstreams.  “How the West Was Lost” by Dambisa Moyo (Allen Lane/
Farrar, Straus & Giroux). A reasoned look at how the world’s
most-advanced nations are squandering their economic lead.  “Idea Man” by Paul Allen (Portfolio/Penguin). This memoir
by  Microsoft’s (MSFT)  co-founder offers a fascinating look at what it
took to build the software behemoth.  “Love and Capital” by Mary Gabriel (Little, Brown). An
exemplary biography of Karl and Jenny Marx and their children.  “Models.Behaving.Badly” by Emanuel Derman (Free Press/
Wiley-Blackwell). The former head of quantitative finance at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  explores why models failed during the
mortgage meltdown and why modelers must use them more wisely.  “Money and Power” by William D. Cohan (Doubleday). The
sometimes “schizophrenic” behavior of Goldman Sachs comes into
focus in this history by the author of “House of Cards” and
“The Last Tycoons.”  “Oil’s Endless Bid” by Dan Dicker (Wiley). Petroleum
prices have gone crazy, and a large share of the blame belongs
to Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other banks, argues this
Nymex trader.  “Poor Economics” by Abhijit V. Banerjee and Esther Duflo
(PublicAffairs). An enlightening look at what randomized control
trials, such as those used to assess new drugs, tell us about
the behavior of impoverished people -- and how to help them.  “Punching Out” by Paul Clemens (Doubleday). A blackly
comic journal of what happens after a U.S. factory shuts down.  “The Quest” by Daniel Yergin (Allen Lane/Penguin Press).
The energy economist who brought us “The Prize” sets out to
debunk peak oil theory.  “Reckless Endangerment” by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner (Times Books). A thoughtful contribution to the debate on
whether  Fannie Mae  really was “ground zero” in the subprime-
mortgage explosion, as some critics argue.  “Red Capitalism” by Carl E. Walter and Fraser J.T. Howie
(Wiley). An eye-opening look at how Communist Party bosses
control  China ’s economy.  “Spousonomics” by Paula Szuchman and Jenny Anderson
(Random House/Bantam). A geeky guide to finding marital bliss
through economics.  “Steve Jobs” by Walter Isaacson (Simon & Schuster). A
memorable biography of the brilliant and maddening man who
revolutionized the way we work and play.  “Street Freak” by Jared Dillian (Touchstone). A former
trader at  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  describes his battle to
survive and thrive in a business that drove him over the edge.  “Thinking, Fast and Slow” by  Daniel Kahneman . (Allen
Lane/ Farrar, Straus and Giroux). The Princeton psychologist and
Nobel laureate synthesizes decades of research in this absorbing
journey through our “mental machinery.” At look at how we make
choices about picking stocks, predicting the value of Bordeaux
wines, and much more.  “Ugly Beauty” by Ruth Brandon (Harper). An incisive
history of cosmetics tycoon  Helena Rubinstein  and  Eugene Schueller , the founder of  L’Oreal SA. (OR)   (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 