-- Graff Diamonds Sues Hong Kong Pawn Shop Over Diamond Stolen in 2007 Heist
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/graff-diamonds-sues-pawn-shop-for-return-of-jewel-stolen-in-2007.html
Graff Diamonds Ltd. sued a  Hong Kong 
pawn shop seeking the return of a yellow diamond that the
jewelry retailer says was stolen from a London store in 2007.  The 16.64 carat diamond was part of more than $20 million
in jewelry stolen from Graff’s store on Sloane Street in London
on July 5, 2007, according to the complaint in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan.  The pawn shop, Yau On Co., submitted a stone to the
 Gemological Institute of America , a non-profit group based in
Carlsbad,  California , that sets standards for gemstone quality,
analysis, grading and certification, according to the complaint.  The institute determined that the stone submitted by Yau
was the yellow diamond stolen in the robbery, which had at some
point been recut and reconstituted as a 16.28 carat modified
cushion cut diamond, according to the Jan. 6 complaint. Yau has
refused to agree to allow the institute to return the stone,
which is being held in a lab in  New York  pending resolution of
the dispute, according to the complaint.  Graff is asking a judge to declare that it’s the true owner
of the diamond and to order the jewel immediately returned to
the company. It also seeks the costs of the lawsuit and attorney
fees.  Pawn Shop Spokesman  Danny Hung, a spokesman for Yau On and the son of the
owner, said in a phone interview that he wouldn’t have bought
the stone had he known its history.  Hung said he took in the diamond from someone who he didn’t
identify and that it was once owned by someone wealthy in
mainland  China . Hung said he had a certificate for the stone
that wasn’t issued by the owner’s company and that he later
found out it was a stolen item from  London .  Graff is preparing to raise $1 billion in an IPO in Hong
Kong next year, a person familiar with the matter said in
November. The company’s founder and chairman,  Laurence Graff ,
73, who was listed at 459 on Forbes magazine’s  list  of worldwide
billionaires in March with a net worth of $2.5 billion, has
twice set records buying gems at auction.  The company was the victim of one of London’s largest
diamond thefts, a 40-million-pound robbery at its New Bond
Street store on Aug. 6, 2009. Five men were later  convicted  of
the heist.  Michael Bono, an attorney with New York-based Wade Clark
Mulcahy, which is representing Graff, said in an e-mail that the
firm doesn’t comment on matters in litigation. Jessica
Sachariason, a spokeswoman for the Gemological Institute of
America, declined to comment on the suit.  The case is Graff Diamonds Ltd. vs. Yao On Co.,
100171/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 