-- NCAA Delays Decision on $2,000 Stipend for Scholarship Athleties
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-15T05:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/ncaa-delays-decision-on-2-000-stipend-for-scholarship-athleties.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  delayed making a decision on whether scholarship
athletes at college sports’ top division will be eligible for as
much as $2,000 a year to pay for food, transportation and other
incidental expenses.  The governing body’s Division I Board, after reviewing
objections, yesterday reaffirmed its support for the plan but
asked a working group to make a new proposal for implementation
to university presidents in April. More than 125 of the 335
schools had forced a temporary suspension of the rule that
originally was approved in October.  The board made its decision after hearing from members of
the NCAA’s Student-Athlete Advisory Committee, who asked a way
be found to help the athletes who need it the most.  “They said consistently we must have this momentum going
and this action will allow us to keep that momentum,” David Hopkins, president of Wright State University, said in a
 statement . “We need to move forward.”  The board instructed the working group to include
consideration of financial need and compliance to women’s sports
law Title IX. The stipend rules would be in effect for the 2013-
14 school year, the NCAA said.  Pizza to Travel  In October the NCAA approved the stipend, which gives each
conference the opportunity to add as much as $2,000 annually to
scholarships for anything from pizza to plane flights. The
additional stipend cannot bring the scholarship total above the
cost of attending the school.  Opponents said the stipend gives an unfair advantage to
athletic departments with the resources to cover the cost.
Others have argued that it jeopardizes the players’ amateur
status by paying them to play.  The board also rejected a call to override a move to allow
multiyear scholarships, rather than the current year-by-year
system. An October decision clearing the way for the long-term
commitments had brought objections from 75 schools. The NCAA
said the change was needed to protect athletes from the possible
loss of scholarships because of injury, poor performance or
coaching changes.  The rule will now go to an online vote of the entire
Division I membership to be conducted in February.  “I recognize the complexities of this issue, the impact of
staying the course is relatively minor,” NCAA President  Mark Emmert  said. “If we err, it will be on the side of the
students.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  