-- Nigeria Oil Shutdown Would Be ‘Last Resort’ as Strike Enters Second Week
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/nigerian-unions-government-fail-to-agree-deal-to-end-strike.html
Nigerian oil union Pengassan said it
will only shut down oil output as “a last resort” in Africa’s
top crude producer to give more time for negotiations with
President Goodluck Jonathan’s government to end a strike now in
the second week.  The  Nigeria  Labour Congress and the Trade Union Congress,
the country’s two biggest labor federations, called the strike
to protest against higher fuel prices after the government said
on Jan. 1 it was ending subsidies it said cost 1.2 trillion
naira ($7.4 billion) last year.  The two federations have asked Pengassan “to defer the
shutting down of oil production and export,” the union said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. The “the postponement will
enable labor and civil society groups explore ongoing
consultations and negotiations in resolving the current
nationwide strike.”  The work stoppage, which began Jan. 9, has limited trade in
stocks and the naira, closed ports and banks and sparked street
protests. The cost to sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest
economy may be more than $1 billion a day, according to Gregory Kronsten, head of macroeconomic research at FBN Capital Ltd. in
 London .  While oil output and exports remain unaffected by the
strike, Pengassan is poised “to execute immediately the
systematic shutdown of oil production should the negotiation
with the government break down,” the Lagos-based union said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Daily Output  Nigeria pumped about 2.2 million barrels of oil a day last
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At least 90
percent of Nigeria’s crude is produced by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
based in  The Hague ;  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ;  San Ramon , California-
based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ;  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with
the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  “We’re holding the necessary consultations,” Labor
Minister Chukwuemeka Wogu told reporters in Abuja yesterday.
“We expect to have an agreement soon.”  The government’s offer to reduce fuel prices falls short of
the unions’ demand for a full reversal and is unlikely to
restore normalcy, the NLC and the TUC said in a joint statement
yesterday. “For the avoidance of any doubt, the indefinite
strikes, rallies and protests continue nationwide” as of Jan.
16.  Jonathan, who won a four-year term in April, had pledged to
use savings to invest in  power plants  and roads in Africa’s most
populous country, which is roughly split between a mainly Muslim
north and a predominantly Christian south.  Religious Violence  At the same time, he faces an increase in religious
violence in parts of the north where he has declared a state of
emergency and says Islamic militants pose a worse threat to the
country than the 1967-70 civil war.  More than 85 people have died in bomb and gun attacks since
Christmas Day on churches in Abuja and in the north that the
authorities blame on Boko Haram, a militant Islamic group
inspired by  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement.  Gasoline prices in Nigeria, where two-thirds of the
population of about 164 million live on less than $1.25 a day,
had been capped at 65 naira a liter (0.3 gallon), leading to a
shortage of investment in refineries that forced the West
African nation to import about 70 percent of its fuel.  In opposing Jonathan’s reform, union leaders and protest
groups have focused their criticisms on government waste and
corruption, especially those associated with fuel imports and
distribution.  Investigation of Payments  The president has approved the investigation of fuel-import
payments and the prosecution of those found to have engaged in
“any incidence of malfeasance, fraud, over-invoicing and
related illegalities,” Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-
Madueke said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “No matter what happens, the government’s credibility is
seriously dented, and they’ll have to earn it back,”  Bismarck Rewane , analyst and chief executive officer of Lagos-based
Financial Derivatives Co., said by phone. “The reality is that
this is the beginning of new dispensation. People will demand
proper governance, people will demand honesty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  