-- Noda Says Japan Must Heed Lessons From Europe’s Credit-Rating Downgrades
-- B y   L i l y   N o n o m i y a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-01-15T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/noda-says-japan-must-heed-lessons-from-europe-s-credit-rating-downgrades.html
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said
containing Japan’s  public debt load, the world’s largest , is
critical after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded credit ratings on
France, Austria and seven other European nations.  Europe’s fiscal situation “isn’t a house burning on the
other side of the river,” Noda said on TV Tokyo Holdings
Corp.’s program on Jan. 14. “We must have a great sense of
crisis.”  Noda reshuffled his cabinet last week, aiming to win
support for doubling Japan’s 5 percent national  sales tax  by
2015 to trim the soaring debt. S&P said in November Noda’s
administration hadn’t made progress in tackling the public debt
burden, an indication the credit-rating company may be preparing
to lower the nation’s sovereign grade.  Japan ’s government, which has enjoyed borrowing costs that
are around 1 percent, wouldn’t be able to manage its finances if
bond yields surged to 3 percent, Noda said last week. The
country risks seeing a spike in government bond yields unless it
controls a debt load set to approach 230 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said on Nov. 28.  “The proposed increase in the  consumption tax  to 10% would
not be enough to put the public finances on a sustainable
track,” David Rea, a Japan economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in  London , wrote in a report last week. “A larger increase is
needed, and soon, but is highly unlikely without a specific
mandate from the electorate as support from the opposition and
even some elements of the ruling party is non-existent.”  Monitoring Yields  The  finance ministry  is closely monitoring Japanese bond
yields, Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said on a Fuji Television
Network Inc. program yesterday. He reiterated Noda’s statement
that Japan should view Europe’s debt crisis as an issue it might
face in the long term without fiscal reform.  France ’s loss of its AAA rating probably won’t have any
immediate effect in Japan as domestic banks’ holdings of French
bonds aren’t large, Azumi said in Tokyo yesterday, according to
 Kyodo News .  About 57 percent of the public opposes raising the sales
tax, and the approval rating for Noda’s cabinet fell to 29
percent from 31 percent last month, the Asahi newspaper said
yesterday, citing its own survey. The Nikkei newspaper said
Noda’s public approval rose 1 percentage point to 37 percent
after a cabinet reshuffle last week, while the Yomiuri newspaper
reported a decline in public approval to 37 percent from 42
percent.  ‘Worse and Worse’  Japan’s finances are “getting worse and worse every day,
every second,”  Takahira Ogawa , Singapore-based director of
sovereign ratings at S&P, said in an interview on Nov. 24. Asked
if this means he’s closer to lowering Japan’s credit rating, he
said it “may be right in saying that we’re closer to a
downgrade.”  S&P rates Japan AA- and has had a negative outlook on the
rating since April. Ogawa said Japan needs a “comprehensive
approach” to containing its debt burden, which the government
has projected will exceed 1 quadrillion yen ($13 trillion) in
the year through March as the nation pays for reconstruction
costs from March’s record earthquake.  Aging Population  Japan’s aging population is also weighing on Noda’s
struggle to achieve fiscal health. Social-security expenses have
more than doubled in two decades and will account for 52 percent
of general spending for the year starting in April, according to
a budget proposal the cabinet approved last month.  France and  Austria  lost their top credit ratings last week
in a string of downgrades that left Germany with the euro area’s
only stable AAA grade, as S&P warned that crisis-fighting
efforts are still falling short.  France and Austria were cut one level to AA+ from AAA and
face the risk of further reductions, the rating company said in
Frankfurt. While Finland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg kept
their AAA ratings, they were put on negative outlook. Spain and
Italy were also among the nine nations downgraded.  On Jan. 12, Italy auctioned 12 billion euros in treasury
bills as borrowing costs plunged in the country’s first debt
sale of the year. The result may help ease investor concern
about Italy’s ability to finance  Europe ’s second-biggest debt,
which pushed the yield on the country’s benchmark 10-year bond
above the 7 percent level that led Greece, Ireland and Portugal
to seek bailouts.  The  International Monetary Fund  has said a gradual increase
of Japan’s sales tax to 15 percent “could provide roughly half
of the fiscal adjustment needed to put the public-debt ratio on
a downward path.”  “No one is saying we don’t need sales-tax hikes in the
future,” Deputy Prime Minister  Katsuya Okada  said during a
program by public broadcaster NHK yesterday. “If you’re a
politician, you know the fiscal situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lily Nonomiya in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  