-- Obama Recess Appointments Challenged
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/obama-recess-appointments-challenged-by-trade-groups-in-lawsuit.html
President  Barack Obama ’s recess
appointment of three members to the National Labor Relations
Board was challenged in court by the National Federation of
Independent Business, which claims a constitutional violation.  The filing yesterday may be the first legal action
targeting the White House appointments made without Senate
confirmation on Jan. 4 during a brief congressional break. It
was made as part of an existing lawsuit in federal court in
 Washington  over a new NLRB rule that requires employers to
notify workers of their rights to form a union.  Without a legal quorum, the board has no authority to
enforce the rule, the NFIB, which was joined by four other
groups and companies in the filing, argued.  “The grounds for the motion are that very significant
events have transpired since the filing of the complaints in
this case, particularly within the last ten days,” according to
the filing. “The president purported to appoint the new members
without the advice and consent of the Senate.”  Republican lawmakers criticized Obama’s decision to name
three NLRB members and the first head of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau,  Richard Cordray , during the congressional
recess when the Senate was in so-called pro forma session.  The Constitution gives presidents the power to make
appointments when the Senate is in recess. Republicans won
bipartisan agreement to keep Congress in pro forma sessions
every three days through the holidays in an attempt to keep
Obama from filling vacancies.  Democratic Support  Obama’s recess appointments were supported by Democratic
leaders in the House and Senate and drew rebukes from House
Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky , both Republicans.  “The president’s action was a surprise and terrible
disappointment to small-business owners throughout the country
who have suffered under the unabashedly pro-union rule-makings
handed down by the NLRB,” Karen Harned, executive director of
NFIB’s Small Business Legal Center, wrote in a press release.  Yesterday’s filing contends that only Senate confirmation
would restore authority to the board.  “The moving co-plaintiffs are entitled to an order from
the court declaring that the board no longer has authority to
implement or enforce” the rule at issue in the lawsuit, which
ordered employers to display notices informing workers about
their rights to form a union and bargain on contracts. The rule
is scheduled to go into effect on April 30.  The U.S.  Justice Department  advised the White House in a
memo released this week that both the Constitution and precedent
support the appointments.  The case is National Association of Manufacturers v.
 National Labor Relations Board , 1:11-cv-1629, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Strasser at 
 fstrasser@bloomberg.net  