-- Obama Says He’ll Propose Tax Rewards to Companies That Return Jobs to U.S.
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-14T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/obama-cites-jobs-returning-to-u-s-as-republican-pushes-pipeline.html
President  Barack Obama  used
ordinary, household products -- a padlock, a pair of boots, a
candle and a pair of socks -- to illustrate how some
manufacturers are returning jobs to U.S. soil.  “You’ve heard of outsourcing; well, this is insourcing,”
the president said in his weekly radio and video address posted
on the Internet. “The companies that make these products are
part of a hopeful trend: They’re bringing jobs back from
overseas.”  Obama made an election-year appeal to business executives
at the White House this week, urging them to bring offshore jobs
back to the U.S. to boost the economy and reduce the national
unemployment rate of 8.5 percent.  If they do, he said, “I’ll make sure you’ve got a
government that does everything in its power to help you
succeed.”  He will begin by proposing in the federal budget due Feb. 6
new tax proposals that reward companies for bringing jobs home
and investing in America, and he pledged to end tax breaks for
companies that move jobs overseas.  It’s “not just because it’s increasingly the right thing
to do for their bottom line, but also because it’s the right
thing to do for their workers and for our communities and our
country,” Obama said.  The president yesterday sought to further encourage jobs
and business investment by asking Congress for power to
streamline agencies, folding six of them into one new
department. Presidents have had such powers until the law lapsed
during the  Reagan administration  in 1984.  More Efficiency  “I will only use this authority for reforms that result in
more efficiency, better service and a leaner government,” Obama
said. Such changes would make it easier for small-business
owners to get the loans and government help needed to sell
products worldwide, he said.  “Instead of forcing small-business owners to navigate the
six departments and agencies in the federal government that
focus on business and trade, we’ll have one department,” he
said.  The plan includes creation of a new website called
BusinessUSA, that would serve as a one-stop shop with
information for businesses small and large that want to start
selling their goods around the world.  “More companies will be able to hire new workers,” he
said. “And we’ll be able to rebuild an economy that’s not known
for paper profits or financial speculation, but for making and
selling products like these: Products ‘Made in America.’”  Pipeline Delay  In the Republican address, Senator John Hoeven of  North
Dakota  criticized the president for delays in approving a $7
billion pipeline that would carry crude from  Canada  to U.S.
refineries along the  Gulf Coast .  The 1,700-mile Keystone XL pipeline is “the largest
shovel-ready project in the country” and would reduce
dependence on Middle East oil, hold down energy costs and add
thousands of American jobs, Hoeven said. If it’s rejected,
Canada will still produce the oil and it will be sold to  China ,
he said.  “Yet the president is saying ‘no’ to the Keystone XL
pipeline; he’s saying ‘no’ to a project that will bring more
than 700,000 barrels of oil a day from our friend and ally,
Canada, and he’s virtually assuring continued reliance on the
 Middle East ,” Hoeven said. “That makes no sense, and it’s a
matter of great concern for our national security, particularly
with what’s going on in  Iran .”  Construction Permit  The State Department in November delayed a decision on
granting a construction permit for Keystone, citing concerns
about the potential environmental impact on fragile areas of
 Nebraska .  Last month Obama signed into law a two-month extension of
the payroll tax-ut bill that contained a section pushed by
congressional Republicans that requires the president to decide
by Feb. 21 whether the pipeline should be approved. The State
Department has said that doesn’t allow sufficient time to
evaluate the project.  Hoeven cited news reports saying that the Keystone XL
pipeline project “isn’t on the president’s agenda before” the
2012 election,” which he called “unfortunate, because it is
private-sector projects like Keystone XL-and the hundreds of
others cited by the U.S. Chamber study-that will get our nation
working again.”  Labor unions support the project for the jobs it would
create, while environmental group oppose it, because of the
potential ecological damage. Obama risks the loss of support
from either group in making a decision.  “It’s hard to imagine a project that is more in the
national interest and the interest of the American people,”
Hoeven said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  