-- Solyndra Layoffs Discussed by Obama Aides Before 2010 U.S. Midterm Vote
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-01-14T05:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/obama-aides-discussed-solyndra-layoffs-before-2010-u-s-election.html
White House officials knew before
the 2010 midterm elections that Solyndra LLC planned to fire
workers after winning a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee,
according to e-mails released yesterday, a disclosure that might
have embarrassed the administration.  The messages don’t show that anyone from President Barack
Obama’s administration directed Solyndra to delay announcing the
layoffs until after the balloting. Previously released e-mails,
indicating the Energy Department urged Solyndra to postpone the
cuts, have been cited by  House Republicans  who say politics
influenced Solyndra’s award and last-ditch rescue bid that put
taxpayers behind $75 million in private investment.  The solar-panel maker based in Fremont,  California , filed
for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6, about two years after
receiving the loan guarantee.  “Here’s the deal -- Solyndra is going to announce they are
laying off 200 of their 1200 workers,”  Heather Zichal , a White
House adviser, wrote to  Carol Browner , then director of the
office of Energy and Climate Change Policy, and other officials
on Oct. 27, 2010.  “No es bueno,” or Spanish for “it’s not
good.”  Zichal later wrote White House press aides to alert them of
the upcoming announcement because the administration “has made
this such a high-profile investment” from the 2009 economic
stimulus. Obama visited the Solyndra plant built with U.S.
backing in May 2010.  The White House released the e-mails in response to a
request from Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce
Committee’s investigations panel, which has examined Solyndra’s
loan guarantee since February.  Further Probe Sought  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican who heads the
investigations panel, said in an e-mailed statement that the White
House hadn’t turned over all its documents related to the Solyndra
loan. Grants given to “at risk” clean-energy companies should also
be investigated, he said in the statement last night.  House Republicans sought e-mails classified in 11
categories, including any documents where White House officials
discussed either a decision on whether to approve the guarantee
before Sept. 4, 2009, or the restructuring of the loan agreement
approved Feb. 23, 2011.  Kathryn Ruemmler, counsel forObama, said in a letter to
Representatives  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and chairman
of the energy committee, and Stearns, that the White House “did
not identify” any documents in either category. Congressional
investigators have now received more than 186,000 pages of
documents from the administration and 72,000 pages from Solyndra
investors, the letter states.  ‘On the Merits’  The documents show the decision to award the guarantee in
2009 and to restructure its terms to aid the company avoid
bankruptcy were made by the Energy Department “on the merits,”
Ruemmler wrote in the letter, signed with Cynthia Hogan, counsel
to Vice President  Joe Biden .  Republicans in a Nov. 15 memo cited e-mails from advisers
to the company that indicated the  Department of Energy  sought to
delay the announcement of the 2010 layoffs.  “They did push very hard for us to hold our announcement
of the consolidation to employees and vendors to Nov. 3rd --
oddly they didn’t give a reason for that date,” an adviser to
Argonaut Private Equity of Tulsa,  Oklahoma , who wasn’t
identified, wrote an associate in an e-mail. Argonaut was an
investor in the company.  The Republican memo said  Brian Harrison , who was Solyndra’s
chief executive officer, told the department he wanted to inform
employees about the jobs cuts on Oct. 28, 2010, five days before
the election.  Fab 2  A day after the vote, on Nov. 3, Solyndra said it was
closing a manufacturing plant built before it received the U.S.
aid and was firing workers to cut costs. The company shifted
operations to Fab 2, a $733 million factory built with the help
of the $535 million guarantee.  Energy Secretary Steven Chu told the committee at a Nov. 17
hearing that he wasn’t aware of an effort to delay the
announcement, and that it wouldn’t be a “proper way to do
business.”  The loan guarantee to the company has proved to be a
political embarrassment for the administration, which included
the loan-guarantee program in its 2009 economic stimulus as a
potential job creator.  Stearns and Upton have said White House and Energy
Department officials ignored red flags warning of Solyndra’s
financial woes prior to the loan.  So far, Republicans have been unable to back up assertions
that the White House may have intervened as payback to  George Kaiser , an Oklahoma billionaire and fundraiser for President
 Barack Obama , whose foundation also was a major investor in
Solyndra.  Kaiser has said he never lobbied the administration on
Solyndra’s behalf.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  