-- Paterno Tells Post He ‘Didn’t Know How to Handle’ Sandusky Issue
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-14T23:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/paterno-tells-post-he-didn-t-know-how-to-handle-sandusky-issue.html
Former  Penn State  University
football coach  Joe Paterno  said he “didn’t know exactly how to
handle it” after an assistant coach alleged in 2002 that he saw
retired defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky sexually abusing a
boy.  Paterno, in his first public comments since being fired two
months ago, told the Washington Post “I was afraid to do
something that might jeopardize what the university procedure
was.”  “So I backed away and turned it over to some other people,
people I thought would have a little more expertise than I
did,” the 85-year-old, who won a record 409 games during his 46
years at Penn State, said. “It didn’t work out that way.”  Sandusky, 67, was initially charged with 40 criminal counts
tied to alleged sexual molestation of eight boys from 1994 to
2009. He has denied the charges.  Paterno told the Post that assistant  Mike McQueary  “didn’t
want to get specific” with details of his allegation against
Sandusky, who he said was showering with a young boy in the Penn
State football locker room. Paterno then referred the matter to
university officials.  “I just did what I thought was best,” Paterno said. “I
talked to people that I thought would be, if there was a
problem, that would be following up on it.”  Paterno and President Graham B. Spanier, 68, were both
fired Nov. 9 for their inaction. Neither has been charged.
Spanier, who was president of the university for 16 years after
being chancellor of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, is a
sociologist and a marriage and family therapist.  Athletic Director Timothy Curley, 57, and  Gary Schultz , 62,
a senior vice president who oversaw university police and
finances, were charged with perjury and failing to report
McQueary’s allegations. Curley and Schultz, who remain free on
bail, have denied the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 