-- Perez Takes Guatemalan Presidency as Investors Back ‘Iron Fist’
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-01-14T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/perez-takes-guatemalan-presidency-as-investors-back-iron-fist-.html
Former Guatemalan army general  Otto
Perez  Molina swears in as president today, vowing to crack down
on drug gangs and bolster the judiciary, a policy that may lead
to a resumption of U.S. military aid after 34 years.  His pledge to wield an “iron-fist” against drug cartels
has resonated with local business leaders and helped send bond
yields to their lowest level in seventh months.  The former head of military intelligence will now need to
reassure the U.S. congress that an army he helped command during
a 36-year civil war has reformed, said  Eric Farnsworth , vice
president of the Council of the Americas in  Washington . In its
1999 findings, a United Nations-sponsored commission said that
witness accounts showed the government committed genocide during
that war that left 200,000 dead in a country of 13.3 million.  “Any future aid would have strict conditions,” Farnsworth
said in a phone interview. “You can’t just give a blank check,
the scars of human rights abuses just go too deep.”  Guatemala ’s army is banned from receiving aid other than
for training because of past human rights abuses, said William
Ostick, a U.S. State Department spokesman. Outgoing President
Alvaro Colom requested in September that the U.S. lift the ban.  “This is a process of discussion over human rights and
security, that will require congressional consultation,” Ostick
said in an interview.  Drugs War  Perez, 61, has the backing of Guatemala’s congress to
increase  government spending  and potentially raise taxes to fund
a security buildup, said Heather Berkman of Eurasia Group, a
political risk consulting firm.  “There’s a window of opportunity because of all the
violence,” Berkman said in a phone interview from  New York .
“When it comes to security, he’ll have carte blanche support.”  Guatemala, the world’s seventh-largest coffee producer, has
a murder rate of 45 per 100,000 inhabitants, compared with 20
for all of  Latin America , according to the  World Bank .  Mexican gangs including the Zetas have made Guatemala a
base for drug trafficking, according to a January report from
InSight Crime, a Washington-based security research group.  The subsequent increase in violent crime caused investment
to drop to 15.3 percent of gross domestic product last year from
20 percent in 2006, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Nov. 14
report. Moody’s rates Guatemalan bonds Ba1, one level below
investment grade.  Optimism  Hopes that Perez will help ease the violence pushed yields
on the country’s 30-year bonds to 6.05 percent yesterday from
6.31 when he won the election on Nov. 7, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The number of Guatemalans who say that business will
improve in the next six months rose to 63.6% in November, up
from 28.6% the month before and 8.3% in September, according to
a survey by Guatemala’s central bank.  Central America’s biggest economy will expand 2.8 percent
in 2011, the  International Monetary Fund  said in an Oct. 5
 report .  Perez says he plans to add 10,000 police officers and
create special units to combat drug cartels. The new government
will also strengthen the justice system to reduce impunity and
meet conditions for restoring U.S. aid, said Eduardo Stein, an
advisor on Perez’s transition team.  “It’s something we are convinced is necessary to get
Guatemala out of the hole in terms of impunity,” Stein, who was
Vice President under Oscar Berger from 2004 to 2008, said in a
Jan. 13 phone interview from  Guatemala City .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 