-- Qatar Emir Backs Sending Arab Troops to Syria
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-01-14T21:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/qatar-emir-tells-cbs-he-supports-sending-arab-troops-to-end-syria-violence.html
Arab troops should be sent to halt
 Syria ’s violent crackdown on anti-government protesters, the
emir of Qatar, Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, said in an interview
to be broadcast tonight on the U.S. television network CBS.  Elsewhere in the region, attacks on demonstrators continued
in Syria yesterday and Nobel Peace Prize winner Mohamed ElBaradei said he wouldn’t run for president of Egypt.  “Some troops should go to stop the killing” in Syria, the
Qatari emir said in the interview with the program “60
Minutes,”  according to  the CBS website.  Clashes between Syrian state forces and armed dissidents
killed or injured at least 20 army soldiers in the city of
Hawla, Homs province, the London-based  Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights  said in an e-mailed statement. Two military armored
vehicles were destroyed, the group said.  In an earlier statement, the same group said that state
forces killed six people yesterday, while the Arab television
network Al-Jazeera said 12 people died.  Syrian security forces kept attacking demonstrators during
the  Arab League ’s two-week deployment of observers, killing
about 400 people, United Nations political chief Lynn Pascoe
told the 15-member  Security Council  on Jan. 10. The UN estimates
that more than 5,000 people have died since the revolt began in
March.  Under an agreement with the Arab League, Syria’s government
promised to withdraw military and security forces from urban
areas, release political prisoners and allow observers into the
country to monitor implementation of the accord.  ‘Iron Fist’  President Bashar al-Assad vowed on Jan. 10 to use an “iron
fist” to resist what he described as foreign-backed efforts to
divide the country.  Thousands of Syrians took to the streets Jan. 13 to demand
Assad’s ouster as local unrest entered its 11th month, activists
said. About 15,000 people rallied in the Damascus suburb of
Douma, where clashes were reported between defectors and the
army, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  At least 40 military tanks were randomly shelling the
Damascus suburb of Zabadani, Ali Ibrahim, an activist, told Al-
Jazeera in a telephone interview. “The situation in the town is
miserable and at least three were injured so far and they are in
critical condition,” Ibrahim said.  In  Egypt , ElBaradei said his withdrawal as a candidate for
president was to protest the continued military control of the
country, according to The New York Times.  “My conscience does not permit me to run for the
presidency or any other official position unless it is within a
real democratic system,” he said, according to the Times.  ElBaradei won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2005 for his work as
head of the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  In  Tunisia , where it has been a year since the revolution
that ousted Zine El Abdedine ben Ali as president, the Justice
Ministry said an amnesty was granted for about 9,000 prisoners.
Al-Jazeera reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  