-- Red Cross Fined $9.6 Million by U.S. Regulators for Blood-Safety Lapses
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/red-cross-fined-9-6-million-by-u-s-regulators-for-blood-safety-lapses.html
The American Red Cross, the biggest
U.S. supplier of donated blood, was fined $9.59 million after
regulators found 16 of the organization’s facilities failed to
comply with blood-safety rules.  Food and Drug Administration  inspectors found “significant
violations” from April 2010 to October 2010, including
inadequate “managerial control,” record-keeping and quality
assurance, the agency said yesterday in a letter to the
Washington-based organization.  The FDA didn’t find any evidence that the lapses led to any
serious health consequences for blood recipients, said Mary Malarkey, head of compliance at the agency’s Center for
Biologics Evaluation and Research.  “The safety of the nation’s blood supply is one of our top
priorities, and we have no reason to believe that it has been
compromised in any way,” Malarkey said yesterday in a phone
interview. “It’s very important to note that people who need
transfusions should continue to take their doctors’ advice, and
we encourage people to donate blood.”  The FDA has been working “very closely” with  Red Cross 
management “for quite some time now,” Malarkey said. “These
are not current violations and we remain hopeful that their
current management team will be able to deal with the
situation.”  ‘Corrective Steps’  The fines issued are “primarily centered on an inspection
conducted 15 months ago” at the organization’s Donor & Client
Support Center in Philadelphia, the Red Cross said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  “We are disappointed that the FDA believed it necessary to
issue a fine for an inspection conducted so long ago and it is
important to know we have already taken corrective steps to
address those matters and that improvements in operations have
been made,” the Red Cross said.  The organization said it is “fully committed to meeting
all FDA standards, has made significant progress in working with
the FDA to comply with their regulations and requirements, and
continues to work on improving its performance.”  The fines were levied under a 2003 consent decree that set
penalties for failing to follow U.S. standards aimed at
preventing blood contamination. The FDA has cited the Red Cross
14 times since the legal agreement was reached, Malarkey said.  The agency fined the Red Cross $16 million in 2010 for
mismanagement of blood products and manufacturing violations.
Those lapses didn’t endanger any patients, the agency said at
the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  