-- Relational Said to Urge Paring of Illinois Tool Business Units
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/relational-said-to-urge-paring-of-illinois-tool-business-units.html
Ralph Whitworth’s Relational
Investors LLC, which may take a seat on  Illinois Tool Works
Inc. (ITW) ’s board, is urging the company to pare business units and
cut purchasing costs, a person familiar with the talks said.  The fund will push for trimming Illinois Tool’s eight
segments to the four or five most profitable ones, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are private. Any future  acquisitions  would be focused on the
remaining businesses, the person said yesterday.  Illinois Tool disclosed earlier yesterday that Relational
had acquired a 2.1 percent stake in the maker of auto parts and
welding products. Relational has an option to name David Batchelder, a fund principal and co-founder, as a director after
Illinois Tool’s May 4 shareholders meeting, the company said.  The two sides have had “a series of productive
discussions,” Illinois Tool Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer David Speer said in a statement. He said the Glenview,
Illinois-based manufacturer was “pleased to have reached this
agreement with Relational.”  Anna Cordasco, a spokeswoman for San Diego-based
Relational, declined to comment about what the fund may do at
the company. Illinois Tool’s Alison Donnelly declined to comment
on any strategy change being urged by Relational.  ITT (ITT) , L-3  The fund, which oversees $6.5 billion, has pressed for
changes at companies such as industrial conglomerate ITT Corp.
and defense contractor  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) 
Whitworth and Batchelder, who both worked for billionaire oilman
 T. Boone Pickens , founded the fund in 1996 with $200 million
from the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System .  At Illinois Tool, Relational also wants the company to
centralize logistics and the buying of materials, taking
advantage of its size to cut costs, the person said. Sales for
2011 probably totaled $17.9 billion, based on results for the
first nine months and analysts’ fourth-quarter estimates.  Illinois Tool’s shares have fallen 11 percent in the past
year, worse than the 0.4 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and the 0.5 percent drop in the  S&P 500 Industrials
Index . The stock slid 0.3 percent to $49.37 yesterday at the
close in  New York .  If Batchelder takes up the option to join the board,
Illinois Tool has agreed to nominate him again at the 2013
annual meeting, the company said in the statement. Relational,
which began buying the stock in 2011, agreed to support Illinois
Tool’s recommended nominees, according to the statement.  The company could expand its 10-member board, said
Donnelly, the spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  