-- Romney’s Challengers Step Up Attacks on Front-Runner’s Credentials
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-14T17:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/romney-challengers-step-up-attacks-on-front-runner-s-credentials.html
Two candidates seeking to derail
Mitt Romney’s march to the Republican presidential nomination
are stepping up appeals to  South Carolina  voters, saying the
former Massachusetts governor doesn’t share their values and
voting for him could give President  Barack Obama  a second term.  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former U.S.
Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  addressed a candidate
forum last night in Duncan, South Carolina, while Romney
campaigned for the support of military voters and retirees in
Hilton Head, along the state’s coast.  “If we run a moderate who is in any way close to where
Obama is, we’ll lose,” Gingrich said. “If we end up splitting
the conservative vote, we’re going to stumble into nominating
somebody that 95 percent of the people in this room are going to
be very uncomfortable with. It’s just that simple.”  Santorum urged South Carolinians not to vote for a
candidate based on claims of electability, saying the state’s
voters pride themselves on “strong traditional values.”  Romney’s campaign released an  online ad  today that seeks to
address concerns some voters might have about his changed
position on abortion during his political career. In his
campaigns for the  U.S. Senate  in 1994 and governor in 2002,
Romney backed abortion rights, but he has since changed his
views.  “He was a great pro-life governor and he’ll be a great
pro-life president,” Mary Ann Glendon, a former U.S. ambassador
to the Vatican who worked with Romney on the abortion issue when
he was Massachusetts governor, says in the advertisement.  Support for Santorum  A group of about 150 conservative religious leaders voted
today to support Santorum, Tony Perkins, president of the Family
Research Council, said in a conference call with reporters.  “There is this unanimous agreement about the need to
replace Barack Obama, and the strong consensus that emerged is
that Rick Santorum is the best way to do it,” Perkins said.  Among those attending the two-day meeting at a ranch near
Bleiblerville,  Texas , were the Reverend Donald Wildmon, founder
of the America Family Association, and Richard Land, president
of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern
Baptist Convention.  New Efforts  There won’t be a coordinated effort among those attending
the event, Perkins said, though he expects various groups to
start new efforts to encourage their members to support
Santorum.  The endorsement followed speeches by supporters of each of
the Republican candidates except Jon Huntsman Jr., Perkins said.
The group took three votes before 115 attendees opted for
Santorum, who continued his campaign in South Carolina with a
stop today at Tommy’s Country Ham House in Greenville. He told
diners that he has a record of attracting conservative voters
across party lines.  To win the White House, he said, “you need Pennsylvania,
 Ohio ,  Michigan ,  Indiana ,  North Carolina ,  Missouri ,  Wisconsin .”
As the grandson of a coal miner, Santorum said, he has a “much
better chance of doing that than an executive for Bain
Capital.”  Gingrich told reporters after his remarks at the Duncan
forum last night that he will use public appearances in the
state to contrast his record with Romney’s on abortion, gun
rights, taxes and jobs policy and present Romney’s record as
governor as too liberal for South Carolina voters.  Conservative Unity Doubted  Stephen Brown, 52, a Greenville attorney and a former
Republican Party county chairman who attended the forum, said,
that while he supports Santorum, he doubts conservative voters
would unite around either him or Gingrich.  “I’ve very concerned about that,” he said. “The problem
is folks are already very committed to one or the other.”  Romney hasn’t focused on Gingrich, Santorum or any other
Republican rival in his recent public remarks. Instead, he has
defended his business record, as he did yesterday in Aiken,
South Carolina.  “I want to get jobs for American people,” he said. “I’m
concerned about the vast middle class of our nation.”  During a question-and-answer session in Hilton Head,
Romney, a Mormon, was asked by one woman whether he believes in
 Jesus Christ .  “Yes, I do,” he said. “I happen to believe that Jesus
Christ is the son of God and my savior.”  On to  Florida   Romney and Gingrich are also looking beyond South
Carolina’s Jan. 21 primary and have spent time this week in
Florida, which holds its primary Jan. 31.  Wins by Romney in South Carolina and Florida, after his
victories in this month’s opening contests in  Iowa  and  New
Hampshire , would put him on a path to quickly wrap up the
Republican nomination.  Last night Romney was greeted by a traffic jam of cars
trying to get to his event at a Hilton Head resort. Overflow
rooms were opened for those who couldn’t squeeze into the
resort’s ballroom where he spoke, and some supporters gave up
and left. The candidate was stuck in the traffic himself and
called into the ballroom to tell those waiting that he would be
there soon.  Military Spending  Romney was surrounded by military veterans at the event,
where he criticized Obama’s plans to cut military
spending.  “I’m very disappointed as I see our president’s plans to
cut $400 billion out of our military budget over the coming
decade,” he said. “I don’t think this is a time that justifies
reining in the capacity of America’s military.”  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , who won the South Carolina
primary in 2008 on his way to the Republican nomination,
stressed the importance of the state for Romney.  “If we put South Carolina into the win column -- and we
can, my friends -- this campaign will be on its way to a very,
very important victory,” he said.  “ Mitt Romney  knows how to restore America’s economy,” he
said, adding Obama has “mortgaged our children’s and our
grandchildren’s future in the most obscene fashion.”  Besides McCain, Romney was joined at his Hilton Head stop
by South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley and former United Nations
ambassador John Bolton. Like McCain, both have endorsed him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Duncan, South Carolina at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Hilton Head, South Carolina at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  