-- Slovenia Says Credit-Rating Cut to A+ by Standard & Poor’s Was ‘Excessive’
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-14T16:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/slovenia-says-credit-rating-cut-to-a-by-standard-poor-s-was-excessive-.html
Slovenia, the first post-communist
nation to adopt the euro, said a reduction of its  credit rating 
by  Standard & Poor’s  was “excessive” as the country faces
rising debt and a political vacuum.  The Balkan nation was lowered one level to A+ with a
negative outlook after S&P deemed a European Union summit on
Dec. 9 to be “no breakthrough,”  Moritz Kraemer , managing
director of European sovereign ratings at the company, said
today on a conference call. S&P also downgraded eight other
euro-zone nations including  France , which lost its AAA rating.  The cut “is excessive and doesn’t take into account
measures on the level of European Union as well as in
Slovenia,” the  Finance Ministry  in Ljubljana said in an e-
mailed statement today.  EU nations pledged last month to enforce stricter fiscal
rules to lower debt and stem the euro-region sovereign-debt
crisis that started in  Greece  more than two years ago. Slovenia
began using the single European currency in 2007.  The country has been without an official government since
September, when Borut Pahor was toppled as prime minister in a
no-confidence vote. Zoran Jankovic, who won an election last
month, failed on Jan. 11 to draw enough support from legislators
for approval to succeed Pahor.  Slovenia needs to cut public spending to comply with a new
fiscal pact being pushed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its assessment of the
former Yugoslav nation’s creditworthiness by one step to A1 on
Dec. 22. Moody’s cited a risk that government finances may be
further strained by a possible need to provide funding to the
banking industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  