-- White House Won’t Back Anti-Piracy Measures That Would Censor the Internet
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-14/white-house-won-t-support-internet-censorship-in-online-anti-piracy-bills.html
The Obama administration won’t back
legislation to combat online piracy if it encourages censorship,
undermines cybersecurity or disrupts the structure of the
Internet, three White House technology officials said.  Their statement, posted yesterday on the White House
website, was a response to online petitions on legislative
proposals to combat online piracy. The movie and music
industries support such measures as a means of cracking down on
theft.  “While we believe that online piracy by foreign websites
is a serious problem that requires a serious legislative
response, we will not support legislation that reduces freedom
of expression, increases cybersecurity risk or undermines the
dynamic, innovative global Internet,” Aneesh Chopra, Victoria Espinel and  Howard Schmidt  wrote in a  blog post .  The statement marks the administration’s most significant
foray into a fight between content creators and Internet
companies that has been playing out in Congress. The Senate is
scheduled to hold a procedural vote Jan. 24 on starting debate
on an anti-piracy bill.  Chopra is the U.S. chief technology officer, Espinel is the
coordinator for intellectual property enforcement in the Office
of Management and Budget, and Schmidt is the White House
cybersecurity coordinator.  The officials called on Congress to pass legislation this
year to combat online piracy. They also wrote that the White
House would soon be hosting a conference call with supporters of
the petitions as well as an online event.  House Chairman’s Statement  U.S. Representative  Lamar Smith , the chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, said his Stop Online Piracy Act meets the
administration’s tests. Smith announced on Jan. 13 that he would
remove a provision that would require  Internet service
providers , when ordered by a court, to block access to non-U.S.
websites offering pirated content or counterfeit goods. The
bill’s opponents say this could hurt the domain-name system.  In a statement yesterday, Smith said that censorship
doesn’t include enforcing laws against “foreign thieves” who
steal content.  “Congress cannot stand by and do nothing while some of
America’s most profitable and productive industries are under
attack,” said Smith, a Texas Republican.  Internet Companies Opposed  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and other Internet companies
oppose Smith’s bill and companion legislation in the Senate.
They say it will promote online censorship and threaten the
growth of the U.S. technology industry.  The  Motion Picture Association  of America, which supports
anti-piracy efforts, applauded the White House call for
legislation.  “For too long in this debate, those that seek to preserve
and profit from the status quo have moved to obstruct reasonable
legislation,” said  Michael O’Leary , the group’s senior
executive vice president for global policy and external affairs.  O’Leary said in the statement that “meaningful”
legislation “must include measured and reasonable remedies that
include ad brokers, payment processors and  search engines .”
Members of the Washington-based MPAA include the studio arms of
The Walt Disney Co. and Time Warner Inc.  Hearing Postponed  Representative  Darrell Issa  said yesterday that he would
postpone a hearing on the bill that had been scheduled for Jan.
18. Even with the changes made by Smith, Issa said, the bill is
still “fundamentally flawed.”  Issa, a California Republican who is chairman of the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, said he has
assurances from House leaders that the bill won’t go to the
floor without a consensus. He has proposed an alternative
approach.  “The voice of the Internet community has been heard,”
Issa said in a statement. “Much more education for members of
Congress about the workings of the Internet is essential if
anti-piracy legislation is to be workable and achieve broad
appeal.”  Smith’s bill is H.R. 3261. The Senate bill is S. 968.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  