-- L.A. County Assessor Arrested on Corruption Charges
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-17T18:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/l-a-county-assessor-arrested-on-corruption-charges-da-says.html
Los Angeles  County assessor John
Noguez, his chief appraiser and an  Arizona  tax consultant were
arrested as part of a public corruption probe, Los Angeles
County  District Attorney  Steve Cooley said.  Noguez, 47, and the two men conspired to slash property
values and save millions in property taxes to help the
consultant’s clients, Cooley said today in an e-mailed
statement. Noguez was arrested at his Huntington Park home and
is being held on $1.4 million bail. He announced he was taking a
leave of absence in June, Cooley said.  He took bribes totaling $185,000 in 2010 from the
consultant, Cooley said. His top appraiser later appeared at
hearings and reduced the assessed value on many properties in
 Santa Monica , Los Angeles and other towns, Cooley said.  Noguez was charged with 24 counts, including accepting
bribes, perjury for providing false financial information on
disclosure forms and conspiracy, according to the statement.  “During the past few months, John Noguez has been given
assurances by the District Attorney’s Office that he would have
the opportunity to tell his side of this controversy before any
final charging decision was made,” Michael Proctor, Noguez’s
lawyer, said in an e-mail. “By arresting Mr. Noguez
today, before honoring that commitment, the District Attorney’s
Office is communicating that this was not in fact a search for
truth, but a one-sided, result-driven investigation aimed at
‘getting’ Mr. Noguez.”  Proctor said he would “vigorously defend” Noguez in
court.  The case is California v. Noguez, BA403666, Superior Court
of California, Los Angeles County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  