-- ‘Usain Colt’ Frankel May Earn $161 Million After Last Race
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-10-17T10:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/-usain-colt-frankel-may-earn-161-million-after-last-race-1-.html
Frankel is one win away from
retiring unbeaten to stud, where the champion racehorse may earn
as much as 100 million pounds ($161 million) siring new
generations of thoroughbreds.  The four-year-old bay colt, nicknamed “Usain Colt” by the
U.K. media, will try to end his career with a perfect record of
14 victories in three days’ time on  British Champions Day  at
Ascot. His earnings as a stallion are set to outstrip the 2.3
million pounds in prize money he’s already won for his breeder
and owner, Saudi Prince Khalid Abdullah.  Frankel may earn “50 to 100 million pounds” in stud fees,
according to Simon Bazalgette, chief executive officer of The
Jockey Club, the largest commercial group in British horse
racing. It manages and operates 14 racecourses including Epsom
Downs and Aintree.  “You need your stars, and our athletes are horses,”
Bazalgette said in an interview. “Frankel is possibly the
greatest of them all.”  That means Frankel may out-earn his father and Epsom Derby
winner Galileo, the most influential stallion of his generation.  Part owned by Irish millionaire  John Magnier ’s Coolmore
operation, the 14-year-old Galileo has been rated the top flat
racing sire by the Racing Post in each of the last three years.  Although Galileo’s stud fee has been private for the past
five years, a Daily Telegraph report in 2009 said that the
stallion earned 150,000 euros ($195,000) per foal conceived. A
stallion may cover up to 150 mares per season. The stud fee for
Oasis Dream, who is rated second to Galileo by the Racing Post,
is 85,000 pounds, while No. 3 Pivotal commands 45,000 pounds.  Racing Success  As a three-year-old, Frankel won races including  England ’s
2000 Guineas classic, the Sussex Stakes and Royal Ascot’s St.
James’s Palace Stakes. This year’s campaign includes victories
in the Lockinge Stakes and the Juddmonte International Stakes.  Frankel, the No. 1 racehorse in the  World Thoroughbred
Rankings  compiled by the International Federation of Horseracing
Authorities, will probably be retired after Ascot, Teddy
Grimthorpe, Prince Khalid Abdullah’s racing manager, told the
British Broadcasting Corp. Oct. 1.  “We’ve had three wonderful years, he’s been exceptional
literally from day one,” Grimthorpe said.  British Champions Day, the climax to flat racing’s British
Champions Series, sold out more than a month before the event.
 Queen Elizabeth II  will be attending.  Last year, the British monarch went to the paddock on a
sunny day at Ascot to study Frankel up close, with her
bloodstock and racing adviser John Warren by her side.  Crowd Puller  The four races that featured Frankel this year posted a 20
percent increase in total attendance to 112,334, according to
the Jockey Club.  The 35-race British Champions Series started last year to
broaden racing’s appeal to younger audiences in the U.K. sports
market. Its average television audience in the U.K. rose 4
percent to the end of August. The series attracted 750,000
spectators ahead of Champions Day, the same as in 2011. British
Champions Day itself has sold out all of its 32,000 tickets, or
20 percent more than last year.  Total attendance across the sport of racing until the end
of September dropped from 5.2 million last year to 4.7 million
this year due to adverse weather which led to 91 fixture
cancellations, the  Jockey Club  said. British racing drew a
record attendance last year of 6.15 million.  No Guarantees  Last week’s yearling sales at Tattersalls --  Europe ’s
biggest bloodstock auction house in Newmarket, England -- were
dominated by Galileo.  A yearling colt sired by Galileo was sold for 2.5 million
guineas ($4.2 million) to Qatari royal Sheikh Fahad bin Abdullah Al Thani on the last day of the auction. That’s the most this
year, and the third-highest price paid for a yearling colt -- a
one-year-old, untrained racehorse -- in Europe. Two fillies
sired by Galileo fetched 1.3 million guineas and 1.5 million
guineas, respectively. A guinea, an antique monetary unit used
in bloodstock sales, is equivalent to 1.05 pounds.  Victories on the racecourse don’t always guarantee success
as a stallion.  George Washington  was retired to Coolmore stud
with a fee of 60,000 euros after winning the 2000 Guineas and
the Queen Elizabeth II stakes in 2006. He made his comeback on
the racetrack a year later because of fertility problems,
Coolmore said at the time.  Short Careers  Still, expectations that Frankel will follow in Galileo’s
footsteps are high.  “We can all look forward with enormous excitement to his
first crop of yearlings, because he’s something else,”
 Tattersalls  marketing director Jimmy George said in an interview
last week when asked about Frankel.  The economics of breeding at times deprive the sport of
racing of its biggest stars.  “The challenge we always have in racing is that they may
only have a two-year career before they go to stud because the
breeding side is so important,” Bazalgette said. The British
Champions Series “has made the most of Frankel over his two
years.”  Although Frankel’s entire racing career spans three years,
he competed in the series for two years, as it is for three-
year-old horses and above.  Prince Khalid Abdullah could have retired Frankel last
year, instead choosing to let him fulfill his potential on the
track, according to Bazalgette. The Saudi royal may have lost
out on as much as 20 million pounds in breeding fees, he said.  “He won’t win that in prize money,” Bazalgette said.  Richest Day  Trained by Henry Cecil, Frankel is the 1-6 favorite with
bookmaker  William Hill Plc (WMH)  to win the 1 1/4-mile Champions
Stakes on Oct. 20 at Ascot. That means a successful $6 bet would
return $1 plus the original stake. Cirrus Des Aigles is second
favorite at 7-2. The winner will receive 737,230 pounds on
Britain’s richest raceday, where more than 3 million pounds in
prize money is on offer.  “Making it work economically is almost impossible,”
Bazalgette said. “Obviously, the more we can get prize money up
for the top races, that helps a bit. What we really need, and
we’ve been lucky to have, is people who own horses who are not
just doing it for business reasons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  