-- Abbott Beats Earnings Estimates as It Prepares to Split
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-17T20:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/abbott-beats-earnings-estimates-as-it-prepares-to-split.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , which plans to
separate into two companies, said the tax rates of the new
companies will rise in order to support the higher dividend
payouts after the split. The shares fell the most in 14 months.  Abbott will have a tax rate of 21.5 percent, and the new
prescription drug company, AbbVie Inc., a rate of 22 percent.
That’s about 10 percentage points higher than AbbVie’s
previously disclosed tax rates. The higher rates will cut 8.5
percent from earnings, according to Michael Weinstein, an
analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Abbott said it’s on schedule to split by the end of the
year into a namesake business that will hold Abbott’s medical
device and consumer brands, and AbbVie, which will get the
prescription medicine lines. The Abbott Park, Illinois-based
drugmaker has sought to expand use of the anti-inflammatory
injection Humira, the world’s best-selling medicine, with new
indications beyond rheumatoid arthritis, such as ulcerative
colitis and pediatric Crohn’s disease.  Abbott also plans to fire 550 workers from its non-AbbVie
side, as well as “several hundred” more next year, said Adelle Infante, a spokeswoman. The firings “allow the businesses to
align resources to better meet evolving needs,” she said in a
telephone interview. The workers will be cut from Abbott’s
nutrition, vascular, established products and molecular
diagnostics units.  Shares Fall  Abbott fell  4.3 percent  to $69.04 at 4 p.m. New York time,
its biggest one-day decline since August 2011. The shares had
 increased  28 percent this year through yesterday, bolstered by
anticipation of the separation and expectations for a new,
injection-free treatment for the liver disease hepatitis C.  “We believe shares are trading lower following
management’s disclosure on the conference call of a higher-than-
expected tax rate for AbbVie,” said  Linda Bannister , an analyst
with Edward Jones & Co. in Des Peres,  Missouri , said in an e-
mail. “This is the result of the company’s need to move cash
from abroad into the U.S. to fund the dividend going forward.”  International companies reduce their tax obligations by
keeping profit overseas so it will be taxed at lower local rates
than in the U.S. The higher rates will cut about $600 million
from AbbVie’s 2013 earnings, Bannister estimated.  “These are very different businesses going forward,”
Abbott Chief Financial Officer Thomas Freyman said on a
conference call today. “The rate at which AbbVie will be
starting its existence is a very good sustainable rate given
that the profile of the business.”  Sales Fall  Third-quarter sales fell 0.4 percent to $9.77 billion from a
year earlier, missing the $9.94 billion average of 14 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding the effect of foreign
currency exchange, sales increased 4.1 percent, Abbott said in a
statement today.  After the separation, Abbott will have $7.5 billion in  debt 
and AbbVie will hold $16 billion, the company said on the
conference call. The namesake business will get $5 billion in
cash, while AbbVie will hold $7 billion.  AbbVie will pay a $1.60 a share annual dividend, while
Abbott shareholders will get 56 cents a year.  The experimental hepatitis C therapy, which avoids a
yearlong series of shots that give patients flu-like side
effects, would help Abbott compete with  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,
which is trying to be the first company with such a regimen. If
approved, the treatment might be a $2.5 billion product for
Abbott, Catherine Arnold, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG
in New York, said.  Beat Estimates  Earnings excluding one-time items of $1.30 a share beat by
2 cents the average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Humira sales rose 10 percent to $2.33 billion.  Abbott narrowed its  forecast  for 2012 earnings excluding
one-time items to $5.06 to $5.08 a share from a previous outlook
of $5 to $5.10.  New indications for Humira may add about $1 billion in
sales, Elizabeth Hoff, a company spokeswoman, said in August.
U.S. regulators approved Humira for use in ulcerative colitis in
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  