-- Maccioni’s Newest Spot Heats Up Hotel Restaurant Scene
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n   a n d   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-10-17T12:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/maccioni-s-newest-spot-heats-up-hotel-restaurant-scene.html
In a few weeks,  New York ’s newest
posh, hotel-based restaurant will begin turning out food at The
Pierre, on Fifth Avenue, under the direction of Le Cirque
ringmaster Sirio Maccioni.  Shortly after that, Adour, Alain Ducasse’s New York home
at the  St. Regis , will serve its last meals.  Time, then, for a preview and revisits to the city’s best-
known dining and drinking spots where, if you’re inclined, you
can stay for the night.  Sirio  This is Maccioni’s first Manhattan project since 2006, when
Le Cirque moved to One Beacon Court, also home to Bloomberg LP’s
world headquarters.  Filippo Gozzoli is a classic Italian chef who’ll serve
classic Italian food. Expect braised beef cheeks and porcini
risotto and, somewhat frighteningly, spaghetti carbonara with
seafood.  Sirio’s Adam Tihany-designed interior takes inspiration
from Federico Fellini’s “La Dolce Vita.” The carpeted room,
narrow as a model’s waist, features a long bar and photographs
from Maccioni’s heyday. If you’re in one of them, you probably
won’t need a reservation. Tables up front are snug; sit in the
back unless people-watching’s your thing. (RS)  Sirio, set to open in late October, is at 795 Fifth Avenue.
Information: +1-212-940-8195;  http://www.siriony.com .  Asiate  With its commanding city views from the 35th floor of the
 Mandarin Oriental Hotel  and equally sky-high prices, Asiate was
an instant hit with the spare-no-expense crowd when it opened
nearly a decade ago. Its other calling card was, as the name
suggests, Asian-French fusion fare that could be hit-or-miss but
was rarely less than interesting.  The views remain just as seductive and the hushed room has
an elegant appeal. But the food at a recent dinner never rose
above mediocre. It began with a foie gras torchon that had a
gritty texture and the flavor of damp cardboard. We’ll go
anywhere for just about any spring pea dish, but the veloute
here was weary.  Unexceptional grilled branzino and flavorless Wagyu beef
were so unadventurous as to be interchangeable. The three-course
prix-fixe dinner is $90 (with supplements for the lobster and
beef); the tasting menu is $135. (JG)  Asiate is in the Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 80 Columbus
Circle. Information: +1-212-805-8881;
 http://www.mandarinoriental.com .  Jean Georges  Across Broadway from the Mandarin, the  Trump International
Hotel & Tower  is home to  Jean Georges , the flagship restaurant
of Alsatian genius  Jean-Georges Vongerichten , and its casual
sibling, Nougatine.  Folks living in the tower can order up from the kitchen any
time they please. The rest of us fight for reservations at the
place made famous by such incomparable dishes as foie gras
brulee.  Jean Georges continues to offer a bargain $38 lunch (well,
it’s a bargain for food at this consistently high level). The
offerings include sea scallops with caramelized cauliflower and
a caper-raisin emulsion, and sublime goat cheese gnocchi with
baby artichokes, lemon and olive oil. The pea soup here, silken
and simply spiked with parmesan cheese, can make you swoon.  The four-course prix fixe dinner is $118; the tasting menu
is $168. Dinner dishes include sense-smacking licorice-braised
sweetbreads with baby carrots, ginger and shiitake mushrooms,
and turbot with bok choy, black bean vinaigrette and chervil.
(JG)  Jean Georges and Nougatine are at 1 Central Park West.
Information: +1-212-299-3900;  http://www.jean-georges.com .  Adour  For five years, the  St. Regis  has been the only New York
establishment where diners can sample the haute-cuisine of  Alain Ducasse , the multiple-Michelin-starred chef.  Located in the old Lespinasse space, Adour offers a $125
five-course menu, along with a la carte classics like lobster
thermidor ($46) and Dover sole a la grenobloise ($65). Ducasse
is at his best with vegetables, which he happily does as part of
a $90 tasting.  Play around with Adour’s tablet-style wine list after
dinner, or knock back a few wallet-busting cocktails at the St.
Regis’ famed  King Cole Bar . But don’t wait: This very good
restaurant will serve its final meals on Nov. 17. (RS)  Adour is at 2 East 55th St. Information: +1-212-710-2277;
 http://www.adour-stregis.com .  Ma Peche  The  Chambers Hotel  in Midtown is the site of  David Chang ’s
only New York restaurant that’s not in the East Village. Ma
Peche is also Chang’s only proper Manhattan spot to use chairs
with lumbar support.  High-rolling groups can order the $450 halal-style street
meat package. More reserved patrons will opt for the $15 trout
roe and a deeply musky  hanger steak  ($32).  The best dessert? Foie gras with sarsaparilla gel ($18).
Tastes like root beer. (RS)  Ma Peche is at 15 West 56th St. Information: +1-212-757-
5878;  http://www.momofuku.com .  Locanda Verde  When Andrew Carmellini set up shop in  Robert De Niro ’s
 Greenwich Hotel  in 2009, Locanda Verde served great desserts,
but the savory Italian fare wasn’t what it should’ve been. Three
years later, Carmellini is dishing out stellar tripe in tangy
tomato sauce ($15), al dente noodles with porky ragu ($20) and,
still, one of the city’s best lemon tarts ($11).  Carmellini gets better with age. (RS)  Locanda Verde is at 377 Greenwich Street. Information: +1-
212-925-3797;  http://locandaverdenyc.com .  Ai Fiori  Michael White ’s Michelin-starred Ai Fiori is at the  Setai ,
in the shadow of the Empire State Building. The $92 prix-fixe
menu delivers guests four courses of stellar Riviera cuisine; a
seven-course tasting is $130.  Highlights include lobster bisque with truffles,
intoxicating bouillabaisse, squid ink pasta and a rich butter
poached lobster tail.  White isn’t just an Italian chef anymore. (RS)  Ai Fiori is at 400 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-613-8660;
 http://www.aifiorinyc.com .  For Drinks:  The NoMad  At 6:30 on an average weekday, the loud bar at The NoMad is
packed with men, mostly, standing at bar tables hashing over the
day’s events.  Around 8 p.m. it clears out enough to get a seat in view of
bartenders creating complicated cocktails like the six-
ingredient Hot Lips ($15). Made from mezcal and jalapeno-infused
tequila, the drink is tempered with vanilla and pineapple.  But that doesn’t blunt the pepper’s burn.  While the bar stools look beautiful, they’re too shallow to
sit on for long. An alternative is the Library lounge for a
second before-dinner drink or a plate of butter-dipped radishes
($8). (CS)  The NoMad is at 1170 Broadway. Information: +1-212-796-
1500;  http://www.thenomadhotel.com .  Forty Four  The lobby of the Royalton Hotel in the Theater District is
a long, dark, swank lounge. Two bars service the many banquets
and small tables that line the walls, as well as a double-sided
bronze fireplace to set the scene.  The cocktail list changes seasonally and includes a Wet
Kiss ($16), something like a margarita, made with Herradura
tequila and Disaronno amaretto. The Kickstarter ($16), Bombay
gin and Martini Bianco, packs a punch with a sweet pickled
jalapeno garnish.  Imbibers can snack on small plates, including meatballs
with San Marzano tomatoes and burrata ($20), and fresh oysters
($3.50 each). (CS)  Forty Four at the Royalton Hotel is at 44 W. 44th St.
Information: +1-212-944-8844;  http://www.royaltonhotel.com .  (Ryan Sutton and Jeremy Gerard are critics with Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole on Harvard
 philanthropy  and  Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writers of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye .  Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 