-- Accused Saudi Envoy Assassination Plotter to Plead Guilty
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-17T16:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/accused-saudi-envoy-assassination-plotter-to-plead-guilty.html
Manssor Arbabsiar, an Iranian-
American car salesman accused of plotting to assassinate the
Saudi ambassador to the U.S., told a federal judge in  Manhattan 
that he will plead guilty.  Arbabsiar, who was scheduled to go on trial next year,
appeared today before U.S. District Judge John Keenan. Arbabsiar
and Gholam Shakuri were charged with conspiring to murder
Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir, according to prosecutors in the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Arbabsiar and Shakuri, who the U.S. said was a member of
Iran’s Qods Force, were charged in a five-count indictment with
plotting to hire a member of a Mexican drug cartel to killAl- Jubeir in the U.S. The person the two men approached to be their
assassin was a U.S. informant, prosecutors said. Shakuri remains
at large, prosecutors said.  When the case was first announced last October, Attorney
General Eric Holder said the U.S. would hold  Iran  responsible
for any terrorist actions tied to the plot, which he said was
sponsored by the Iranian government. He called the conspiracy a
“flagrant” violation of international law.  The U.S. State Department has described the Qods Force as
an arm of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. Other
Qods Force members in Iran were involved and helped to bankroll
the plot, which was to have cost $1.5 million, prosecutors said.  At Arbabsiar’s arraignment last year, Keenan said evidence
the U.S. gathered against Arbabsiar included recordings of
conversations made by investigators working with the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation . Some documents include an alleged admission of
guilt, Keenan said at the time.  The case is U.S. v. Arbabsiar, 11-cr-00897, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 