-- Actelion’s Key Drug Halves Risk of Death, Hospitalization
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-10-18T16:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/actelion-day-of-reckoning-for-drug-overshadows-earnings.html
Actelion Ltd.’s (ATLN)  experimental lung
drug macitentan halved the risk of death or hospitalization from
pulmonary arterial hypertension in a preview of a study to be
presented next week that is key to Actelion’s future.  A 10-milligram dose also cut the risk of the disease
worsening by 38 percent in patients getting another treatment,
and 55 percent in those receiving nothing else, according to a
summary of the trial published on the website of the journal
 CHEST . Actelion said in April macitentan lowered the risk of the
disease worsening by 45 percent, without giving details.  Investors have been anticipating the data because they’re
looking for evidence that macitentan can replace Tracleer, the
pill that accounts for 87 percent of Actelion’s sales and starts
losing patent protection in 2016. Actelion plans to submit
macitentan for regulatory approval in the U.S. and  Europe  in the
coming weeks, and will sell it under the brand name Opsumit, the
company said in a statement today.  The reduction in deaths and hospitalizations due to PAH was
“impressive,” Peter Welford, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“Given that PAH hospitalization is a hard endpoint, and one I
think payers will respond to, to reduce that by 50 percent with
the 10-milligram dose I would say is very promising.”  Staying Independent  For Actelion, macitentan is more than just another product
in development. Amgen Inc. in 2010 considered making a takeover
offer for the Allschwil, Switzerland-based company, and Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel cited the drug’s sales
potential as a reason for Actelion to stay independent. He
reiterated that position last year in fighting off a hedge fund
that sought seats on the board and wanted Actelion to consider
selling itself.  Actelion rose 0.6 percent to 46.83 Swiss francs in Zurich,
giving the company a market value of 5.9 billion francs ($6.4
billion). The stock has advanced 48 percent this year, including
reinvested dividends,  compared  with an 18 percent return in the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Roland Haefeli, an Actelion spokesman, said the company
can’t comment on the study, known as Seraphin, before it’s
presented Oct. 23 at a meeting of the American College of Chest
Physicians in Atlanta.  No Cure  Third-quarter net income rose 16 percent to 94.6 million
Swiss francs, Actelion said today. The company benefited from
the weakening of the franc against the dollar and Japanese yen,
and as it cut costs to compensate for a decline in Tracleer
revenue. Sales of the drug fell in the first nine months of year
on competition from  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Letairis in the U.S.
and on price cuts.  Pulmonary arterial hypertension is a deadly disease in
which the arteries that carry blood from the heart to the lungs
narrow, making the heart work harder and causing elevated  blood
pressure . That causes symptoms such as chest pain, dizziness and
shortness of breath. There’s no cure.  Other key data that doctors, investors and analysts are
expecting wasn’t included in today’s abstract, including the
results of a test showing whether macitentan can increase the
distance patients can walk in six minutes, a measure used in
most other trials of drugs for PAH that will enable comparisons
between treatments.  Walk Distance  “For the last 15 years we’ve really been focused on six-
minute walk distance,”  Hunter Champion , an associate professor
of medicine at the  University of Pittsburgh , said before the
summary was published. “If we’re trying to examine efficacy,
that’s really the one benchmark that you have available that you
could use against every therapy.”  An improvement of at least 30 meters (98.4 feet) would be a
significant benefit, said Rachel Davies, a doctor who treats PAH
patients at  Hammersmith Hospital  in London. The improvement may
only be as much as 10 to 15 meters, Richard Parkes, an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG in London, wrote in an Oct. 15 note.  A more telling statistic, and one that also wasn’t
published in today’s abstract, may be whether macitentan
prolongs life, Parkes wrote. The company said in April that
while macitentan showed a trend toward delaying death, the
result fell short of the statistical threshold at which the
company can say it wasn’t the result of chance.  Doctors, investors and analysts will be keen to see just
how large the trend is, and how far short of the threshold it
fell. If the data indicate that 20 percent or more of patients’
lives were extended, and if the statistical miss is narrow,
doctors may be impressed, Parkes said.  Statistical Significance  “The big thing is going to be how close to statistical
significance it is,” said Champion, who consults for Gilead and
has done work for Actelion in the past. “I’m not going to
completely shut down the idea that macitentan is a good drug if
it’s the same as Letairis and Tracleer on six-minute walk, if
other aspects of it have an advantage.”  Davies disagrees.  “I’m a bit of a puritan when it comes to statistics,” she
said. “I would not take a message home that this is an
improvement in mortality.”  Doctors already know that macitentan will have certain
advantages over Tracleer. Like Gilead’s Letairis, it’s a once-
daily pill, whereas Tracleer is twice-daily. Preliminary data
presented in April also suggested patients on macitentan may
have fewer liver side effects than those on Tracleer, who are
required to have a monthly liver test.  Head to Head  Still, because the trial compared macitentan with a
placebo, instead of Tracleer or Letairis, the two best-selling
treatments for the disease, the data won’t prove whether
macitentan is better than those medicines.  “The only way we can ever truly know whether or not the
drug is superior to other drugs is when they go head to head,”
Hammersmith’s Davies said. “If there is no head-to-head data,
then they can try and lead clinicians down the line to say that
we have these pseudo-markers that macitentan is better than
Tracleer.”  Chief Financial Officer Andrew Oakley said in June that a
head-to-head trial would have had to involve more than 5,000
patients, which “is just not doable.”  Actelion today repeated its sales and profit forecasts for
this year, as well as its earnings-growth forecasts for
2013-2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  