-- Aegerion Drug Wins Panel Support for Cholesterol Disease
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-18T20:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/aegerion-drug-wins-panel-support-for-cholesterol-disease.html
Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AEGR)  gained
the support of U.S. advisers for its drug to treat the most
life-threatening forms of high cholesterol. The shares rose 9
percent.  An advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration voted
13-2 that Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Aegerion submitted
sufficient data on the safety and efficacy of lomitapide for use
in patients with a rare genetic disease. The FDA, which doesn’t
have to follow the recommendation, is scheduled to decide on
approval by the end of December.  The once-daily pill aims to treat  homozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia  that causes abnormalities in liver cells
responsible for clearing LDL, or low density lipoprotein,
particles from the blood. The disease can lead to heart attack
or death at an early age, according to the National Institutes
of Health. The panel said doctors should monitor patients who
use the drug for liver abnormalities.  “I was convinced that the efficacy is very impressive,”
 Edward Gregg , a panel member and chief of the epidemiology and
statistics branch in the Division of Diabetes Translation at the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said during the
meeting yesterday in Silver Spring,  Maryland . “The liver
disease is concerning but I think it’s trumped by this very
grave condition and the need for options.”  The company’s shares gained 9.4 percent to $20.94 at the
close in New York. Aegerion has  increased  25 percent this year.  The advisory panel today voted 9-6 to recommend a similar
drug from  Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS)  and  Sanofi. (SAN)   Risk Plan  Aegerion should implement a risk plan that mitigates the
potential for liver damage, FDA staff said in an Oct. 15  report 
discussed at the meeting.  Such a plan “would support appropriate use of lomitapide,
allowing it to be approved for use in the targeted patient
population, a patient population with life-threatening illness
and limited therapeutic options,” FDA staff wrote.  Of the 29 patients in a clinical trial, 17 percent
experienced the presence of an increased enzyme in their blood
that indicates liver damage. The panel suggested Aegerion’s risk
management plan include educating prescribers about liver risks
and the need to monitor patients with blood tests, said Abraham
Thomas, acting chairman of the panel and division head of
endocrinology at the Henry Ford Hospital in  Detroit .  Patient Registry  Aegerion also has proposed a registry to follow about 300
patients treated with lomitapide for side effects for five
years.  Lomitapide may generate at least $300 million in annual
sales, said William Tanner, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
LLC in New York, who rates Aegerion shares neutral. The estimate
is based on a price of $300,000 a year per patient that is
similar to costs of other drugs for diseases with few treatment
options, he said. Kimberly Lee, a Think Equity Partners analyst
in San Francisco, said peak sales may reach $450 million.  Aegerion said it’s in discussions with the FDA to study
lomitapide in pediatric patients and plans to begin a trial as
soon as possible after the drug is approved in adult patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  