-- Africa, Asia May Face Food Shortages by 2050, Group Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-10-17T21:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/africa-asia-may-face-food-shortages-by-2050-group-says-1-.html
Farming in sub-Saharan  Africa  and
East Asia will require more investment to meet food needs,
according to a study sponsored by businesses including  Monsanto
Co. (MON) ,  DuPont Co. (DD) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Deere
& Co. (DE)   Sub-Saharan Africa will meet only 13 percent of its own
food demand by 2050 without faster productivity growth, and East
Asia 74 percent, according to a  report issued  today by the
Global Harvest Initiative, which includes companies and
nonprofits. North Africa and the  Middle East  will provide 83
percent of their own requirements at mid-century. About $79
billion in additional agricultural investment globally is needed
to spur gains, the group said.  “The critical question, I believe, for all of us is how to
make a sustainable difference to plug the hunger gap today and
tomorrow,” Sandra Peterson, the chief executive officer of
Bayer CropScience AG, said today in a speech at the World Food
Prize conference in Des Moines,  Iowa , where the report was
released. “There is no one-size-fits-all solution.”  The world had 868 million hungry people in the 2010-12
period, and 20 countries have “extremely alarming” or
“alarming” hunger levels, the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization and the  International Food Policy
Research Institute  said last week in separate reports. About 75
percent of African countries are at “high” or “extreme risk”
of unrest and famine stemming from food shortages and rising
prices, according to risk-advisory firm Maplecroft.  Frequent Failures  Annual global water use that’s outstripping sustainable
levels will make crop failures more frequent, Peter Brabeck- Letmathe, supervisory board chairman of  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s
largest food company, said in a speech at the conference.  The worst U.S. drought in more than 50 years pushed the
price of corn, the country’s most valuable crop, to a record
$8.49 a bushel in August.  World food prices  had their biggest
monthly increase since 2009 in July and are up 2.4 percent for
the year. Cost increases in drought years are aggravated by the
increased strain on water supplies in more-normal periods, as
less moisture is available to mitigate the effects of dry
weather, Brabeck-Letmathe said.  Water Overuse  “In normal years, we are using the buffers of water that
are needed in difficult years,” he said. Vevey, Switzerland-
based Nestle and Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer aren’t members
of the initiative.  Globally, productivity is growing fast enough to meet
needs, and trade will mitigate some hardships, the authors of
the study said. Still, the poorest regions will need bigger
crops to ensure their food supplies, according to the report.  “The challenge is, we have to grow fast enough each and
every year for the next 40 years,” Jerry Flint, chairman of the
Global Harvest Initiative and a vice president for Pioneer, the
seed unit of DuPont, said today in an interview. “The areas of
the world where population is rising fastest have less gains in
productivity.”  In Asia, changing diets will spur demand more than
 population growth , as increased wealth raises consumption of
protein, according to the report. In Africa, the challenge will
be feeding more people. Meanwhile,  Latin America , a region that
has experienced higher levels of hunger in the past, may emerge
as an exporter, thanks to a pace of productivity that beats the
world average, the study’s authors wrote.  The Global Harvest Initiative supports more spending on
agricultural research, free trade and the adoption of
genetically modified crops among its recommendations for
increasing global  food security .  The annual  World Food Prize  conference is held in Des
Moines to honor individuals “who have advanced human
development by improving the quality, quantity or availability
of food.” This year’s winner, Daniel Hillel, an Israeli
scientist who pioneered “micro-irrigation,” was announced in
June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  