-- Thailand’s Surprise Rate Cut Shows Worsening Asia Outlook
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a ,   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-18T07:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/thailand-unexpectedly-cuts-key-rate-as-global-outlook-worsens.html
Thailand ’s central bank voted to cut
interest rates four days after Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul
said no easing was needed, adding to evidence  Asia ’s outlook has
worsened and supporting a government push to shore up growth.  The  Bank of Thailand  lowered its  one-day bond repurchase
rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.75 percent, it said
in Bangkok yesterday. The decision was predicted by three of 23
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey , while the rest expected
no change. The monetary policy committee voted 5-2 in favor of a
cut, it said in a statement, without disclosing names.  Thailand’s exports have slumped as a growth slowdown in
 China  and austerity measures in  Europe  hurt demand for Asian
goods, prompting  South Korea  to lower borrowing costs while the
 Philippines  said it won’t rule out further easing. The Thai
central bank said there was no political interference in
yesterday’s decision, seeking to distance its action from
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong’s call for lower rates and
a weaker baht to help exporters.  ”While the overall economy is still a picture of health,
the rate cut came amid deeper concerns of a negative spillover
from the worsening external environment to domestic demand,”
said Julia Goh, an economist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in
 Kuala Lumpur , who correctly predicted the decision. “The
objective of maintaining growth stability and shoring up the
post-flood growth momentum was the trigger for the rate cut.”  Thailand’s  interest-rate swaps  dropped by the most since
August after yesterday’s policy decision spurred speculation
more cuts will follow. The one-year onshore swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, dropped 11 basis points to
2.75 percent as of 8:47 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That was the lowest level since July 25.  Cutting Forecast  The monetary authority yesterday maintained its forecast
for growth in 2012 at 5.7 percent, and said it would announce a
lower estimate for 2013 next week.  “The substantial degree of uncertainty” about the overall
global economic outlook could hamper exports, the Bank of
Thailand said yesterday. With inflation contained, “monetary
policy easing was warranted to shore up domestic demand and ward
off potential negative impact from the global economy,” it said.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has boosted state
spending and raised government salaries as the nation recovers
from the worst floods in almost 70 years. The IMF last week cut
its 2012 growth forecast for developing Asia to 6.7 percent from
a July prediction of 7.1 percent and said policy makers in the
region have scope to provide monetary stimulus and bolster
expansion should the outlook deteriorate.  Uncertainties Ahead  “The rate cut yesterday is not a signal that the  interest
rate  is on a downward trend,” Prasarn told reporters today.
“Capital flows is not the key reason for the rate cut. The cut
is like buying insurance to support local demand, which will act
as a buffer for the economy. Still, we should use policy space
wisely because there are uncertainties ahead.”  Prasarn said today he respected the majority view of the
monetary policy committee, without saying how he voted. The
governor said in an Oct. 13 interview there is no need to cut
borrowing costs as credit growth is quickening and domestic
demand is countering a slowdown in exports.  Total bank loans in  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy
climbed 14.2 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
from 13.9 percent in the previous three months.  While the recent decline in exports probably triggered the
rate cut, “I also think there has been some political and
external pressure, especially as the governor said it was not
necessary to urgently cut rates,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .  Capital Inflows  The central bank has reasons for its decision, which
probably wasn’t due to political pressure, said  Thanavath Phonvichai , an economist at the University of the Thai Chamber
of Commerce.  “Another reason may be to reduce the appetite for capital
inflows” after the U.S. announced a third round of quantitative
easing, Thanavath said. “The flows will strengthen the baht and
that will be a double-whammy for exports.”  Thai  exports  slid 6.95 percent in August from a year
earlier, falling for a third consecutive month, while other
nations in the region have also suffered.  Singapore ’s  overseas
sales  unexpectedly dropped for a second month in September and
South Korean exports fell for the sixth time in seven months in
September, prompting the central bank to cut borrowing costs.  “The BOT appears to be more concerned over export growth
due to the moderation of the growth outlook and a slowdown in
the Chinese economy,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “The dovish
rhetoric indicates there remains room for further cuts in the
months ahead but there’s no immediate pressure for more cuts.”  ‘Not Easy’  In  Malaysia ,  industrial output  slid in August for the first
time in more than a year as manufacturing contracted, and
overseas sales tumbled the most since 2009 in the same month.
Central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said on Oct. 14 that
slowing growth is a bigger threat than inflation, while monetary
policy is already “quite accommodative.”  Making rate decisions is “not easy” and the move
yesterday wasn’t a result of political interference, Bank of
Thailand Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said. “It’s
not clearly black and white,” he said.  Only five members of Bank of Thailand’s seven-member
monetary policy committee attended last month’s meeting when the
central bank kept rates unchanged, with three voting to hold and
two recommending a cut.  “There are obviously different opinions out there,” said
 Edward Teather , a Singapore-based economist at UBS AG. “Now,
following the BOT move, there’s a chance the Philippine central
bank could cut interest rates on Oct. 25.”  Thailand’s economy expanded 4.2 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, after growing a revised 0.4 percent
in the previous three months. Inflation accelerated to a six-
month high of 3.38 percent in September.  “Growth risks may be elevated next year because of high
uncertainties in the global economy,” Paiboon said. “The rate
cut this time is to boost confidence that monetary policy is
ready to support the economy,” he said, adding that yesterday’s
decision is not a signal of a downward trend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  