-- Malaysia Loans Defy Asia Slump as Companies Invest for Growth
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-10-17T00:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/malaysia-loans-defy-asia-slump-as-companies-invest-for-growth.html
Malaysian companies boosted
borrowing by almost 40 percent this year, defying a loans slump
in the rest of  Asia  to support a $444 billion economic
development program and expand through acquisitions.  Syndicated loans in  Malaysia  total $13.1 billion since Dec.
31 compared with $9.5 billion in the same period of 2011, the
most on record for this part of the year in Bloomberg-compiled
data. That’s bucking the trend in the rest of Asia, where
lending has dropped 31 percent, the data show. DanaInfra
Nasional Bhd. and Malaysia Development Bhd., the biggest
borrowers, sought to finance a mass rapid transit system and buy
power generation assets.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, whose National Front
coalition is seeking to retain its hold on power before
elections due by early 2013, is spending on infrastructure to
spur economic growth of as much as 5.5 percent in 2013,
according to Finance Ministry forecasts. Mergers and
acquisitions rose 10 percent to $25 billion in 2012, also adding
to corporate funding needs, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  “A larger driver of the loan market this year has been
companies raising money for acquisitions and capital expenditure
requirements,” David Lim, the co-head of debt markets at CIMB
Bank Bhd., said by phone before the  Asia-Pacific Loan Market
Association’s  Malaysian Loan Market Conference in  Kuala Lumpur 
today. “There’s still a few large outstanding loans which are
expected to be completed by the end of the year.”  M&A Activity  Johor Corp. and CVC Capital Partners Ltd. in December bid
at least $1.6 billion for KFC Holdings (Malaysia) Bhd. and
parent  QSR Brands Bhd. (QSR) , which operate more than 900 fast-food
outlets in the region including Kentucky Fried Chicken and Pizza
Hut stores. CIMB is arranging the finance package and agreed to
underwrite the facility, people familiar with the matter said at
the time.  Petron Oil & Gas International Bhd. borrowed a 720 million
ringgit ($236 million) bridge facility signed March to help pay
for oil assets in the nation, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. San Miguel Corp., through  Petron Corp. (PCOR) , agreed to
acquire Exxon Mobil Corp.’s 65 percent stake in Esso Malaysia
Bhd. in August 2011 for about $610 million, its first
acquisition of overseas oil assets.  Companies have also sought funding for energy projects in
Sarawak and Sabah, coastal states home to oil and gas reserves,
agriculture and marine resources, said Seohan Soo, the head of
debt  capital markets  at AmInvestment Bank Bhd.  “Malaysia is rich in hydro-power and clean energy, which
are valuable resources to heavy manufacturers in China and
Japan,” said Kuala Lumpur-based Soo. “The government is
harnessing the country’s vast natural resources to develop
energy efficient industry and we’re starting to see demand for
loans flow from that.”  IPO Borrowing  Press Metal Bhd. (PRESS) , the Malaysian maker of aluminum products
which has a joint venture with Sumitomo Corp. to construct a
smelter in Sarawak, borrowed 350 million ringgit in May to help
finance the second phase of the development, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowers in Malaysia this year include companies planning
stock sales, the data show. Kuala Lumpur has been home to three
of emerging Asia’s four biggest initial share sales in 2012 and
the benchmark  stock index  closed at a  record  this month.  Malaysian policy makers said in May they would form a  task
force  to boost the efficiency of capital markets to make the
nation more competitive.  “Higher loan volumes are attributed largely to pre-IPO
financing for a number of recent transactions,” said Boey Yin
Chong, the Singapore-based managing director of syndicated
finance at  DBS Bank Ltd. (DBS)   Healthcare, Property  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) , which sold 6.3 billion ringgit of
stock in July, arranged loans in the Malaysian currency and in
 Singapore  dollars in May, Bloomberg data show.  IGB Real Estate
Investment Trust (IGBREIT)  signed a 1.2 billion ringgit five-year loan in
August, before its IPO the next month, the data show.  Malaysia’s jump in loan volumes comes as bank lending in
the Asia-Pacific region outside of Japan tumbled 31 percent from
the same period last year to $252.1 billion, the lowest for the
comparable period since 2009, Bloomberg data show. Firms face
rising borrowing costs and have opted for more private, so-
called bilateral facilities and bonds.  Volumes are down 23 percent to $25.3 billion in Singapore,
15 percent to $10.8 billion in  Indonesia  and 29 percent to $23.1
billion in  Hong Kong , the data show.  “It’s been a fairly good year for the Malaysian loan
markets,” CIMB’s Lim said. “It’s a little too early to call
but I’d say loan volumes next year in Malaysia will probably be
flat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  