-- Amazon Said to Be in Talks to Buy Brazil’s Saraiva
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/amazon-said-to-be-in-talks-to-acquire-brazil-s-saraiva-bookstore.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, is in talks to buy  Saraiva SA Livreiros
Editores (SLED3) , a Brazilian bookseller, a person with direct knowledge
of the matter said yesterday.  The person asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private. Saraiva, based in Sao Paulo, publishes
books and sells them on the Internet and through a store chain.  Amazon Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  would use the
deal to broaden the company’s base in Brazil, Latin America’s
largest economy. The retailer is looking for new areas of growth
as stepped-up spending on areas such as its Kindle e-reader and
fulfillment centers erodes profitability.  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment. Saraiva Chief Financial Officer Joao Luis Ramos Hopp said yesterday the company doesn’t comment on market
rumors.  Saraiva surged 7.3 percent to 28 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo -- its highest price in more than a year -- giving the
company a market value of 723.7 million reais ($356.2 million).
Amazon advanced 1.5 percent to $247.49 at the close in New York.  Exame magazine reported in August that Saraiva was among
the possible acquisition targets for Amazon in  Brazil . The Sao
Paulo-based publication didn’t cite how it obtained the
information.  Retail Expansion  Brazil’s online retail sales will expand 20 percent to 22.5
billion reais this year from 2011, consulting company  E-bit  said
in August. The industry posted a 21 percent expansion in the
first half of this year compared with the same period of 2011,
E-bit said.  Saraiva’s publishing business will increase its digital
sales in coming years as Brazil’s government plans to start
buying digital books in 2014, Marcio Osako and Fernando Labes,
analysts at Banco J. Safra SA in Sao Paulo, wrote in a note to
clients on Oct. 2.  “It represents both an increase in revenues and it may
further consolidate the market,” the analysts wrote, saying
that Saraiva has about a 19 percent share of Brazil’s government
textbook purchases. “The top four have about 80 percent market
share.”  Saraiva’s net sales rose to 341.5 million reais in the
second quarter, up 4.4 percent from a year earlier. The online
business contributed 103.7 million reais, according to the
company’s  earnings  statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in São Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  