-- AmEx Profit Meets Estimates as Card-Spending Growth Slows
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-10-18T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/amex-profit-matches-estimates-as-card-spending-growth-slows.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, reported a third-quarter profit
that matched analysts’ estimates as card-spending growth slowed.  Net income  rose 1.2 percent to $1.25 billion, or $1.09 a
share, from $1.24 billion, or $1.03, a year earlier, the New
York-based lender said yesterday in a statement. That met the
average per-share  estimate  of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We generated solid results this quarter against the
backdrop of a very uneven global economy,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault, 61, said in the
statement. A 6 percent increase in worldwide customer spending
from the same period in 2011 “represents slower growth than we
were generating earlier in the year,” he said.  AmEx, facing increased competition for its base of affluent
spenders, has sought to enhance the value of its global payments
network. Last week, the firm said its Bluebird prepaid debit
card would be sold by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  at more than 4,000
locations across the U.S and online. The partnership may help
the lender capitalize on new U.S. rules for standard debit cards
that are squeezing rivals including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   American Express fell 0.6 percent to $59 as of 7:30 p.m.
yesterday in extended trading in New York. The shares gained 26
percent this year through the close of regular trading, compared
with a  25 percent advance  for the 81-company Standard & Poor’s
500 Financials Index.  ‘Not Immune’  “Looking ahead, we recognize that our business is not
immune to the economic environment, but we continue to believe
our business model is well-positioned for the challenges
ahead,” Chief Financial Officer  Daniel Henry  said during a
conference call.  The lender said it set aside $479 million to cover future
loan losses, a 92 percent increase from the same period a year
earlier. Total  revenue  climbed 3.8 percent to $7.86 billion,
short of the $7.89 billion average estimate of analysts in the
Bloomberg survey.  Expenses fell 2 percent to $5.5 billion from a year earlier
as the company reduced costs from rewards programs, marketing
and compensation, AmEx said.  American Express probably will book a fourth-quarter charge
tied to a change in how the lender calculates the redemption
rate for credit-card rewards, said Henry, who didn’t disclose
how big the expense would be. The current redemption rate is 93
percent, he said.  “At this juncture, we haven’t evolved the models to a
sufficient degree to have a reliable estimate,” he said.  Future Defaults  Write-offs for loans AmEx deems uncollectible declined in
September to 1.9 percent from 2 percent in August, the lender
said in a regulatory filing this week. Loans at least 30 days
overdue, a signal of future defaults, climbed to 1.3 percent
from 1.2 percent.  Third-quarter U.S. card income fell 4.6 percent to $699
million from a year earlier and international card income slid
26 percent to $164 million, according to the statement.  Worldwide card purchases, or billed business, rose 6
percent to $220.1 billion, American Express said in a financial
supplement. The average customer spent $3,885 in the third-
quarter, a 3.9 percent increase from a year earlier, when the
firm had fewer cards outstanding. Loans to customers who carry
card balances climbed 6 percent to $61.8 billion.  Swipe Fees  The deal announced last week with Bentonville, Arkansas-
based Wal-Mart gives AmEx a chance to benefit from U.S. caps on
debit-card “swipe” fees that have cut annual revenue for the
biggest banks by about $8 billion and prompted some lenders to
charge customers for checking accounts. Congress, in passing the
fee limits as part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, exempted
reloadable prepaid cards such as AmEx’s Bluebird.  The product, which is pre-loaded with a customer’s own
funds, can be used like a debit card anywhere American Express
is accepted and will include services such as direct deposit,
automatic bill pay and remote check capture via smartphone, the
companies announced Oct. 8.  American Express accounted for 25 percent of $2.05 trillion
in U.S. credit-card spending last year and almost a third of the
industry’s $179.9 billion increase from 2010, according to the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter. New York-based JPMorgan
had the second-biggest share of spending with 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  