-- AMR Posts Adjusted Profit as Unit Revenue Trumps Delay
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-17T14:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/amr-posts-adjusted-profit-as-unit-revenue-trumps-delay.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  posted third-quarter
earnings of $110 million, excluding bankruptcy-related costs, as
the parent of American Airlines reaped more revenue from each
seat flown a mile.  Including $348 million in restructuring and other expenses,
AMR had a net loss of $238 million, or 71 cents a share,
according to a statement today. Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR’s
year-earlier loss was $162 million, or 48 cents, ahead of its
Nov. 29 filing for Chapter 11 protection.  Revenue on a seat-mile basis, the U.S. industry benchmark
for financial performance, rose 4.5 percent. The gain helped
temper a drop in the airline’s domestic passenger traffic as
flight delays snarled its schedule, reviving questions about
whether the third-largest U.S. carrier can fend off a takeover
from  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and exit bankruptcy on its own.  “Our careful review of strategic alternatives continues,
but regardless of the outcome, our improvement in both revenues
and costs reflects what the new American can be,” Chief
Executive Officer Tom Horton said in an e-mail to employees.  The carrier’s load factor, or average number of seats
filled per plane, rose 0.6 point to 85.5 percent. That gain and
unit-revenue improvement were both bolstered by a 2.5 percent
reduction in flight and seat capacity during the quarter.  Travel Demand  Flight delays that began in mid-September reduced unit
revenue that month by four-tenths of a percentage point, Chief
Financial Officer Bella Goren said in an interview. The
operational difficulties were “not material” to financial
results, the airline said.  Travel demand this quarter is steady and “on par with our
expectations,” Goren said. “We’re seeing less sale activity in
the industry, which has a positive effect on yield,” or average
fare per mile.  Sales rose 0.8 percent to $6.4 billion in the quarter.  Total operating expense climbed 0.6 percent to $6.38
billion and unit costs, a measure of efficiency, rose 3.8
percent. Excluding restructuring items, total costs fell $170
million from a year ago.  The airline disclosed the quarterly results a day after
asking the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan  to extend its
exclusive right to file a restructuring plan until Jan. 28. The
current deadline to submit such a blueprint is Dec. 28, and
Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane has yet to rule on the request.  Cost-Cutting  The airline’s cost-cutting initiatives during bankruptcy
have focused on cutting labor costs through new union contracts.
 More than 2,200 senior flight attendants, paid at higher rates,
have accepted early retirement buyouts from the carrier as part
of their agreement. American said separately today that it plans
to hire 1,500 new attendants over the next year, with recruiting
beginning next month.  After American imposed concessions on pilots and detailed
plans to cut more than 4,000 jobs among mechanics and airport
ground workers, about 59 percent of its arrivals were on time in
September, and it canceled 2.7 percent of flights.  The same issues led American to trim capacity as much as 2
percent from mid-September through October and by 1 percent
during the first two weeks of November.  The airline blamed “labor-related operational
disruptions” in a U.S. regulatory filing and said it’s too
early to estimate the financial effects.  “It’s fair to say the past few weeks have tested us all,”
Horton told employees. “We have taken actions to address our
operational challenges.”  American temporarily grounded 48  Boeing Co. (BA)  757s this month
after rows of seats dislodged during three flights. The airline
later installed a redundant locking mechanism and blamed the
looseness on a buildup of spilled-soda and coffee residue that
fouled the seats’ fasteners. The same locks also were added on
49 Boeing 767s “as a precautionary measure.”  AMR is the first major U.S.-based airline to report
quarterly results. Ray Neidl, a Maxim Group LLC analyst based in
New York, projected a combined $1.97 billion profit for nine
carriers, excluding AMR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  