-- AngloGold, Gold Fields May Have Ratings Cut to Junk by S&P
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-10-17T17:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/anglogold-gold-fields-may-have-ratings-cut-to-junk-s-p-says.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the third- and fourth-largest producers of the
metal, may have their ratings cut to junk,  Standard & Poor’s 
said, as strikes halted about half of South Africa’s output.  Business risks “increased in light of continuing strike
action in South Africa and the possible implications of
increasing social tensions for the  mining industry ,” the
company said in a statement today. It also revised its outlook
on  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s rating to negative from stable.  Stoppages have halted gold, platinum, chrome and iron-ore
mines in the country since  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  awarded workers pay
increases of 11 percent to 22 percent last month to end a six-
week unauthorized strike in which about 44 people were killed,
including 34 shot by police.  S&P last week lowered  South Africa ’s sovereign rating one
step to BBB, in line with Brazil,  Russia  and  Mexico , “to
reflect the deterioration in the social and economic
environment.”  AngloGold’s dollar-denominated bonds due in May 2022 erased
gains, with the yield rising two basis points to 4.91 percent by
5:57 p.m. in London. Gold Fields’ dollar debt maturing in
October 2020 pared earlier increases with the yield little
changed from yesterday’s close at 4.91 percent.  S&P rates both AngloGold and Gold Fields BBB-, its lowest
investment-grade rating.  Cash Costs  Placing Gold Fields on watch for possible downgrade also
reflects “the rapid rise in Gold Fields’s unit cash cost, which
we already consider to be comparatively high,” S&P said. “The
cash cost could increase further in the event of wage rises as
part of the strike resolution, or general inflationary
pressure.” AngloGold’s cash costs could also climb, it said.  AngloGold produces about a third of its output in South
Africa while mines in the continent’s biggest economy account
for about half of Gold Fields’ production.  S&P revised its outlook on Anglo American as the company
generates more than half of its earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization in South Africa, it said in a
statement. Strikes have halted about eight of Anglo American
Platinum’s mines and the company fired 12,000 workers on Oct. 5.
A stoppage at the Sishen mine, a unit of Anglo’s Kumba Iron Ore,
ended this week when police removed workers that had illegally
occupied the site and seized equipment.  At least 160,000 ounces of output have been lost through
the wave of strikes in South Africa. Gold Fields said yesterday
the stoppages have cost 65,000 ounces so far, while AngloGold
said it’s losing 30,000 to 32,000 ounces a week. Harmony Gold
Mining Co.’s Kusasalethu mine is losing about 20 kilograms (643
ounces) to 25 kilograms a day, the company said Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  