-- AngloGold, Gold Fields May Have Ratings Cut to Junk by S&P
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-10-18T10:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/anglogold-gold-fields-may-have-ratings-cut-to-junk-by-s-p.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI)  may have their debt ratings cut to junk by  Standard
& Poor’s  after most of their South African output was halted by
strikes and as the risk of operating in the nation rises.  Business risks “increased in light of continuing strike
action in South Africa and the possible implications of
increasing social tensions for the  mining industry ,”S&P said in
a statement yesterday. It also revised its outlook on  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) ’s rating to negative from stable. AngloGold and
Gold Fields are the world’s third- and fourth-largest producers
of the metal respectively.  Stoppages have halted gold, platinum, chrome and iron-ore
mines in the country since  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  awarded workers pay
increases of 11 percent to 22 percent last month to end a six-
week unauthorized strike in which about 44 people were killed,
including 34 shot by police. All of AngloGold’s mines in the
country have been halted since at least Sept. 25. Gold Fields’
largest mine, KDC, has had strikes since Aug. 29.  S&P last week lowered South Africa’s sovereign rating one
step to BBB, in line with  Brazil ,  Russia  and  Mexico , “to
reflect the deterioration in the social and economic
environment.”  Yields Rise  Yields on AngloGold’s dollar-denominated bonds due in May
2022 climbed five basis points to 5.01 percent, the highest on a
closing basis since Sept. 18 by 11:39 a.m. in Johannesburg.
Rates on Gold Fields’ dollar debt maturing in October 2020 rose
four basis points to 4.97 percent, the highest since Sept. 14.  S&P rates both AngloGold and Gold Fields BBB-, its lowest
investment-grade rating.  Placing Gold Fields on watch for possible downgrade also
reflects “the rapid rise in Gold Fields’s unit cash cost, which
we already consider to be comparatively high,” S&P said. “The
cash cost could increase further in the event of wage rises as
part of the strike resolution, or general inflationary
pressure.” AngloGold’s cash costs could also climb, it said.  AngloGold produces about a third of its output in  South
Africa  while mines in the continent’s biggest economy account
for about half of Gold Fields’ production.  Anglo American  S&P revised its outlook on Anglo American as the company
generates more than half of its earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization in South Africa, it said in a
statement. Strikes have halted about eight of Anglo American
Platinum’s mines and the company fired 12,000 workers on Oct. 5.
A stoppage at the Sishen mine, a unit of Anglo’s Kumba Iron Ore,
ended this week when police removed workers that had illegally
occupied the site and seized equipment.  At least 160,000 ounces of output have been lost through
the wave of strikes in South Africa. Gold Fields on Oct. 16 said
the stoppages have cost 65,000 ounces so far, while AngloGold
said it’s losing 30,000 to 32,000 ounces a week. Harmony Gold
Mining Co.’s Kusasalethu mine is losing about 20 kilograms (643
ounces) to 25 kilograms a day, the company said Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  