-- Angola Starts Sovereign Wealth Fund With $5 Billion
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-10-17T17:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/angola-starts-sovereign-wealth-fund-with-5-billion.html
Angola,  Africa ’s second-biggest oil
producer, is starting a sovereign wealth fund with $5 billion in
assets to ease the impact of commodity price volatility that
prompted an International Monetary Fund loan three years ago.  The Fundo Soberano de Angola, or FSDEA, is to be managed by
a three-member board led by Armando Manuel, an adviser on
economic issues to President Jose Eduardo dos Santos, he told
reporters today in Luanda, the capital. Investments will include
financial securities and stakes in infrastructure and
hospitality projects and other industries that may exhibit
strong growth in sub-Saharan Africa, he said.  The IMF  promoted  setting up a fund and cutting the quasi-
fiscal operations of the state oil company Sonangol when it
loaned the nation $1.3 billion after crude prices fell in 2008.  “The fund was created with the intention of using the best
methods of investment for the development of infrastructure,”
Manuel said. “It is an evolution of the resources fund that had
been proposed using 100,000 barrels of oil a day and it’s from
this perspective we hope the fund will grow.”  Economic Growth  The country’s economy will probably grow 6.8 percent this
year and 5 percent next year, according to the IMF, while Manuel
said today growth could be 9 percent in 2013. Angola pumps about
1.8 million barrels of oil a day from fields operated by
companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and
 Total SA. (FP)  Foreign reserves were $30 billion in July.  “The government has concerns about the economy’s
dependency on oil and how it must adapt and think about
protection for the future and economic stability,” Joao
Fonseca, executive director at Banco Angolano de Investimentos
in Luanda, said yesterday in an interview.  The money will target domestic agriculture, water, power
generation and transportation to attract foreign investment to
Angolan infrastructure projects, according to fund documents.
Hotel projects including a hospitality school in Angola are part
of the fund’s plans.  Independent   The board of directors has an independent advisory council,
which includes the ministers of finance, the economy, and
planning, as well Jose de Lima Massano, governor of Angola’s
central bank.  The fund will be accountable to the government through a
performance review, including an annual report to Parliament and
the appointment of “internationally recognized independent
auditors,” the documents showed.  The board includes Jose Filomeno de Sousa dos Santos, the
eldest son of the president and a former board member of Banco
Kwanza Invest SA, where he oversaw the earlier  100,000-barrels-
a-day fund, the younger Dos Santos said.  “My only professional links is with the oil fund, now
reformulated as the sovereign fund,” he said. “We follow the
law under which it is formed, the principles of transparency and
good management of investments.”  Sonangol Role  Also on the board is Hugo Miguel Evora Goncalves, a former
senior manager at Standard Bank of Angola, and the Pension and
Development Fund of Angola.  “Sonangol has been operating as a kind of sovereign fund,
so it will be interesting to see whether this new fund is seen
as relieving Sonangol and enabling the company to focus on the
core business of oil, or whether it is seen by Sonangol as
competition and usurping of power and influence,” Markus Weimer, an analyst at Chatham House in  London , said on Oct. 15
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Petroleum products account for more than 60 percent of the
economy, 97 percent of exports and about 80 percent of state
revenue, according to the London-based Economist Intelligence
Unit.  Angola ended a 27-year civil war in 2002 and its citizens
have a life expectancy of 47 years, according to the World Bank.
Transparency International ranked Angola at 168 of 182 countries
in its 2011 corruption index.  Its crude accounted for 2.9 percent of U.S. imports in May
and 16 percent of  China ’s in July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Angola follows Nigeria, the continent’s biggest oil
producer, which signed its own sovereign wealth fund into law in
May last year with an initial $1 billion.  Nigeria’s sovereign wealth law requires the generation of
funds for infrastructure, the future generation and budget
stabilization, with each representing at least 20 percent of the
total. Savings through the fund will enable the West African
nation to build infrastructure and provide a buffer against
volatility in oil prices, according to Okonjo-Iweala.  The world’s biggest sovereign wealth fund is operated by
Norway and had $582.9 billion under management at the end of
2011, according to the Sovereign Investment Lab at Bocconi
University in Milan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net ;
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  