-- Manulife Betting on Australian Debt as South Korea May Rally
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-18T03:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/manulife-betting-on-australian-debt-as-south-korea-seen-rallying.html
Manulife Asset Management expects
investment-grade debt from  Australia  and  South Korea  will drive
gains in its Asian bond funds as their central banks cut
interest rates to counter slowing economic growth.  “Absolute yield levels in Asia are still offering value in
certain markets,” said Endre Pedersen, managing director for
Asian fixed income who helps oversee $38 billion of regional
assets at Canada’s largest insurer, said in an interview in
Singapore yesterday. “We do like high yield but it’s never
going to be a major part of what we plan. We are cautious on
risk.”  Australia’s 10-year local-currency notes yield 3.23 percent
and South Korea’s 3.01 percent, compared with 1.82 percent for
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries and 1.63 percent for German
bunds. Indonesian yields of 5.74 percent are also attractive
because inflation will slow, Pedersen said.  Manulife’s  Asia Total Return Bond (MASTRID)  fund has gained 11.3
percent in 2012, beating 87 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Local-currency bonds in South Korea
and  Indonesia  are two of Asia’s best three performers this year,
according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. Australia
and South Korea cut interest rates in October for the first time
in at least three months.  ‘Aussie’ Headwinds  Bonds from Australia, rated the highest investment grade by
 Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings,
returned 6.1 percent this year, headed for a third annual gain,
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch  index  shows. The central bank’s
 benchmark rate  is still the highest among major developed
economies even after policy makers cut borrowing costs by 1.5
percentage points to 3.25 percent over the past 12 months.  Pedersen, 38, said the odds of a pickup in the Australian
dollar also make the nation’s debt attractive. The so-called
Aussie has dropped 0.3 percent against its U.S. counterpart over
the past month. The Aussie traded at $1.0396 at 2:34 p.m. in
Sydney and reached 95.82 U.S. cents on June 1, the weakest level
since Oct. 5, 2011.  “When you are expecting a slowdown, Australian rates look
decent now,” said Pedersen. “We can see more headwinds on the
currency,” yet support will come from central banks seeking to
diversify assets, he said.  Korea Rate Cut  Indonesia’s local-currency bonds returned 8.3 percent this
year, beating the 8.1 percent gain on Indian debt, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc indexes. South Korean notes rose 6.6 percent.
Indonesia is rated the lowest investment grade of Baa3 by
Moody’s, compared with the fourth-highest of Aa3 for South  Korea .  Pedersen forecast at least one more rate cut for South
Korea after the central bank lowered its  seven-day repurchase
rate  for the second time this year to 2.75 percent on Oct. 11. A
29 percent decline in the won versus the yen in the past four
years will help support exports and boost demand for the
currency, he said in a Sept. 10 interview.  “Korea stands out from the rate side and the currency is
both absolutely and relatively cheap,” he said. “In Korea, we
are looking for further rate cuts.”  Indonesia regained investment-grade rankings from Fitch in
December, followed by Moody’s in January, while S&P still rates
it at the highest junk level. Average yields on the nation’s
debt of 6.2 percent compare with 5.2 percent in the  Philippines ,
3.5 percent in  Malaysia  and 3.4 percent in  Thailand , the HSBC
indexes show.  ‘Benign’ Inflation  Pedersen said he is betting more on the  interest rate  and
inflation angle in Indonesia than the rupiah, which has lost 5.7
percent this year, the biggest drop in the region.  Consumer-price gains slowed for the first time in four
months in September, supporting the central bank’s decision to
hold off on increasing borrowing costs. Inflation was 4.31
percent from 4.58 percent in August.  Bank Indonesia  kept its
 reference rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent on Oct. 11.  “It’s hard to take a view on the currency but on the rate
side, we’re starting to see this very benign inflation
outlook,” Pedersen said. “We can’t afford to be underweight
this market because this is part of benchmark indices. If you
want exposure to  Southeast Asia , you’ll be losing out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  