-- Harvard Polo Club Faces Philadelphia Teens in Charity Set
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-10-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/harvard-polo-club-faces-philadelphia-teens-in-charity-set.html
Growing up in a tough Philadelphia
neighborhood, Daymar Rosser thought “polo” only referred to
Ralph Lauren’s clothing line.  But after two older brothers started playing through the
 Work to Ride  program, he warmed up to the game at age 10, got
hooked and now wants to play the sport professionally.  “Polo is a huge change for a lot of the kids in the
program,” said Lezlie Hiner, Work to Ride’s founder and
executive director, by phone. “The fact that they’re riding a
horse is an anomaly.”  Now 17 and a junior at  Valley Forge Military Academy &
College , in Wayne, Pennsylvania, Rosser will compete on the
nonprofit’s team on Saturday against the  Harvard Polo Club  at
the second annual Scottsdale Polo Championships in  Arizona . A
portion of the proceeds from the ticket sales will go to Work to
Ride and the nonprofit Neighborhood Outreach Access to Health 
at Scottsdale Healthcare .  Work to Ride has connected with disadvantaged and at-risk
children since 1995. The program offers summer camp, riding
lessons, horse boarding as well as polo. Hiner requires polo
players to earn at least a C grade in all courses. They’re also
mentored by students at the University of Pennsylvania and
Drexel University College of Medicine.  “The kids get to interact with kids all over the country
and they forge friendships through polo,” Hiner said.  Wrong Turn  Facing Harvard on a polo field would have been unimaginable
six years ago for Sheree Harris, 17, a student at  Upper Darby
High School  in  Pennsylvania .  Her family learned about the Work to Ride program by
accident when her mom made a wrong turn while driving in
Philadelphia and ended up at the program’s horse barn.  Harris, who wants to study nursing or medicine, has no fear
of facing a college team, whether it’s Harvard or another.  “We’re all doing the same sport,” she said. Harvard “is
just a name.”  “We’re expecting a very challenging match against Work to
Ride,” said Shawn DeMartino, a junior at Harvard College and
co-captain of the Harvard Polo Club. “They’re incredibly good
riders, and we have had a very difficult time beating them in
the past.”  Black Champion  Hiner’s polo program has gained international attention for
attracting young, talented black players to the sport. Last
year, her Cowtown Work to Ride team won the  U.S. Polo
Association’s  national interscholastic championship. It was the
first time an all-black team won a title.  “A lot of people think of polo as an elite sport that’s
only for the rich and famous, and they think of Prince Harry or
Prince William or Prince Charles as the people who play polo,”
said international polo star Nic Roldan, who plays for the Palm
Beach, Florida-based Audi Polo Team. “It’s a sport that can be
played by anyone.”  The Argentina-born, U.S.-bred Roldan will be one of the big
draws for Saturday’s three featured matches as he captains the
California-based Bel-Air Polo Club against the Hamptons team,
which is based on Long Island and will be led by star player
Tommy Biddle Jr. Work to Ride will take on Harvard after the
competition kicks off with the U.S. polo team going against
Colombia.  (The Scottsdale Polo Championships will be held Saturday at
Westworld of Scottsdale’s Polo Field at 101 and Frank Lloyd
Wright Blvd. in Scottsdale, Arizona. Gates open at 10 a.m.
Information and tickets:  http://thepoloparty.com  or +1-480-840-
0457).  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants,  Martin
Gayford  on art.  To contact the writers on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 