-- Asian Stocks Rise on U.S. Reports, Spain Rating
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-17T11:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/asian-stocks-advance-as-u-s-production-earnings-beat-estimates.html
Asian  stocks  advanced, with the
regional benchmark index headed for the biggest gain in a month,
after U.S. industrial production beat estimates and Spain
retained its investment-grade credit rating from Moody’s
Investors Service.  Mobile-phone maker  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , which gets about 45
percent of its sales from North America and Europe, rose 2.5
percent in Seoul. Fujikon Industrial Holdings Ltd., which
manufactures electronic products, surged 9.8 percent in  Hong
Kong  after saying it expects first-half profit to rise. Ten
Network Holdings Ltd., Australia’s third-ranked television
broadcaster, slumped to a record low in Sydney as a plan to sell
its Eye Corp. billboard unit faltered.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1 percent to 122.9 as of
8:25 p.m. in  Tokyo , headed for the biggest advance since Sept.
14. More than two stocks gained for each that fell on the
measure, with all 10 of its industry groups climbing. Lawmakers
in  Germany  toned down the rhetoric in opposition to giving
further financial aid to other European countries.  “We see good signs of stabilization and we can probably
say the economy is not going backwards” in the U.S., said Tim Leung, a portfolio manager who helps manage about $1.5 billion
at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The market is enjoying a
moment of relatively less hostile news from Europe.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rebounded 12 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as stimulus measures in
Europe, the U.S., Japan and China boosted  market sentiment  amid
a global economic slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis. The Asian
benchmark traded at 12.9 times  estimated earnings  on average,
compared with 13.9 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.2
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.2 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 added 0.8 percent and New Zealand’s NZX
50 Index climbed 0.6 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced
0.7 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 1 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.3 percent. Singapore’s Straits
Times Index was little changed and  Taiwan’s Taiex Index (TWSE)  fell 0.1
percent.  Futures on the  S&P 500  climbed 0.2 percent today. The
equity gauge surged 1 percent yesterday, its biggest gain in a
month, as a report showed industrial production rose more than
expected in September and corporate earnings topped estimates. A
report on Oct. 15 showed retail sales gained more than expected
last month, adding to signs of a recovery.  Moody’s retained Spain’s investment-grade  credit rating ,
saying the  European Central Bank ’s willingness to buy the
nation’s debt reduced the risk of losing  market access . Spain
avoided joining euro-region peers Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland and
 Greece  in falling below investment grade.  ‘Recovery Momentum’  “The U.S. recovery is picking up and the momentum seems to
last, given household data is also strong,” said Takeru Ogihara, chief strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking
Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest lender by market value.
“Spain got its rating maintained, damping risk on yield gains
for now. That will buy time for officials to tackle the
situation.”  Exporters to the U.S. and Europe advanced. LG Electronics
added 2.5 percent to 70,300 won. Techtronic Industries Co., a
maker of power tools that gets about 72 percent of sales from
 North America , advanced 3.2 percent to HK$13.50 in Hong Kong.
 Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates a port in Greece, gained 5.8
percent to HK$11.64.  Chinese GDP  Investors are waiting for a Chinese report tomorrow that
may show the world’s second-largest economy expanded 7.4 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would
be the slowest pace of growth since the first quarter of 2009
and the seventh straight quarter of deceleration.  Fujikon Industrial jumped 9.8 percent to HK$2.24 in Hong
Kong after saying it expects first-half profit to rise and that
gross profit margin for its new Bluetooth products could be more
than 20 percent.  Among stocks that fell, Ten Network Holdings plunged 7.5
percent to 31 Australian cents, the lowest level on record.
Champ Private Equity said it’s ending plans to buy Ten Network’s
Eye Corp. billboard unit.  Companies that  supply   Intel Corp. (INTC)  fell after the industry
bellwether forecast fourth-quarter profit margins that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Advantest Corp. (6857) , the world’s biggest maker
of memory-chip testers, slid 2.2 percent to 918 yen in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  