-- Stocks Rise on Housing Data as Euro, Spain Bonds Gain
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-10-17T20:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/asian-stocks-oil-euro-rise-on-german-bailout-stance-u-s-data.html
U.S. stocks rose as a jump in
housing starts to a four-year high overshadowed earnings that
disappointed investors at two of the largest technology
companies. Treasuries fell, while the euro climbed with Spanish
and Italian bonds.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent to
1,460.91 at 4 p.m. in  New York  as homebuilders advanced while
International Business Machines Corp. and  Intel (INTC)  Corp. retreated
after reporting earnings. The euro gained 0.5 percent to a one-
month high of $1.3123.  Spain ’s 10-year bond  yield  dropped 34
basis points to 5.47 percent, while Italian rates sank 17 basis
points. Ten-year U.S. yields added 10 basis points to 1.81
percent.  An index of 11 U.S. homebuilders surged 3.2 percent after
housing starts jumped 15 percent to an 872,000 annual rate last
month, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Spain maintained its investment-grade debt rating
from Moody’s Investors Service, which said there’s less risk of
losing  market access  because of the  European Central Bank ’s
willingness to buy the nation’s debt.  “The economic data suggest that this continues to be a
slow, grinding recovery,”  Stephen Wood , the New York-based
chief market strategist for  North America  for Russell
Investments, which oversees $152 billion, said in a phone
interview. “Not every company will execute or outperform in a
challenging environment, which means security selection becomes
a more-important investment strategy.”  Market Leaders  The S&P 500 extended its three-day rally to more than 2.2
percent, the biggest gain in almost six months. Indexes of
financial, energy and consumer-discretionary companies
contributed the most to the advance in the S&P 500 amid 10
industries. PulteGroup Inc., Lennar Corp. and D.R. Horton Inc.
jumped at least 2.2 percent to pace gains in builders.  Earnings have increased 2.7 percent and beaten analysts’
estimates at 76 percent of the 70 companies in the  S&P 500  that
released results so far, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts as of last week had forecast S&P 500 profits
decreased 0.9 percent, halting a three-year streak of growth.  “The housing number was amazing,” Randall Warren, who
oversees $75 million as chief investment officer of Warren
Financial Service in Exton,  Pennsylvania , said in a phone
interview. “Corporate earnings have been strong in a slow
growth environment, so if housing can help improve the economy
then we could see a move up in stocks.”  Market Movers  Dean Foods rallied 13 percent after its WhiteWave Foods
Co., the maker of Silk almond milk, filed to raise as much as
$320 million in a U.S. initial public offering. Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. jumped 5.5 percent to pace an advance in banks
after the largest custody bank’s earnings climbed a bigger-than-
estimated 11 percent as rising stock prices lifted customer
assets. M&T Bank Corp. also rallied more than 5 percent after
reporting earnings.  Technology shares were the biggest drag on the market among
10 industries. Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, slipped 2.5
percent after forecasting fourth-quarter gross margins that
missed analysts’ estimates.  IBM, the biggest computer-services provider, plunged the
most in three years after reporting third-quarter revenue that
fell short of projections. IBM, which accounts for more than 11
percent of the share-price-weighted  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , lost 4.9 percent and subtracted 80 points from the Dow.
The Dow closed 5.2 points higher at 13,557 even as 23 of 30
stocks advanced.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.5 percent, extending a
three-day rally to 2.3 percent. ASML Holding NV dropped 5.3
percent as  Europe ’s largest semiconductor equipment maker
forecast fourth-quarter sales that trailed behind projections.
 PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  advanced 4.1 percent as Le Figaro said the
French government and banks may bail out the automaker’s credit
unit.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 1.2 percent as
 Kyodo News  reported Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  will instruct
his cabinet today to craft new economic stimulus measures.  Italy’s two-year  notes  rose, pushing the yield down 11
basis points to 2.01 percent, while Portugal’s 10-year yield
fell below 8 percent. The yield on German 10-year bonds climbed
nine basis points to 1.63 percent.  The euro rose against all but four of its 16 major peers,
climbing 0.7 percent to 103.65 yen. Japan’s currency weakened
against all 16 major peers, erasing earlier gains versus the
dollar.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against default on Spanish and Italian
government debt fell to the lowest in more than a year. Credit-
default swaps on Spain tumbled 58 basis points to 275 and
contracts on Italy dropped 37 to 238 basis points.  Moody’s assigned a negative outlook on the Baa3 sovereign
debt, one step above junk, as it concluded the review for a
possible further downgrade of Spain’s rating that it had
initiated in June. The nation avoided joining euro-region peers
Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland and Greece as being rated below
investment grade.  After markets closed in Europe, S&P downgraded Cyprus to B
from BB and said the nation’s creditworthiness has deteriorated
“significantly” since the last downgrade in August as domestic
political constraints prevented a timely aid deal.  Yuan High  China ’s  yuan  rose to a 19-year high as the central bank
raised its daily fixing to 6.3028 a dollar.  Mitt Romney  said in
a second televised U.S. election debate with President  Barack Obama  that he will declare China a currency manipulator on his
first day in the White House.  Fortress Investment turned bullish on China after betting
on declines earlier in the year as it predicts the government
will arrest a seven-quarter slowdown in the economy, Adam Levinson, chief executive officer of the hedge fund’s Singapore
unit and manager of its Asia Macro Fund, said in an interview
yesterday. Fortress manages $47.8 billion of assets globally.  Cotton futures rose the exchange limit 3 cents to 77.86
cents a pound, the highest in almost six months, after
inventories fell to the lowest in at least 10 years in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest exporter. Aluminum, lead and nickel advanced
at least 1.5 percent as 16 of 24 materials tracked by the S&P
GSCI Index advanced, while declines in gasoline and other energy
commodities left the gauge little changed.  New York-traded oil rose 3 cents to $92.12 a barrel, paring
early gains as government data showed supplies rose to the
highest level for this time of year since government records
began in 1982.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Shanahan  in London at 
 mshanahan3@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  