-- Asian Currencies Rise as Europe Optimism Encourages Risk-Taking
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-10-17T09:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/asian-currencies-rise-as-europe-optimism-encourages-risk-taking.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit, as optimism Spain is moving closer to
receiving a bailout supported demand for emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rose to the
highest level since Feb. 29 after two senior German coalition
lawmakers said yesterday the nation is open to Spain seeking a
precautionary  credit line  from the region’s rescue fund.
European Union leaders hold a summit in Brussels starting
tomorrow. The region is the second-largest export market for
China this year. Faster-than-forecast U.S. industrial production
growth also encouraged investors to buy Asian assets.  “Speculation about Spain seeking assistance is easing risk
aversion in the market, supporting stocks and regional
currencies,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan
Center for Economic Research in Tokyo. “The improved sentiment
may prevail in the short term.”  The ringgit climbed 0.5 percent to 3.0355 per dollar as of
4:35 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Indonesia’s rupiah and the  Philippine peso  added 0.4
percent to 9,576 and 41.175, respectively. The Asia Dollar
Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most active currencies
excluding the yen, rose 0.1 percent to 117.83.  Presidential Election  China’s  yuan  strengthened to the strongest level in 19
years after the central bank bolstered the currency’s reference
rate as U.S. holds the second presidential debate. The currency
advanced 0.15 percent to 6.2545 in Shanghai, according to China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The People’s Bank of China raised the fixing today by 0.12
percent to 6.3028 per dollar, the strongest since June 20. The
 U.S. presidential election  and U.S. Deputy Secretary of State
 William Burns ’ visit to China have contributed to the recent
yuan appreciation, the central bank’s publication Financial News
said in a commentary today. The yuan has advanced 2.3 percent
since reaching this year’s low of 6.3967 on July 25. The Chinese
Communist Party will hold a congress starting Nov. 8 that may
feature a once-a-decade leadership transition.  “China wants to ease the heat on yuan’s exchange rate as
the U.S. presidential elections are looming,” said Banny Lam, a
Hong Kong-based chief economist at CCB International Securities
Ltd., a unit of China’s second-largest bank. “There are also
bets that China will step up stimulus after the congress. Yet
the yuan could soften when these factors fade.”  U.S. Data  South Korea’s won strengthened to an almost one-year high.
The  Dollar Index  traded on ICE Futures in New York, which
compares the currency with those of six trading partners, fell
for a second day after data showed U.S. industrial output
expanded 0.4 percent last month, beating the 0.2 percent gain
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The Kospi index of shares rose following the biggest
advance in a month in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “With the U.S. stock moves positive and a weakening of the
greenback, the won will face appreciation pressure again,” said
Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based currency trader for Hana Bank.
“Still, there is caution the government may intervene to smooth
currency gains, so steep appreciations may be limited.”  Malaysia’s ringgit climbed to a one-month high after gains
in U.S. production signaled a recovery in the world’s biggest
economy is gaining traction, brightening outlook for the
Southeast Asian nation’s exports.  “Sentiment is looking up a little bit more after the U.S.
data,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based foreign-exchange
strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)   Elsewhere, the  Thai baht  rose 0.2 percent to 30.63 per
dollar, the  Taiwan dollar  appreciated 0.2 percent to NT$29.246
and the  Indian rupee  was little changed at 52.9025, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  