-- Aussie Dollar Touches Two-Week High After China Reports
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-10-18T05:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/aussie-is-near-2-week-high-on-stock-gains-bonds-decline.html
Australia ’s dollar touched the
strongest level in two weeks after Chinese data showed signs of
economic stabilization, brightening the export outlook for the
South Pacific nation.  Australian  government bonds  dropped for a third day after
reports showed  China’s economy  grew in line with economists’
forecasts in the third quarter while industrial production,
retail sales and fixed-asset investment increased more than
expected in September. The Australian and New Zealand currencies
gained versus the yen as Asian stocks advanced, boosting demand
for riskier assets.  “The data flow from  China  was slightly better than
expectations,” said Khoon Goh, a senior currency strategist in
 Singapore  at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “We
might see perhaps a little bit more upside in the Aussie as
concerns around a China slowdown start to ease off a little.”  The Australian currency reached $1.0397, the strongest
since Oct. 1, before trading at $1.0385 at 4:40 p.m. in Sydney,
little changed from yesterday’s close. It added 0.3 percent to
82.16 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, bought
82.12 U.S. cents from 82.19, and climbed 0.2 percent to 65 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 0.8 percent.  Australian 10-year bond  yields  climbed 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 3.23 percent. The rate earlier touched
3.24 percent, the most since Sept. 24.  China Economy  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.4 percent during
the third quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing today. That matched the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 43 economists and
compared with a previously reported 7.6 percent expansion in the
second quarter.  A separate report showed industrial production increased
9.2 percent in September from a year earlier. The median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was a 9 percent
gain. Retail sales advanced 14.2 percent and fixed-asset
investment excluding rural households rose 20.5 percent last
month, with both topping economists’ projections, according to
data also released today.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said before the GDP report that
the country’s economic situation last quarter was “relatively
good.”  “China’s economic  growth  has started to stabilize,” the
official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing Wen’s
comments in meetings he held with industry leaders, company
executives and local government officials on Oct. 12-15. The
government is confident of achieving annual targets and the
economy will continue to show “positive changes,” Wen said,
according to Xinhua.  Demand for Australia’s dollar was limited after a private
report showed the nation’s business confidence hovered near the
lowest level in a year.  The National Australia Bank Ltd. confidence index increased
to minus 2 in the third-quarter from a revised minus 3 in the
April-June period. The gauge of current conditions rose to 1
from minus 2, it showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  