-- Austria Bans Insurers Selling Credit-Default Swap Protection
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-10-17T14:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/austria-blocks-insurers-selling-credit-default-swap-protection.html
Austria is forbidding insurers from
selling credit-default swap debt protection because the
derivative contracts circumvent industry rules.  “CDSs are usually meant to cover a certain economic risk
of a third party,” the nation’s Finanzmarktaufsicht regulator
said in a circular sent to insurers in the Alpine country that
was published today. “But they intentionally aim to reach that
goal with other means than insurance, because the regulations
applicable to the insurance business are to be avoided.”  Austrian insurers have written only a “limited amount” of
credit protection through swaps, FMA spokesman Klaus Grubelnik
said by phone from Vienna. The circular clarifies existing laws
prompted by an isolated violation, he said. He declined to
elaborate.  The ban is based on a view that’s “shared by European
regulators,” the FMA said in the circular.  Austria’s biggest insurers include Vienna Insurance Group
AG,  Uniqa Versicherungen AG (UQA)  and subsidiaries of  Assicurazioni
Generali SpA (G)  and  Allianz SE. (ALV)  They can continue to insure credit
risk through other products and can still hedge their own risk
by buying credit-default swaps, Grubelnik said.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  was forced to take an $85
billion bailout from the U.S. government because of losses from
selling default swaps. In  Europe , Swiss Re turned to  Warren
Buffett  for a 3 billion-franc ($3.25 billion) capital injection
and abandoned trading credit derivatives after reporting record
writedowns and losses of $8.3 billion in 2008.  “It’s not an industry-wide problem among European
insurers, it’s a special problem of a couple of companies,”
 Fabrizio Croce , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich,
said in a telephone interview. “In the U.S. it’s common
practice, but in Europe it always was only a sporadic issue.”  Austria itself lost about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in
the Greek government’s debt swap this year because nationalized
lender KA Finanz AG had written CDS protection against a default
of  Greece .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  