-- Hawker Sees Stand-Alone Bankruptcy Exit as Sale Collapses
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s ,   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-10-18T16:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/hawker-s-sale-to-superior-said-to-risk-collapse-as-talks-stall.html
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the
business-jet maker partly owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
plans to emerge from bankruptcy as a stand-alone company after a
sale to Superior Aviation Beijing Co. collapsed.  A review of strategic alternatives for the Hawker jet line
is under way, and that business may close “if no satisfactory
bids are received,” according to a statement today. The post-
bankruptcy company would be renamed Beechcraft Corp. and focus
on planes including civilian turboprops and military trainers.  The failed $1.79 billion deal with Superior may rekindle
interest in Wichita, Kansas-based Hawker. India’s  Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  has been in contact with the company, a person
with knowledge of the matter said today, and  Textron Inc. (TXT)  said
yesterday it had continued to track the Hawker talks after
Superior agreed to a so-called stalking horse bid in July.  “We protected ourselves by obtaining a $50 million deposit
from Superior that is now fully non-refundable and property of
the company,” Hawker Chief Executive Officer  Steve Miller  said
in the statement. The sides couldn’t agree on terms, he said.  Hawker, owned by Goldman and  Onex Corp. (OCX) , filed for Chapter
11 protection in May, citing lower demand for private jets after
the recession and curbs on U.S. defense spending. Its offerings
include military trainers as well as business aircraft such the
Hawker 4000 jet and King Air turboprop.  New Focus  Under the stand-alone plan, Beechcraft Corp. would
concentrate on turboprops, piston-engine planes and special
mission and trainer/attack aircraft for military uses, along
with its parts, maintenance and repair businesses.  “The company, in consultation with its key creditor
constituents, is evaluating its strategic alternatives for the
Hawker product lines, which could include a sale of some or all
of those product lines, or a closure of the entire jet
business,” according to the statement.  An amended reorganization plan will be filed “soon” with
the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan , Hawker said. The company
said it intends to schedule a hearing on its disclosure
statement on Nov. 15 and expects to leave court protection in
the first quarter.  Hawker said it has “more than sufficient liquidity to
complete its restructuring.”  Talks Stalled  The accord with Superior was subject to higher bids at a
bankruptcy court auction. Negotiations to complete the deal
stalled in part over questions about Superior’s financing,
according to people familiar with the process, who asked not to
be identified because the talks were private.  A team of Hawker executives and advisers that recently flew
to  China  made little progress amid cultural and language
barriers, said one of the people.  Calls to Superior’s office in Coppell,  Texas , where CEO Tim
Archer is based, weren’t answered today. Archer didn’t return
messages left yesterday regarding the status of the negotiations
with Hawker.  Textron CEO Scott Donnelly told analysts yesterday that he
was monitoring the negotiations between Hawker and Superior. He
had expressed interest in Hawker in July while calling
Superior’s bid “pretty high” and saying that any Textron offer
would have to be “the right value.”  Textron Today  “Textron has no further comment on this topic other than
what was communicated in yesterday’s earnings conference call,”
David Sylvestre, a spokesman for the Providence, Rhode Island-
based company, said today in a telephone interview.  The collapse of the deal may open doors for Textron’s
Cessna Aircraft Co., Stephen Levenson, an analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in  New York , said today in a note to clients.  “Under almost any circumstances, we think the outcome
could be positive for Cessna’s business-jet operations,”
Levenson wrote. Hawker’s jet division probably will disappear,
removing a competitor, and the King Air turboprop line,
military-trainer business or both would flourish under Cessna,
said Levenson, who rates Textron as buy.  Mahindra & Mahindra,  India ’s biggest maker of utility
vehicles and a manufacturer of turboprops, had earlier bid for
Hawker, a person with knowledge of the matter said in July.  While the Mumbai-based company has had contacts with Hawker
representatives about the possibility of another offer, no
decision has been reached yet on whether to submit another bid,
the person with knowledge of the matter said.  Douglas Royce, an aviation analyst with Newtown,
Connecticut-based researcher Forecast International Inc., said
he sees little chance that another company would buy the new
Beechcraft as a whole, and even selling off units may be
difficult.  “At this point, they would have exhausted all the
potential buyers,” he said. Royce said it was unlikely Textron
“would see any advantage by picking up any of Hawker
Beechcraft’s products.”  The case is In re Hawker Beechcraft Inc., 12-11873,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  