-- Back Yard Burgers Seeks Bankruptcy Protection in Delaware
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-10-17T23:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/back-yard-burgers-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-in-delaware.html
Back Yard Burgers Inc., an operator
of quick-service restaurants, filed for bankruptcy protection
with a pre-negotiated plan to restructure its debt.  The company listed assets of as much as $10 million and
debt of as much as $50 million in Chapter 11 documents filed
today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington. BYB Properties,
Nashville BYB and  Little Rock  Back Yard Burgers also sought
protection. The filing doesn’t include franchise-owned
locations.  “This agreement is the culmination of an ongoing plan to
improve the company’s operations by restructuring debt,
addressing underperforming locations and identifying
opportunities for growth,” Chief Executive Officer James E.
Boyd Jr. said today in a statement. The restructuring plan has
the support of both the company’s majority owner and secured
lender.  Back Yard Burgers, based in Nashville,  Tennessee , operates
and franchises restaurants in 20 states, mainly in the Southeast
region of the U.S., according to its  website .  The company traces its roots back to 1987 when Lattimore M. Michael began serving homemade burgers in his Cleveland,
Mississippi, grocery store. The first franchised restaurant
opened a year later. Today, Back Yard has about 65 franchise-
owned locations.  2007 Merger  In 2007, Back Yard Burgers merged with BBAC Merger Sub
Inc., a unit of BBAC LLC, in a transaction valued at about $38
million.  “Like any company in this challenging economy, we had to
make the difficult decision to close underperforming locations
in order to focus our resources and vision for the future on the
rest of the business,” Boyd said. The company said a review of
all the company’s more than 40 restaurants resulted in the
closing of 19 company-owned locations.  The bankruptcy petition was filed by Dennis Meloro, an
attorney at Greenberg Traurig LLP in Wilmington.  The case is In re Back Yard Burgers Inc., 12-12882, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  