-- Banks’ Capital Gap May Threaten U.K. Lending, FSA’s Bailey Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-10-17T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/banks-capital-gap-may-threaten-u-k-lending-fsa-s-bailey-says.html
Some U.K. banks may have a “capital
gap” that could limit their ability to lend to businesses and
households, said  Andrew Bailey , head of banking supervision at
the Financial Services Authority.  The gap, the difference between the book value and market
value of banks’ capital, must be dealt with by regulators to
ensure the U.K.’s economic recovery, Bailey said in a speech in
 London  today.  “The danger of a very slow resolution of the capital gap
is that new lending to the economy is seriously restrained,”
Bailey said, according to an e-mailed copy of his prepared
remarks. “This is the Japanese threat, based on the recent
history of  Japan ,” Bailey said, referring to the country’s
struggles to recover from its economic slowdown.  Lending growth has remained slow despite the FSA relaxing
guidance on how U.K. banks calculate liquidity and capital
buffers,  according  to the regulator. The FSA last month relaxed
the amount of funds U.K. banks must keep in reserve in an effort
to spur lending and stimulate credit growth.  The full answer to the capital gap isn’t yet clear, Bailey
said today, and possibilities include encouraging lenders to
raise new capital and to allocate existing reserves to growth-
inducing lending.  “The choice of solutions matters because it can influence
subsequent lending behavior,” Bailey told an audience of
financial executives.  One option could be to encourage banks to issue so-called
contingent convertible bonds, or CoCos, a form of fixed income
security that would automatically convert into ordinary shares
if a bank’s capital falls through a pre-fixed floor.  “I am quite attracted to CoCo’s, but we need to think
through whether they will create the necessary incentives to new
lending,” he said.  Bailey is CEO-elect of the  Prudential Regulatory Authority ,
the planned U.K. regulator that will be responsible for bank
oversight next year when the FSA is disbanded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net 
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  