-- Barclays Securitized Products Head Tom Hamilton Leaving Role
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-10-17T18:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/barclays-securitized-products-head-tom-hamilton-leaving-role-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  executive Tom Hamilton,
who oversaw the second-ranked underwriter of structured-finance
deals, is leaving his position.  Hamilton, who joined the bank in 2004 and helped build the
London-based firm’s U.S. mortgage-bond business, decided to move
from his role as head of securitized products and municipals to
become a senior adviser, according to an internal memo dated
today and obtained by Bloomberg News. The contents of the memo
were confirmed by  Kerrie Cohen , a spokeswoman for the bank in
New York, who declined to comment further.  “We will be sharing more detail on the structure and
management of the markets business, including securitized
products and municipals, in the near future,” Eric Bommensath,
who the bank said this month will head a restructured division,
said in the memo.  Hamilton is departing his position as investment-banking
chief, Rich Ricci, combines part of the lender’s fixed-income
and equities operations in his first overhaul since taking sole
control in June. Hamilton didn’t return a telephone message
seeking comment.  Barclays managed $26.9 billion of structured-finance deals
in the first half of this year, or 11.6 percent of the worldwide
total, according to newsletter  Asset-Backed Alert . JPMorgan
Chase & Co. was the top underwriter with $33.6 billion of
transactions.  Libor Aftermath  The bank promoted Skip McGee to chief executive of
corporate and investment banking in the Americas and Jerry Donini was named chief operating officer of corporate and
investment banking, according to an internal memo earlier this
month. The trading and distribution teams in fixed income,
commodities, currencies and equities will be put into a single
markets business led by Bommensath.  Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins , who succeeded
Robert Diamond in August after the bank was fined a record 290
million pounds ($468 million) for manipulating the London
interbank offered rate, is reviewing which parts of the company
will be sold or shrunk as the bank seeks to boost profitability
and overhaul its culture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  