-- BBC Appoints Former Judge, Journalist to Probe Savile
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-10-17T15:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/bbc-appoints-former-judge-journalist-to-probe-savile.html
The British Broadcasting Corp.
apppointed former Court of Appeal judge Janet Smith and former
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  journalist Nick Pollard to
head investigations into entertainer Jimmy Savile, who’s accused
of sexually abusing dozens of children over decades.  Smith will probe the culture and practices of the BBC
during the 30 years when Savile, who died at the age of 84 last
year, worked at the broadcaster, it said yesterday in a
 statement  on its website. Pollard will examine why an episode of
the BBC’s  “Newsnight” program that investigated sexual abuse
claims against Savile was canceled last year.  The accusations against Savile are putting pressure on the
BBC, the world’s largest public broadcaster, and other
institutions who appointed the entertainer to programs and
positions that dealt with children. The  BBC  will also appoint an
independent expert to look at sexual harassment claims.  Police are investigating claims dating back as far as 1959
through 2006, including those that Savile, who hosted popular
BBC shows “Top of the Pops” and “Jim’ll Fix It,” misused his
status as a charity worker to abuse patients at hospitals.  Smith’s inquiry will include evidence from people who said
they were sexually abused by Savile on BBC premises or while on
location for the broadcaster, according to the BBC. The Pollard
probe will examine whether there were any “failings in the
BBC’s management of the Newsnight investigation” and whether
there was any “inappropriate managerial pressure’ on the editor
of ‘‘Newsnight.’’  Dropped Probe  Former BBC Director General  Mark Thompson  is scheduled to
start as  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s chief executive officer next
month. Thompson and his successor George Entwistle had ‘‘no
involvement in the investigation or the subsequent decision to
drop it,’’ the broadcaster has said. Entwistle managed the BBC’s
television channels before he became director general.  Peter Rippon, the editor of the ‘‘Newsnight’’ show, has
said that he ended the program’s investigation because Savile
wasn’t able to defend himself and the level of proof wasn’t
sufficient.  The BBC has said that ‘‘Thompson was not directly involved
with any of Jimmy Savile’s programming.” The  New York  Times
declined to make Thompson available and to comment on the case.  Pollard is currently head of  British Forces Broadcasting .
He has been a journalist for 40 years, including 10 years as
head of BSkyB’s Sky News.  Police Cooperation  The Smith review will start only when U.K. police say
they’re happy for it to proceed, while the Pollard probe will
start immediately.  Entwistle absented himself from the BBC’s Executive Board
for the appointment of Smith and Pollard and the decision about
the reviews’ terms of reference. The probes will report to the
Executive Board which will be chaired by Senior Independent
Director Designate Fiona Reynolds for all issues regarding the
investigations.  Kate Lampard, a barrister who has held several senior
positions in the state-run  National Health Service , has been
appointed to oversee various NHS investigations into Savile,
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman said today.  “She will deliver consistency, rigor and independence” in
her role, Steve Field told reporters in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  