-- BHP Expects China’s Growth to Slow to 7%-8% for Next Decade
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-10-17T05:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/bhp-expects-china-s-growth-to-moderate-to-7-8-for-next-decade.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, expects China’s growth to decline to
about 7 percent to 8 percent this year and stay at this level
for the next decade as the nation becomes a consumer-led
economy.  “While this is a lower level than China’s annual growth of
around 10 percent over the past decade, clearly a significant
opportunity remains,” Marius Kloppers, chief executive officer
of Melbourne-based BHP, said today in notes for a speech in
Brisbane. A destocking cycle in China that has weighed on
prices, including for iron ore, has run its course, he also
said.  Growth in China, the largest metals consumer and BHP’s
 biggest customer , cooled to 7.6 percent in the three months to
June 30, the slowest pace in three years. Kloppers predicts
 China ’s future needs will include more consumer goods such as
kitchen appliances and automobiles as the economy changes.  Iron ore, BHP’s largest contributor to revenue, has
recovered 30 percent since prices slumped to a near three-year
low last month. The rebound comes after China in September
announced stimulus spending on new roads and subway stations.  “The destocking has run its course,” giving some support
to stabilize prices, Kloppers told reporters in Brisbane.
Meanwhile, China’s stimulus spending plan has so far not had a
noticeable effect on market fundamentals, he added.  Project Spending  BHP today reported iron ore output of 39.77 million metric
tons for the three months to Sept. 30, little changed from a
year ago and meeting analyst expectations. The company is
spending about $23 billion on 20 major projects, including iron
ore, as it expects China’s growth, albeit at slower levels, to
drive demand.  The global iron ore market will grow 650 million tons
during the current decade, slower than the 800 million tons
during the previous 10 years, “but still a very substantial
opportunity,” Kloppers said in the speech notes.  “The progressive transition into a consumption-based
economy implies increased demand for commodities other than
steel, such as copper, energy, aluminum, and so on,” he said.
“As the middle class continues to grow, better diets will also
imply a higher demand for commodities such as potash.”  China’s economy probably slowed further to 7.4 percent in
the September quarter, the median estimate of 43 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey shows before data due in Beijing tomorrow.
Mining companies including BHP and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the third-
biggest, are curbing spending plans as metal demand wanes.  With the resources industry boosting supply in response to
rising demand from China over the past decade, the “supply
shortage has largely been filled,” said Kloppers. “What we are
now witnessing is the rebalancing of supply and demand to meet
increased demand levels.”  Australia , the biggest exporter of iron ore and coal, needs
to address falling productivity in mining, he said. The nation
is host to 52 percent of the company’s long-term assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  