-- BP, Billionaires Plan to Sell Control of TNK-BP to Rosneft
-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-10-17T16:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/billionaires-said-to-plan-28-billion-tnk-bp-stake-to-rosneft.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and its Russian billionaire
partners are in talks to sell control of their TNK-BP venture to
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , a deal that may almost double the size of Russia’s
state-run oil company, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The billionaires, represented by the AAR group, are seeking
to sell their 50 percent holding to Rosneft for $28 billion, one
person said, asking not to be identified before a transaction is
done. BP is also negotiating to sell at least some of its stake
for a mix of cash and shares in Rosneft, another person said.
Officials from AAR, Rosneft and BP declined to comment.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  has used Rosneft to
tighten the government’s grip on Russia’s energy industry.
Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin , a Putin associate
for more than 20 years, is set to meet his BP counterpart, Bob
Dudley, in London tomorrow  to discuss to the deal, two people
said. The Moscow-based company would produce about 4.5 million
barrels a day of oil and gas if it buys all of TNK-BP, matching
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   “This strengthens Putin’s national champion,” said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in London. “BP
will stay in Russia, but perhaps in a more limited way.”  BP Optimism  BP rose the most since May on optimism an agreement would
end the company’s fractious relationship with the billionaires.
The London-based explorer offered to sell its own half of
 Russia ’s third-largest oil producer in June after relations
broke down with AAR. BP asked for bids by 9 a.m. tomorrow.  BP  advanced  3 percent to close at 448.35 pence in London.  A possible agreement between Rosneft and AAR was reported
by  Sky News  earlier.  TNK-BP hasn’t paid dividends on any 2012 income because it
has lacked a full board since December. The management
recommended a $4.1 billion interim dividend on 2012 profit,
according to documents seen by  Bloomberg News  today. The board
may decide on the dividend in the next few weeks.  An agreement of intent has been signed between AAR and
Rosneft, Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  told
reporters in Moscow. Any deal would need government approval and
no requests had been received, he said.  Nine-Year Venture  BP put its half of TNK-BP up for sale in June, proposing to
end the nine-year partnership that paid BP $19 billion in
dividends and accounts for a quarter of its global production.
Both AAR and Rosneft had said they were interested in making an
offer for BP’s half.  BP and AAR openly clashed several times during their
partnership. In 2008, current BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley was forced to resign as head of the venture and leave
Russia after months of battling between the shareholders over
strategy.  Mikhail Fridman , one of the billionaires, quit as CEO
of TNK-BP this year, saying the relationship with BP had run its
course.  A year ago, AAR rejected a $32 billion offer for its half
from BP and Rosneft. That came after Fridman and BP’s other
billionaire partners thwarted a $7.8 billion share swap and
exploration agreement with Rosneft in court, saying BP was
required to pursue all opportunities in Russia exclusively
through TNK-BP.  Under the terms of TNK-BP’s shareholder agreement, BP has
45 days to decide on bidding for AAR’s stake before the
billionaires can close a deal with another buyer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  