-- Billionaires Snap Up $8 Million Miro, Fontana in Paris
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n   a n d   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-10-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/billionaires-snap-up-8-million-miro-fontana-in-paris.html
A Joan Miro painting priced at $8
million was among the flurry of big-ticket sales last night at
FIAC as Paris’s biggest contemporary art fair faced the twin
threat of local wealth taxes and an expanded Frieze in London.  Miro’s 1927 Surrealist abstract “Peinture (Le Cheval de
Cirque)” was sold by the New York-based  Helly Nahmad Gallery  at
the Foire Internationale d’Art Contemporain.  Tornabuoni Arte ,
which has a gallery in Paris, sold a red-punctured Lucio Fontana
“Concetto Spaziale, Attese,” from 1967-68, priced 2 million
euros ($2.63 million).  French billionaires including  Francois Pinault  and  Bernard
Arnault , who is applying for dual Belgian nationality, were
spotted at the VIP preview, usually seen as a gauge of the art
market, as were international collectors such as Alberto Mugrabi
from the U.S. and Omer Koc from  Turkey .  “The tax situation is a concern,” said Tom Heman, a
director at  Metro Pictures , a U.S. gallery that shows at FIAC
rather than Frieze London. “We’re selling well at the moment.
We’ll see what happens next year.”  French legislators are debating a socialist budget that
plans to raise taxes on high earners and assets. An exodus of
collectors would damage sales, even though a proposal to include
some artworks in tax calculations was rejected, dealers said.  Metro took barely an hour to sell half of the 10 smaller
2012  Robert Longo  ink-and-charcoal “Studies of the American
Flag” it was showing on its booth, priced at $35,000 each.
Longo’s large-scale triptych of the same subject, priced at
$600,000, was on reserve.  Lisson’s Kapoor  The London-based  Lisson Gallery  found an early buyer for a
hemispherical 2012 Anish Kapoor fiberglass wall sculpture,
tagged at 500,000 pounds ($807,000).  This year, 182 dealers in contemporary and modern art are
exhibiting on two floors at the Grand Palais, three days after
the inaugural Frieze Masters fair in  London .  “Today was D-Day,” Victoire Disderot, of the Paris-based
 Galerie Daniel Templon , said. “We were going to feel what
things would be like over the next few months. It seems
collectors still want established names and to discover new
artists.”  The 2012 portrait “Romaine Munroe” by the U.S.-based
painter Kehinde Wiley, with a price of $150,000, was bought by a
French collector. It was among early sales at Templon’s booth.  Competing Fairs  FIAC is one of  Europe 's three big fairs devoted to modern 
and contemporary works, now that Frieze London has added its 
competing “Masters” element. Art Basel, the biggest of them 
all, takes place in June.  The New York-based dealer Paula Cooper exhibits at  Art
Basel  and FIAC.  “There’s an elegance to this fair,” gallery director
Steven P. Henry said. “Paris does draw surprising people. I’ve
seen collectors from Turkey and even the  Ivory Coast . Business
has been rather hectic, almost aggressively so.”  During the first few hours, Cooper sold a 2012 Rudolf
Stingel silver abstract for $400,000 to a U.S. collector and
Sophie Calle’s two-piece “Autobiographies (The Giraffe)” for
$40,000 to a French client.  In the last two years, in response to the growth of the 
contemporary market, FIAC has a smaller proportion of galleries 
dealing in art from the first half of the 20th century.       “It’s become a really commercial fair,” the Brussels-
based art adviser Henry Bounameaux said. “It’s not so
interesting. You know you are going to see works by artists like
 Louise Bourgeois . It’s not like Frieze Masters, where you could
be surprised by old things.”  Frieze Figures  The inaugural edition of Frieze Masters attracted 28,000 
visitors, the London-based organizer said in a statement on Oct. 
16. Picasso's 1969 painting “Buste d'Homme” was among the 
confirmed big-ticket sales of modernist works, priced at $9.5 
million by  New York  dealers Acquavella.  Zurich-based Old Masters dealer David Koetser sold a still 
life by the 17th-century Dutch artist Adriaen Coorte, priced at 
$3.7 million, to a collector of 20th-century works.  The 10th edition of Frieze London attracted 55,000 
visitors, said organizers. No confirmed sales of works priced at 
more than 1 million pounds were reported, validating dealers' 
perceptions that the majority of transactions were for recently 
produced pieces valued at less than 100,000 pounds.  “Europe can cope with two major fairs in the autumn,”
Jennifer Flay, the New Zealand-born director of FIAC, said. “I
have absolutely no problem with that. I think it’s great that
Frieze is rectifying, perhaps, its too great concentration on
contemporary art by putting a little bit more focus on modern. I
think it’s necessary. There’s always been room for both of us.”  (Scott Reyburn and Farah Nayeri write for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writers on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Paris at  sreyburn@hotmail.com ;
Farah Nayeri in Paris at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 