-- BlackRock Profit Rises 7.9% on as Assets Rise on ETFs
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-10-17T20:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/blackrock-profit-rises-7-9-on-as-assets-rise-on-etfs.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, reported third-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates as rising stock markets lifted assets and
the firm’s exchange-traded funds drew client deposits.  Net income climbed 7.9 percent to $642 million, or $3.65 a
share, from $595 million, or $3.23, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Excluding certain
one-time items, profit of $3.47 per share exceeded the $3.32-a-
share average  estimate  of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink has cut costs of
some ETFs to fend off competition and urged investors to get
back into equities as they’ve remained concerned by  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and slowing economic growth worldwide.
Assets rose 3.2 percent in the quarter to $3.67 trillion, fueled
by market gains of $134 billion. Investors poured $20.5 billion
into equity ETFs, helping BlackRock counter the impact of $55
billion in net client redemptions.  “Equity ETF flows were certainly above our expectations,”
Luke Montgomery, a research analyst who covers asset managers at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. Earnings also beat estimates because of higher
performance fees and more shares repurchased, he said.  BlackRock fell 0.44 percent to close at $189.13 in New
York. The  shares  have gained 6.1 percent this year, compared
with the 20 percent increase in the 20-member  Standard & Poor’s 
index of asset managers and custody banks.  ‘Window Dressing’  BlackRock’s iShares ETF unit drew $25.2 billion in investor
deposits, the most since BlackRock’s acquisition of the unit
from Barclays Plc in 2009. Investors removed $5.1 billion from
active stock funds during the three months ended Sept. 30.
BlackRock said a single institutional investor pulled more than
$72 billion from a fixed-income portfolio, after the firm didn’t
want to rebid for the business at lower fees.  “I am not going to chase business for window dressing,”
Fink said during today’s conference call with analysts and
investors. BlackRock will sacrifice business that may look big,
yet has small revenue, he said.  BlackRock’s  revenue  increased 4.3 percent from a year
earlier to $2.32 billion as a result of new business, higher
performance fees and market gains. Investment-advisory fees rose
3.8 percent to $2 billion and performance fees for beating
benchmarks rose 13 percent to $103 million. BlackRock Solutions,
the unit that helps analyze hard-to-value assets, had 18 net new
assignments during the quarter, and its revenue increased 9.4
percent to $128 million.  Earnings Boost  BlackRock’s earnings were boosted by $17 million in non-
operating income as the value of co-investments alongside
clients rose, compared with a non-operating  expense of $87
million a year earlier.  The  MSCI ACWI Index (MXWD)  of global stocks rose 6.2 percent in
the third quarter and the U.S. benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500
Index increased 5.8 percent.  BlackRock repurchased 960,100 shares in the quarter,
bringing the total to 8.2 million shares this year. BlackRock
bought back more than 6 million shares in the three months ended
June 30 valued at about $1 billion after Barclays sold its 19.6
percent stake in BlackRock to meet Basel rule requirements. The
British bank took the holding when it sold  Barclays Global
Investors  to BlackRock in December 2009.  On Oct. 9, BlackRock agreed to release Barclays from
coverage provided for default on 52 covered securities in two
cash-management funds as part of the acquisition, in exchange
for payment to the funds of $70 million by Barclays, according
to the statement.  Cutting Fees  BlackRock said this week it’s cutting fees for six ETFs and
creating four new ones as it seeks to compete with companies
such as Vanguard Group Inc. and Charles Schwab Corp. While its
iShares unit, with $526 billion in U.S. ETF assets, is the
biggest in the business, Vanguard is growing faster in the U.S.
this year. ETF fee cuts weren’t driven by a “price war” with
Vanguard, Fink said during today’s call.  Investors put about $34 billion into BlackRock’s U.S. ETFs
this year through Sept. 30, according to data from State Street
Global Advisors. Vanguard had net deposits of $42 billion,
bringing ETF assets to more than $230 billion.  The ETF fee cuts imply an annualized loss of $35 million to
$40 million in revenue, which means less than a 1 percent
decrease in earnings per share, Montgomery said in an Oct. 16
research note.  “We view fee cut announcements as providing closure, and
segmentation strategy as a strong step towards recapturing share
in retail and preserving institutional leadership,” wrote
Morgan Stanley analysts Matthew Kelley and Kevin Kaczmarek in an
Oct. 16 note.  Deposits Rise  Investor deposits into passive ETFs industrywide more than
doubled from the previous quarter to $52 billion, according to
data compiled by  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago . Deposits into
active funds increased almost 10 percent to $43 billion during
the same time period, Morningstar said.  Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, said earlier this
month the U.S. is about a year away from having a more robust
economy and has recommended investors put cash into equities as
bond yields have shrunk to record lows. BlackRock started the
third phase of its five-year branding campaign on Oct. 3, with a
series of advertisements telling savers to get out of cash and
low-yielding bonds and suggesting they put money in high-quality
stocks, ETFs and products that generate higher income.  BlackRock offers actively managed stock and bond funds,
passive strategies, hedge funds and portfolios that use
mathematical models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  