-- BNY Mellon Profit Increases as Rising Stocks Boost Assets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-10-17T20:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/bny-mellon-profit-increases-as-rising-stocks-boost-assets.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, said third-quarter earnings
climbed a bigger-than-estimated 11 percent as rising stock
prices helped expand customer assets.  Net income increased to $720 million, or 61 cents a share,
from $651 million, or 53 cents, a year earlier, the New York-
based bank said today in a statement. BNY Mellon rose the most
in more than 10 months as profit beat the 54-cent-a-share
average of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “It showed they can generate some revenue growth while
still holding down expenses,”  Marty Mosby , a Memphis,
Tennessee-based analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in a
telephone interview. Mosby, who  rates the shares  a buy, predicts
improvement next year as the bank adds customers and benefits
from cost-cutting.  Custody banks have been affected by competing forces as
gains in stock prices boost fees for overseeing and managing
client money while low interest rates force them to waive fees
on money funds, erode yields on portfolios and reduce returns on
securities lending. BNY Mellon,  State Street Corp. (STT)  and  Northern
Trust Corp. (NTRS)  have all announced reductions in staff and spending
as a way to preserve profits.  Northern Trust, the third-largest U.S. independent custody
bank, today said third-quarter profit rose 4.9 percent to $178.8
million, or 73 cents a share, from $170.4 million, or 70 cents,
a year earlier. Analysts had expected earnings of 74 cents a
share, according to the average of 16 estimates.  Shares Rise  BNY Mellon rose 5.5 percent to close at $24.86 in  New York 
trading, the biggest gain  since  Nov. 30. Northern Trust rose 1.4
percent to $48.21.  State Street, the third-largest custody bank, yesterday
reported third-quarter operating profit that beat analysts’
estimates as it earned higher fees for managing client money.  At Chicago-based Northern Trust, assets under custody rose
14 percent to $4.76 trillion and assets under management gained
16 percent to $750 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Frederick Waddell said in a
statement that the gains were offset, in part, by “the
continued headwinds posed by lower interest rates, market
activity and volatility.”  The Federal Reserve in September said it will purchase $40
billion in mortgage bonds a month and hold its main interest
rate near zero until at least mid-2015.  Cutting Jobs  BNY Mellon, which is led by Chief Executive Officer Gerald Hassell, said assets under custody rose 7.7 percent to $27.9
trillion, driven by higher market values and $522 billion of new
business wins. Assets under management climbed 13 percent to
$1.4 trillion, helping increase investment-management fees by
6.9 percent to $779 million.  BNY Mellon last year trimmed jobs and set a target to save
as much as $700 million by 2015 through operational
improvements. The bank said in November that it expected its fee
revenue to grow 3 percent to 5 percent a year from 2012 to 2014,
outpacing a projected 2 percent to 3 percent increase in
expenses.  Non-interest expenses fell 2.4 percent. Earnings were
boosted by four cents a share from a lower-than-expected
effective tax rate, the bank said in a statement.  Fees from investment services fell 6.5 percent to $1.68
billion, the result of lower revenue in two units and the sale
of the shareowner services business in the fourth quarter of
2011.  ‘Huge Clients’  BNY Mellon has tried to raise prices with mixed results.
Timothy Keaney, vice chairman and asset-servicing chief, said at
an investor conference in September that the bank had won higher
prices from some of its smaller customers.  “The bad news is on the strategic client base,” he said.
“We do not have any pricing power today. These are huge
clients.”  Foreign exchange revenue was $121 million, a drop of 45
percent from the same quarter a year ago, on lower volatility
and volumes. BNY Mellon’s net interest margin, the difference
between what it pays on deposits and receives on loans and
investments, fell to 1.2 percent from 1.3 percent.  Buffett Buys  The bank, whose shares are cheaper today than they were 15
years ago, has attracted the interest of value investors,
including  Warren Buffett . His Omaha-based  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  bought 13.1 million shares in the second quarter, boosting
its  stake  to 18.7 million shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  BNY Mellon has been sued by several states and the U.S.
Attorney in  Manhattan  over pricing of foreign-currency trades on
behalf of clients.  The cases center on the charges for small foreign-exchange
transactions handled automatically on behalf of pension funds, a
service known as standing instruction. The plaintiffs say the
bank misled and overcharged them on standing instruction trades.
BNY Mellon said it acted properly and offered clients
competitive pricing.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors. BNY Mellon also manages
investments for individual and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  