-- BofA Says Putback Losses May Be $6 Billion Above Reserve
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-17T12:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/bofa-says-putback-losses-may-be-6-billion-more-than-accruals.html
Bank of America Corp. , the lender
that rescued Countrywide Financial Corp. in 2008, said losses
could be as much as $6 billion beyond what’s been set aside for
demands that the firm repurchase shoddy home loans.  The new disclosure covers the range of possible losses for
both private investors and claims from so-called government
sponsored enterprises. Losses on just private claims were
projected to exceed accruals by $5 billion as of June 30, the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender has said.  “Based on discussions and where we are, we do have enough
information to estimate a range of possible loss, not just for
excluding the GSEs, but also including the GSEs,” Chief
Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  said in a conference call with
reporters today. “We still have certain disagreements and
haven’t resolved anything with Fannie Mae, but we do have
information to provide what we have.”  Analysts had pressed Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, for additional disclosures on losses from
mortgages. The firm has already booked more than $40 billion in
costs tied to Countrywide, whose lax lending standards helped
fuel the housing bubble.  The lender has an ongoing disagreement with Fannie Mae “about
what constitutes a valid repurchase request, standards for
rescission of repurchase requests and resolution processes,” it
said today in a  slide show  as it announced third-quarter
results.  Unresolved Demands  Unresolved demands that Bank of America repurchase
mortgages rose 12 percent to $25.5 billion as of Sept. 30,
fueled by disputes with  Fannie Mae  and private investors, the
firm said. The bank’s liability for so-called representations
and warranties was $16.3 billion as of Sept. 30, up about $300
million from three months earlier.  Previously, Bank of America said it couldn’t project how
much more might be needed to resolve disputes with Fannie Mae
because the firm’s demands “remain inconsistent with our
interpretation of our contractual obligations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  