-- BP Rises on Report Rosneft to Buy Billionaires’ TNK-BP Stake
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-10-17T11:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/bp-rises-on-report-rosneft-to-buy-billionaires-tnk-bp-stake-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  rose the most in more than
four months in  London  trading after a report that OAO Rosneft
has agreed to buy half of the TNK-BP Russian venture.  BP gained as much as 4.3 percent, the most since June 1,
and traded up 4 percent at 452.70 pence as of 12:08 p.m. local
time. Sky reported that AAR, which represents BP’s billionaire
parters in TNK-BP, and state-backed Rosneft agreed to a $28
billion deal in Moscow yesterday for AAR’s half of the venture.
BP had sought bids for its own half of Russia’s third-largest
oil producer after relations broke down with the billionaires.  The possible sale of AAR’s half to Rosneft may throw into
doubt BP’s attempts to dispose of its share of the Russian
venture that accounts for a quarter of the company’s global
output. BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley, a former head of
TNK-BP, has said he’s still committed to  Russia  as he revamps
the company’s business after the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  “It’s better for BP to swim with the big fish in Russia,”
said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in
London. “Rosneft is a stronger partner, and the valuation is
higher than most people had for the 50 percent stake.”  AAR’s exit would leave BP free to pursue other projects in
Russia after the partners last year blocked a share swap and
Arctic drilling alliance between BP and Rosneft in court. BP put
its half up for sale in June, and both AAR and Rosneft had said
they were interested in making an offer.  Rosneft Financing  Officials at BP, Moscow-based Rosneft and AAR declined to
comment on speculation about the sale of TNK-BP today.  Rosneft has worked with non-Russian banks to finance an
offer for TNK-BP and has reduced the interest it has offered to
pay on the $15 billion loan agreement after banks oversubscribed
on the deal, people with knowledge of the terms said yesterday.  “It’s clear that BP feels the relationship with AAR has
broken down irretrievably,” Colin Smith, head of energy
research at VTB Capital in London, said in a telephone
interview. “While there have been discussions about Rosneft
making a bid, BP has always been careful to point out that no
outcome can be assured.”  BP and AAR openly clashed several times during their
partnership. In 2008, Dudley was forced to resign as head of the
venture and leave Russia after months of battling between the
shareholders over strategy.  Mikhail Fridman , one of the
billionaires, quit as CEO of TNK-BP this year, saying the
relationship with BP had run its course.  TNK-BP hasn’t paid dividends on any 2012 income because it
has lacked a full board since December. A year ago, AAR rejected
a $32 billion offer for its half from BP and Rosneft. That came
after Fridman and BP’s other billionaire partners blocked a $7.8
billion share swap and exploration agreement with Rosneft in
court, saying BP was required to pursue all opportunities in
Russia exclusively through TNK-BP.  Surpass PetroChina  An expanded Rosneft including half of TNK-BP would increase
crude oil output to 3.29 million barrels a day, according to
figures given by both companies. That would surpass PetroChina
Co. which had 2.43 million barrels a day of output in April, the
most among the world’s publicly traded energy companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  is inviting foreign
producers into Russia to help keep the country’s oil output at a
post-Soviet high of 10 million barrels a day. Rosneft, which is
75 percent owned by the government, is the country’s biggest
producer. BP held 1.25 percent of Rosneft after buying about $1
billion of shares in its 2006 initial public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  