-- Brazil Area Sugar-Cane Output Seen by JOB Up 13% in 2013-14
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-17T17:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/brazil-area-sugar-cane-output-seen-by-job-up-13-in-2013-14-1-.html
Sugar-cane output in Brazil’s center
south, the main growing region of the world’s biggest producer,
is set to jump 13 percent in the season that starts in April
there, according to JOB Economia & Planejamento Ltda.  Cane processing in the area will rise to 574 million metric
tons in 2013-14, Julio Borges, the director at the Sao Paulo-
based research company, said at a conference in  London  today.
That compares with an estimate of 510 million tons in the
current season, he said, adding that 5.7 million tons of cane
will be left un-harvested in the fields this year.  “Considering the area we have and normal weather
conditions, we return to normal production potential,” Borges
said in an interview on the sidelines of the conference,
organized by Sugar Online. “We are working with the assumption
of wet weather, which will benefit the next crop.”  Sugar production in the center south is likely to remain
little changed at about 32 million tons in 2013-14, he said.
That compares with a forecast for 31.6 million tons in 2012-13.
Ethanol output in the area is likely to jump by 30 percent next
season as the incentive to produce the biofuel at the expense of
the sweetener increases, he said. Brazilian millers can make
both commodities from raw material sugar cane.  “Certainly the mix in the new crop will be more focused on
ethanol than this season,” he said, referring to the percentage
of the sugar cane crushed that is used to make one commodity or
the other. “Sugar is starting to lose its attractiveness and
ethanol is becoming relatively attractive.”  Gasoline Prices  Consumption of anhydrous ethanol, the kind blended into
fuels, may rise in  Brazil  next year as the government is likely
to increase the mandatory blend into gasoline back to 25 percent
from 20 percent now, Borges said. Gasoline prices are also
likely to be raised, which in turn will boost the usage of
hydrous ethanol, the kind used in flex-fuel cars, he said.  “The environment for more ethanol is favorable,” he said.
“I don’t see the stimulus to produce sugar in a surplus
market.”  Raw sugar prices traded in New York have fallen 14 percent
this year to 20.13 cents a pound. The commodity needs to be at
21 cents a pound to make exports from Brazil’s center south
viable in the long term, Borges said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  