-- California Businesses Are Wimps on High Taxes
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-10-17T15:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/california-businesses-are-wimps-on-high-taxes.html
If you listen to the union-financed
advertising campaigns, you would think that corporate interests
control  California ’s capital and are bulldozing the interests of
“working-class” taxpayers to promote conservative causes. In
the minds of union activists, billionaires are conspiring to
turn deep-blue California into a red zone.  In particular, opponents of a state ballot initiative that
would  ban  unions’ use of automatic payroll deductions to finance
their political activities  claim  that it is the creation of
“retired CEOs and millionaires” associated with “an extreme
right-wing” group based in Orange County.  While the proposition’s  Lincoln Club  backers are
conservative, most corporate political players in California
have hardly been associated with conservative causes, even on
the tax, regulatory and economic issues where one would expect
them to tilt right. Instead, business leaders have tried to play
ball with the Democrats, who control every constitutional office
and have an ironclad grip on the state Legislature.  The game seems rigged, and the calls go against the
capitalist cause. Yet the private sector keeps on playing. While
this dynamic is common in some other states as well, business
interests in California seem less willing to put up a spirited
fight than in most other places.  The biggest battle on the Nov. 6 ballot is over Proposition
30, which would  increase  income taxes on Californians earning
more than $250,000 a year and sales taxes on everybody.  Corporate Backing  If passed, California’s income taxes will soar above the
rates of the next highest states (Hawaii and  Oregon ), and will
imperil an economic recovery as businesses and taxpayers
continue to flee for lower-tax states -- a migration most
recently  documented  by a Manhattan Institute study.  But as the San Francisco Chronicle  reported , “ Disney (DIS) ,
Sony, CBS, NBC,  Viacom (VIAB) ,  Warner Bros . and other entertainment
businesses have given Prop. 30 a total of nearly $1 million.
Pacific Gas and Electric Co.,  Occidental Petroleum (OXY)  and other
energy companies have thrown in roughly $1 million between them.
Soft-drink companies -- which are spending millions to try to
defeat soda taxes in Richmond and El Monte (Los Angeles County)
-- have dipped into their campaign coffers to give a half-a-
million dollars to Brown’s effort to temporarily raise state
sales and income taxes.”  The initiative has also gained support from casino owners,
Hollywood millionaires and the health-care industry, which is
more interested in gaining government subsidies and favorable
regulatory decisions than in keeping taxes within reason.  Even prominent business groups couldn’t muster the courage
to oppose the governor’s huge tax increase. For instance, the
California  Chamber of Commerce  took no position, despite its
much-publicized efforts to fight “job killer” legislation.  A San Francisco-based group, the  Bay Area Council , which
includes influential companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Hewlett-
Packard Co., Wells Fargo & Co. and Chevron Corp., has taken a
“yes” stance on Proposition 30, arguing that the state’s
fiscal health demands the tax increases.  The council had previously championed  Repair California , a
failed call for a new constitutional convention -- something
that frightened conservatives given that it could throw many of
the state’s taxpayer protections to the wind.  A couple of the ideas moderate business interests pitched
heavily -- redistricting changes, an open primary and a simple-
majority budget vote -- have become law after initiative
campaigns. Yet the results of those reforms are spotty at best.  Half-Baked Reforms  The new “nonpartisan” redistricting commission was
quickly co-opted by left-wing activists and resulted in new
district lines that will help Democrats grab even more power.
The elimination of the supermajority budget rule has made the
minority Republicans irrelevant to the budget process, given
that their only power had been to hold up budgets as they sought
taxpayer-friendly reforms. And the new  top-two primary system  is
leading to an unprecedented number of general-election races
between members of the same party, thus reducing political
choice and debate.  Basically, the state’s business groups often push changes
intended to elect more “moderates” and fewer ideologues from
the left or right. But instead of tempering the influence of
unions and special interests, these efforts mainly enhance the
business-hostile status quo.  What explains the willingness of otherwise smart people to
continually take this counterproductive approach?  “Most big business in California is now intellectual, the
high-tech guys and Hollywood types,” said  Steven B. Frates ,
director of research at the Davenport Institute at  Pepperdine
University . “The manufacturers are gone. We used to have
refineries and aerospace. The impact of the agricultural
business is much less than it used to be.”  For these dominant industries and companies, Frates argues,
“taxes are less significant because their profits are more a
function of their innovation rather than their manufacturing
margins. They can afford to be more sensitive to, say,
environmental issues because it doesn’t impact them in
California.”  Jon Coupal , president of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association, has a much simpler explanation: “It’s hard to be
aggressive when your opponent has you by the throat.” He calls
the money that private-sector leaders are giving to the
Proposition 30 campaign “protection money,” saying that
Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown ’s campaign team is filled with
“seasoned players who play the Chicago school of politics” by
pressuring businesses and leaving them too frightened to fight
back.  As the state’s economic situation worsens, however, Coupal
sees a newfound boldness. He points to a growing backlash
against Brown’s  high-speed-rail  plan and efforts by business to
finance  charter schools  over the opposition of the teachers’
unions. If companies have a lobbying presence in  Sacramento , he
said, “they already are a lost cause” because they are
committed to the inside game of trying to manipulate laws for
their own specific benefit.  New Boldness  Still, he finds that “high-dollar donors and independent
manufacturers are getting more aggressive” in fighting for
lower taxes. Orange County Republican Party Chairman Scott Baugh
concurs: “Eventually you run out of other people’s money, and
businesses start to come home.” He sees stepped-up private-
sector efforts to fight the tax-increase proposition and to
support the measure that would limit unions’ power on payroll
deductions. “It’s still a fight,” he said, “but there’s more
of a willingness to do that.”  Even Democratic officials in lefty  San Francisco  understand
the link between high taxes and job creation. Mayor Ed Lee is
pushing a ballot initiative there that would ease the city’s
crushing business taxes. If San Francisco officials get it, it’s
only a matter of time before California’s weak-kneed business
leaders join the fight for a better economic climate.  (Steven Greenhut is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors calculate what  Europe must do to
save its currency ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Marco Rubio ; Clive Crook
on how governments can  improve the world economic outlook ; Cass
R. Sunstein on the hypocrisy of  originalist  justices;  Peter
Orszag  on the promising  future of health-care costs ;  Virginia
Postrel  on the  economics of kidney transplants .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Steven Greenhut  in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 