-- Californians Dive Under Desks in Biggest Earthquake Drill
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-10-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/californians-dive-under-desks-in-biggest-earthquake-drill.html
More than 13 million people from  Los
Angeles  to southern Italy are being asked to crouch under desks
and tables tomorrow in an earthquake readiness drill that
organizers say is the biggest ever.  Schools, hospitals, banks and other organizations have
signed up to practice the survival technique known as “ Drop,
Cover and Hold On ” at 10:18 a.m. in each time zone in the Great
ShakeOut conceived by the  U.S. Geological Survey , according to
the  Southern California Earthquake Center .  Rather than take shelter in a doorway or run outside,
participants are being told to  drop  to their hands and knees,
take cover under a table or desk, and hold on to it until the
shaking stops. In California, 9 million will be taking part,
making it the largest simultaneous disaster-preparedness
exercise in history, said Lucile Jones, a USGS seismologist.  “We rarely see law-of-the-jungle panic,” said Jones,
who’s based near Los Angeles and is a veteran of the 1994
 Northridge earthquake  there that killed 60 and caused $20
billion in damage. “The biggest disasters tend to bring out the
best in people. We tend to think the best way to prepare for the
earthquake is to have the earthquake drill.”  California  will almost certainly be hit within 30 years by
another earthquake as strong as the Northridge temblor, the
geological survey predicted in 2008. The famous 1906 earthquake
in San Francisco that killed as many as 5,000 people and set off
fires that razed most of the city was one of the worst natural
disasters in U.S. history.  Earthquake Strengthening  California is regularly jolted and voters approved at least
$2.3 billion in bonds to strengthen government buildings,
highways and bridges after the Loma Prieta quake during the 1989
 World Series  rocked San Francisco.  The ShakeOut, which began in 2008 in Southern California,
has spread to other regions of the U.S. and overseas. Since
then, a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami in Japan in 2011
killed at least 15,000 people and caused three nuclear reactor
meltdowns. That same year, a 5.8-magnitude quake surprised the
U.S. East Coast and cracked the Washington Monument.  In addition to California and Italy, tomorrow’s drill will
be played out in parts of Alaska, Arizona, British Columbia,
Georgia,  Guam ,  Idaho , Maryland,  North Carolina , Nevada, Oregon,
Puerto Rico,  South Carolina , Virginia and Washington state,
according to  organizers .  Training Effectiveness  Researchers from several universities plan to survey
ShakeOut participants in an attempt to gauge its effectiveness,
said Lance Webster, a spokesman for the Earthquake Country
Alliance, the umbrella group coordinating the exercise.  There’s no way to estimate the cost of the drill, said Mark
Benthien, executive director of the Earthquake Country Alliance.
Expenses are borne by the group with grants from the  National
Science Foundation , the  Federal Emergency Management Agency  and
the U.S. Geological Survey, and in the time granted to
participants by employers and government bodies.  For more than 15 years until this year, most of California
had been unusually calm seismically, lulling newcomers into
complacency, Jones said. A swarm of quakes in the  Southern
California  desert, including a magnitude 5.1 temblor in August,
suggests normal activity is returning, she said.  “It’s a false sense of security we have sometimes,” said
Armando Hogan, a Los Angeles Fire Department battalion chief.
“We’re not trying to scare anyone, but we really want to
encourage a sense of preparedness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  