-- Cameron to Push Energy, Building Projects to Spur U.K. Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/cameron-to-push-energy-building-projects-to-spur-u-k-growth.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
preparing legislation to spur energy and building companies to
invest, seeking to spur economic growth.  The Growth and Infrastructure Bill will make it easier for
electricity-generating companies to alter designs mid-project in
order to incorporate new technology, without restarting the
planning process. It will reduce the requirements on builders of
large housing projects and the amount of paperwork needed for
planning applications. It will also implement Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne ’s plan to allow employees to swap some
of their rights for shares in their company.  “The bill we are publishing today is all about helping our
country compete in the global race and building an aspiration
nation where we back those who want to get on in life,” Cameron
said in an e-mailed statement. “We are slashing unnecessary
bureaucracy, giving business the confidence to invest, unlocking
big infrastructure projects and supporting hardworking people to
realize their dreams.”  As evidence that its strategy is working, the prime
minister’s office pointed to an announcement by  Land Securities
Group Plc (LAND)  today that it will go ahead with a 350 million-pound
($565 million) development project near Victoria Station in
central London.  Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  is today due to tell a
Confederation of British Industry meeting about details of his
forthcoming Energy Bill. Cameron yesterday surprised his own
aides by announcing the government will change the law to tackle
rising energy bills, forcing companies to charge each customer
at the lowest rate for their type of use.  Pollution Rules  The government wants to develop a new generation of power
stations. Oil and coal-fired power plants with 14 percent of
Britain’s capacity are due to retire from service by 2015,
partly because of tighter pollution rules. The government also
is seeking to encourage new nuclear stations to replace the
current plants that will age out of the system by 2030.  The CBI’s deputy director general, Neil Bentley, will call
at the same event for more certainty from government over
policy, according to remarks released by the lobby group.  “While we support the government’s direction of travel,
the speed of progress is pretty frustrating,” Bentley will say.
“The Energy Bill is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to
boost our economy as well as head off our energy challenges. To
grab that opportunity before it is too late, we need less
politics, more policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  