-- Cameron to Make U.K. Energy Suppliers Charge Lowest Tariff
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-10-17T15:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/cameron-to-make-u-k-energy-suppliers-charge-lowest-tariff-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
said his government will change the law to tackle rising energy
bills by forcing companies to charge each customer at the lowest
rate for their type of use.  “I can announce we will be legislating so that energy
companies have to give the lowest tariff to their customers,”
Cameron told lawmakers in the House of Commons in London today.
His office confirmed afterward that the measure will be in the
Energy Bill, due before the end of this year.  The proposal wasn’t contained in the draft Energy Bill
published earlier this year, which focused on creating
incentives for generating companies to replace and increase
capacity.  Cameron’s statement came after announcements over the past
week of price increases by energy companies.  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s
British Gas, the biggest natural-gas and power supplier to U.K.
homes, said it would raise prices for both gas and electricity
by an average of 6 percent, and RWE Npower Plc said it will
boost rates for power by an average 9.1 percent and gas 8.8
percent.  Cameron’s commitment, given off the cuff in an answer
during his weekly prime minister’s questions session in
Parliament, was a surprise to aides, according to two who spoke
afterward. The government had been looking at how it could help
consumers short of full-scale regulation, said the aides, who
were not authorized to speak publicly on this issue.  ‘Very Concerned’  “You will have to wait for the energy bill to get the
details, but we will legislate to get the lowest tariff,”
Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters in London
later. “We’re very concerned about the cost of living.”  The squeeze on household budgets caused in part by rising
energy prices has been a bigger drag on the economy than
government budget cuts, the  Office for Budget Responsibility ,
Britain’s fiscal watchdog, said in a report published yesterday.  Field said that only a minority of consumers were taking
advantage of the possibility of switching providers to find the
lowest gas and electricity prices. “We need to place more
obligation on companies,” he said. “At the moment, everything
is down to the consumer. We feel we need to go further.”  “Energy companies should make sure they’re only adding to
their bills the absolute minimum they need to add to continue
investing in our energy supply,” Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne told ITV News last week. “I would urge those
energy companies to look again at any increases to see if they
are absolutely necessary.”  Pollution Rules  Oil and coal-fired power plants with 14 percent of
Britain’s capacity are due to retire from service by 2015,
partly because of tighter pollution rules and partly because
some of the facilities are nearing the end of their intended
life. The government also is seeking to encourage new nuclear
stations to replace the current plants that will age out of the
system by 2030.  The opposition Labour Party called on the government to
create a new energy watchdog with powers to force providers to
pass on price cuts to the consumer.  “The cheapest deal in an uncompetitive market will still
not be a good deal for the public unless we completely overhaul
our energy market to break the dominance of the big six energy
companies,” Labour’s energy spokeswoman, Caroline Flint, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Until we see real action from the
government, the prime minister’s warm words in the House of
Commons will be cold comfort to millions of families worried
about how they will pay their energy bills this winter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  