-- Canadian Dollar Breaks Three-Day Slide as Risk Aversion Falls
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-10-17T21:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/canadian-dollar-breaks-three-day-slide-as-risk-aversion-falls.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened for
the first time in four days against its U.S. counterpart as a
decline in risk aversion renewed demand for currencies of
nations that rely on natural resources.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, declined the most in almost three
months yesterday after Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
suggested the prior day that he may reduce his economic outlook
and delay raising policy  interest rates . The currency gained
after a report showed surging home housing starts in the U.S.,
Canada’s biggest trade partner.  “We have a little bit of a recovery,”  George Davis , chief
technical analyst for fixed income and currency strategy in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, said in telephone interview.
“We had some stronger data out in the U.S. this morning,
housing numbers, and that’s helped the backdrop a little bit.”  Canada’s currency rose 0.9 percent to 97.80 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. The currency declined 0.6
percent yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0225.  Oil futures were little changed at C$92 a barrel in New
York after gaining as much as 0.8 percent earlier. The Standard
& Poor’s Index advanced for the third day, rising 0.4 percent.  Investor  risk aversion  fell after Spain retained its high-
grade ranking from Moody’s Investors Service. Spanish 10-year
bonds extended an advance, pushing the yield on the notes to the
lowest in more than six months.  Yields Rise  Government bonds  fell, pushing the benchmark 10-year note
up 0.09 percentage point, or nine basis points, to 1.91 percent.
The price of the 2.75 percent notes maturing in June 2022 fell
81 cents to C$107.35.  Carney said in an Oct. 15 speech that his quarterly
forecast next week will reflect a prolonged global recovery,
suggesting he may reduce his growth forecasts and weaken a
policy tightening stance at odds with other Group of Seven
central banks that have been adding stimulus this year to boost
growth.  “The Bank of Canada, despite Carney’s comments, has been
very consistent that they feel a modest normalization of
interest rates will be warranted in the future,”  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK) , said in a telephone interview. “People are
also expecting Canada in coming days to report strong retail
sales.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  