-- Carlyle Is Said to Seek $1 Billion for U.S. Lending Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-10-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/carlyle-is-said-to-seek-1-billion-for-u-s-lending-fund.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-biggest private-equity firm, is seeking $1 billion to
make loans to U.S. middle-market companies, according to two
people with knowledge of the plan.  Carlyle GMS Finance Inc. would be regulated as a business-
development company and primarily make senior-secured and
unitranche loans with floating rates, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private.
Unitranche loans combine senior and mezzanine debt. The fund,
which Carlyle hasn’t yet registered with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, also will invest in other categories of
company debt and in equity.  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Washington-based
Carlyle, declined to comment.  Private-equity firms are raising capital to take advantage
of a pullback in lending by banks to middle-market companies,
which can have revenue ranging from $50 million to as much as $1
billion. TPG Capital amassed $1.4 billion for a private
business-development company that will eventually go public,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. KKR & Co. is
seeking as much as $500 million for a private equity-structured
fund that will make senior loans to middle-market companies,
said a person familiar with that firm.  Large private-equity firms such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR
and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  are diversifying from their
traditional leveraged-buyout businesses as they add assets under
management.  Return Target  Carlyle GMS Finance, which will use leverage through a $500
million borrowing facility, is seeking returns of 7 percent to
10 percent, according to the people. When capital is invested in
new deals, investors will receive shares in the business
development company, or BDC, the people said. The BDC is
expected to go public within the first five years.  The development company will be managed by Carlyle
professionals including Mitch Petrick, who oversees the
investment committee, and Linda Pace, head of U.S. structured
credit for the firm’s global market strategies unit. Some
members of a team from lender Churchill Financial, which Carlyle
bought last year, will also make investments. The group invested
$2.5 billion in 240 middle-market companies from 2006 to 2011,
according to the people.  BDCs are investment firms formed to finance small and
midsize companies. They don’t pay income taxes if they
distribute at least 90 percent of their taxable earnings to
investors.  Carlyle’s global market strategies business, founded in
1999, manages more than $29 billion in assets. It invests in
distressed debt and equity, corporate mezzanine, energy
mezzanine, emerging market equities, structured credit and
long/short credit.  Carlyle, with $156 billion under management as of June 30,
is second in assets to New York-based Blackstone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  