-- Carlyle Said to Sell Sequa Auto Unit to Jordan for $400 Million
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-10-17T20:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/carlyle-said-to-sell-sequa-auto-unit-to-jordan-for-400-million.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-biggest
private-equity firm by assets, has agreed to sell Sequa
Automotive Group to The Jordan Company in a deal valued at $400
million, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
deal.  The Jordan Company, a private-equity firm with $5 billion
of committed capital under management, will invest $125 million
in the business, said the people, who asked to remain anonymous
because the transaction hasn’t been announced.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
RBC Capital Markets LLC are set to start syndication of a $275
million loan to fund the deal, they said.  Jordan is carving the automotive business out of industrial
manufacturer Sequa Corp., which Washington-based Carlyle took
private in 2007 in a deal valued at $2.7 billion. Carlyle sought
to divest the auto unit, which makes airbag equipment for  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) , in order to focus on Sequa’s
aerospace business and make the company more valuable in a
potential public offering or strategic sale, said one of the
people.  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment, as did Charlyn Lusk, a spokeswoman for Jordan at
Stanton Public Relations & Marketing.  Sequa Automotive Group includes ARC Automotive, which makes
airbag inflators, and Casco Products Corp., a supplier of
cigarette lighters, power outlets and air-conditioning sensors,
according to the company’s website.  2008 Fund  Jordan, which was started in 1982 and has offices in  New
York ,  Chicago ,  Stamford  and Shanghai, participates in deals
worth $100 million to $2 billion, according to its  website . The
firm’s holdings include Haas Group International Inc., Kinetek
Group Inc. and Venari Resources LLC.  With the deal, Jordan finished investing its Resolute Fund
II, which raised $3.6 billion in 2008, said one of the people.
The firm is expected to start marketing a third fund to
prospective investors by next month with a similar target for
commitments, the person said.  Carlyle put $1.01 billion of investor money into the 2007
buyout of Sequa, according to fund marketing documents viewed by
 Bloomberg News , acquiring Sequa’s outstanding stock for $175 a
share. That equity value was marked at $1.11 billion, or 1.1
times invested capital, as of Dec. 31, the documents show.  Carlyle, founded in 1987, initially focused its buyout
investments in aerospace and defense. It now invests in
industries including real estate, health care, energy, consumer
and retail, telecommunications and financial services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  