-- CBOE Will Consider Asian Hub If London Center Succeeds
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-10-17T13:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/cboe-will-consider-asian-hub-if-london-center-succeeds.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , the biggest
operator of U.S. options markets by volume, may consider an
Asian hub to tap growing demand in the region after it gauges
the success of the one it will start in  London  next year.  “We are very positive about  Asia  for business,” CBOE
Chief Executive Officer Bill Brodsky said in an interview at the
World Federation of Exchanges annual conference in Taipei. “We
are starting the London hub in the first half of 2013 and if
we’re successful, Asia would be a logical next step.”  The London hub, which will include a  data center , will
provide European firms with a cheaper means to send and receive
data and help them execute trades on the exchange. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for
U.S. options known as the  VIX (VIX) , saw trading surge to a record
last month as investors from Asia to  Europe  and America sought
to protect gains in equities.  “To trade Asia, we don’t need to be in Asia,” Brodsky
said. “We just need to do Asian hours. The question is ‘do you
need an Asian hub so you can be close to the engine?’. It will
depend on demand but this could be particularly valuable during
non-U.S. trading hours.”  Chicago-based CBOE said in September that it will expand
trading hours for VIX futures to 24 hours from eight hours, five
days a week, starting in 2013. This is the third time in almost
two years that the CBOE Futures Exchange has announced an
extension of VIX trading hours. The contracts begin at 8 a.m.
 New York  time, compared with 9:30 a.m. in December 2010. The 1
1/2 hours of early trading represent about 5 percent to 6
percent of CBOE’s daily VIX futures volume.  “The big story for us has been the innovation on the VIX
futures,” Brodsky said.  Asia Follows  Exchanges in Asia started futures on volatility indexes
earlier this year to mimic that success. Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd. became the first Asian bourse to offer local
volatility index contracts on Feb. 20, and the Osaka Securities
Exchange Co. followed a week later with futures on the Nikkei
Volatility Index.  Investors in Europe have been able to trade futures on the
VStoxx Index, which tracks  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  swings, since
2009.  U.S. options volume declined 4.2 percent to 1.02 billion
contracts in the second quarter versus the same three months in
2011, according to data compiled by Chicago-based OCC, which
clears all exchange-traded contracts in the U.S.  “We don’t know when growth will return,” Brodsky said.
“It will come back but we don’t know when. My sense is that we
are slowly coming out of the malaise. This hasn’t been a normal
recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in Taipei at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  and @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  and @AndrewJRummer on Twitter 