-- Cemig Snubbing Rousseff Sparks Energy Showdown: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-10-17T19:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/cemig-snubbing-rousseff-sparks-energy-showdown-corporate-brazil.html
Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais ,
Brazil’s second-largest power generator, is challenging
President Dilma Rousseff’s plan to cut electricity rates that
are among the highest in the world.  Cemig, as the utility controlled by Minas Gerais state is
known, rejected a push to renegotiate three licenses accounting
for half of its generating capacity, saying it violates terms of
contracts it signed in the 1980s. Chief Financial Officer Luiz Fernando Rolla said yesterday on a conference call with analysts
that the concessions should be automatically renewed under
previous rules.  The move by Cemig, whose largest minority shareholder is
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , underscores the obstacles Rousseff faces in her
drive to cut electricity rates by as much as 28 percent to make
local manufacturers more competitive and spur growth. Cemig is
likely counting on congressional support to reject some of the
conditions set by Rousseff in favor of the existing system,
 Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  analyst Rafael Dias said.  “It’s a bold move,” Dias said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo. “If they succeed, you can bet others may follow
the same path.”  As growth in Latin America’s biggest economy has slowed,
Rousseff’s administration has been shifting its focus from
stimulating consumer demand to lowering costs of business that
deter investment. She unveiled her energy plan in September
asking companies to cut rates on electricity as of Jan. 1 as
part of conditions to renew concessions set to expire by 2017.  No Alternatives  Utilities submitted preliminary requests to renew 106
licenses under the plan by an Oct. 15 deadline, Andre Pepitone,
a director at electricity regulator Aneel, told reporters in
Brasilia yesterday. Cemig didn’t apply for renewal of the Sao
Simao, Jaguara and Miranda dams. Fourteen other license
extensions also weren’t submitted, he said.  “We are not counting on any alternative other than getting
the concessions renewed,” CFO Rolla said, adding that he
doesn’t expect to have to challenge the new rules in court.
“Our understanding is that contracts should be respected.”  Deputy Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  said Cemig’s
failure to submit the licenses for renewal means the government
can keep them or hold a new auction for the rights. Cemig risks
losing the licenses altogether should it fail to get backing
from lawmakers, said Rio de Janeiro-based Ativa Corretora’s
analyst Ricardo Correa.  ‘Unexpected’ Move  Cemig’s move was “unexpected,” Correa said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “They are trying to take advantage of a
gray area of the rule, a loophole.”  Cemig rallied as much as 6.2 percent yesterday, the biggest
intraday gain  since  November 2008, on analysts’ expectations the
utility may retain the right to charge higher rates. It fell 2
percent to 25.38 reais at 4:05 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  The utility posted a 9.2 percent  sales gain  in the second
quarter to 4.41 billion reais ($2.17 billion).  “The company’s managers and main shareholders have again
proven that their decisions are focused on adding value,” BTG
analysts Antonio Junqueira and Joao Pimentel in Sao Paulo said
in a report. The decision signals that “Cemig will still fight
for the automatic renewal rights for the three plants.”  BlackRock declined to comment in an e-mail.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  raised the  target price  for Cemig
to 27 reais from 23 reais and boosted its forecast for average
earnings before items in the next two years by 29 percent.  ‘Common Sense’  State-run  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  is among the
utilities that said they are interested in renewing all their
licenses under the plan.  Most existing Brazilian electricity concessions set to
expire by 2017 were previously renewed automatically at least
once. The three permits Cemig left out of Rousseff’s plan are
among the few that would be renewed for the first time, making
it easier for the company to claim it has the right to an
automatic extension, Dias said.  The lower rates would make it harder for Cemig to meet its
supply contracts, Chief Executive Officer Djalma Bastos de Morais said at a conference in Sao Paulo yesterday.  “I’m confident the government will use common sense,” CFO
Rolla said. “As a company that invests and believes in  Brazil ,
that’s all we can expect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  