-- Romney and Obama Ignore Coal’s Dark Side
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-17T22:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/championing-coal-romney-and-obama-ignore-its-dark-side.html
Mitt Romney  and  Barack Obama  have
traded barbs over coal in both their debates, each accusing the
other of failing to champion the fuel. It’s a shame that neither
U.S. presidential candidate acknowledges the difficult economic
reality coal now faces, or mentions that this form of power
still produces intolerable amounts of pollution and greenhouse
gases.  “I’m going to make sure we can continue to burn clean
coal,” Romney, the Republican nominee, said at the first debate
on Oct. 3. Obama didn’t disagree. When they met again this week,
they vied to come across as coal’s staunchest defender.  Nonetheless, the question remains: How can we “continue to
burn clean coal,” when we’ve never done so before?  In the near future, U.S. coal-fired power plants will be
required to scrub their emissions of mercury and other toxic
pollutants. They also may have to eliminate more sulfur dioxide
and nitrogen oxides, the chief ingredients of acid rain. Even
then, coal power will still put out too much carbon dioxide, the
main human-produced greenhouse gas.  Only when CO2 is also removed from the exhaust will it be
truthful to speak of coal as “clean.” When that happens, we will
happily embrace it as the source of some significant share of
U.S. electricity.  What the candidates also fail to mention is that coal
consumption is already declining as a result of economic
realities that have little to do with federal regulations meant
to make it cleaner. The price of natural gas, coal’s main
competitor in the electricity-generation business, has fallen to
historic lows. Natural-gas power plants, cheap and easy to build
and run, are springing up across the U.S. Electricity demand is
almost  flat . And slowly but surely, as states demand it,
renewable sources of power such as solar and wind are carrying a
greater share of demand.  So coal is unlikely to ever provide as much cheap wattage
as it once did. It now accounts for  39 percent  of U.S.
electricity, down from almost half only five years ago. (Over
the same period, the share provided by natural gas has risen to
34 percent, from 22 percent.) Many old plants built in the 1950s
and 1960s have been closing, and some are being altered to use
natural gas as fuel. Coal plants accounting for about 40
gigawatts -- 12 percent of total U.S. coal capacity -- have been
scheduled for retirement by 2016, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, and that number could soon grow to 60 gigawatts.  Yes, federal clean-air regulations -- which Romney
castigates and Obama inadequately defends -- will surely
accelerate some of these closures. This doesn’t mean, however,
that federal red tape is killing coal, as Romney would have it.  Instead, it reflects the increased attention to public
health in the decades since Congress passed the 1990 amendments
to the Clean Air Act meant to eventually restrict power-plant
emissions. This past spring, the Environmental Protection Agency
finalized a rule requiring coal plants to reduce emissions of
mercury and other toxic pollutants by 90 percent over the next
few years. Mercury, a potent neurotoxin, rains from polluted air
into lakes, rivers and streams, where it is consumed by fish.
When pregnant women eat the fish, it  can impair  their children’s
intelligence, and, according to a recent  study , increase the
risk of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder-related
behaviors.  Coal plants that add equipment to comply with the mercury
rule will also emit less sulfur dioxide and fine particles,
which are linked to a variety of physical ailments. All told,
the  rule is expected  to save thousands of lives and prevent more
than 100,000 heart and asthma attacks every year.  Further pollution restrictions are coming. Ideally, all
coal-fired power plants will eventually be built or retrofitted
with the capacity to  capture carbon  from smokestacks and store
it underground or find safe uses for it. There are two
challenges with this, however: Coal power with carbon-capture
technology is almost 50 percent more expensive to produce -- and
almost twice as costly as natural-gas-generated energy,
according to a Bloomberg Government analysis. And, so far,
carbon capture has succeeded only in small-scale demonstrations.  Making this a workable solution will take some pushing. We
 have endorsed , for example, the  National Enhanced Oil Recovery
Initiative ’s recommendation that Congress create a production
tax credit for power companies that capture CO2 from power
plants and send it to oil companies to use to free trapped crude
from underground rock formations.  There is a good economic reason to hope cleaner coal will
work on a large scale, even beyond the fact that the U.S. has a
lot of it. As coal power’s share of electricity generation
shrinks, the most logical replacement is natural gas. Yet as
demand for this fuel increases in the years ahead, it is
unlikely to remain as cheap and plentiful as it is now. We
should avoid becoming overly dependent on it.  A simplistic political debate over whether to return to
coal’s dirty past -- to roll back the mercury rule and call off
any new emissions regulations, as  Romney suggests  -- won’t
achieve our goals. It only stands in the way of having a
realistic discussion about our energy future.  (Disclosure:  Bloomberg Philanthropies , the charitable
foundation of  New York  Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, principal
owner of Bloomberg LP, is donating $50 million to the Sierra
Club’s campaign to shut down coal plants.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the right way  to plug
national security ; Caroline Baum on  five things the Republicans
won’t tell you ; Ezra Klein on  Romney's biggest problem ; 
Jonathan Mahler on the  decline and fall of the New York Yankees ; 
Fouad Ajami on  Malala and the history of Pakistan ; Phil 
Zuckerman on why  secular voters may be more powerful  than you 
think.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 