-- Cheetah Rules, Wal-Mart Monitor, Citigroup: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-17T12:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/cheetah-rules-wal-mart-monitor-citigroup-compliance.html
Commodity Futures Trading
Commissioner Bart Chilton said in speech yesterday in Dallas
that high-frequency traders, known as cheetahs, need to be
registered, and should be required to be tested before
introduced into the trading environment, according to remarks
prepared for delivery.  He said it should be mandatory to have kill switches in
event of cheetah programs going feral. Cheetahs should be
required to create pre-trade risk controls to prevent cross-
trading, he said. Chilton also recommended penalties if there is
a flash crash.  Separately, high-frequency traders should be registered,
and traders who violate his proposed rules should be penalized
on a per-second basis, Chilton said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  Compliance Action  Wal-Mart Creates Overseas Monitor Role Amid Corruption Probe  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, created
a position to monitor its international business units amid a
bribery probe at the company’s Mexico operations.  Daniel Trujillo will start as senior vice president and
chief compliance officer of its international operations on Oct.
29, according to a company memo. Trujillo will be responsible
for reviewing, assessing and integrating compliance outside the
U.S., Wal-Mart said.  The U.S. Justice Department and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission are investigating possible violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The government agencies are
probing allegations that Wal-Mart systematically bribed Mexican
officials so it could more quickly open stores.  “Wal-Mart is committed to having strong and effective
compliance programs around the world,”  David Tovar , a Wal-Mart
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Over the past 18
months, we have made improvements to our global compliance
programs and have taken a number of specific, concrete actions
with respect to our processes, procedures and people.”  The Wall Street Journal reported the hiring earlier
yesterday.  Nomura Gets Biggest Fine in 12 Years by Japan Brokers Group  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  was fined 300 million yen ($3.8
million), the biggest penalty by the  Japan Securities Dealers
Association  against any firm in 12 years, after employees leaked
information on clients’ plans.  The Nomura Securities Co. domestic brokerage unit lacked
internal controls to safeguard information on share sales it
managed in 2010, the self-regulatory group for brokers said in a
statement on its website yesterday. The fine follows an Aug. 3
order by regulators that Tokyo-based Nomura, Japan’s biggest
brokerage, improve compliance.  Brokerages in Japan are seeking an end to a crackdown on
confidentiality breaches that cost Nomura’s two top executives
their jobs and implicated staff from at least four securities
firms.  Japanese politicians have urged that rules barring the
government from imposing fines against companies that leak
information be toughened. The Financial Services Agency is
preparing legislation that would establish penalties for
tipsters and impose stricter punishment for insider trading.  Nomura said in June that employees provided information on
offerings it arranged for  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Inpex
Corp. (1605)  and  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  to traders who sold the
stocks before the deals were announced in 2010.  The revelations tarnished Nomura’s reputation and led it to
lose underwriting deals. Nomura’s fine exceeds the 200 million
yen the dealers’ association imposed on  SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc. (8316)  in June and was the biggest since Minami Securities was
docked 500 million yen in 2000.  Turkey Loopholes on Terror Finance Risk OECD Blacklist  Turkey has failed to tighten laws blocking financing of
terrorist groups, and risks being put on a list of non-complying
countries that includes Iran and North Korea, said academics and
analysts from Istanbul to Washington.  The  Financial Action Task Force  sponsored by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  warned in
June  it would “call upon its members to apply countermeasures”
against Turkey if rules weren’t tightened by October. Kenya and
Myanmar are the other two countries  at risk  of joining the
blacklist. The group meets in Paris today to address the issue.  OECD concerns include inadequate monitoring of bank
transfers and unwillingness to freeze accounts. A terror
financing bill drafted to address them is still held up in
Turkey’s parliament.  Hakki Koylu, deputy chairman of parliament’s Justice
Committee, said Turkey is “already implementing measures
against terrorist financing” and can freeze assets where needed
under existing laws. He said the government backs the new rules
required by the OECD, and the only reason they haven’t made it
onto the statute books is that “parliament’s agenda is just
busy.”  Turkey is non-compliant with 10 out of 40 Task Force
recommendations, and only fully compliant with three, according
to Safak Herdem, a partner at Istanbul law firm Herdem & Co. and
author of a study on the issue.  For more, click here.  U.K.’s FSA Tells RBS to Consider Selling Unit, Sky Says  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority Managing Director
Andrew Bailey said in letter to  Royal Bank of Scotland  Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  last week that selling the
Citizens unit and shrinking global banking and markets
operations could help boost its capital position, Sky reported,
without saying where it got the information.  U.K. Financial Investments, which manages the government’s
82 percent stake in Royal Bank of Scotland, gave the bank a
similar message previously, according to Sky.  The FSA and the bank declined to comment on the matter, Sky
reported.  Courts  Hedge Fund Ikos Can’t Search Ex-Employee Computers, Judge Rules  Ikos Asset Management Ltd. affiliates lost a bid for a
court order to search the computers of former employees Sam
Gover and Peter Ho for confidential information and software it
says was taken from the hedge fund.  Judge Timothy King in London rejected an application made
by Ikos Cif Ltd. and Phaestos Ltd. in a written decision
yesterday, saying it was “in truth an unjustified fishing
expedition” to find evidence of wrongdoing.  Gover and Ho are involved in separate lawsuits against Ikos
claiming they are owed 6 million pounds ($9.7 million) in unpaid
bonuses. Ikos is also suing them for the return of 12 million
pounds in bonus payments because they didn’t comply with their
duties, King said in the ruling.  Gover and Ho now run hedge fund  Altiq LLP , which competes
with Ikos, according to the ruling. Ikos claimed in its lawsuit
that the men took information about the fund’s profits and bonus
payments and may have used its software. There is no evidence
the pair misused any information, King said.  Jonathan Chamberlain, the lawyer representing Gover and Ho,
declined to comment in an e-mail. Ikos’s lawyer, Alan Watts,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Ex-Banker Girlfriends Doubled Cash on Insider Tips, FSA Says  Christina Weckwerth and Jessica Mang, two girlfriends of
former Mizuho International Plc investment banker Thomas Ammann,
reaped returns of more than 2 million pounds ($3.2 million)
trading on illegal tips about  Canon Inc. (7751) ’s acquisition of OCE
NV, prosecutors said.  Both women paid half the profits they made to Ammann,
Amanda Pinto, a lawyer for the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, said in opening arguments at a London criminal court
yesterday.  Weckwerth and Mang were each charged with one count of
insider trading relating to events that occurred in 2009. They
have pleaded not guilty. Insider trading in the U.K. can be
punished by as much as seven years in prison.  Canon, the Tokyo-based maker of cameras and photocopiers,
agreed to buy OCE in a 730 million-euro deal in November 2009.  Ammann, who worked for the Mizuho mergers and acquisitions
team that advised Canon on the deal, pleaded guilty earlier this
year to insider trading and encouraging both women to commit
insider trading, Pinto said.  UBS Fixed Trading Loophole Used by Adoboli, Risk Officer Says  UBS AG (UBSN)  fixed a loophole allegedly used by former trader
Kweku Adoboli to hide unauthorized transactions by giving them
long-term settlement dates, the bank’s risk officer said at a
London criminal trial.  The bank’s system for flagging extended trades with
settlement periods longer than 14 days -- and calling their
counterparties for verification -- stopped functioning and was
reinstated after Adoboli was arrested last year for allegedly
causing a $2.3 billion loss, Colin Bell, the bank’s global head
of operational risk, said in a London court yesterday.  Prosecutors have said Adoboli, who is on trial for fraud
and false accounting, hid the risk of his trades by booking fake
hedges while he worked at the exchange-traded funds desk in
London. He’s also accused of creating a secret internal account,
his so-called umbrella, where he parked trading profits to cover
future losses. Adoboli, 32, has pleaded not guilty and his
lawyers have sought to show he didn’t act alone and traders were
encouraged to exceed trading limits to increase profits.  Interviews/Speeches  Banks’ Capital Gap May Threaten U.K. Lending, FSA’s Bailey Says  Some U.K. banks may have a “capital gap” that could limit
their ability to lend to businesses and households, said  Andrew
Bailey , head of banking supervision at the Financial Services
Authority.  The gap, the difference between the book value and market
value of banks’ capital, must be dealt with by regulators to
ensure the U.K.’s economic recovery, Bailey said in a speech in
London today to business executives.  “The danger of a very slow resolution of the capital gap
is that new lending to the economy is seriously restrained,”
Bailey said, according to an e-mailed copy of his prepared
remarks.  Lending growth has remained slow despite the FSA relaxing
guidance on how U.K. banks calculate liquidity and capital
buffers,  according  to the regulator. The FSA last month relaxed
the amount of funds U.K. banks must keep in reserve in an effort
to spur lending and stimulate credit growth.  The full answer to the capital gap isn’t yet clear, Bailey
said today, and possibilities include encouraging lenders to
raise new capital and to allocate existing reserves to growth-
inducing lending.  One option could be to encourage banks to issue so-called
contingent convertible bonds, or CoCos, a form of fixed income
security that would automatically convert into ordinary shares
if a bank’s capital falls through a pre-fixed floor.  Levitt Sees ‘Other Changes’ at Citigroup  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, talked about  Vikram Pandit ’s departure as
chief executive officer of  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Pandit was replaced by  Michael Corbat , who led Citigroup in
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa. Levitt, a Bloomberg LP board
member, spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here and for more, see Comings and
Goings, below.  Comings and Goings  Citigroup Expanded Shadow Banking as Pandit Urged Regulation  Vikram Pandit, who abruptly resigned yesterday as chief
executive officer of Citigroup Inc., was among the most vocal
critics of shadow banking, the lightly regulated lending that
can mask risk in the financial system. He was also among the
kings of the business.  Under Pandit, Citigroup arranged more than $7 billion of
collateralized loan obligations in the U.S. this year through
September, three times as much as the same period in 2011 and
more than any other lender, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley. The bank also caters to money-
market funds, managed share sales in mortgage real estate
investment trusts and runs a stable of internal credit funds.  All are part of a shadow-banking system that offers complex
forms of credit and that led to billions of dollars in losses
during the financial crisis. While regulators from Washington to
Brussels say they’re scrutinizing this lending to prevent
another calamity, banks including Citigroup,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among its biggest enablers.  Pandit, 55, criticized lawmakers for neglecting unregulated
entities while saddling lenders such as his with restrictions.  Shadow-banking assets in 11 countries including the U.S.
have more than doubled since 2002 to $51 trillion, an amount
equal to about half of total bank assets in those nations,
according to a 2011 report by the  Financial Stability Board ,
which coordinates the work of regulators, central bankers and
policy makers.  For more, click here and click here.  Euroclear’s Wicks Replaces Barclays’s Agius as BBA Chairman  The British Bankers’ Association, the lobby group that
oversees Libor, said Euroclear SA’s Nigel Wicks will replace
Marcus Agius as chairman in the wake of the rate-rigging
scandal.  Wicks’s appointment was announced today at the BBA’s
international banking conference in London, the group said in a
statement. Wicks, a former British civil servant, is chairman of
Brussels-based Euroclear and is due to retire from the trade-
settlement company in January.  As a civil servant, Wicks, 72, was private secretary to
three British prime ministers,  Margaret Thatcher , James
Callaghan and Harold Wilson. The former U.K. executive director
of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund was also a
member of the European Union’s so-called Committee of Wise Men
on European Securities Regulation from 2000 to 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  