-- China’s Aging Trend Makes Trauson a Deal Target: Real M&A
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-10-18T08:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/china-s-aging-trend-makes-trauson-a-deal-target-real-m-a.html
The race to help  China ’s 181 million
elderly with artificial joints and implanted spinal supports is
making targets of  Trauson Holdings Co. (325)  and a unit of  Shandong
Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co. (1066)   Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , based in  Minneapolis , last month announced
the $755 million takeover of orthopedic implant maker China
Kanghui Holdings Inc. in a nation where the senior population
may more than double by 2050. That deal may spur a pursuit of
rivals including Trauson, whose screws and scaffolds hold backs
together, and Weigao’s orthopedic business that makes metal
plates to stabilize bones, Barclays Plc said. Both companies are
more profitable than at least 92 percent of similar-sized Asia-
Pacific medical equipment and device makers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Orthopedic implant sales in China will almost double to
$2.7 billion by 2015, vaulting it past  Japan  as the biggest
market after the U.S.,  Frost & Sullivan  said. Even after Weigao
stock rose 50 percent this year and Trauson leapt 110 percent as
of yesterday, Oppenheimer & Co. says the companies are still
attractive because of their potential to win business in
provincial China. Buyers may be overseas rivals or  Mindray
Medical International Ltd. (MR) , said Core Pacific-Yamaichi
International (H.K.) Ltd. and Fortune CLSA Securities Ltd.  “China is where the growth is, and it has very few pure-
play orthopedic companies,” Jason Mann, a Hong Kong-based
health-care analyst at Barclays, said in a telephone interview.
“Some people wonder whether Medtronic’s competitors will be
forced to make an acquisition to stay in the game. Trauson is
the obvious next partner in terms of an acquisition target.”  Trauson  rose  2.7 percent to HK$3.79 in Hong Kong at the
close of trading today, and Weigao climbed as much as 3.8
percent before closing up 0.2 percent at HK$10.50.  Pelvic Plates  Trauson, which has a market value of HK$2.9 billion ($374
million), is China’s largest maker of pelvic reconstruction
plates and other orthopedic products used in trauma surgery.  It competes with Kanghui and Weigao as one of the top three
domestic producers of spinal products, including rods and screws
to keep backs stable. Changzhou, China-based Trauson, which
began trading in  Hong Kong  in June 2010, made more than half its
sales from trauma products and 21 percent from spinal products
in the six months ended in June, according to its latest
earnings report.  Weigao, with a market value of HK$47 billion, derives most
of its operating income from consumables, such as syringes and
blood bags. Still, its orthopedic unit, which contributed almost
$13 million in 2011 operating income -- 10 percent  of the
company’s total, has takeover appeal, said Mann at Barclays and
Ingrid Yin, an analyst at Oppenheimer.  Kanghui Premium  “Weigao ortho can be a very attractive acquisition,” said
New York-based Yin. “More than one multinational company would
be interested in the space.”  Phyllis Chan, a spokeswoman for Weigao, and Alice Zhang, a
spokeswoman for Trauson, declined to comment.  In its biggest overseas acquisition, Medtronic announced on
Sept. 27 that it agreed to  buy  Changzhou-based  Kanghui (KH)  to add
trauma, spine and joint reconstruction products. Medtronic is
paying about 31 times New York-traded Kanghui’s 2011 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -- almost
double the median multiple in medical-products deals in the past
12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trauson Attraction  Medtronic, a supplier of pacemakers and spinal implants,
said the acquisition will strengthen its sales and distribution
network. It removes one of three largest domestic orthopedic
products makers in China and makes market leader Trauson a
target for other overseas buyers, said Kevin Tam, an analyst at
Core Pacific-Yamaichi in Hong Kong.  “The foreign players have an advantage in product quality,
but their sales coverage is mainly in first-tier cities,” Tam
said. “In China, the growth will be driven by inner cities and
second- and third-tier cities. Domestic players have an
advantage in this aspect.”  Trauson and Kanghui each have about 7 percent of the
Chinese orthopedic market, according to Mann at Barclays.
There’s no single dominant domestic manufacturer, he said.  Trauson had about 663 distributors supplying more than
3,840 licensed hospitals in China as of June 30, its interim
report said. Sales will increase 36 percent to the equivalent of
$80.8 million in 2012, according to the average of nine
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Mass Market’  Overseas makers of orthopedic implants typically target
wealthier patients in China, limiting their scope for growth,
said Gideon Lo, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong.
Depending on their strategy, teaming up with a Chinese company
would enable them to tap a wider market, he said.  “If you want to do the mass market, that will require more
effort to build up a local network,” he said. “That is the
reason you require local partners.”  Surgeons in China are more likely to trust the quality of
implants sold by a local supplier that has allied with an
overseas manufacturer, said Jacqueline Mei, an analyst at CLSA.
That’s because foreign producers typically make more durable,
more expensive devices, she said.  Weigao’s orthopedic business may become a target for a
buyer once a joint venture between Weigao and Medtronic ends,
according to Yin, the health-care analyst at Oppenheimer. She
expects them to end their venture in the middle of 2013.  Profit Margins  Medtronic has an option to buy the rest of the distribution
venture with Weigao and the Chinese company’s entire orthopedic
business for 2.5 billion  yuan  ($400 million) to 4.4 billion
yuan, according to a  stock exchange filing . Medtronic isn’t
likely to exercise that option, said Yin.  Part of the appeal of Chinese orthopedic manufacturers is
their profitability, Jason Siu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at OSK
Investment Bank Bhd., wrote in an Oct. 3 report.  Trauson made 45 cents of operating profit from each dollar
of sales in its most recently reported 12-month period that
ended in December. That’s the fourth-highest margin among 181
companies with market values higher than $100 million in the
Asia-Pacific region that participate in the medical equipment
and devices industry, and for which margin information is
available, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Weigao, with a 27 percent  operating margin  in its most
recent 12-month period, is 17th.  Brittle Bones  New York-listed Mindray, a medical device maker based in
Shenzhen, China, is looking for more opportunities to acquire
technology and products, including in orthopedics, said Cathy
Gao, a spokeswoman. The company agreed in June to pay $35.5
million for a controlling stake in Wuhan Dragonbio Surgical
Implant Co., a manufacturer of trauma, spinal and joint
products. Mindray had $710 million in  cash  at the end of June.  China has 181 million people over 60 years, triple the
number in the U.S. and more than in any other country, the
United Nations Population Fund said in a  report  this month. By
2050, China will have 439 million seniors, accounting for a
third of its population, the UN group said.  “Many Chinese elderly people don’t drink milk or may not
have adequate calcium intake, making osteoporosis a bigger
problem,” said Peter Chiu Kwong-yuen, a professor at the
University of Hong Kong’s department of orthopedics and
traumatology. “Trauma due to osteoporosis will become a big
problem in mainland China.”  Hip and joint surgery in China will become more common with
increasing public awareness of the benefits, he said.  ‘Hottest Area’  While Chinese-produced products may cost as little as a
10th of the price of those made overseas, foreign companies
aren’t likely to cut prices, said Mann at Barclays. Rather,
overseas companies could tap a larger share of the market in
China if they owned premium as well as local brands, he said.  Larger Chinese implant makers, such as Trauson and Weigao,
may be more attractive than smaller ones because they are more
likely to win contracts to supply Chinese hospitals as tenders
become more centralized, said Yin at Oppenheimer. While smaller
companies may cost an acquirer less, they may be less successful
in winning such contracts, she said.  “China is the hottest area globally in the device space,”
said Mann at Barclays. “Some companies might feel like they
need to make something happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil in  New York  at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  