-- China Repo Rate Snaps 3-Day Drop as U.S. Data Improves Outlook
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-10-17T08:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/china-repo-rate-snaps-3-day-drop-as-u-s-data-improves-outlook.html
China ’s money-market rate rose,
snapping a three-day decline, as an improvement in the  U.S.
economy  brightened the outlook for regional and global growth.  A government report today may show U.S. housing starts
increased to a four-year high after data yesterday that saw
factory output beat analysts’ estimates and home-builder
confidence climb to the highest in six years. The People’s Bank
of China gauged demand for a sale of seven- and 14-day reverse-
repurchase contracts due tomorrow, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  “The upmove is due to the general risk-on sentiment,”
said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong
Kong . “There’s nothing special regarding liquidity, which
remains easier than before the holiday,” she said, referring to
the week-long break at the start of October.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, climbed seven basis points to 2.87 percent in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 2.70 percent
yesterday and on Oct. 12, the lowest since Sept. 4.  The PBOC added 76 billion yuan ($12 billion) to the banking
system yesterday using reverse-repurchase contracts. It sold 18
billion yuan of seven-day reverse repos at 3.35 percent,
unchanged from the last auction on Oct. 11, according to a
central bank statement published on its website. The monetary
authority also conducted 58 billion  yuan  of 28-day reverse repos
at 3.60 percent, the same as the rate on Oct. 9.  Interest-Rate Swaps  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo rate, climbed four basis points to 3.13
percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on the 2.95 percent government bonds due August 2017
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.20 percent,
Chinabond data show.  The  finance ministry  sold at least 26 billion yuan of one-
year bonds at an average yield of 2.94 percent today, according
to a trader at a  finance company  that participates in government
debt auctions. The average yield compared with the 2.75 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 4 fixed-income
analysts and traders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  