-- Citigroup’s Pandit and the Selective Use of Facts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-10-17T12:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/citigroup-s-pandit-and-the-selective-use-of-facts.html
What  Citigroup Inc. (C)  has always
needed is a leader who will be straight about the company’s
finances, without spinning the facts. For that reason, the
departure of Vikram Pandit as chief executive officer is
progress.  To see the sort of games that Citigroup has been playing
the past few years, check how the bank presented the results in
its third-quarter  earnings release  on Oct. 15, the day before
Pandit resigned. Under generally accepted accounting principles,
the company said it had net income of $468 million for the
quarter. On a non-GAAP basis, though, Citigroup said its
earnings were  $3.3 billion .  One of the items Citigroup excluded was a $2.9 billion loss
related to selling its stake in its brokerage joint venture with
 Morgan Stanley. (MS)  This is about as funny as you will ever see
accounting humor get, and here’s why.  Back in mid-2009, when Citigroup first entered into the
deal with Morgan Stanley, then known as Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney, it recorded a $6.7 billion gain on the transaction.
However, it didn’t tell investors to exclude that gain from its
non-GAAP financial measures as part of its second-quarter 2009
earnings release. It’s easy to see why: Without the gain,
Citigroup would have  shown  a quarterly loss.  At least Citigroup isn’t trying to make any pretense that
the dueling non-GAAP treatments were consistent with each other.
Asked to explain the company’s rationale for excluding the big
loss, a Citigroup spokesman, Mark Costiglio, e-mailed me a one-
sentence statement: “In both cases, the gain and/or loss on
MSSB was visible, transparent and included in our earnings.”  In other words (and these are my words, not his), if you
were fooled into thinking the loss didn’t matter, then that’s
your problem.  That anecdote captures what it was like to watch Citigroup
communicate with the outside world during Pandit’s tenure as
CEO, which began in December 2007. In November 2008, after
repeatedly insisting the company had “very strong capital,”
Citigroup took the second of its three federal bailouts.  Pandit, 55, stuck to the story that Citigroup was a healthy
institution when it got bailed out. In March 2010, he told a
congressional oversight panel that short sellers were to blame
for the bank’s problems. That was never a credible explanation.  Last year, thanks to documents released by the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission, the public learned that the U.S.
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency had sent Pandit a
letter in February 2008 describing numerous ways in which
Citigroup’s internal controls were inadequate. Eight days after
that letter, Pandit certified that Citigroup’s internal controls
were effective. It’s still a mystery how he or Citigroup
justified doing so.  So it’s no wonder that Citigroup’s stock is trading for
just 59 percent of  book value , or common shareholder equity,
which tells you that investors don’t trust the numbers on the
company’s balance sheet. The public can’t even get a clear
explanation from Citigroup or Pandit about the circumstances of
his departure. In a  news release  yesterday, the board said
 Michael Corbat , 52, had been elected CEO, and that Pandit
resigned after “guiding Citi through the crisis and positioning
it well for the future.” (Corbat had been CEO of Citigroup’s
operations in  Europe ,  Africa  and the  Middle East .)  In a memo to employees, Pandit said he was the one who had
“decided to step down as CEO of Citi.” Within hours of his
departure,  Bloomberg News  reported that Citigroup directors had
ousted Pandit because of mismanagement and lack of credibility
with investors, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
board’s discussions. That explanation makes more sense than the
idea that Pandit quit on his own.  Citigroup  shares  dropped almost 90 percent while Pandit was
CEO. Maybe most of that can’t even be blamed on Pandit, but some
of it can. (If it hadn’t been for the government, the stock
would be worth nothing.) Pandit had little experience as a
commercial banker before he took the job, and never seemed cut
out for the role.  Now comes Corbat, who one hopes has the sense to know that,
along with making money, the most important measure of progress
at Citigroup will be a simple one: Citigroup needs to show it
can be trusted.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  