-- Citigroup 5-Year Critic Mayo Says Buy Shares on Pandit Exit
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-10-17T20:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/citigroup-s-5-year-critic-mayo-recommends-buying-on-pandit-exit.html
Michael Mayo, an analyst who has
spent the past five years telling investors to sell  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s stock, reversed his stance after the board replaced
 Vikram Pandit  as chief executive officer yesterday.  Mayo, who works in New York for CLSA Ltd., changed his
 rating  to outperform from underperform because Pandit’s ouster
reflects a “more proactive board,” the analyst wrote in a
note. The change may lead to additional restructuring and more
dividends for shareholders as the firm repairs its credibility
with regulators, he wrote.  Citigroup Chairman Michael O’Neill leads the board, which
replaced Pandit with Michael Corbat, 52, in a move that could
improve “poor governance,” Mayo wrote in the note. He hasn’t
told clients to buy shares in New York-based Citigroup since
October of 2007, when the bank faced billions of dollars in
losses linked to subprime mortgages and related securities.  “The change in leadership at Citigroup is a sign of
improved governance by the board compared to a decade of risk
management and regulatory mishaps with little to no
accountability,” Mayo wrote. “Yesterday’s CEO change
definitely gives a greater sense of accountability, though we
strongly would have preferred a smoother transition.”  Citigroup directors ousted Pandit, 55, after concluding his
mismanagement of operations caused setbacks with regulators and
damaged credibility with investors, a person with knowledge of
the discussions said yesterday.  Biggest Critic  “There was no bigger critic of Vikram Pandit than me,”
Mayo said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart” with  Trish Regan  and Adam Johnson. “We got rid
of a CEO and a governance that went with him that didn’t
consider shareholders enough.”  Mayo said that Citigroup under Pandit treated shareholders
as if it was “too big to care.” He said he hopes the firm’s
governance will improve under Corbat and O’Neill.  Citigroup  gained  3.2 percent to close at $38.43 in New
York. The shares have increased 4.8 percent since the bank
announced Pandit’s departure.  The lender needs to be aggressive and creative in disposing
of unwanted assets, especially in an improving housing market,
Mayo said. Citigroup has almost $100 billion of mortgages tagged
for sale in its Citi Holdings unit, which Corbat used to run.  “ Michael Corbat  is an operator,” Mayo said in the
interview. “Now you have the operator who has already disposed
of assets working for a chairman who has disposed of assets at a
company where they need to dispose of more assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  