-- Citigroup Said to Hire Seven Bankers in Japan on M&A Outlook
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-10-17T08:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/citigroup-said-to-hire-seven-bankers-in-japan-over-three-months.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is hiring seven
bankers in  Japan  in anticipation that more companies will make
cross-border acquisitions and restructure, two people with
knowledge of the situation said.  The recruits include two senior and five junior staff, said
the people, who asked not to be named as the information is
private. Masao Yoshikawa will join Citigroup as managing
director and head of Japan M&A on Nov. 1, according to an
internal memo. Tokyo-based spokeswoman Mika Nemoto confirmed the
contents of the memo while declining to comment on the hiring.  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s $20 billion bid for control of  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  underscores the potential for mergers advisory
business in Japan as a stronger yen and a stagnating domestic
 economy  make expansion abroad more attractive. Japanese
companies announced overseas acquisitions valued at $96 billion
this year, the most since at least 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s mergers and acquisitions activity is “expected to
remain robust, particularly in outbound crossborder M&A,” New
York-based Citigroup said in the memo. Yoshikawa most recently
worked as a partner and Japan representative of private equity
firm  Silver Lake , it said.  Some of the seven recruits have begun work already and
others will start within three months, the people said.  The hiring comes after Citigroup cut jobs worldwide as part
of former Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ’s efforts to
reshape the bank. Pandit stepped down yesterday and was replaced
by  Michael Corbat , a 29-year veteran of the firm.  Younger Bankers  The world’s largest banks are slowing the rate of large-
scale job reductions after eliminations surged 14 months ago,
when Europe’s debt crisis escalated. Some U.S. firms operating
in Japan are looking to hire younger staff to restrain personnel
costs as business opportunities pick up, said recruitment
consultant Katsunobu Komizo.  “There are growing needs for young people, especially
among U.S. banks as business is shifting to them from European
firms,” said Komizo, president at Executive Search Partners
Co., Japan’s biggest recruitment firm focusing on banks. “Young
bankers are also hungry to tackle global business at U.S. banks
and break out of Japan’s stagnated  markets .”  Komizo said he has received profiles from more than 160
bankers under the age of 32 in the past three months.  Japanese investment banks are also seeking opportunities
from the boom in cross-border takeovers.  SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc. (8316) , a unit of the country’s second-biggest bank by market
value, said today that it is starting mergers and acquisitions
advisory operations in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  