-- CME Group to Buy Kansas City Board of Trade for $126 Million
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-10-17T15:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/cme-group-to-buy-kansas-city-board-of-trade-for-126-million.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, will buy the Kansas City Board of Trade for
$126 million in cash to add a wheat contract to its products.  CME Group’s  Chicago  Board of Trade lists futures on soft-
red winter wheat that are a lower-quality grain used in  animal
feed  and some cookies and cakes compared with Kansas City’s hard
red winter wheat, which is used to make bread and other food
products. Hard red winter varieties will account for 44 percent
of U.S. wheat production this year, government data show.
Futures and options on the grain are the only contracts listed
at the Kansas City exchange.  The acquisition is CME Group’s largest since it bought the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  for $7.6 billion in 2008. The
company, which offers futures contracts on  interest rates ,
equity indexes, currencies, energy and commodities, was formed
by the acquisition of the Chicago Board of Trade by the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange the year before.  Jason Britt , president of brokerage Central States
Commodities Inc. in Kansas City,  Missouri , said there was
speculation before today that Intercontinental Exchange Inc.,
the second-largest U.S. futures market that’s known as ICE, was
interested in buying the Kansas City market.  “There is talk that it was a hurry-up-and-do-it because
ICE was involved and CME wanted to outbid them and give them a
springboard into the grains,” he said. The purchase will bring
the two wheat contracts onto the same trading system, making it
easier for traders to buy one and sell the other simultaneously,
he said. “With the CME platform it’ll make it easier on the
spread traders,” he said. “The most difficult thing was
getting the spreads to match up.”  Interested Parties  Jeff Borchardt, chief executive officer of the  Kansas City 
Board of Trade, said there were other buyers for the company,
though he declined to name them.  “There were multiple interested parties that could bring
value to the shareholders,” he said on a conference call with
reporters today. Steven Campbell, chairman of the exchange, said
the process of selling the private company began in the spring.  Brookly McLaughlin, an Intercontinental spokeswoman, said
the company doesn’t comment on speculation about acquisitions.  CME Group, based in Chicago, controls about 98 percent of
U.S. futures trading. The company  had  $1.29 billion in cash and
cash equivalents as of June 30, according to its most-recent
quarterly filing.  A seat on the Kansas City market last sold for $480,000 on
Aug. 28, according to the company’s  website . CME Group fell 0.2
percent to $57.39 as of 10:57 a.m. in  New York . The  shares  have
gained 17.8 percent this year.  CME Group said it will maintain the Kansas City trading
floor active for at least six months.  Terrence Duffy , executive
chairman of CME Group, said on the conference call that
timeframe isn’t certain and the company may keep the floor open
for longer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net 
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  