-- Coca-Cola, Sanofi Form Pilot Venture to Test ‘Beauty Drink’
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-10-17T15:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/coca-cola-sanofi-form-pilot-venture-to-test-beauty-drink-1-.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Sanofi (SAN)  set up a
joint venture to sell health drinks at French pharmacies, a
pilot project to test demand for beverages with beauty claims.  The beverages, called Beautific and sold under the brand
name Oenobiol, will be available within months, the two
companies said in separate statements. Coca-Cola, the world’s
largest soft-drink maker, will handle formulation and Sanofi
will oversee distribution, according to the French drugmaker.  Sanofi is looking to diversify to reduce its reliance on
 prescription drugs  while Coca-Cola faces pressure to offer
healthier beverages amid rising obesity rates. The first four
drinks will help with hair,  weight loss , sun exposure and
general vitality, according to a Sanofi presentation obtained by
Bloomberg. The product, designed to appeal to active urban women
aged 25 to 45, will cost between 2 euros ($2.60) and 3 euros a
bottle, the document shows.  “The blockbuster model is broken, and drugmakers have been
turning to consumer health-care,” Pierre Corby, an analyst at
Aurel BGC in Paris, said in a phone interview.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has been
reshaping the French company since he took over almost four
years ago. The 52-year-old CEO has been expanding in  animal
health  as well as consumer products as its top medicines,
including the blood-thinner Plavix, face generic competition.  Coca-Cola and Sanofi will own 50 percent of the venture,
Sanofi said in an e-mailed statement.  Gold Bond Powder  Sanofi’s consumer health-care business has been growing
through purchases, such as the 2010 acquisition of Chattem Inc.,
the U.S. maker of Gold Bond medicated powder. The company
acquired  Laboratoire Oenobiol , a French maker of nutritional
beauty supplements, three years ago. Sales of  consumer goods ,
which Sanofi touts as one of its growth platforms,  rose 23
percent  to 2.7 billion euros ($3.54 billion) last year.  At the same time, Viehbacher has been cutting internal
research, ending the least promising projects and lowering
headcount. In  France , a new plan to eliminate about 900 jobs by
2015 has drawn criticism from politicians and unions.  Today’s announcement is an example of how Sanofi’s identity
is changing under Viehbacher, unions said.  “They presented this project to our sales forces as if it
were the height of innovation,” Thierry Bodin, a union
representative, said in a telephone interview. “We are
concerned about trying to get new medicines to patients, and
Sanofi’s management is only worried about making money, in this
case with beauty products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  