-- Colombia Starts Talks to End Half-Century of Armed Conflict
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-17T17:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/colombia-starts-talks-to-end-half-a-century-of-armed-conflict.html
Colombia ’s government has its best
chance yet of ending almost half a century of civil war as
negotiators sit down today in Oslo with a rebel group whose
ranks have been thinned by a decade of military defeats.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  vows that the talks with the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, will last
months rather than years as the two sides look to end a conflict
that has cost tens of thousands of lives. Negotiators will meet
behind closed doors today before holding a press conference
outside the Norwegian capital tomorrow at 3:00 p.m. local time.  Success is far from certain as victims of the civil war
threaten to reject any government offers of amnesty while some
guerrilla fighters resist the call to give up arms and rejoin
peaceful society. Still, the two sides may be closer than ever
following military setbacks for FARC that included the death of
the movement’s leader last year, analyst  Adam Isacson  said by
phone from  Washington  yesterday.  “Both see the cost of continuing to fight as greater
perhaps than the cost of negotiating a way out,” said Isacson,
a Colombia specialist at the Washington Office on Latin America.
“If I had to bet, I’d say this is ultimately going to work, but
I’m worried there are some really thorny things on the agenda.”  Talks will cover six areas that include issues such as
human rights, violence, drug trafficking and giving peasants
more political power. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s
government, which the U.S. has accused of harboring FARC
leaders, will send delegates to participate in the process along
with  Chile , whose billionaire President Sebastian Pinera is an
ally of Santos.  Economic Dividend  Colombia’s economy could see Asia-like growth of 6 percent
to 7 percent “for decades” if the government strikes a peace
deal that would open up farmland in rebel-held territory for
development, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in an
interview last month.  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s largest oil company that has
undertaken an $80 billion investment plan through 2020, also
stands to benefit as peace would reduce rebel attacks on its
pipelines.  Previous peace talks failed in 2002 after rebel strength
surged following President Andres Pastrana’s decision four years
earlier to cede guerrillas a Switzerland-sized demilitarized
zone that critics saw as the staging ground for drug trafficking
and military operations.  Sincere Hopes  Colombia’s economy grew an average 4.5 percent over the
past decade and will expand at a similar pace this year and
next, according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Former Interior Minister Humberto De La Calle will lead the
government’s negotiating efforts.  “We sincerely think that conditions exist to achieve an
effective and favorable result,” De La Calle said in a
statement posted on the presidential website yesterday.  Santos, who continued predecessor  Alvaro Uribe ’s U.S.-
funded offensive against the guerrillas and last year oversaw
the killing of their leader,  Alfonso Cano , in September turned
down the FARC’s request for a mutual cease-fire.  The proportion of Colombians with a favorable image of
Santos rose to 63 percent last month, up 18 percentage points
from August, according to a poll by Datexco Co. published in El
Tiempo newspaper. The Sept. 24-26 telephone survey of 1,000
people, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points, found that 67.4 percent approve of Santos’
handling of the  peace process .  Thinning Ranks  The army’s military assault has weakened the FARC, whose
ranks have fallen by more than half to an estimated 8,000 over
the past decade, according to the government. The guerrillas
this year vowed to halt a decades-old tradition of kidnapping
for ransom, eliminating a major source of funding.  While the group has been weakened, units of the FARC still
are able to finance operations with drug money and remain well
entrenched in remote parts of Colombia, said Steven Dudley, co-
director of Washington-based research group  InSight Crime , which
studies organized crime in  Latin America .  Terrorist acts in the South American nation jumped 55
percent to 649 incidents in the first nine months of the year
from 419 in the same period a year ago, as sabotage of
infrastructure rose by almost half, according to the latest
Defense Ministry figures.  Given their entrenched status, the rebels may be under
little pressure to comply with Santos’ goal of reaching a deal
in months, Dudley said by phone.  “The FARC is a rebel group with a long view; they don’t
have a four-year term limit,” Dudley said. “Don’t expect any
major agreements to be hammered out in the government’s time-
period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 