-- Shell, Repsol Win Oil Blocks at Colombian Auction
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-10-17T18:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/colombia-lures-exxon-and-shell-to-auction-with-shale-oil.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Spain ’s
Repsol SA are among winning bidders at Colombia’s first
government auction of oil and natural gas blocks in two years as
the country seeks investment to boost reserves.  South America ’s third-largest oil supplier is also granting
licenses to state-controlled Ecopetrol SA, Gran Tierra Energy
Inc. and other producers after offering 115 blocks, according to
preliminary results on the National Hydrocarbons Agency’s
 website . The blocks offered today include more than two dozen
areas holding oil and natural gas trapped in shale rock. The
final list of companies awarded blocks will be published next
month.  Colombia, whose oil output has jumped 72 percent since
2007, is seeking to boost reserves to ensure that production
will keep rising after improved security drew record
international investment. The nation’s reserves of about 2.3
billion barrels are equivalent to almost seven years of output,
lagging those of smaller producers Ecuador and  Argentina , U.S.
government data show.  “Seven years is a relatively small amount for a country
that depends a lot on oil,” Juan David Pineros, an analyst at
the nation’s largest brokerage, Interbolsa SA, said yesterday in
a telephone interview from Medellin, Colombia. “It’s a big step
to ensure future reserves.”  Shell outbid companies including  Ecopetrol (ECOPETL)  to garner an
exploratory block in the Caribbean off Colombia’s northern
coast. Ecopetrol submitted the top bid for areas including a
shale-rock block in an eastern province near the Venezuelan
border.  ‘Future Potential’  The Hague-based Shell is targeting areas that have “future
potential” in Colombia, Kelly OpDeWeegh, a Houston-based U.S.
media relations officer for the company, said by e-mail. Dana
Coffield, chief executive of Gran Tierra, didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mail seeking comment. Officials at Ecopetrol
didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail asking for comment.  Colombia’s government is auctioning the blocks as it begins
peace talks today in Oslo with the nation’s largest guerrilla
group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, in a bid to
end an armed conflict in its fifth decade. Rising rebel sabotage
of oil pipelines this year prompted Ecopetrol, which funnels
revenue to government coffers, to cut its 2012 production target
to 780,000 barrels of oil a day from 800,000 barrels.  Blocks were awarded based on proposals for investment and
the government’s share of production.  Colombia  sought to award rights to blocks covering about
13.5 million hectares (33.4 million acres) across mountainous
central Colombia, its eastern plains and offshore in the
Caribbean, according to the Bogota-based National Hydrocarbons
Agency. Some blocks sparked competing offers while others,
including some unconventional blocks, had no bidders.  Shale Investments  The auction sought to draw $500 million of investment in
unconventional reserves, the government said in March.
Ecopetrol, Colombia’s largest oil company, already is seeking
partners to drill for the fuels.  A surge in production of shale gas in the U.S. is leading
companies to search for new sources overseas, Pineros said.
Production and reserves of U.S. shale gas more than quadrupled
in 2010 from 2007, according to the  website  of the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  Colombia expects to produce more than 1 million barrels a
day of crude at the end of December, Energy and Mines Minister
Federico Renjifo said last week. Output was 956,300 barrels a
day in September.  Venezuela and  Brazil  are South America’s largest oil
producers. Ecuador and Argentina surpass Colombia in crude
reserves, with 6.5 billion barrels and 2.5 billion barrels,
respectively, according to figures from the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  