-- Corn States Lead Record Crop-Loss Payout: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-10-17T19:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/corn-states-lead-record-crop-loss-payout-bgov-barometer-1-.html
The worst U.S. drought since the
1950s may trigger record crop insurance payouts, concentrated in
corn-producing states led by Illinois,  Indiana  and Missouri.  Industry payouts from companies including  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,
 American Financial Group Inc. (AFG)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  may reach a
record $25 billion this year, according to  Kansas State
University . The BGOV Barometer shows where insured losses may be
the biggest based on declines in corn production.  Corn yields, measured in bushels per acre, dropped by more
than a third from the average of the previous five years in
Missouri, Illinois and Indiana, and the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  this month projected yields nationwide may decline
to a 17-year low of  122 bushels  an acre.  The drought pushed the price of corn, the nation’s most
valuable crop, to a record $8.49 a bushel in August, further
driving up insurance payouts. Many crop insurance payments cover
revenues based both on the magnitude of lost yields and the
price of the crop at harvest. Corn futures for December delivery
traded in  Chicago  closed up 1 percent at $7.455 a bushel today.  Farmers can choose to protect up to 85 percent of revenue
with insurance, and “the coverage in most of the central
Midwest states runs a little higher than the U.S. averages,”
Keith Collins, a former Agriculture Department chief economist
who now works with National Crop Insurance Services, said in an
e-mail.  Of 96.9 million acres planted to corn, 67.2 million were
covered by revenue protection, Collins said.  Government’s Program  Under the crop insurance program, taxpayers cover roughly
60 percent of premium costs, with the government making a profit
in years when it pays out less in premiums and losing money by
subsidizing payouts in years of crop losses. Higher commodity
prices mean larger payments to farmers, who are able to buy
policies that are linked to the price of their crops at harvest
time.  Among the nation’s top 15 corn-producing states, only Texas
and Minnesota saw their productivity increase this year compared
with their five-year average. Missouri yields fell 44 percent
below the average and Illinois declined 42 percent. Indiana,
 South Dakota  and Kansas all fell more than 30 percent. Iowa, the
nation’s top corn-grower, declined 19 percent.  More than  $2 billion  has been paid out as of Oct. 9,
according to  Overland Park , Kansas-based National Crop Insurance
Services, with corn, wheat, cotton, soybeans and pasture
suffering the most damage. Farmers will be spending $4.1 billion
to buy more than 1.2 million policies insuring 281 million
acres, according to the group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  