-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline; UnitedHealth Sells Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-17T21:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-after-spain-maintains-rating.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell for the third straight day as  Spain  kept its
investment-grade rating and data signaled housing was recovering
in the world’s biggest economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.3
basis points to a mid-price of 89.9 basis points at 4:40 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest closing level since Sept. 19, the day before contracts on
a new version of the index started trading. Default swaps tied
to Citigroup Inc. fell to the lowest in 15 months.  Moody’s Investors Service maintained a high-grade rating on
Spain, citing the  European Central Bank ’s willingness to buy the
nation’s debt, stemming concern that the global economic
recovery is faltering and boosting confidence in companies’
ability to repay debt. New-home construction in the U.S. jumped
to an 872,000 annual rate in September, the highest level in
four years, exceeding all estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  “People are feeling good about risk assets today,” Scott Carmack, a portfolio manager at Leader Capital Corp. in
 Portland ,  Oregon , said in a telephone interview. Fear of a
“black-swan event out of Europe” is fading, he said. “I think
you’re seeing the dissipation of the fear trade.”  Black-swan events are a reference to the once widespread
belief in the West that only white swans existed, until European
explorers discovered black swans in  Australia  in 1697.  UnitedHealth, PNC  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  sold $2.5 billion in a four-part
debt offering to help finance its plan to buy 90 percent of  Amil
Participacoes SA (AMIL3) , Bloomberg data show. The biggest U.S. health
insurer issued three-year notes that yield 45 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, five-year debt with a 65
basis-point spread, bonds due February 2023 that pay 95 and 30-
year securities with an extra yield of 110 basis points.  Relative Yields  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  sold $1 billion of bonds
maturing in 2022, its first offering of 10-year notes in seven
months. The seventh-largest U.S. commercial bank by deposits
sold the subordinated debt to yield 90 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt
narrowed 5 basis points, led by spreads on the subordinated
bonds of financial companies which fell 8 basis points. The
average relative yield on speculative-grade debt dropped 12
basis points.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread narrowed to 8.5
basis points, the lowest closing level since September 1993. The
measure falls when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  Credit-default swaps tied to Citigroup fell 11.1 basis
points to 135.8 basis points, the lowest since July 2011, as of
4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  Citigroup’s board of directors yesterday replaced Chief
Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  with  Michael Corbat , after
concluding Pandit had caused setbacks with regulators and cost
credibility with investors, a person with knowledge of the
decision said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  