-- Credit Agricole Exits Greece Taking Profit Hit on Unit
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-10-17T12:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/credit-agricole-agrees-to-sell-emporiki-in-greece-to-alpha-bank.html
Credit Agricole (ACA)  SA,  France ’s third-
largest bank, is exiting  Greece  by agreeing to sell Emporiki
Bank to Alpha Bank SA on terms that will cut net income by about
2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in the third quarter.  Credit Agricole (ACA)  is selling the unit for a token price of 1
euro, the company, based outside Paris, said today. It will
inject more funds into Emporiki, bringing the total capital
boost since July to 2.85 billion euros, and buy 150 million
euros of convertible bonds issued by Alpha Bank.  Credit Agricole  is ending a six-year investment in  Europe ’s
most indebted country as concern lingers over Greece’s future in
the euro area. Credit Agricole’s funding for the unit makes it
the foreign lender with the most to lose should Greece leave the
single currency. The boards of both companies and the Hellenic
Financial Stability Fund have approved the sale, which the banks
aim to complete by year-end, Credit Agricole said.  “Greek talks with its creditors could still put a spanner
in the works and the outstanding funding line means that the
bank has downside risk should there be a Greek exit,” said
Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an analyst at  Macquarie Bank  in  London 
who rates Credit Agricole underperform. “Away from Greece,
Credit Agricole still faces peripheral sovereign bond
exposure.”  Credit Agricole  fell  2.5 percent to 6.24 euros by 2:19 p.m.
in Paris, giving it a market value of 15.6 billion euros. Credit
Agricole’s shares have gained about 16 percent since the lenders
entered exclusive talks on Emporiki on Oct. 1. Alpha shares rose
as much as 2.5 percent to 2.09 euros in  Athens .  Banks Combine  The combination between Alpha Bank and Emporiki will create
Greece’s second-largest bank by loans. Greece, heading for a
sixth year of recession, is overhauling its banking system after
lenders booked losses on government-bond holdings in the biggest
sovereign-debt restructuring in history. The country obtained a
130 billion-euro bailout in March from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund  that earmarked 50 billion euros
for recapitalizing the banks.  Greek banks must complete their recapitalization by the end
of April by selling shares and contingent convertible bonds,
Imerisia reported Oct. 15, citing a draft agreement between the
government and the European Commission, the IMF and the  European
Central Bank , known as the troika. A deal with the troika is
needed to unlock a 31 billion-euro aid installment that the
Greek government needs to recapitalize its banks and pay debts.  ‘Execution Risks’  Emporiki’s sale still faces “execution risks” as it will
need approvals from regulators, Credit Agricole’s Chief
Financial Officer Bernard Delpit told analysts on a call today.
Delpit also said he is “pretty optimistic” that Emporiki will
face no impact on deposits during the sale to Alpha Bank.  National Bank of Greece SA, the nation’s biggest lender, on
Oct. 5 offered to buy Eurobank Ergasias SA in a bid to retain
its market dominance as Greece’s debt crisis forces a wave of
mergers.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank, is
in exclusive talks to sell its Athens-based unit Geniki Bank to
Piraeus Bank SA.  Credit Agricole’s net funding to Emporiki was 2.1 billion
euros at the end of September, and the latest capital injection
and purchase of convertible bonds will “immediately” lower
that by 700 million euros, the bank said.  Alpha Bank will cover the remaining funding gap in three
installments, with the last payment due by the end of 2014.
Credit Agricole may also buy assets of Alpha and Emporiki to
reduce that funding shortfall.  Capital Boost  Credit Agricole already provided about 2.3 billion euros in
capital to Emporiki in July following a request from the  Bank of
Greece. (TELL)   The French bank, founded in 1894 as a lender to farmers,
invested 2.2 billion euros in 2006 to buy a majority stake in
Emporiki, the least profitable of Greece’s top five banks at the
time. Since then, Emporiki has been unprofitable every year
except 2007, with accumulated losses for Credit Agricole of
about 5.7 billion euros through the end of June.  Alpha Bank will add 17.4 billion euros of Emporiki loans as
part of the deal, and the combined entity will have about 61
billion euros of loans and 737 branches, according to an Alpha
Bank presentation. The combined bank had pro-forma capital of
4.1 billion euros as of March,  Alpha Bank (ALPHA)  said.  “Alpha Bank acquires a lender with excess capital,” Maria Kanellopoulou, an Athens-based analyst at Euroxx Securities,
wrote in a note to clients today. “The combined group will have
a competitive capital advantage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  