-- Credit Suisse-Backed China Fund Said to Seek $750 Million
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-10-17T16:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/credit-suisse-backed-china-fund-said-to-seek-750-million.html
China Renaissance Capital
Investment, an investment firm part-owned by  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , is seeking $750 million for its next private-equity fund
focused on Asia’s largest economy, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  China Harvest Fund III LP will invest in companies without
using debt, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the fund is private. The Hong Kong-based firm usually takes
preferred equity stakes of $20 million to $75 million, according
to an investor presentation viewed by Bloomberg News.  China Renaissance was founded in 2005 by Mark Qiu, George Li and Hung Shih. Qiu previously was chief financial officer of
 Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil producer. Li was head
of China investment banking of UBS AG, and Shih was country head
at UBS. The team manages the funds, and Zurich-based Credit
Suisse owns a portion of the management company.  Katherine Herring , a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse,
declined to comment.  China Renaissance’s second fund, from 2009, was generating
a 1.7 times multiple and a 46.6 percent gross internal rate of
return on $347.1 million of invested capital as of June 30,
according to the presentation. The firm’s 2006 fund was
producing a 1.7 times multiple and 16.7 percent gross IRR as of
the same date.  China Renaissance, with $1.3 billion under management as of
August, also manages early-stage funds that invest in China. The
team has offices in Hong Kong, Beijing, Shanghai and Chengdu.  Park Hill Group LLC, the  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  unit that
recruits investors for private-equity funds, is helping the firm
raise money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  