-- CVC Cedes Control of Nine in A$2.3 Billion Debt-Equity Swap
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-10-17T08:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/cvc-cedes-control-of-nine-in-a-2-3-billion-debt-for-equity-swap.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
relinquished  Australia ’s second-largest television network Nine
Entertainment Co. to creditors, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter, in the largest failure of a leveraged
buyout in the country in at least 12 years.  About 60 percent of an initial A$5.75 billion ($5.93
billion) debt and equity investment will be wiped out, with the
restructured company worth A$2.3 billion, the people said,
asking not to be identified as the plan is yet to be signed.
U.S. hedge funds  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Oaktree
Capital Group LLC (OAK)  will take control of the broadcaster and funds
represented by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will receive a 4.5
percent stake, they said.  CVC, which bought Nine from billionaire James Packer’s
Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd., had been struggling to refinance
A$2.8 billion of senior debt due in February as Australia’s
television advertising market stagnated. Adrian MacKenzie, the
managing partner of CVC’s Asia Pacific unit who led the Nine
takeover, quit the buyout group last month after 17 years with
the company.  “We have a fully capitalized business,” Nine Chief
Executive Officer David Gyngell told reporters as he left the
talks in Sydney today. “I am not sure if all the players are
happy, but I certainly am.”  Debt for Equity  Senior lenders will receive 95.5 percent of the
broadcaster’s equity in exchange for the debt they hold, with
mezzanine lenders receiving 4.5 percent, Nine said in a
 statement  on its website.  “The business has great momentum and strong  cash flow  and
now it will have the strongest balance sheet in the industry,”
Nine Chairman Peter Bush said in the statement.  CVC bought control of Nine from Packer’s PBL in a series of
transactions starting in 2006, investing about A$2 billion in
equity alongside a A$3.75 billion loan.  CVC will lose its original equity and regain a small share
of the business by converting its holdings of mezzanine debt
into new equity, the people said.  “Nine will be in a stronger position as a result,”  Mark McDonnell , an analyst at BBY Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone
before today’s announcement.  Nine owns Australia’s second-most watched television
channel as well as the country’s largest indoor music venue and
Ticketek, an event ticketing company. Its most popular
television programs include the Australian version of Big
Brother, British motoring show Top Gear, and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s crime
drama the Mentalist.  Lenders normally take control of companies that can’t meet
their interest payments, with senior debt holders getting first
preference to be repaid.  Paid Out  So-called mezzanine debt holders, which include funds
represented by Goldman who are owed about A$1 billion, are next
to be paid while equity investors are normally only entitled to
a share once all creditors are paid out.  Set up by  James Packer ’s grandfather Frank Packer in 1956
as Australia’s first television station, Nine’s maiden broadcast
was presented by  Bruce Gyngell , father of the current chief
executive.  This isn’t the first time that an investor has lost money
on Nine.  James Packer’s father Kerry sold the network to Australian
investor Alan Bond in 1987 for A$1 billion, buying it back for
A$250 million when Bond went bankrupt less than three years
later.  “You only get one Alan Bond in your lifetime,” Kerry
Packer remarked, according to Paul Barry’s 1993 biography “The
Rise and Rise of Kerry Packer”.  Valuation Falls  The A$2.3 billion valuation of the restructured company is
about 60 percent below what CVC paid to take over Nine.  CVC first spent A$982 million on convertible notes giving
it a 50 percent stake in October 2006, before buying a further
25 percent of the broadcaster for A$526 million in September
2007 and paying A$158 million for its part in buying Ticketek
and the Acer Arena music venue from PBL in June 2007.  In December 2008 it recapitalized the business with A$335
in new shares, diluting out Packer’s remaining stake.  The buyout group has holdings valued at $42 billion,
including $6.85 billion in its three Asia-Pacific funds,
according to its  website .  Since CVC’s debt-funded takeover close to the peak of the
private equity boom before the 2008 financial crisis, Nine has
been hit by stagnant advertising markets as Australian  consumer
spending  has languished.  The country’s households, which never saved more than 5.1
percent of their income in the decade up to September 2008,
haven’t saved less than 8.1 percent of earnings since then, a
rate more than double  that in the U.S . That’s crimped the funds
available to spend on  consumer goods .  Stagnant Bookings  Advertising bookings in Australia’s metro television
market, in which Nine has the biggest audience after  Seven West
Media Ltd. (SWM) , have stagnated over the past five years.  Bookings came to A$1.93 billion in the nine months through
September 2007 and averaged A$1.90 billion in the same periods
of the five years since, according to research group Standard
Media Index.  Consumer prices  have risen 13 percent over the same
period.  Sydney-based Nine reported A$415 million in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and goodwill amortization for the
year through June 2011, CVC said on Dec. 8.  That’s about 9.8 percent of its A$4.23 billion gross debt
load, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It hadn’t signed
off on accounts for its most recent financial year before
today’s deal.  CVC has raised cash by selling off some of Nine’s assets,
getting A$566 million from selling a 49 percent stake in
 Carsales.com Ltd. (CRZ)  in March 2011. Last month it agreed to sell
its magazines division to  Germany ’s Bauer Media Group, a deal
that may raise more than A$500 million, a person with knowledge
of the matter said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  